Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today, I am introducing the Strengthening UI  for Coronavirus Impacted Workers and Students Act. For the 30 million  American unemployed workers, the enhanced jobless benefits created in  the CARES Act are a lifeline. However, the Federal Pandemic  Unemployment Compensation, which provides a $600-per-week benefit on  top of an individual's regular unemployment insurance (UI) benefits are  set to expire on July 31, 2020. Arbitrarily cutting these benefits off  in the midst of an ongoing pandemic could make a desperate situation  worse for individuals and harm the economy. Moreover, if these workers  are prematurely pushed back into unsafe work environments, it will  ultimately harm families, businesses, and communities. 

  That is why my new legislation seeks to expand and enhance the  unemployment insurance of the CARES Act. Specifically, this bill would  continue to offer out-of-work Americans the $600-per-week additional  benefit through the end of the year and make it retroactive to the date  of the coronavirus pandemic disaster declaration date. This legislation  would also exempt these pandemic-specific benefits from being factored  into eligibility for means-tested programs, such as Section 8 housing,  SNAP, TANF, and WIC. Furthermore, it would create a $300 Federal  benefit for recent college graduates, students, and others who are  willing and able to work absent COVID-19. but who do not have recent  work history. Finally, this legislation would codify guidance by the  Department of Labor requiring employees who are participating in ``work  sharing'' programs to be able to receive the $600-per-work boost. I  added provisions to the CARES Act to Federally finance these cost- effective and job saving ``work sharing'' programs, which give  struggling companies the flexibility to reduce hours instead of laying  off their workforce, while allowing the employees to collect  unemployment insurance on the days they are not working. 

  The bill is supported by numerous organizations including the  American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations  (AFL-CIO), International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the National  Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), National  Education Association (NEA), National Employment Law Project (NELP),  National Low Income Housing Coalition (NLIHC), The Arc, United Auto  Workers (UAW), National Alliance on Mental Illness. National  Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities, National  Disability Rights Network, and National Women's Law Center. 

  We have to be smart and this targeted, temporary measure will help  ensure Americans who are out of work through no fault of their own can  afford food, housing, and medicine until it is safe to go back to work.  I am pleased to join my colleague in the other body, Representative  Kildee, in sponsoring this legislation, and I look forward to working  with my colleagues here and across the Capitol to secure passage of  this important legislation.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Tester, Mr. Schatz, Mr.          Jones, Ms. Smith, Ms. Warren, Ms. Sinema, Mr. Warner, Mr.          Menendez, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Cortez Masto, Mr. Kaine, Mr.          Udall, Mr. Booker, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Merkley, and          Mr. Wyden): 

  S. 3620. A bill to establish a Housing Assistance Fund at the  Department of the Treasury; to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and  Urban Affairs. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, along with Senators Brown, Tester, Schatz,  Jones, Smith, Warren, Sinema, Warner, Menendez, Van Hollen, Cortez  Masto, Kaine, Udall, Booker, Feinstein, Durbin, Merkley, and Wyden, I  am introducing legislation that would create a $75 billion Housing  Assistance Fund that builds on the success of the Hardest Hit Fund at  the Treasury Department that I championed in 2010. 

  The Hardest Hit Fund provided funds to 18 State-level Housing Finance  Agencies, directing targeted foreclosure prevention assistance to  households and neighborhoods in States like Rhode Island hit hard by  the economic and housing market downturn. 

  The Housing Assistance Fund expands this model to provide a flexible  source Federal aid to all State-level Housing Finance Agencies. This  Federal funding could then be used to help struggling households remain  in their homes while they search for new employment or wait to get back  to work. Financial assistance could go towards preventing eviction,  mortgage delinquency, default, foreclosures, or loss of utility  services, such as water, gas, and  electricity. Funds could also be used to keep the Internet connected  and remain current with property taxes. 

  In the midst of responding to the coronavirus, we clearly need to do  everything we can to help our constituents. According to CNBC, 8.7  million jobs were lost in the Great Recession, and as of April 23,  2020, more than 26 million Americans filed unemployment insurance  claims in just five weeks. Just for comparative purposes, CNBC also  reported that 22.4 million jobs were created since the Great Recession. 

  This means we're facing job losses at an unprecedented scale and  pace. 

  What this also means is that we could be facing a potential wave of  evictions and foreclosures, so there is no time to waste. We should  respond accordingly so that more families can make it to the other side  of this public health emergency while staying safe in their homes. This  is precisely the goal of this Housing Assistance Fund legislation we  are introducing today. 

  I thank the National Council of State Housing Agencies; Habitat for  Humanity; National Housing Conference; National Community Reinvestment  Coalition; National Association of Affordable Housing Lenders; National  Leased Housing Association; Americans for Financial Reform; National  Consumer Law Center, on behalf of its low-income clients; Center for  Responsible Lending; Rhode Island Housing; and the Rhode Island  Association of Realtors for their support. 

  I urge all of my colleagues to join in pressing for inclusion of the  Housing Assistance Fund in our continued response to the coronavirus  pandemic.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms.          Stabenow, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Jones, Ms. Klobuchar, Ms. Hirono,          Mrs. Gillibrand, Ms. Smith, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Harris, and Ms.          Baldwin): 

  S. 3634. A bill to address health workforce shortages and disparities  highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic through additional funding for the  National Health Service Corps and Nurse Corps; to the Committee on  Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT