Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am joined by several of my  colleagues in introducing the Layoff Prevention Extension Act and the  Preventing Layoffs During a Public Health Emergency Act. Both bills  would renew Federal support for State short-time compensation--or work  sharing--programs and provide assistance for States to adopt and  improve existing programs in law. The latter bill would specifically  activate financing for work sharing programs when there is a public  health emergency. 

  The coronavirus has officially reached a pandemic level, with an  increasing impact on individual lives, communities, and businesses  across the United States. Last week, I was pleased that the Senate  voted on an overwhelming bipartisan basis to approve nearly $8 billion  in supplemental funding for public health agencies to respond to this  outbreak, but that was only the down payment. 

  While Congress has taken initial steps to address coronavirus as a  public health crisis and stop the spread of COVID-19, it is also  important to support the workers, students, families, and businesses  that are already being impacted as this outbreak ripples  across the economy. In response to a reduced workforce due to workers  that are ill, quarantined, or have new caregiving duties, companies  that are losing business may need to lay off workers--even those that  are healthy, if they are unable to keep their doors open. We need to  extend emergency UI benefits, but just as importantly, we should  incentivize employers to not lay off workers for what we hope will be a  temporary public health emergency. 

  That is where work sharing can play a critical role, as it  encourages, through the UI system, employers and employees to  voluntarily reduce hours instead of laying people off. The concept of  work sharing is simple--it provides an alternative to help businesses  that are experiencing a temporary slowdown the chance to retain  employees on a less than full-time basis. By giving struggling  companies the flexibility to reduce hours instead of their workforce,  work sharing programs prevent layoffs and help employers save money on  rehiring costs. All the while, workers who otherwise would be in danger  of losing their jobs completely--would keep their jobs instead, with  the UI system making up for lost wages. 

  According to the Department of Labor, work sharing saved  approximately 570,000 jobs in the wake of the Great Recession (2008- 2015). As part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act,  Congress enacted my Layoff Prevention Act of 2012, which provided  temporary Federal financing for 100 percent of work sharing benefits  paid to workers. States also received -1/grants for implementation,  improved administration, and program enrollment efforts. This  assistance helped save over 130,000 jobs from 2012 to its sunset in  2015. Multiple studies have found that communities that adopted more  robust work-sharing programs weathered the recession with lower  unemployment rates. But even more jobs could have been saved if these  programs had been in place before business slowed down. 

  The legislation I am introducing today would address the current  public health emergency and help soften the blow of future slowdowns.  The Preventing Layoffs During a Public Health Emergency Act would  provide financing to States with and without formal work sharing laws  during the period of a public health emergency, and up to one year  after the termination of the emergency. The Layoff Prevention Act would  provide a more permanent solution to give States an incentive to expand  their work sharing programs to prevent future layoffs and blunt  economic downturns. 

  I urge my colleagues to join me and Senators Whitehouse and Sanders  in supporting passage of both bills to keep American workers on the  job, save taxpayers money, and provide employers with a practical,  positive, and cost-effective alternative to layoffs.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT