Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, in order to build on a key provision I  authored in the CARES Act, which provided states with $150 billion in  Coronavirus Relief Funds (CRF), I am introducing the State and Local  Emergency Stabilization Fund Act so that States and local governments  can continue to be supported as they shoulder the costs of battling the  corona virus. 

  The State and Local Emergency Stabilization Fund Act would cut  needless red tape that was bureaucratically imposed by the Trump  Administration, which is constraining States from spending the CRF  money that Congress unanimously approved to save lives and help rescue  our economy. My legislation makes it clear that lost revenue is a cost.  It also extends the time horizon States have to spend the money in  order to ensure they have the flexibility to equitably allocate and  disburse the funding and help communities combat COVID-19 and recover. 

  Unfortunately, the costs of responding to the coronavirus and keeping  our economy afloat have only increased as result of this  Administration's inability to formulate and execute a public health  strategy based on facts and science, or implement effectively the  resources and programs Congress authorized to keep our economy afloat.  To meet these increasing costs, this bill would provide State and local  governments an additional $600 billion in funding. The bill includes a  protective $5 billion small State minimum, treats the District of  Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Kico as States, and reserves  funds for territories and Tribes. In addition, $59 billion would be  allocated to States based on their relative coronavirus infection  rates, and $205 billion would be reserved elusively for local  governments. 

  State and local governments are being pushed to the financial brink  by skyrocketing costs and plunging revenue, and they need stability in  order to have a chance at recovery. While some of my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle have tried to paint this issue as a `red State  vs. blue State' problem, all fifty States are suffering and need  financial relief from the Federal government to prevent massive  layoffs, cuts to needed services, and future tax hikes. 

  In addition, on May 6, 2020, CNBC reported ``[p]rivate payrolls  hemorrhaged more than 20 million jobs in April as companies sliced  workers amid a corona virus-induced shutdown that took most of the U.S.  economy offline, according to a report Wednesday from ADP. In all, the  decline totaled 20,236,000--easily the worst loss in the survey's  history going back to 2002 but not as bad as the 22 million that  economists surveyed by Dow Jones had been expecting. The previous  record was 834,665 in February 2009 amid the financial crisis and  accompanying Great Recession.'' 

  Mr. President, the scale and pace of our public health emergency and  the impact it has having on our economy requires each of us to swiftly  set aside ideology and work urgently to address these generational  challenges head on. Failure to respond in a timely manner will only  result in more layoffs and a longer recession. It will mean States and  local governments will be left unable to provide needed health,  education, public safety, and sanitation services, just when those  services are needed most. Any economic recovery needs reliable State  and local governments that provide the business certainty that make our  attractive to businesses and investors throughout the world.  

  Nobody is immune from this crisis. Congress should come together, do  the right thing, and provide States the resources they need to save  lives and livelihoods and get the economy working again. I urge each of  my colleagues to join me in working to enact this legislation so that  we can get more critical federal resources to our States and local  governments who are on the front lines of battling this public health  and economic emergency.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT