Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690531/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today alongside my colleagues to  speak out against the attack on a fundamental right of every American  citizen: the right to vote.

I want to thank Senator Padilla for leading this important effort.  The progress, the prosperity, and success of our Nation, both as an  economic power and as an inspiration for freedom-loving people  everywhere, has been aided by our efforts to tear down the obstacles  that prevent citizens from voting.

Today, the President and, seemingly, too many of my Republican  colleagues want to throw that progress away. At the President's  urgings, they appear to believe that it is OK to turn their backs on  the work, the advocacy, and the sacrifice of women like Susan B.  Anthony who worked so zealously for the right of women to vote, and men  like Martin Luther King, Jr., and thousands of Americans who dedicated  themselves to opening the voting booths to all Americans.

Indeed, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans are  now advancing policies that could disqualify tens of millions of  Americans from voting in elections. If adopted, these policies will  make it harder for low-income individuals, the elderly, women, and even  U.S. servicemembers deployed overseas to cast a ballot. Now, that is  very ironic.

These men and women in uniform are in dangerous locations to protect  our fundamental rights, perhaps the most fundamental right is to vote,  and yet this legislation would impair their ability to exercise that  right.

Election integrity is essential to our democracy. That is why  Democrats vigorously support Federal funding and Federal anti-cyber  interference in our elections.

But what isn't essential is breaking a system that successfully  prevents fraud and replacing it with one that makes it less likely that  American citizens can exercise their constitutional right to vote.

Yet that appears to be the Republican plan. Indeed, through a brazen,  illegal, and unconstitutional Executive order, the Trump administration  is attempting to mandate that every State change how it operates its  elections. Its starkest proposal is to throw out State rules about  voter identification requirements and require what is effectively a  national ID--while ignoring current law that already makes it a serious  crime for a noncitizen to vote.

They have introduced the so-called SAVE Act, which recently passed  the House of Representatives. It attempts to codify the President's  dubious Executive order.

Now, I can see people saying: Well, what is the big deal about making  someone show ID? Well, like many catchy sales pitches, this policy is  really a bunch of ``gotchas'' that will stand between millions of  voters and the ballot box.

According to the Brennan Center, more than 9 percent of voting-age  American citizens, 21 million people, don't have proof of citizenship-- typically a birth certificate or a passport--readily available to show  as they try to vote.

And 4 million Americans don't have these documents available at all-- perhaps they were lost, destroyed, or stolen--and these Americans could  be prevented from voting.

Women who change their names after getting married, and that is 69  million Americans, will not be able to use a birth certificate alone to  establish their citizenship, and they might not be able to vote.

Americans could use a passport to satisfy the Trump policy, but  according to the State Department, only half of Americans have a  passport. And it will set you back $165 to get one just so you can  exercise your constitutionally protected right to vote.

By the way, I wonder if that could be considered a poll tax, which  was outlawed through our Constitution, and we have to respect our  Constitution. We all take an oath to do that.

The Trump policy allows citizens to use a REAL ID ``that indicates  the applicant is a citizen of the United States,'' but that is a false  promise.

As 15 secretaries of state recently wrote: REAL IDs do not indicate  citizenship status. Even if the Federal laws for REAL ID were amended,  the nearly 140 million REAL IDs that have been issued over the last  decade could not be used as proof of citizenship. And these are the  experts on elections, the secretaries of state of our 50 States.

Now, some people may still think it is easy to get these documents or  register to vote in person, but if you don't have the money to spare to  get the proper documents, if you are elderly or disabled or can't  easily get to your townhall, what are you to do? Faced with these  barriers, they may just give up and not vote at all, which I believe is  the ultimate objective of this legislation.

Voter suppression is the way, I believe, that President Trump and  others believe they can succeed at the polls. What the Constitution and  the spirit of America suggests and what countless generations of  American servicemen have fought for is access to the polls for all and  enthusiastic voting by American citizens.

And what about the servicemembers who are just deployed overseas and  didn't have time to register? How does that young American report in  person--because that is what this says, in person--to establish his or  her citizenship?

According to military and veterans service organizations,  registration methods used for decades by millions of American civilians  and uniformed servicemembers abroad ``would likely become impossible  under the SAVE Act.''

We will send them to war, but we won't let them vote. Trump's policy  would also impose unfunded mandates on States. According to the Rhode  Island secretary of state who is one of the most, I think, effective  secretaries of state in the country, the State government would need to  change its voter registration systems and forms. It may need to  purchase new voting machines and equipment, and it would need to pursue  a significant public outreach campaign to educate voters about changes  in the law.

But the SAVE Act provides zero dollars to cover these costs. States  and localities will need to cover this unfunded mandate.

Well, why is the Trump administration imposing these costs and  interfering with Americans' fundamental rights as citizens to vote?  They claim it is to combat noncitizen voting, but this legislation  isn't necessary to do that.

The United States Constitution, the Rhode Island constitution, and  Rhode Island State law explicitly state that only U.S. citizens are  allowed to vote. Under Federal law, it is a felony for non-U.S.  citizens to vote. These laws are enforced, and they are a significant  deterrent.

An exhaustive study by the Brennan Center found that at least 30  cases of noncitizen voting were referred for investigation or  prosecution during the 2016 election. Trump's Department of Justice in  his first term indicted 19 people. The law was enforced, but the  objectives of this law are trivial compared to the millions of  Americans who must have the right to vote.

Now, those 19 should not have voted, but it is 19 votes out of 129  million cast. And as my colleague from Colorado pointed out, a better  mathematician than I, that is a fractional portion of the American  public.

And make no mistake, they would suffer the consequences if they did  vote illegally, these noncitizens. But we do not need a complete  overhaul of our election systems and to strip millions of American  citizens of voting rights in order to combat a problem that nonpartisan  election experts tell us is already addressed by current law.

The real reasons for this policy are to support Trump's Big Lie that  the 2020 election was stolen, even though he lost by roughly 7 million  votes, to sow mistrust in our government, to deter people from voting.  This is all in service of President Trump's insatiable desire for power  and his insatiable ego.

Efforts by his enablers to discourage absentee voting have already  disenfranchised servicemembers. In North Carolina, Republicans have  sought to cancel 65,000 votes in a judicial election--an estimated  2,000 to 8,000 of which were military and overseas voters.

We are on the brink of exporting this injustice nationwide on a much  greater scale. Senator Padilla is right to sound the alarm about this,  and I am proud to join him. We want to help our fellow citizens  participate in our elections because only their participation will  ensure that the government is truly accountable to the people it  represents. And as the ranking member of the Appropriations  Subcommittee that handles election funding, I hope my colleagues will  join me in restoring funding for election security grants to the States  to the total of $75 million. If you are serious about election fraud,  then give the secretaries of state the resources to ensure that  ineligible voters do not cast their vote.

Defunding them is an invitation for abuse. This isn't, nor should it  be, a partisan endeavor. Democrats and Republicans shouldn't be afraid  to face the voters, all voters, and compete on the basis of our ideas  and aspirations.

Trump's Executive order and the SAVE Act show that he has a different  agenda, consolidating power for himself, not the people, through  dissuading and deterring American citizens from casting their vote, one  of the most fundamental values that generations of American service men  and women have given their lives to protect, and I hope my colleagues  on both sides of the aisle will understand that.