Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696343/trump-administration


Mr. REED. Will the Senator yield for a question? I think he will.

Mr. REED. Thank you very much.

First, let me say that you are demonstrating incredible courage and  conscience today and last evening as you stand here and point out the  grave situation this country faces. You have clearly indicated--and I  believe you are right--that the direction of this administration is  toward authoritarian rule. Step by step, unfortunately, we seem to get  closer.

One of the great ironies of the administration is that President  Trump loves to sort of fake people out, if you will, while he is doing  something he doesn't like or we wouldn't like. For example, for 56  times, he has talked about the deep state, the deep state, while at the  same time it appears he might be building such a deep state.

For example, the Washington Post reported that the former chief data  officer for the Social Security Administration has said that Elon Musk  and his DOGE gang copied a mainframe database containing the personal  information of hundreds of millions of Americans, including names,  birth dates, addresses, and more. In fact, if you step back, DOGE has  pilfered information from every Federal Agency, and we are in a  situation where I believe Trump is prepared to weaponize that  information against the American people in so many different ways.

So I would just ask: Did you hear my distress that Trump could use  this information to attack his opponent? Could he use this information  to disrupt the elections in '26 as a path to further authoritarian  influence in the United States?

Mr. REED. If the Senator would yield?

Mr. REED. DOGE, it has been my observation, has pilfered information  from every major Federal organization, and the Social Security  Administration's former employees have indicated they have taken the  most critical files that have detailed information on every American.

I think you are right. There are only two things you can really do  with this kind of data. You sell it or you weaponize it or you do both.  The concern I think we both share is weaponization.

In addition, I believe that the administration has sought from  secretaries of state throughout the United States information about  their voting rolls, which is specifically directed perhaps at electoral  interference.

Mr. REED. Well, I concur.

If I may raise one additional question?

Mr. REED. You have seen firsthand what is happening in Portland. It  is outrageous. The situation has been completely distorted by the  President to suggest that there is major civil upheaval. That is not  the case at all from the reports I have heard.

His also suggesting that military personnel can enforce the laws of  the United States violates the Posse Comitatus Act, which has been a  barrier to police powers by the military since the 1870s.

I assume, like myself, you are particularly disturbed that he is,  again, not only weaponizing data, but he is weaponizing our military  forces to go in and carry out civil wars.

Your comments?

Mr. REED. Thank you very much, Senator.