Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688332/ukraine


Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize a very painful  milestone. This week marks the third anniversary of Russia's full-scale  invasion of Ukraine.

Over the past 3 years, the world has witnessed the incredible bravery  and resolve of the Ukrainian people as they have stood up to Russia's  unspeakable brutality and destruction.

We have seen--and, indeed, the United States should take great pride  in having led--an impressive coalition of nations coming together to  support Ukraine in this fight to preserve its democracy.

At the same time, an alarming convergence of authoritarian states-- Russia, China, Iran, Belarus, and North Korea--have banded together to  enable Russia's illegal war of choice.

As we mark this milestone, we are faced with another frightening set  of developments. President Trump has set his sights on negotiations  with Vladimir Putin to win the war. But before reaching the negotiating  table, Mr. Trump has appeared so eager to reach  a deal that he has been willing to acquiesce to Russian demands for  essentially nothing in return. Even worse, he has deliberately excluded  Ukraine and Europe from the discussion.

We have seen this playbook before, most recently in Afghanistan. In  2020, President Trump, eager to achieve a quick deal, negotiated  directly with the Taliban and excluded the Afghan Government from the  negotiating table. He capitulated to Taliban demands, including the  release of over 5,000 Taliban fighters, and blindly agreed to a 1-year  withdrawal timeline, even as evidence mounted that the Taliban was not  holding up the meager demands in the agreement. I fear President Trump  has not learned any new negotiating skills in the 5 years since.

The tenets of his approach to Ukraine and Europe appear to be the  same: Exclude and criticize American allies, capitulate to our enemies,  and withdraw support without any assurance of success.

Earlier this month, Munich was the scene of another capitulation,  when Vice President Vance and Defense Secretary Hegseth kicked off  Trump's giveaway campaign to President Putin.

The historical irony is unmistakable, since Munich is a place that  has inauspiciously become a shorthand for the ``appeasement'' of  tyrants.

In 1932, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain left his meeting  with Adolf Hitler in Munich. And after surrendering Czechoslovakia in  exchange for a peace pledge, when he returned to England, Chamberlain  waved about a piece of paper with Hitler's promise and declared,  ``Peace in our time.'' In reality, it was the beginning of the  capitulation that would lead inextricably to the greatest war in  history.

Hopefully, this administration's rush to appease Vladimir Putin will  not lead to the carnage like that of World War II. But it well may cost  Ukraine its sovereignty and independence while also undermining the  international order--the very same order that America and her allies  created from the ashes of World War II.

Let's review the bidding so far. To begin, Defense Secretary  Hegseth's speech in Brussels at the Ukraine Defense Contact Group set a  shameful tone for the American delegation in Europe.

Ukraine Defense Contact Group, or UDCG, was created by the United  States under the Biden administration. It has organized and led the  international efforts to support Ukraine, which has enabled Ukrainians  to significantly repel the Russian invasion and continue the fight to  protect their homeland.

The United States has led this effort throughout the war. I regret  that Secretary Hegseth's first appearance marked the retreat of our  role as leader of the UDCG.

In his remarks, he said:

[W]e must start by recognizing that returning to Ukraine's       . . . 2014 borders is an unrealistic objective.

He further stated:

[T]he United States does not believe that NATO membership       for Ukraine is a realistic outcome of a negotiated       settlement.

In essence, Secretary Hegseth conceded away our most important  leverage against Russia. His statements, echoed by President Trump and  Vice President Vance, have already badly weakened and undermined our  negotiating position by gifting the Russians with several unilateral  concessions. All of these forfeits were made without any apparent  consultation with the Ukraine or our NATO allies.

Again, the shortsightedness of President Trump's, Hegseth's, and  Vance's statements are alarming.

NATO has been the bulwark against Russian aggression in Europe since  1949. The alliance has more than doubled its membership since its  founding. Central to the enlargement is NATO's open-door policy,  enshrined in article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which affirms a  core NATO tenet that any European nation that demonstrates a  willingness to contribute to our collective security and the values and  obligation of the NATO alliance may seek membership.

Vladimir Putin does not get to dictate who may or may not become a  member of the NATO alliance, just as his Soviet predecessors could not  stop the membership prospects of Poland or Hungary or Germany. To  preemptively surrender admission to NATO is national security  malpractice and only benefits Vladimir Putin.

Finally, Secretary Hegseth declared that Europe and NATO are no  longer priorities of the Trump administration.

In his words:

We're . . . here today to directly and unambiguously       express that stark strategic realities prevent the United       States . . . from being primarily focused on the security of       Europe.

Further:

The United States faces consequential threats to our       homeland. We must--and we are--focusing on security of our       own borders.

I agree that the security of America's homeland is our No. 1 national  security mission, but I reject Secretary Hegseth's myopic view that the  American national security establishment is so fragile and so  constrained that it must shift the entirety of its focus to the border  security mission, at the expense of other national security  imperatives.

Moreover, border protection is a civilian law enforcement mission.  Deploying large numbers of military forces to support the Border Patrol  is a gross misallocation of forces and raises numerous legal issues.

The administration's shameful claims have been a shock to Ukraine,  NATO, Europe, and the democratic world at large. They have provided  great comfort to Putin and autocrats everywhere.

In addition to Secretary Hegseth's speech, Vice President Vance took  the stage in Munich and further eroded our status in the world. He  castigated European allies for his perceived grievances with their  domestic politics and alleged movements away from ``democratic  values,'' while at the same time remaining silent on the brutal  dictators in Russia and Belarus who have never had a free or fair  election in the course of their tenure.

President Trump gave his tip of the hat to autocracy last week when  he attempted to revise history by alleging that Ukraine, not Russia,  started the war and that President Zelenskyy was the ``dictator'' in  this situation. These categorically false statements are either a  product of deliberate deceit or historical delusion.

President Trump even directed the Acting U.S. Ambassador to the  United Nations to vote against a U.N. resolution condemning Russia's  war against Ukraine. The United States instead voted in a bloc with  Russia, Iran, North Korea, and other authoritarian nations, which is a  stunning reversal of decades of American foreign policy.

This toxic revisionist history has now pervaded his political  nominees as well. Throughout the week, his political appointees have  contorted themselves in order to avoid acknowledging the fact that  Russia was responsible for starting the war in Ukraine. This is  something straight out of North Korea, where ``facts'' are the sole  purview of the Dear Leader.

We must also note the deafening silence from many of my Republican  colleagues. Many Republicans claimed for years to be unapologetic  supporters of Ukraine who were outraged by the perception that  President Biden was not sending enough U.S. support to Ukraine. But now  they appear to be standing by silently as facts are erased, as the  pipeline of aid to Ukraine peters to a halt, as the Trump  administration disbands Federal task forces established to seize the  assets of Russian oligarchs and guard against foreign election  interference and disinformation campaigns.

Silence is complicity. We cannot allow this to continue. If we are  going down the path of negotiation with Russia, we must act to  strengthen our hand in these negotiations.

Ironically, Russia is in a very weak negotiating position. Let us  briefly review Putin's situation.

Over the course of 3 years, Ukraine has inflicted a staggering cost  on Russia. Putin has lost 200,000 soldiers, and many hundreds of  thousands more were wounded. He has lost hundreds of billions of  dollars of military equipment and weapons. Indeed, Russia's weapons and  logistical stocks are perilously diminished. Their closest ally in the  war--Iran--is weaker than it has been in decades due to Israeli and  U.S. actions. North Korean soldiers, sent to reinforce flagging Russian  forces, are suffering severe casualty rates. Russia has been ousted  from Syria, and its Wagner mercenaries in Africa are struggling to  reorganize. The Russian economy is afloat but stagnant.

Any shrewd negotiator should recognize that Russia is on the ropes.  Now is not the time to appease Putin. This is a time to exert maximum  pressure to bring him to the negotiating table hat in hand.

There are three things we must do now.

First, we must continue to pressure Russia economically. This means  strengthening existing sanctions, identifying secondary sanctions, and  bolstering sanctions enforcement and anti-evasion efforts. At the top  of the effort to control the evasion of sanctions, we should be working  with allies to combat the illicit oil trade, including efforts to go on  the offensive against the so-called ghost fleet of aging tankers Russia  employs to facilitate the export of oil and other sanctioned goods.

Second, we must work with our European partners to impound and  leverage Russia's frozen assets.

Finally, we must ensure in both word and deed that Ukraine has our  support and commitment to working with them to establish a just and  lasting peace.

However, instead of taking action to strengthen the negotiating hand  on any of these fronts, the administration has shifted focus to the  signing of a deal to exploit Ukraine's natural resources. Much remains  to be seen about the shape of this agreement, but we do know it will  take years, if not decades, to see substantial returns.

A large number of Ukraine's rare earth deposits are actually located  in Ukrainian territory that is currently contested or occupied by  Russia. I am not sure how one is to square this agreement with  Secretary Hegseth's comments about the forfeiture of Ukraine's  sovereign territory.

Furthermore, the deal includes no security guarantees from the United  States, which the Ukrainians have--rightly, I believe--insisted upon.  Security guarantees are essential to assure Ukraine that the United  States is not simply interested in an enrichment scheme but is  committed to the pursuit of a just and lasting peace.

Indeed, a just and lasting peace must be the final outcome. That is a  United States national security imperative, one that has--at least  until recently--enjoyed robust and vocal bipartisan support.

We support Ukraine because we know that the war in Ukraine is not  just a regional war; it is the most visible demonstration of the larger  existential threat Russia poses to our national security.

We support Ukraine to ensure that Vladimir Putin cannot achieve his  goals, which are counter to our own national interests. We must be  clear-eyed about this. If Putin succeeds in Ukraine, it will be the  first piece in his long-stated promise to recreate the Soviet empire.  If that happens, if we fail to learn from history and to see brutal and  craven authoritarians for what they are and the threat they represent,  we may again find America's sons and daughters sent overseas to fight  on foreign shores.

I urge my Republican colleagues and my Democratic colleagues--all my  colleagues--to speak up and stand with Ukraine as they have done for so  many years. Let us continue.