Veteran Treatment Court Coordination Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. REED. Mr. President, today we consider these amendments to NAFTA.  I opposed the original NAFTA in 1993 because I believed it would kill  American jobs and failed to protect the environment. I oppose this  version now, because it does not substantially improve on what was a  bad deal all those years ago. 

  I appreciate the concessions my colleagues were able to force  President Trump to accept that strengthen protections for workers, but  at the end of the day, these changes don't go far enough. I am  concerned that this trade agreement could continue NAFTA's suppression  of wages here at home instead of lifting them. This agreement also  doesn't prioritize protecting our environment and will contribute to  environmental damage and degradation, and it will continue President  Trump's failed economic priorities that primarily benefit the wealthy  and well-connected at the expense of hard-working, middle-class, and  blue collar taxpayers. 

  A well-crafted free trade deal should provide reciprocal benefits,  contain sufficient labor standards that preserve and create jobs here  at home, and include environmental and other protections to ensure that  trade is conducted fairly. 

  If well-crafted, trade policy can be a vital part of our economic and  security efforts. Ideally, it would serve to achieve our Nation's  policy objectives. The simple fact is that there are winners and there  are losers in any trade agreement. The loss of economic security as a  result of trade agreement after trade agreement over decades stems from  a frequent failure to provide guaranteed and significant assistance to  dislocated workers and small businesses that are negatively impacted by  increased trade. A little money for training in a massive economy just  hasn't cut it. 

  In. 1993, I thought that NAFTA failed this test and as a result would  be bad for Rhode Island's workers, manufacturers, and small businesses.  I outlined a number of concerns at the time. 

  I believed that NAFTA would increase incentives for companies to move  factories and outsource jobs to Mexico--depressing wages for American  workers. I also worried that the conditions on the ground in Mexico and  the disposition of its government were not conducive to a free-trade  agreement. Sadly, many of these concerns were later realized. NAFTA,  along with increased globalization, certainly contributed to stagnating  wages, loss of jobs, and a diminishing manufacturing base. Businesses  outsourced jobs and moved factories to Mexico where costs and wages  were lower. Labor standards were not adequate or enforced and workers  were taken advantage of. Additionally, there were lax environmental  standards, further incentivizing businesses to move jobs to Mexico, and  which have proven harmful to our environment. 

  Alternating between threatening to withdraw from NAFTA and imposing  tariffs on dubious national security grounds, President Trump damaged  critical relationships for, at best, marginal gains. That is what is so  confounding. Out of the very chaos that President Trump has sown, we  could have emerged with a much better, stronger NAFTA but that is not  where we find ourselves. 

  According to a report conducted by the U.S. International Trade  Commission, USITC, released in April, the USITC forecasts that the new  NAFTA ``would raise U.S. real GDP by $68.2 billion (0.35 percent) and  U.S. employment by 176,000 jobs (0.12 percent)'' once implemented,  years in the future. While each new job is critically important, these  projections in no way match the rhetoric that President Trump spins and  demonstrate that the new NAFTA is essentially the same as the old NAFTA  from an economic perspective. It is also not clear that jobs lost as a  result of NAFTA will be recovered, as has been claimed by some of the  new NAFTA's proponents. 

  Similarly, I believe that many of the concerns that I had with NAFTA  and other trade agreements remain, particularly with respect to the  protection of workers and our environment and ensuring tough  enforcement mechanisms. I note the absence of a specific and robust  Trade Adjustment Assistance Program to assist workers negatively  impacted by increased trade in the implementing legislation--such  assistance was at least included in 1993. The implementing legislation  contains $843 million dollars in new spending. This includes resources  to enforce environmental and labor standards in Mexico. Yet it does not  include funding to assist American workers and small businesses who are  negatively impacted by trade. As a result of any trade agreement, there  are those who benefit and those who are hurt. We should always insist  that there are sufficient provisions to assist workers who will lose  out. 

  Environmental standards and protections were inadequately accounted  for in 1993, and the fact that they are not sufficiently stringent here  is very disappointing. Climate change is having a serious impact on our  environment and our economy. Safeguarding the environment is the right  thing to do. It also helps ensure our workers can compete on an even  playing field. Jobs are typically outsourced because it is cheaper to  do business somewhere else. The absence of stringent and enforceable  environmental standards in NAFTA contributed to a rush to move the  production of goods to Mexico. It also hurt our environment. As we  consider the new NAFTA, Australia is being ravaged by wildfires that  many scientists argue are exacerbated by climate change. Our trade  policy should intentionally include efforts to recognize and combat  climate change. The new NAFTA fails to tackle this challenge that  today's and every succeeding generation for the foreseeable future will  have to confront, and my colleague from Rhode Island has made this  point in greater and granular detail. 

  In l993, conditions in Mexico and the disposition of its government  were not conductive to a free-trade agreement. Mexico's democratic  institutions and law enforcement agencies were weak and susceptible to  corruption. As is frequently reported in the news, this remains a  challenge for Mexico. If Mexico cannot arrest certain of its citizens  for fear of cartel violence, it seems unreasonable to believe that it  will be able to effectively inspect factories for alleged labor  violations in territory controlled by cartels or factories in which  cartels have an interest. 

  In order to revitalize manufacturing in America, we need a commitment  to workers. We need to make national investments in infrastructure and  innovation. But, instead, what President Trump is offering is a  repackaging and rebranding of NAFTA. 

  President Trump may not be an expert on a lot of things, but he knows  the importance of branding. He thinks he can call NAFTA terrible,  fiddle around the edges, re brand it as the United States-Mexico-Canada  Agreement, NAFTA 2.0, or whatever name he wants to come up with, and  then call it great, big, and beautiful, when in reality, he hasn't  solved a problem. 

  Further, the new NAFTA fits neatly into President Trump's habit of  creating a problem, sowing chaos, and then seeking credit when he  provides a ``solution'' that is marginally better than where he began  or worse. 

  Many proponents of the new NAFTA explain that an important reason to  vote in favor of this deal is that if ratified, it will remove  ``uncertainty'' from the economy and our relationship with our NAFTA  partners. However, the main cause of uncertainty from our relationship  with Canada and Mexico was created by President Trump through his  erratic threats to our neighbors and trading partners. The arsonist is  not a hero for putting out the blaze he intentionally set.  

  The President's pattern of behavior is prevalent throughout his trade  policy. The President's tariffs and tweets are having a damaging  effect. Indeed, while President Trump continues to assert that China is  paying the cost, economists, including those from the Federal Reserve,  have instead proven that these tariffs are being paid by American  families, workers, farmers, small businesses, and manufacturers. 

  These NAFTA amendments are just another example of an economic policy  that provides crumbs to the middle-class. It goes hand in hand with the  President and Republicans in Congress choosing to spend $1.9 trillion  on tax cuts for the biggest companies and the wealthiest one percent of  Americans who were recently estimated to already control more than a  third of America's wealth. It is no wonder the President's tax law is  unpopular. People can read the paper and see the list of those now  paying little to nothing in taxes, while their taxes remain more or  less the same and investment in roads and other infrastructure,  education, or healthcare facilities goes unmet. 

  We should be focusing our attention on lifting up working families  and small businesses and ensuring that our Nation is on sound financial  footing. While some of my Democratic colleagues had a hand in improving  the initial agreement, it still fails to provide adequately for Rhode  Island's workers and small businesses or the environment. Just like the  old NAFTA, I cannot support this new one.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT