Decoding Epstein Files


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699892/decoding-epstein-files


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, yesterday Congressman Massie and I went to  the Department of Justice to read the unredacted Epstein files. We  spent about 2 hours there, and we learned that 70 to 80 percent of the  files are still redacted.

In fact, there were six wealthy, powerful men that the DOJ hid for no  apparent reason. When Congressman Massie and I pointed this out to the  Department of Justice, they acknowledged their mistake. They have now  revealed the identity of these six powerful men. These men are:  Salvatore Nuara; Zurab Mikeladze; Leonic Leonov; Nicola Caputo; Sultan  Ahmed bin Sulayem, CEO of Dubai Ports World; and Leslie Wexner, who was  labeled as a co-conspirator by the FBI.

My question is: Why did it take myself and   Thomas Massie going to  the Justice Department to get these six men's identities to become  public? If we found six men that they were hiding in 2 hours, imagine  how many men they are covering up for in those 3 million files. The  story gets worse.

The reality is that Donald Trump's FBI scrubbed these files in March,  long before   Thomas Massie and I passed the Epstein Files Transparency  Act. My bill is clear. The Epstein Files Transparency Act requires them  to unredact those FBI files. Yet, the Justice Department said to me and  to Congressman Massie: We just uploaded whatever the FBI sent us.

Guess what. The FBI sent scrubbed files. That means the survivors'  statements to the FBI, naming rich and powerful men who went to  Epstein's island, who went to his ranch, who went to his home and raped  and abused underage girls or saw underage girls being paraded, are all  hidden. They are all redacted.

It is a little bit of a farce. They are inviting all the Members of  Congress to go see the Department of Justice's ``unredacted files,''  but they have got all redacted files from the FBI.

It is not the fault of the Justice Department attorneys. They were  just told to upload things that Donald Trump's FBI had already  scrubbed.

It is a blatant violation of the Epstein Files Transparency Act, but  it also asks a fundamental question: Who are they protecting? Why are  they protecting these rich and powerful men, people I call part of the  Epstein class? Why are we in a country where there is no elite  accountability for people who do the most heinous things?

We have in England the king now calling for an investigation and  possible prosecution of his own brother. We have in Norway the princess  who no longer has support to be the queen. Yet in the United States of  America, we have someone in the Cabinet, Howard Lutnick, who is all  over these Epstein files and who allegedly had business with Epstein  after he was convicted of pedophilia, but is still in the Cabinet.

We need to ask ourselves: Are we in America going to have the lead  accountability? Are we going to call to account the rich and powerful  people who broke the law or cavorted with a pedophile, a convicted  pedophile?

Are we going to have prosecutions for billionaires who went to this  island and either raped underage girls or saw underage girls being  raped and didn't say anything? Are we going to have investigations?

I will tell you what this is about. It is not just about the 1,200  survivors. It is about two tiers of justice in America. It is about  people who can accumulate wealth and power and don't have to care about  the rest of America.

They have destroyed so much of this country. Income inequality is at  a 60-year high. Workers' salaries are less than they have been for 75  years as a part of GDP. Somehow, this country seems to be working for  the rich and powerful; but it is not working for ordinary working-class  Americans.

I say enough. It is time to begin with accountability for the Epstein  class. Hold in front of Congress those people who visited the island or  did business with Epstein after he was a convicted pedophile. Let's  investigate them, and let's prosecute them.

Let's return to democratic accountability in the United States of  America. Let's return to one system of justice in the United States of  America. Let's return to a place where every American has a stake in  this country.