Introducing Legislation on Drug Pricing


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691277/introducing-legislation-on-drug-pricing


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce as legislation  President Trump's executive order for the most-favored-nation status on  drug pricing.

My legislation will codify President Trump's executive order, which  basically says that Americans should not pay more for drugs than people  in other countries and other parts of the world.

Right now, we are paying two to three times more for our drugs than  people in other industrialized nations. This executive order, codified  by the legislation, will allow our Cabinet Secretaries to put pressure  on Big Pharma and make sure that they are not price gouging and will  allow for the importation of cheaper drugs.

Why do we need the legislation? The reality is that Big Pharma will  sue over the executive order, like they did in the previous Trump  administration. In the previous administration, they managed to kill  the executive order. The only way we can stand up to Big Pharma is to  codify legislation, which the President wants to do in an executive  order.

Here is the deal. If I can cross the aisle and support President  Trump's executive order and legislation, every Republican should be  willing to cross the aisle and support my legislation.

It is a pretty simple test. Are we going to stand in this body with  the $16 billion that Big Pharma spent on lobbying, or are we going to  stand with the American people? We will know that answer based on how  many cosponsors we get for my legislation that simply codifies Donald  Trump's executive order.                    Opposing Medicaid and NIH Budget Cuts

Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the cruel budget cuts  on Medicaid and NIH. I don't want to sensationalize. I just want to  give some of the facts.

The Republican budget would cut $715 billion from Medicaid. They are  going to freeze this thing called a provider tax, which means that the  Federal Government is going to give $600 billion less to hospitals  across this country.

That is going to mean, according to the independent Congressional  Budget Office, that almost 8.6 million people will lose their  insurance. It is going to mean that many hospitals won't be able to  offer services in physical therapy and mental health counseling. It is  going to mean, unfortunately, that rural hospitals close.

Don't take my word for it. Take the word of Senator Josh Hawley, who  represents the State of Missouri. He said that these Medicaid cuts  would be a total betrayal by the President and the Republican Party of  the working class.

I never thought I would be quoting Josh Hawley, but everyone should  read his op-ed. He was pretty clear that these cuts would be  devastating for working families.

Look at the cuts to the NIH. A report released today by the Senate  says there is already a 31 percent decrease in cancer research in this  country. The NIH has been decimated with 30 percent effectiveness and  almost a 40 percent cut. This is money that goes not just into cancer  research but into Alzheimer's research and Parkinson's research.

We used to have a bipartisan consensus in this country that we did  not cut Medicaid, that we did not cut medical research, and that we did  not give more tax breaks in my district in Silicon Valley, to the  billionaires in my district, at the expense of medical research and the  working class.

Mr. Speaker, I hope people in this body will reconsider the cruel  cuts to Medicaid.

I hope people in this body will reconsider the cruel cuts to  Medicaid, the cruel cuts to NIH, and tax the billionaires in my  district a little more so we don't have to cut these essential  programs.