Marking 80 Years After Trinity, the Dangers of Nuclear War Have Never Been Higher


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693757/marking-80-years-after-trinity-the-dangers-of-nuclear-war-have-never-been-higher


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to highlight the rising danger  posed by the unchecked expansion of global nuclear arsenals. As we mark  80 years since the Trinity test, we must confront the urgent need to  reverse course before miscalculation or escalation leads to  irreversible catastrophe. I include in the Record the following  article, 80 Years After Trinity, the Dangers of Nuclear War Have Never  Been Higher by Norman Solomon:

The dangers of nuclear war have never been higher, but       poitical pressure to prevent it is at low ebb. Eighty years       after the atomic age began with the Trinity bomb test in New       Mexico on July 16, 1945, words can't possibly be adequate to       describe the extent of global horrors that today's nuclear       arsenals are capable of inflicting. But mainstream US media       outlets and partisan politics are routinely oblivious to the       threat of oblivion

Despite the efforts of individuals and groups striving for       arms control, the national discourse ignores the likely       results of nuclear buildups--which continue to boost the       actual risks of annihilation. Pronouncements from the nuclear       establishment about a need to ``maintain deterrence'' and       ``modernize'' usually go unquestioned as to the underlying       assumptions. Senators and representatives praise nuclear       systems with components produced in their state or district.

Even well-informed and dedicated advocates of halting the       arms race are often reduced to arguing for fiscal       responsibility. Within the narrow confines of regular       ``national security'' debates, the wisest lobbying tactic       appears to be a focus on exorbitant costs of ``modernizing''       nuclear weapons. Yet cost-cutting arguments bypass how the       weapons push the world closer to doomsday.

Northrop Grumman--the contractor for the new Sentinel ICBM,       which is meant to replace the current Minuteman III       intercontinental ballistic missiles--has racked up such huge       cost overruns that the project at times seemed to be in       jeopardy of cancellation. Meanwhile, the political response       detoured around the unique dangers of ICBMs, which (as land-      based missiles vulnerable to attack) remain on hair-trigger,       ``use them or lose them'' alert. Given the long record of       false alarms, such hypervigilance is a possible tripwire for       an accidental apocalypse.

``Getting trapped in an argument about the cheapest way to       keep ICBMs operational in their silos is ultimately no-win,''       Daniel Ellsberg and I wrote for The Nation in autumn 2021. We       added: ``Better sooner than later, members of Congress will       need to face up to the horrendous realities about       intercontinental ballistic missiles. They won't do that       unless peace, arms-control, and disarmament groups go far       beyond the current limits of congressional discourse--and       start emphasizing, on Capitol Hill and at the grassroots, the       crucial truth about ICBMs and the imperative of eliminating       them all.''

More than 700 scientists signed a letter last summer going       beyond the focus on cost to urge the complete elimination of       America's ICBMs. The letter, organized by the Union of       Concerned Scientists, explained that ``the US could eliminate       the land-based leg of the triad tomorrow and the US public       would only be safer for it.''

Progressives working to defund new weapons systems       recognize that massive military spending is, in the words of       Martin Luther King Jr., a ``demonic, destructive suction       tube''--depleting enormous resources that should be devoted       to meeting human needs instead of destroying lives and       threatening human survival. But for typical Congress members       of either party, disputes about how to get the most bang for       the buck are affirming the arms race rather than impeding it.       Certain firms might lose specific contracts if some       Strangelovian projects are sufficiently exposed as       boondoggles, but the nuclear-arms industry and overall       military business remain on a steep upward trajectory.

Congresspeople are accustomed to juggling billions of       ``defense'' dollars. What they aren't accustomed to       acknowledging--and what constituent pressure should demand       they face--is that the latest weapons systems further       endanger human life on Earth.

The history of the last eight decades tells us that       Americans will go along with astronomical spending for       nuclear weaponry if they believe it makes them safer. Unless       we effectively make the case that the opposite       is true, the nuclear arms race will continue to play out in       media and politics as a pricey necessity

In recent years, numerous activists and groups have given       priority to calling for abolition of nuclear weapons. It's a       position that occupies the highest moral ground, famously       seized by the Nobel laureate scientist George Wald in a       widely reprinted 1969 anti-war speech at MIT. ``Nuclear       weapons offer us nothing but a balance of terror, and a       balance of terror is still terror,'' he said. ``We have to       get rid of those atomic weapons, here and everywhere. We       cannot live with them.''

During the past several years, accelerating work by       activists for abolition has drawn inspiration from the Treaty       on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, now signed by 94       countries, and visionary organizations like the International       Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons.

Unfortunately, campaigning for abolition of nuclear weapons       does not have any evident capacity to hinder the US       government's leading role in propelling the momentum of the       arms race. No matter how heartfelt and imbued with wisdom,       pleas for abolition do not present a threat to the       unrestrained and voracious power of the military-industrial       complex.

A truly horrific reality in 2025, and for the realistically       foreseeable future, is that nuclear weapons will remain on       this planet, brandished against the entire human species. The       word ``realistically'' may cause some to bristle. But a lack       of such distasteful realism can divert resources, time, and       energies away from where they're most needed.

Desperate needs include far greater activism, public       messaging, and political organizing to avert the worst. The       top of the agenda should include: renewal of US-Russia New       START treaty set to expire next February: reinstatement of       three vital nuclear-arms pacts canceled by the US government,       the Anti-Ballistic Missile, Intermediate-Range Nuclear       Forces, and Open Skies treaties; and initiation of step-by-      step disarmament measures that can sometimes involve wise       unilateral actions by the US government, as in the case of       ICBMs.

``We are closer to nuclear catastrophe today than at any       point since the Cold War,'' Representative Jim McGovern said       this spring when reintroducing a House resolution ``urging       the United States to lead the world back from the brink of       nuclear war and halt and reverse the nuclear arms race.''       With 21 cosponsors, the resolution ``calls on the president''       to take major steps toward sanity, none of which Joe Biden       chose to take and none of which Donald Trump shows any       indication of taking.

Looking at the names on the nonbinding resolution, a reason       for discouragement is that only 10 percent of House Democrats       and not a single Republican signed on. A less obvious problem       is that the signers are not speaking out for vigorous       American diplomacy to end the Ukraine war, which may be a       prerequisite for restarting any semblance of dialogue on       nuclear dangers between Washington and Moscow.

For more than three years, ever since the Russian invasion       of Ukraine, congressional Democrats have rarely advocated the       kind of diplomatic efforts that might stop the war's carnage.       Such efforts could supply a scaffold for rebuilding the arms-      control architecture.

But the default role for even progressive Democrats on the       Hill has been to support no-strings arming of the Ukrainian       military (``let's you and them fight'') while depicting the       Kremlin as incapab]e of serious negotiations. Yet the       McGovern resolution says that the United States should lead a       worldwide effort to prevent nuclear war by ``in particular,       pursuing and concluding new nuclear arms control and       disarmament arrangements with the Russian Federation to       prevent a buildup of nuclear forces beyond current levels.''

So while some congressional Democrats are emphatic that the       United States should directly negotiate with Russia to       prevent nuclear war, those same lawmakers are not willing to       push for US negotiations with Russia to end the Ukraine war.

In reality, thawing the deep freeze of the new Cold War is       essential to halt and reverse the race toward annihilation.       Voicing hope that nuclear-arms negotiations can be successful       in tandem with belligerence toward Russia may seem politic,       but it is not realistic.

While hawkish legislators make no pretense of interest in       any step toward detente, it's important that at least a       minority of Democrats at the Capitol are urging diplomatic       talks aimed at preventing nuclear war. Yet it's hard to       imagine those Democrats sounding anything like President       Lyndon B. Johnson at the close of his summit with Russian       Premier Alexei Kosygin in mid-1967 in Glassboro, New Jersey,       when LBJ said, ``We have made further progress in an effort       to improve our understanding of each other?s thinking on a       number of questions.''

Today, the Democrats who talk about the need to avoid       nuclear war do not seem especially interested in ``an effort       to improve our understanding'' of the Russian leadership's       thinking. The rote storyline--that Vladimir Putin is evil,       end of story--blends in smoothly with US news media and the       punditocracy. What it also does is give more fuel to the       momentum toward nuclear holocaust.

Many who justifiably derided President George W. Bush after       9/11 for his Manichaean view of the world are now largely       replicating it. Implicit in the current worldview is that--      after decades of war in Afghanistan and Iraq, causing deaths       into the millions, and now while continuing to serve as the       crucial accomplice for ongoing genocide in Gaza--the US       government is clearly virtuous, in complete contrast with the       Russian government because of its own unconscionable       aggression in Ukraine,

The prevailing reflex, to act as though US-Russia relations       could roll along on two tracks--escalating geopolitical       conflicts while restoring and concluding major nuclear-arms       treaties--is the political equivalent of magical thinking, if       not simply craven expediency.

Meanwhile, for the corporate beneficiaries of a trillion-      dollar Pentagon budget and an out-ofcontrol nuclear weapons       program, the more hostility toward Russia and China the       better. And the country that first brought atomic weapons       into the world is continuing to lead the way toward       thermonuclear destruction.

For those of us who have lived in the era of nuclear bombs       for many decades, still being alive can seem close to       miraculous. Luck and collective efforts for sanity must have       been factors. Now, the generations with most of their lives       potentially ahead are in a world that could instantly make       that impossible. The heightened militarism of American       politics is threatening to seal their fate.