Recognizing the 100th Anniversary of the Town of Howey-In-The-Hills, Florida


Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to recognize  and celebrate the 100th Anniversary of the Town of Howey-in-the-Hills,  Florida.

Founded by William John Howey and incorporated on May 8, 1925, as the  Town of Howey, this vibrant community officially became known as Howey- in-the-Hills in 1927. The name pays homage to the picturesque  topography of the regions, which Mr. Howey fondly referred to as ``The  Florida Alps.''

Mr. Howey was an entrepreneur who dreamed of creating a citrus empire  with the town serving as its commercial and shipping hub. He  constructed Florida's first citrus juice plant in 1921 and introduced  the ``Lifeguard'' brand of canned citrus juice, revolutionizing the  industry. The historic Floridian Hotel, built to accommodate buyers of  his citrus acreage, and the elegant Howey Mansion on the north end of  town are enduring symbols of his legacy.

As the town grew, so too did its reputation as a destination for  recreation and hospitality. The adjacent Floridian Country Club and  golf course capitalized on the growing popularity of the sport and were  later revitalized by the Beucher family, who transformed the property  into the acclaimed Mission Resort & Club. In 2022, the Beucher family  passed the torch to MMI Hospitality Group, ensuring the resort's  continued excellence.

Another key figure in the town's development was C.V. Griffin, Sr.,  who, in the 1950s, promoted ``Land Cruises'' to draw attention to the  town's beauty and opportunity. He donated land for the town hall,  established Griffin Airways, and was instrumental in the construction  of the State Road 19 bridge over Lake Harris, linking communities and  encouraging economic growth.

Today, with a population exceeding 2,000, Howey-in-the-Hills is a  thriving, family-oriented resort town. The beautifully restored Howey  Mansion hosts custom-designed events, while the town's 1920s mission- style architecture and the Community Church, built in 1949, add  cultural depth to this charming municipality.

Whether it is a leisurely stroll through Blevins Patriot Park,  boating on Lake Harris, enjoying the spa, or a round of golf, Howey-in- the-Hills remains a beautiful and welcoming place to live, work, and  visit.

I am honored to join the community in commemorating the 100th  Anniversary of the town of Howey-in-the-Hills, and in celebrating its  proud heritage, vibrant present, and promising future.

Happy Centennial, Howey-in-the-Hills.