Building A Beloved Community


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today  to anchor this Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour, as we  celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., whose  national holiday was yesterday and who would have been 97 years old on  January 15.

Mr. Speaker, 1 year ago today was Martin Luther King Day. It was also  Inauguration Day. As I sat in the rotunda watching the President take  the oath of office, I couldn't help but ponder the final question that  Dr. King pondered in the last year of his life: Where do we go from  here? Chaos or community.

Dr. King asked this question after the victory of the Civil Rights  Act and after the victory of the Voting Rights Act. He pondered what  the Black community should do with this extraordinary power, the power  of the vote, when for the first time in American history, a government  by, of, and for the people finally included Black Americans.

He focused on addressing poverty. He focused on addressing  discrimination. He focused on addressing war. I thought about another  speech that he gave shortly before he died called: ``Remaining Awake  Through a Great Revolution.''

Before Inauguration Day, one of the architects of Project 2025, which  has been the blueprint for the second Trump administration, said this  is the second American Revolution, which will be peaceful if the left  allows it. I thought about what Dr. King would say today. His words  remain relevant.

Within hours of the President taking his oath of office, chaos was  unleashed. Through an attack on diversity, equity, and inclusion, we  saw over the past year efforts to roll back the hard-won victories of  the civil rights movement.

We see at the Supreme Court right now a case that could gut what  remains of the Voting Rights Act after the court gutted section 5 and  section 4 effectively in the Shelby County v. Holder case.

We have seen Black and Brown communities, including American  citizens, living in terror as ICE agents show up on streets, door to  door, in our courthouses, and on the way to school, grabbing people and  violating their due process rights.

We have seen trade wars that make the cost of everything go up. We  have seen a Federal workforce--which was the doorway to the middle  class for many Black Americans--we have seen a Federal workforce, in  the words of Russell Vought, ``traumatized.'' We have seen the largest  cuts to food assistance and healthcare coverage in American history.  That is just the tip of the iceberg. Chaos has been unleashed.

Dr. King in his time, while he fought chaos, he stayed focused on  community. He stayed focused on building what he called the beloved  community. I think the beloved community is best described as a  community in which we care for one another. It is where we feed the  hungry, where we care for the sick, and where we house the homeless.

He focused on making sure that the promises upon which this country  was founded ring true for every American.

Before he died, he wondered if the dream that he talked about on the  March on Washington had become a nightmare and was too far out of  reach. Yet, on the night before he died, he told us that he had seen  the Promised Land, that he wouldn't get there with us, but he still  believed in the power of community and the power of the beloved  community.

Today, the Congressional Black Caucus is carrying forward his work.  We are his legacy. We ensure that what he fought for--what John Lewis  fought for, and what millions of Americans have fought for--since the  first day in 1619, when Africans were brought to these shores  involuntarily--endures. From day one, through acts of rebellion,  resistance, and self-liberation, fought for an America that included  them, and we the people.

We carry out that legacy, and we will fight the chaos every single  day to ensure that his work continues. Whether it is expanding the  right to vote, whether it is fighting unjust wars, whether it is  working to eradicate poverty, whether it is standing up for the  constitutional rights of every American, as the conscience of the  Congress, we will continue that legacy.

Mr. Speaker, it is now my pleasure to yield to our chairwoman, the  Congresswoman from New York (Ms. Clarke).

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I am Representative Yvette D.  Clarke, chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, proudly representing  New York's Ninth Congressional District in central and south Brooklyn.

I thank Congresswoman Jennifer McClellan for anchoring this  Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight with my colleagues of the Congressional  Black Caucus to commemorate the life and legacy of the Reverend Dr.  Martin Luther King, Jr.

Dr. King held an unyielding belief that women and men everywhere,  regardless of color or creed, are equal. He used the power of words and  the example of nonviolent resistance to bring us closer to racial and  economic justice.

Dr. King was a man of courage, principles, and faith. We are forever  in his debt. Today, his example inspires us all toward our highest  ideals as Americans. As we gather to honor the Reverend Dr. Martin  Luther King, Jr., an American hero and patriot, we are keenly aware of  the pivotal moment in history in which we stand and of the forces  actively working to undermine his life's work.

At a time when the most vulnerable communities in our Nation are  under relentless attack, the Congressional Black Caucus continues to  uphold Dr. King's legacy, rooted in justice, fairness, and equity for  all.

Today, ironically, also marks the 1-year anniversary of the Trump  administration. As we reflect on the damage that this administration  has inflicted on communities across this Nation, we call on our  colleagues across the aisle to honor the teachings and philosophy of  the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and to work with us to reject  the hateful agenda that has taken hold.

Dr. King devoted his life to reminding us that silence in the face of  injustice is not an option. As he so powerfully said: ``Our lives begin  to end the day we become silent about the things that matter.''

The Congressional Black Caucus refuses to remain silent in the face  of the pain this administration inflicts on the American people, from  the assaults on voting rights with the looming Louisiana v. Callais  decision before the Supreme Court, to deepening economic inequality, to  the threats against our Nation's healthcare.

Today, we are recommitting ourselves to the fight of keeping Dr.  King's dream and his mission alive.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair for her words.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to our immediate past chair of the  Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressman from Nevada's Fourth,    Steven Horsford.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his comments.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the Congresswoman from North Carolina's  Fourth District, Congresswoman Valerie Foushee.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Foushee.

Ms. McCLELLAN. I thank Congressman Ivey for his remarks.

Mr. Speaker, you see behind me a quote from Dr. King that he gave in  an interview in 1967 where he talks about how in many ways the dream  that he articulated in the march on Washington had become a nightmare.  Most people are surprised by that.

Why did it become a nightmare?

It became a nightmare because after the victories of the Civil Rights  Act, after the victory of the Voting Rights Act, when he really began  to address the systemic issues facing this country of poverty, of  hatred, of war, he began to see how deeply ingrained in American  culture racism really was.

He began to see that the systemic racism couldn't just be overcome  with laws. I think for many African Americans today that is the  heartbreak that we face. When Dr. King spoke at the march on  Washington, he said that in many ways the marchers had come to collect  on a promissory note in our Declaration of Independence written 250  years ago, which promised that all men were endowed by their creator  with the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of  happiness. Thomas Jefferson didn't mean all men. He didn't include the  men, women, and children that he owned, including his children and the  mother of those children.

When James Madison, the architect of the Constitution wrote the  Virginia Plan that led to the Constitution in the beginning, ``We the  people . . . in order to form a more perfect Union'' and laid out a  vision of government by, of, and for the people, it didn't include all  the people.

My ancestors, our ancestors here in the Congressional Black Caucus,  weren't even deemed people. They were deemed three-fifths of a person  for purposes of apportionment. They were treated as property and in  some cases animals.

We have a country that was literally built on the backs of a whole  race of people with an ideal that was revolutionary: it said the power  of government derives from the people.

My ancestors believed in that ideal just as much as yours, Mr.  Speaker, but it took us a long time to participate in that government,  in that promise. That is what the civil rights movement was about.

It was also about recognizing the basic decency and dignity of every  human being, regardless of where they are born, regardless of how they  worship, regardless of the color of their skin.

We still have a long way to go, because what diversity, equity, and  inclusion recognizes is that when the Civil Rights Act and the Voting  Rights Act and all of the laws that were passed because of the work of  Dr. King, they weren't a magic wand that erased over 300 years of the  impact of slavery and Jim Crow. That requires intention, intentional  unwinding to recognize that you have people like my mother's family,  who her parents, her brothers, and her sisters didn't go to school  beyond the eighth grade because the State of Mississippi didn't find it  important to educate Black children, and while the Catholic church did,  they only educated Black children until the eighth grade. Their  opportunities were limited.

You had neighborhoods like Jackson Ward that I represent that was  once the Harlem of the South, decisions were made to cut that  neighborhood in half by a highway and segregate part of that  neighborhood away from everything that they needed. Those were  intentional decisions that were made rooted in this community doesn't  matter.

So, part of the nightmare has been the very things used to try to  erase the legacy of Jim Crow and slavery have now been weaponized  against that progress. When you see the President of the United States  deride the very things used to try to eradicate the legacy of Jim Crow  and slavery to divide again, to wedge, to sow division, it is as old as  time.

The history of this country has been every time we make progress  towards the ideal, there is backlash, and it involves three things:  violence, propaganda, and voter suppression.

My great-grandfather lived through the first backlash. He was a man  born on a plantation. His parents were enslaved. He exercised his right  to vote after he was given a literacy test. He got all the questions  right, and he heard the registrar say--and this is the only time you  will hear me use this word is in a direct quote--``I need more  questions because this nigger got them all right.'' He was on a list,  do not register this man to vote.

My parents saw the second backlash to the civil rights movement. We  are in the third backlash now.

What the backlash involves is propaganda that breaks up coalitions,  whether it was a coalition of previously enslaved Black men and poor  nonlandowning Whites who came together during Reconstruction to rebuild  this Nation, the backlash to that involved racial terror lynching, or  the lie of white supremacy and a rash of voter suppression laws that  completely ignored the 14th and 15th Amendments.

The backlash in the civil rights movement of Dr. King was a Southern  strategy that intentionally carved a wedge between Black and White  communities--it was intentional in order to suppress the vote--and the  murder of our leaders who fought to change those laws and to change the  system.

We are in that backlash right now. We have a choice, and Dr. King  spelled it out. We decide where we go from here.

We decide: Is it more chaos, division, hatred, propaganda, violence,  voter suppression, and tyranny where we pit one group against another  to stay in power?

That is one choice.

Dr. King gave his life for community where we come together, where we  work together, and where we uplift each other. We care for one another,  we love one another, and we live up to the ideal upon which this  country was founded.

He died for that because it meant some people found that idea  dangerous.

We, the Congressional Black Caucus, stand here today recommitted to  making his dream a reality. We won't give in to the nightmare. We will  not give in to the chaos. Not only will we fight the chaos, we will  fight for community. We can't do it alone.

Just like the civil rights movement during Reconstruction and just  like the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s, it required  people coming together from all walks of life putting aside hatred and  division and loving their neighbor and their enemy. We can do that. We  need a little love today. We need a little light in the darkness. We  need community in the midst of the chaos.

We have to do it because while we are fighting the same fights that  our parents, our grandparents, and our great-grandparents fought, we  cannot leave those fights to our children, our grandchildren, or our  great-grandchildren if we expect this country to survive.

That is because what Dr. King also recognized was that now human  beings hold the power to destroy each other and to destroy this planet.  If we don't get ahold of our hatred, then a lot of lives will be  destroyed.

That is not what Dr. King wanted. That is not what people elect us to  do. They elect us to help people and solve problems. They elect us to  focus on community. Let's not give into the chaos.