Electric Supply Chain Act


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Chair, I rise today to oppose H.R. 3638, which  places an unnecessary burden on an already understaffed Department of  Energy and does nothing of substance to support and secure America's  electric supply chain.

The Electric Supply Chain Act must be examined in the broader context  of this administration's reckless workforce reductions and funding cuts  at the Department of Energy and surging electric prices across the  Nation. Already, as a result of DOGE buyouts or early retirements, the  slashing of our workforce has forced over 3,500 Department of Energy  staff out of office.

In fact, the key offices responsible for implementing this very bill  have lost a significant portion of their staff. The Office of  Manufacturing and Energy Supply Chains has lost about two-thirds of its  staff and was eliminated from the Department of Energy's organizational  chart altogether. The Loan Programs Office has similarly lost a  significant number of staff and was further gutted under the  Republicans' big, ugly bill.

The effects of these cuts have far-reaching implications on the  Department of Energy's ability to perform and meet expectations. Across  the country, businesses and community partners are waiting to hear from  the Department of Energy about critical contracts and access to  funding. Congressional offices inquiring on their behalf are still  waiting for answers.

My office has heard that in some cases the Department of Energy can't  even determine who is responsible for certain projects because too many  experienced staff have been pushed out of office. With the Department  of Energy already struggling to meet its current obligations, how can  we pretend that it is business as usual and justify piling on  additional duties when there is no one to perform them?

Unfortunately, this bill represents much of the same failed energy  policy that we have seen this year from our Republican colleagues. It  adds busywork to the Department of Energy's already overfilled plate in  the name of shoring up America's electric supply chain while doing  nothing to address the active harm done to that very same supply chain  by Republican attacks on clean energy, the cancellation--authorized by  the big, ugly bill--of grants and programs that invest in American  energy and tariff policies that make it difficult to complete some  projects.

If Republicans were serious about supporting and protecting our  energy supply chain, they would not have canceled $8 billion worth of  grants to over 300 energy projects across the country.

They would not have decimated the 45X Advanced Manufacturing  Production Credit, which sought to encourage more domestic  manufacturing and production of clean energy components.

Instead, my colleagues across the aisle should have invested more in  developing domestic sources of clean energy, invested more in domestic  manufacturing, and invested more in producing and refining rare earth  minerals, either domestically or with our close allies.

What we have before us today is an empty messaging bill with unfunded  mandates for busywork that will not provide the clarity and direction  that we need to support and protect America's clean energy supply  chain.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and refocus on  efforts that will actually strengthen our energy supply chain and  reduce energy costs for our families.

I implore the Members of Congress to stand up for the Federal  workforce that has been traumatized and decimated this year, while we  continue to put bills forward that put more work on the backs of those  that are left and ignore the fact that there is not a sufficient  workforce to do any of the work that we have in these bills that keep  coming to the floor. It is lunacy, and we need to get back to reality.