Emergency Reporting Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701892/emergency-reporting-act


Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5200, the Emergency  Reporting Act. This important bill would improve the way we assess  communication failures that keep Americans in the dark with no access  to 911 or emergency information during and after natural disasters.

When disaster strikes, the ability to dial 911 for help or to receive  an emergency alert with potentially lifesaving information depends on  networks being up and running during that event. The network staying  up, in turn, depends on the strength and resiliency of our  communications infrastructure and whether networks are being built and  maintained to withstand increasingly powerful elements.

Every Member of this body represents a district that is susceptible  to natural disasters. Hurricanes, wildfires, tornadoes, flash floods,  earthquakes, and many more have destroyed whole communities and  decimated infrastructure serving entire regions.

Madam Speaker, because we know they will continue to wreak havoc on  the places we represent, it is critical that we put systems in place to  gather the best information in the aftermath of natural disasters about  what went wrong and why.

This bill requires the Federal Communications Commission to more  closely examine communications failures in the aftermath of disaster  periods so that we, as policymakers, can use information about  recurring trends to help make networks more hardened and resilient in  the face of future disasters. It is essential for Congress and Federal  agencies to prioritize efforts to make networks more reliable so they  work for all Americans when they need them most.

I thank Ranking Member Matsui and Representative Bilirakis for their  leadership on this important bill. I urge my colleagues to support H.R.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to  the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Matsui).

Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues to  vote  in favor of H.R. 5200, the Emergency Reporting Act, and I yield back  the balance of my time.