Expediting Federal Broad- Band Deployment Reviews Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701932/expediting-federal-broad-band-deployment-reviews-act


Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1681, the Expediting Federal  Broadband Deployment Reviews Act, which was introduced by  Representatives Craig and Evans.

When communications providers deploy broadband infrastructure,  efficiency is critical to stretching their capital investments as far  and to as many homes and businesses as possible. In the course of  developing and comparing different ways to carry out a project,  providers may determine that the most direct route to lay broadband  infrastructure requires traversing lands owned and managed by the  Federal Government.

At the Energy and Commerce Committee, we have heard testimony from  witnesses and hearings about delays and inefficiencies handling permit  applications that are pending at the various agencies overseeing  Federal lands. While environmental and historic preservation  protections will always be of paramount importance to me, we should  always strive to ensure that our agencies operate as efficiently as  possible.

With H.R. 1681, Congress can ensure agencies dispense with  applications to deploy communications infrastructure more quickly,  where no additional environmental or historic preservation due  diligence is required.

This bill requires the administrator of the National  Telecommunications and Information Administration, or NTIA, to  establish an interagency strike force that will improve collaboration  between NTIA and the agencies and departments responsible for reviewing  and approving communications use applications.

Our intent is for NTIA to bring relevant parties together to identify  obstacles and inefficiencies that have slowed progress in the past and  collaborate on solutions to address these barriers going forward. This  will ultimately expedite the deployment of  broadband infrastructure to the rural and remote areas that are still  most in need.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time  to close.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 1681,  the Expediting Federal Broadband Deployment Reviews Act, and I yield  back the balance of my time.