Make the District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701302/make-the-district-of-columbia-safe-and-beautiful-act-of-2025


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 5103, the  Make the District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of 2026.

For this reason, and at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion  to recommit this bill back to committee.

If the House rules permitted, I would have offered the motion with an  important amendment to this bill. My amendment would stop unethical  donations for Federal Government projects to alter any public property,  building, or fixture at the White House, the Naval Observatory, or  other public property locations primarily used by the President and the  Vice President.

During the longest shutdown in our Nation's history, the Trump  administration clearly showed the American people where its priorities  lay and began demolishing the 123-year-old East Wing to build a gilded  ballroom similar to that of his private billionaires' club at Mar-a- Lago.

Not only does the demolition undermine historical preservation  without a public review process, but it also constitutes another  ethical violation by the administration, as private donors fund the  construction without input from the National Park Service.

This bill is just one in a series of the majority's and this  administration's misguided priorities, whereby their answer to solving  our immigration problems is advancing policies that would subject the  District and cities across the Nation to a brutal and indiscriminate  crackdown on immigrant communities.

While stating that he would go after ``the worst of the worst,'' the  President has, instead, targeted families, permanent residents,  refugees, students, and asylum seekers. Instead of taking actions that  make us safer, the administration has opted for showy displays of  force, all to jack up his detention and deportation numbers.

The Trump administration, in its relentless drive to use ICE and  Customs and Border Patrol as an instrument of cruelty toward immigrant  communities, has abandoned the Department of Homeland Security's core  mission of keeping the homeland safe.

Hundreds of intelligence officers with DHS' intelligence office have  been directed to focus on immigration enforcement, resulting in fewer  intelligence briefs reaching local officials and police departments.

At a time when the President has dragged us into his war of choice  with Iran, which puts our servicemembers in harm's way with no clear  long-term strategy, we absolutely cannot afford to leave ourselves so  vulnerable to attack.

With gas prices now on the rise and the cost of groceries, rent, and  utilities skyrocketing for millions, we are left to question why this  administration would rather pursue vanity projects and its campaign of  terror than deliver on the promises it made to the American people.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in  voting for the motion to recommit.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.