Mystic Alerts Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701927/mystic-alerts-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 7022, the Mystic Alerts Act.

Emergency alerting capabilities have come a long way in recent  decades as a direct byproduct of innovation and breakthroughs in  wireless technology.

Not long ago, 911 calls predominantly were made from landline phones,  and emergency alerts were received primarily over broadcast television  and radio channels.

Both capabilities still exist and have an important role in emergency  communications, but I expect for most Americans, they make their 911  calls and receive their emergency alerts on their cell phone, a  smartphone.

The creation of the Wireless Emergency Alert, or WEA, in 2012 marked  a significant leap forward in our ability to disseminate warning and  alert messages to the public.

Prior to 2012, Americans needed to already be tuned into broadcast  programming to receive an alert being distributed for any number of  important situations. In the case of a hurricane or a winter storm that  was forecasted in advance, for instance, the Emergency Alert System was  critical for broadly distributing public safety updates and  instructions to viewers. But we know that not all emergencies announce  themselves days in advance.

All across the country, natural disasters like tornadoes, wildfires,  and flash floods show up with little or no advance warning. One tragedy  after another has demonstrated that when a wildfire spreads or  floodwaters rise rapidly without warning, being able to push emergency  warning information out directly to cell phones in a danger zone is one  of the most powerful tools we have to save lives.

The WEA system allows alerting authorities at nearly every level of  government the ability to reach Americans where they are. Cell phones  are ubiquitous today, and if we avoid falling into the traps of unclear  and overalerting, it will only continue to be more effective as  wireless providers and alerting authorities take steps forward to  improve geotargeting and location accuracy.

H.R. 7022 directs the FCC to take steps that will open up the WEA  system so that satellite communication providers can leverage direct- to-cell capabilities to deliver wireless emergency alerts to cell  phones in terrestrial dead zones where mobile carriers don't have  coverage.

This is incredibly important for Americans who enjoy spending time in  our beautiful national parks and forests, skiing in the mountains, and  exploring other natural areas where connectivity is limited but where  being without emergency information can be deadly, as we saw with  Mystic this summer.

I thank Representatives Fletcher and Pfluger for their leadership on  this effort to not only expand the reach of lifesaving emergency alerts  but to turn tragedy into a victory to ensure more families don't suffer  the same tragedy.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 7022, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues to  vote in favor of H.R. 7022, the Mystic Alerts Act, and I yield back the  balance of my time.