National Gun Violence Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691754/national-gun-violence-awareness-month


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise today  to co-anchor this Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour, along  with my distinguished colleague from Louisiana (Mr. Carter).

For the next 60 minutes, members of CBC have the opportunity to speak  directly to the American people on Gun Violence Awareness Month. It is  an issue of great importance to the Congressional Black Caucus,  Congress, and the constituents we represent.

Mr. Speaker, on March 7, 2023, I stood in the well and took my oath  of office into this body. My children stood with me. My then 13-year- old son, who was very excited, impressed some people with his dance  moves.

Less than a week later, my son, Jackson, showed up at school to find  out one of his classmates was dead. He had killed himself accidentally  using a loaded gun as a prop to film a music video. My son was  devastated.

He was devastated again when 2 months later the school year abruptly  came to an end when Shawn Jackson was shot and killed minutes after  receiving his high school diploma.

These are 2 of the 46,728 people who died from gun-related injuries  in 2023 alone. They were among the average 13,300 Black Americans who  die of gun violence every single year.

Sierra Jenkins, Jahiem Dickerson, Devon Harris, Samiyah Yellardy,  Tyshawn White, Jaiden Carter, Kenneth Cooper, Markiya Dickson, and  Lorenzo Smith are just some of the names of people whose lives were  ended by gun violence. Some were on purpose. Some were by their own  hand. Some were accidental.

Too many of our communities are disproportionately impacted by this  violence. We cannot allow this violence to become normalized. We must  stand together to advance commonsense gun safety legislation, invest in  community violence intervention programs, and address the root causes  of gun violence.

Year after year, we go back to our districts. We go to vigils. We  watch the news. We see tragedies. We come back here. We stand for a  moment of silence. We give our thoughts and prayers. Nothing changes.  The overwhelming consensus of the American people is that we have to do  something.

As a State legislator, I focused on addressing the root causes of gun  violence. I thought there would be bipartisan support for that. To a  certain extent, there was.

I championed investment in the creation of a Firearm Violence  Intervention and Prevention Fund with Delegate Marcia Price from  Newport News when I was in the State senate. This program and fund  would provide a pathway to research demographics and trends and  implement evidence-based solutions to address the root causes of gun  violence.

That is because gun violence in Richmond, Virginia, is different from  gun violence in New Orleans, Louisiana. It is different from gun  violence in New York City. It is different from gun violence in Newark,  New Jersey. We need to get at the root causes.

For too many of our young people, the root causes are that access to  guns is very easy and that they weren't taught to regulate emotions.  Things that in my age were settled on the playground with a fist are  now settled with a gun. Mr. Speaker, you can call someone a name on  social media, and the next thing you know, you are shot dead. We need  to do something to address that gun violence.

I was proud to come to Congress to try to continue to work on that,  but in April, the Trump administration terminated nearly 400 grants  from the Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs that  support everything from victim services to substance use, from mental  health treatment to juvenile justice and child protection.

These are grants that were used to address the root causes of gun  violence in our communities. There have been deep cuts to the Community  Violence Intervention and Prevention Initiative, the largest source of  Federal funding  for community violence intervention, funding authorized by Congress in  2022 that has invested $300 million in community violence programming  and research. Now, about one-half of those investments have been cut.

All this does is invite tragedy back into our communities. We can't  let it happen.

As far as Black people and the communities that we represent, we are  only 14 percent of the U.S. population, but we represent 60 percent of  all firearm homicide victims. A Black person in America is 11.5 times  more likely to die from gun violence.

While gun violence became the leading cause of death of all children  for the first time in 2020, it has been the leading cause of death for  Black children since 2006.

We must do more. We must do more because I can't tell you, Mr.  Speaker, how difficult it is when every time there is a mass shooting,  every time someone is shot going to the grocery store, playing in a  park, going to the movie theater, turning in the wrong driveway,  showing up at school after graduation, on and on, every time it  happens, my son and my daughter look at me, and they ask: Am I next?

Do you know how difficult that is, Mr. Speaker? Do you know how hard  it is, Mr. Speaker, when your children who know someone who has died  from gun violence have to spend their days in school in active shooter  drills rather than learning?

Enough is enough, Mr. Speaker. We must do more. Thoughts and prayers  are not enough.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, Claudia Quaatey, a 16-year-old who  dreamed of becoming a nurse, killed by gun violence.

Cecilia Thomas, a 5-month-old, shot and killed in Chicago, a 5-month  old.

I now yield to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. Kelly).

Ms. McCLELLAN. T'Yonna Major, a 9-year-old gymnast until gun violence  cut her life short.

Kingston Campbell, a 6-year-old killed when shooters were firing into  his home.

They can't speak for themselves. We speak for them.

Clarke),  Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Jennifer  McClellan and Congressman Troy Carter for anchoring the Congressional  Black Caucus Special Order hour.

I rise tonight with my colleagues of the CBC to recognize Gun  Violence Awareness Month and to bring attention to the impact of gun  violence on Black communities around our Nation.

For decades, gun violence has been an epidemic that has had  disproportionate and devastating impacts on Black communities. In fact,  the facts are sobering and clear. On average, more than 13,000 Black  people die from gun violence each year. In the United States, Black  Americans die from gun violence at nearly three times the rate of White  Americans.

In 2023, firearm homicides against Black Americans rose over 23  percent. In that same year, firearm suicides in Black communities  increased 50 percent, and unintentional shooting deaths rose 11  percent. In the 5 years since the police murders of George Floyd and  Breonna Taylor, police shootings of Black Americans have continued to  rise.

These are not simply statistics. These are the heartbreaking stories  of tragedy and loss that should shake our collective conscience as  Americans of goodwill.

From the racist murder of nine parishioners at the Mother Emanuel AME  Church in Charleston, South Carolina, to the racist mass shooting at  the Tops grocery store in Buffalo, New York, that claimed the lives of  10 people, to countless police shootings of unarmed Black men, women,  and children, our Nation has, unfortunately, bore witness to far too  many horrific acts of gun violence against Black communities.

This crisis of gun violence requires action, not thoughts and prayers  as the American people have become far too accustomed to hearing from  many of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Instead of  working to pass legislation to keep our communities safe from gun  violence, the Republicans included in their reconciliation package a  provision that calls for the elimination of registration and ownership  requirements for silencers that have been in place since the National  Firearms Act went into effect in 1934.

By contrast, when House Democrats were in the majority in the 117th  Congress, the Congressional Black Caucus was instrumental in passing  the most significant piece of gun reform legislation in nearly 30 years  with the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which was signed into law by  President Joe Biden.

With that historic legislation, we took meaningful steps to protect  our children, keep our schools safe, and reduce the overall threat of  gun violence around our country by extending background checks for  firearm purchases, clarifying licensing requirements, funding red flag  laws and crisis intervention programs, and weakening the boyfriend  loophole.

While we have made strides toward commonsense gun reform, more needs  to be done to keep our communities safe. During this National Gun  Violence Awareness Month and throughout the year, the Congressional  Black Caucus recognizes the critical need for reforming our gun safety  laws to protect all of our communities.

Our caucus remains committed to meeting this crisis with the urgency  of now to end the senseless acts of violence that take thousands of  innocent lives every year. That time for reform is now.

Ms. McCLELLAN. De'Evan McFall, he dreamed of being an NFL player  until gun violence took his life at 11.

Zahmire Lopez, he had dance moves and rap skills until gun violence  took his life at 8.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for co- anchoring this very important Special Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, every 7 hours, a child is killed by gunfire in the  United States. Thus far in 2025, nearly 100 American children did not  make it to their 12th birthday because they were killed by gunfire.

Every single child lost is an unfathomable tragedy. Families are  destroyed, and communities are left in anguish, but the cycle of death  and  grief is far more prolific in the Black community. Black Americans die  by gun violence at a rate 2.7 times greater than their White peers,  including a 50 percent increase in firearm suicides in 2023.

Communities across our country face this daily reality, but too many  powerful people here in Washington, D.C., feel too comfortably removed  from it. They will call for a moment of silence and then move on, and  nothing will happen. Rather than committing to fight this uniquely  American terror, they will find any excuse to do nothing. It is video  games. It is mental health. It is anything but guns.

Congress has the power to act to keep our young people safe from  their leading cause of death: gun violence. We also have a moral  obligation to act to free our society from the fear that comes with  dropping our children and grandchildren off at school or the mall or  the movies or even a house party.

Enough moments of silence. These moments of silence don't save a  single, solitary life.

Now is the moment in time that we must act to save our generations.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Sir'Antonio Brown, a 6-year-old killed near his Kansas  City home by guns.

King, a Georgia 9-year-old killed by another child handling an  unsecure gun.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Jakobe Fanning, a 16-year-old killed in a South  Carolina shooting.

Izaiah, a 16-year-old in Maryland shot near his high school.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, Serabi Medina lost her mother to gun  violence, and then at 9, she was killed on her way home with ice cream  for her father, cut down by gun violence by a neighbor.

Mr. Speaker, how many more? How many more children on the way to  school, at school, at the bus stop, at the grocery store, in the park,  in front of their house, in bed? How many more? How many more children  have to die before we act?

How many more women stuck in domestic violence situations who try to  get out, who get protective orders against their partner only to have  that partner go get a gun and kill them? How many more?

How many more people, desperate, take their own life because getting  a gun is so easy, much easier than getting the mental health treatment  that they need? How many more?

How many more thoughts are we going to need? How many more prayers?  Mr. Speaker, enough is enough.

When I was a kid in the late 1970s and early 1980s, I think the  biggest thing that my mom worried about when I went to school was  whether I would eat the lunch that they served. Do you know what it is  like to put your child on a bus and wonder if they are going to come  home?

Do you know what it is like to go to a park to celebrate a birthday,  and your child doesn't come home? Too many people do. Too many Black  people do. Too many people in our communities are disproportionately  impacted by this public health crisis.

Even when we find bipartisan agreement--I was able to find bipartisan  agreement to get a fund created in the Virginia government, a gun  violence prevention grant fund, yet the Federal funding that was  available to fund the programs that are proven to address the root  causes of gun violence are being cut. It makes no sense.

Every day, our children see this. They are traumatized by the mass  shooter drills. They are traumatized by the friends who are there one  day and gone the next.

Every single time my son sees a story of someone dying because of a  gun, he asks me, ``Am I next?'' I say to him, ``Jackson, I am doing  everything in my power to make sure you are not.''

I can't do it alone. The Congressional Black Caucus can't do it  alone. We need 218 people in the House and 60 in the Senate who are  willing to do something more than thoughts and prayers.  We need a President and an administration that says enough is enough.

If you don't want to do anything to actually take the guns off the  street, then at least invest in the root causes of violence because it  is too easy for someone desperate enough to take their life to get a  gun and do it. It is too easy for somebody who wants to start a race  war to get a gun and walk into a church where people pray with him, and  he shoots them dead. Enough is enough.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your attention. I thank the Members of  the Congressional Black Caucus who joined me tonight.