Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone for the  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.R. 3062, the  Promoting Cross-border Energy Infrastructure Act.

My concern is that this bill is going to be bad for our national  security interests, in addition to leading to rising costs that will  ultimately harm consumers.

Currently, the State Department must sign off on all cross-border  energy pipelines and power lines. However, this bill would remove that  requirement so that FERC and the Department of Energy would have the  final say on pipelines and power lines, respectively.

While FERC and DOE could consult with other appropriate Federal  agencies, such consultation is optional.

If there is a disagreement between the State Department and the  Department of Energy or the State Department and FERC, this bill says  that our national security and diplomatic interests will take a back  seat, and at the end of the day, FERC and DOE will make the final call  on critical decisions that could impact international relations and  national security issues.

It is disconcerting to hear my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle call national security and diplomatic interests political, as the  committees of jurisdiction have traditionally taken great pains to keep  politics out of those agencies. More importantly, FERC and DOE simply  are not equipped to have the final say on national security and  diplomatic decisions.

As we have heard, this bill could also drive up costs for consumers  at a time when many Americans are already facing rising costs and  struggling to make ends meet.

It will allow modifications to projects without any need for a permit  or environmental review. This means a developer can radically expand a  cross-border pipeline without any Federal review.

It also specifically curtails the Federal review for pipelines from  Texas to Mexico that carry natural gas to Mexican LNG facilities.

These provisions would facilitate increasing LNG exports, which have  been shown to drive up prices for American consumers.

Mr. Speaker, for the sake of our consumers, our national security  interests, and the future of our planet, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``no'' on H.R. 3062.