Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694882/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-central-yukon-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, for the last 6 weeks, I traveled around  not just my district but the entire Commonwealth of Virginia to talk  about the work that we are doing here in Washington as we headed back  to try to avoid a government shutdown in the next 28 days.

Frankly, I didn't hear a lot about Jeffrey Epstein, although what  happened is very serious and the survivors do indeed need closure. I  didn't hear very much about January 6, although that was a serious  stain on American history.

What I did hear about were concerns about rising costs. The costs of  everything from healthcare to childcare, energy, food, and technology,  everything is going up. The President's illegal tariff policy is making  that worse.

I heard concerns from providers and patients about the impact that  Medicaid cuts are going to have on hundreds of thousands of Virginians.  I heard from State legislators and local government officials about the  concerns they have about shifting costs on their budgets. That is why I  oppose the energy appropriations bill here today because one way to  reduce costs while meeting our energy demands is through energy  efficiency programs and clean and renewable energy. However, this bill  cuts in half the Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and  Renewable Energy Office and by extension the programs for energy  efficiency and clean energy.

We will never meet our exploding energy demands affordably, reliably,  and quickly without energy efficiency and clean energy programs, and  that is why I stand to oppose this bill.