Raising Awareness About Men's Health


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692205/raising-awareness-about-mens-health


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Louisiana for  his leadership on Men's Health Month.

Mr. Speaker, I am a nerd. I am a proud nerd. Whenever there is an  awareness month, one of the first things I like to do is figure out, is  there a theme. It drives my staff crazy. There is a theme, as you have  heard, for 2025 for Men's Health Month, and it is very enlightening:  Closing the empathy gaps in men's health.

Now, this theme aims to highlight the importance of addressing the  unique challenges that face men for their health and encourage them to  seek early detection and treatment because the leading causes of death  for men in the United States are preventable: heart disease, cancer,  and unintentional injuries.

While awareness and funding efforts have successfully addressed  numerous health challenges over the years, men's health issues have  received significantly less attention and funding despite statistics  that show a clear concern. Men die 6 years earlier than women due to  preventable health issues.

Prostate cancer and testicular cancer receive far less attention.  Even during Breast Cancer Awareness Month, people assume that is only  something that  women face. Yet, men also get and die from breast cancer.

Suicide rates among men are significantly higher than women, yet the  mental health infrastructure fails to acknowledge the interventions  that resonate with men. As you heard, the culture for many, many years  has told men: You don't need mental health attention. Suck it up.

That is probably true for a lot of health issues, and he would not  like to hear me do this, but I am going to use my husband as an  example. My husband needed to have spinal fusion surgery. I sat with  him in the emergency room as the doctor started ticking through  different questions, trying to determine what kind of injury or what  happened to lead his spine and the disks in his spine to deteriorate.

The doctor said: Did you ever experience any tingling? He said: Yes,  I did. I have experienced tingling in my hand and in my fingers. The  doctor asked: How long has that happened? To my shock, my husband said:  3 years.

For 3 years, he felt tingling in his fingers, and yet didn't think  maybe I should get that checked out.

He tried to have a tooth extracted without any local anesthesia or  novocaine until the pain got so much the doctor said: We need to knock  you out. You know when you first come out of anesthesia, you are a  little high, and once he came out, I asked him: Well, why did you do  that? He said: Because I am a man.

Being a man does not mean you don't take care of yourself. Being a  man does not mean you don't seek help when you need it. Being a man  does not mean you don't get preventative screenings for early detection  of cancer or heart disease, or risk factors leading to heart disease.  Being a man means you love yourself enough to take care of yourself.

Now, as policymakers, we have the opportunity to put policies in  place that help all people to access healthcare and stay healthy. One  of those policies has been Medicaid, and ensuring that more people have  health insurance, not just as a safety net when they get sick, but so  that they can get the preventative care, the screenings, the regular  checkups that will identify early risk factors or worse.

Mr. Speaker, when the Affordable Care Act was passed, we were able to  lower the number of uninsured through both Medicaid expansion and the  healthcare exchanges.

A majority of the Medicaid expansion population is men, over 50  percent. They are more likely, incidentally, to be White men, about 59  percent. That is compared to the 34 percent of the traditional Medicaid  population that are women.

Who are the folks in the Medicaid expansion population? While I have  seen our Speaker say in interviews that these are single 29-year-olds  sitting at home on their parents' couch playing video games, actually,  most of them are working but earn, for an individual, $21,597 a year.

Some of them may work for employers who intentionally schedule their  hours at 29 hours rather than the 30 needed to trigger employer-covered  insurance. Some of them are self-employed. Some of them are in jobs,  like one of my constituents who I spoke to during a press conference  after we passed the big, ugly bill, who worked as a contractor, got  injured, and could not work anymore but also was trying to get workers'  comp and was caught in that process.

I was a State legislator when we expanded Medicaid in Virginia. Part  of why we did it was because we recognized that just because you don't  have health insurance doesn't mean you don't get sick. Not having  health insurance does mean, though, you are less likely to get your  preventative screenings, less likely to go to your primary care doctor  or even have a primary care doctor, and less likely to get your annual  checkups.

What we have seen since expanding Medicaid, as I talk to healthcare  providers in Virginia, is that by connecting the expansion population  to a medical home, they are getting those screenings. They are getting  preventative care. As a result, fewer are showing up in the emergency  room sick.

Unlike the traditional Medicaid population, which has very complex  medical conditions, the expansion population typically, when you  connect them to a medical home, are healthier. That is why I am so  concerned about the big, ugly bill that we passed 2 weeks ago.  According to the Congressional Budget Office, it will strip 16 million  Americans of health insurance and make the issue of disparities in  men's health worse.

I will pick on one piece of that bill that hasn't gotten a lot of  attention. The bill now requires States to impose copays for the  expansion population only of up to $35. Sitting in the Energy and  Commerce Committee, I heard the rationale for this was that everybody  needs to have skin in the game, and if I pay a copay with my private  insurance, then why can't the expansion population pay a copay?

Here is the difference. I have done the math, and someone in the  expansion population, an individual, is making $21,597 at most a year.  That is about $1,799 a month. In Richmond, the average rent on an  apartment is $1,569. The average utility bills are $197. The average  grocery bills are $350.

When you are faced with a $35 copay and you make $1,799 a month, over  two-thirds of which, if not more, is going to rent, utilities, and  grocery bills--I haven't even gotten to transportation costs to get to  and from work, and that is just if you are an individual. If you are  faced with a $35 copay to get your annual checkup or to get these  screenings, you are going to think really carefully about if you have  that $35.

What we have seen, and this is why States haven't imposed copays to  date, is that you are less likely to get those preventative screenings.  You are less likely to get annual checkups. Therefore, these  preventative illnesses are caught oftentimes when it is too late.

There are certain illnesses that are deadly but silent killers, and I  will close with this. My brother-in-law is one such example, Greg  Beckwith. He was a basketball player. He was particularly healthy, but  he came from a family that had a history of heart disease and diabetes.  He did everything right. He lost weight. He watched his diet. Yet,  about a year ago, he woke up one morning feeling nauseous.

Nausea is not usually associated with heart disease. He thought he  had food poisoning, so they waited until it got so bad they were like:  ``You know what? Something is wrong.'' They went to the emergency room,  and he, in fact, had a heart attack.

Part of what we need to do with Men's Health Awareness Month is not  just identify the unique factors impacting men's health and the  policies that we can put in place to help people get and stay healthy  but also ensure that we are educating people on the warning signs of  diseases that you might be at risk for.

We know of the agencies that do a lot of that work in the Health and  Human Services Department, the CDC is a big one. Yet, the CDC is one of  the agencies that have been gutted through DOGE. The workforce was  decimated. Health and Human Services has lost over a quarter of its  workforce.

Many of those cuts and the funding cuts that have already happened  through DOGE--not through Congress, through DOGE--are cutting the very  workforce that we need to help identify the risk factors unique to men  and the ways to prevent it.

We can't make America healthy again if we are ripping health  insurance away from 16 million people and undermining and then gutting  our public health workforce.

These are just a couple of the things that have happened. I haven't  even touched on the Medicare cuts that are triggered as a result of the  pay-as-you-go law.

I said I was closing, but, like a good Baptist preacher, I may have  one or two more closings since we have an hour.

We also have to stop legislating and policymaking in silos. This is  one of my biggest frustrations as a legislator. I spent 18 years as a  State legislator and now here in Congress, and too often, we focus on  healthcare policy, environmental policy, and public safety policy, but  we ignore that people don't live in silos and that our environment,  clean air and clean water, impact public health.

As it is also National Ocean Month, the health of our oceans impacts  public  health. The stress of crime, gun violence, racism, anti-Semitism,  hatred, and division impact our mental and physical health.

We need to start thinking holistically about public health. We need  to start thinking holistically about healthcare policy not just being  something that the Committee on Energy and Commerce's Subcommittee on  Health looks at but that every policy interconnects so that we are  looking at, studying, and funding research on how, holistically, we  improve health in America.

Mr. Speaker, I have heard time and time again that we don't have a  healthcare system. We have a sick care system. We need to get back to  the basics of making sure that we are identifying and preventing risk  factors that lead to deaths that are preventable for men and for women.