Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701225/womens-history-month


Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, it is Women's History Month.

For centuries, Black women have led our country through social  evolutions, critical periods of growth, and eras of innovation.

From the civil rights movement to consistently serving as the  foundation for our community success, Black women continue to push the  needle.

Women's History Month offers us the opportunity to uplift these  monumental achievements and highlight every pivotal moment in history  in which Black women have tipped the scales toward progress and  singlehandedly moved our country forward.

For the past year, the actions of the Trump administration have  brought consequences to every vulnerable community but have  specifically attacked the foundation of Black women's economic success  and social impact.

Hundreds of thousands of Black women have lost their jobs under  President Trump's leadership, and the administration remains committed  to eliminating critical programs that build a strong foundation and a  pathway to economic opportunities for Black women across the Nation.

During a time when Black women are under attack, the Congressional  Black Caucus takes the floor tonight so that our Members can lift them  up.

As we commemorate Women's History Month and look back on the  achievements of Black women throughout the history of our Nation, I  think back to the roots of our Nation, the birthplace of American  democracy and American slavery, none other than my home, Virginia.

Established on July 30, 1619, Virginia boasts the oldest, continuous  lawmaking body in the Western Hemisphere, the first legislative  assembly in the New World, the Virginia General Assembly.

One month later, a Dutch privateer arrived on the shores of Virginia  with ``20 and odd'' Africans captured by Portuguese slavers in west- central Africa that were traded for provisions. Among them, there was  at least one woman that we know of.

Three months after that, Virginia took steps toward a permanent  colony with the recruitment of English women to Jamestown to make wives  to the inhabitants. Those women arrived with no right to vote, no right  to hold public office, and no right to control their own property.

Since 1619, Black women in America have sat at the intersection of  racism and sexism. Tonight, we will uplift their stories, how we did  overcome, but we still have a long way to go to truly be equal under  the law, to truly take part in the American Dream.

Tonight, you will hear our Members talk about the good, the bad, the  ugly, the inspiring, and much, much more.

Mr. Speaker, to start that conversation, I yield to the gentlewoman  from New York (Ms. Clarke), our chair.

Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from  Virginia for anchoring this evening's Congressional Black Caucus  Special Order hour and for her diligence and commitment to sending the  message of the CBC throughout this Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today as chair of the Congressional Black Caucus  and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Black Women & Girls to  recognize Women's History Month and the countless contributions women  have made to our Nation and to the world.

These 31 days offer a vital opportunity to honor women of every  background for their achievements, which have too often been  overlooked, celebrating the progress and rights secured by those who  have paved the way.

Even as we celebrate, we must confront a difficult truth: many of the  same barriers that our mothers and grandmothers fought to dismantle  unfortunately persist today. Disparities in access to capital,  education, opportunity, and power remain far too wide.

We cannot ignore the growing efforts to roll back hard-won rights. We  cannot yield to forces that would usher in a future where the next  generation of women has fewer freedoms than those who came before them.

This is not an exaggeration or hyperbole. Policies that undermine  diversity, equity, and inclusion already having real consequences,  including the displacement of over 300,000 Black women from the  workforce on the basis of DEI dog whistles.

Let's be clear. These are not statistics. These are our mothers,  daughters, entrepreneurs, and essential workers whose contributions are  being shoved aside and whitewashed.

We know when Black women thrive, our communities thrive, our Nation  thrives.

Women's History Month must also be a call to action and a moment to  speak plainly about the threats to women's voting rights, bodily  autonomy, and economic opportunities to support their families.

Mr. Speaker, we are not going back. We owe it to those who came  before us and those who will follow to stand firm in defense of that  progress.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from New  Jersey, Representative LaMonica McIver.

Ms. McCLELLAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman (Mrs. McIver) for  her comments, and I am proud to be in this fight with her.

As a Virginian, I am keenly cognizant of the fact that Virginia was  both the birthplace of American slavery and the birthplace of American  democracy. That dichotomy I have always found both ironic and  inspiring.

This year we celebrate 250 years of a document written by Thomas  Jefferson, the Declaration of Independence, which wrote that all men  are created equal and endowed by their creator with certain inalienable  rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of  happiness.

Yet Jefferson didn't include the men and women--he didn't include  women at all in that decree, and he certainly didn't include the men,  women, and children that he owned in bondage at Monticello, including  the mother of his children. That ideal upon which our country was  founded sparked the imagination of the men, women, and children in  bondage across this young Nation.

When Abigail Adams' husband was on his way to the Constitutional  Convention, she said: Remember the ladies and be kinder to them than  our ancestors were.

The men at that convention ignored her advice. They wrote a  constitution creating a government by, of, and for we the people. They  didn't include women. They didn't include the men, women, and children  enslaved at the home of James Madison, the architect of The Virginia  Plan that led to the Constitution. In fact, those men, women, and  children weren't counted as people at all. They were counted as three- fifths of a person for purposes of identifying how many Members of  Congress would serve in this body.

Many of those women were viewed as broodmares. Many of them were  forced to care for other people's children while theirs were stolen.  They forced to nurse other people's children while they ached for their  own.

Since the founding of our Nation, Black women at every opportunity  have fought to be included in ``we the people.'' We have fought to  expand suffrage beyond White land-owning men along with White women,  even when we were the last throughout the South to benefit from that  labor.

Virginia has found herself a leading lady in the story of expanding  the franchise. Often, how far we went determined whether the Federal  Government did its part to expand we the people beyond those original  White, land-owning men.

I stand today on the shoulders of all of those who paved the way for  me to be the first Black woman to represent Virginia in Congress,  historymakers from all generations who fought for the right to fully  participate in our democracy because they recognized that, in a  government by, of, and for the people, government will only reflect the  perspective of and, therefore, meet the needs of those who participate.

Even as Black men received expanded suffrage during Reconstruction  and in the aftermath of the Civil War, the nascent women's rights  movement, which stated at its first convention in the ``Declaration of  Sentiments'' that all men and women were created equal--yet, with the  14th Amendment, the seeds of division were sown.

When that amendment, which guaranteed equal protection under the law,  for the first time ever inserted the word ``male'' in the U.S.  Constitution, a fissure began in the suffrage movement and the women's  rights movement that pitted some--not all, some--White women against  Black women because they would not support suffrage for Black men  before White women.

Yet, Black women continued to serve in these suffragette groups,  oftentimes their work being ignored.

I have often tried to research some of the Black women suffragettes  from Virginia. They are hard to find. They are usually seen described  as community leaders, not suffragettes. Yet, when you read between the  lines of their papers and their work, you see what they were really up  to.

I am wearing red today in honor of the 22 founders of my sorority,  Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated. Founded 113 years ago in  January 1913, in their first public act, the 22 founders marched in  Washington in the Women's Suffrage Procession down Pennsylvania Avenue.  Yet, they and every other Black woman who showed up to march that day  were told that they had to march in the back because the organizers of  that march did not want to offend Southern allies.

Ida B. Wells famously refused to march in the back. She said that she  was going to march with her delegation. The chair of her delegation,  Genevieve Stone, was the only delegation member who said that she could  march with her delegation.

The 22 founders of Delta Sigma Theta marched in their caps and gowns  with other university women, marking their first public act as a  sorority. It is fitting that I call them out today because thousands of  members of Delta Sigma Theta were on the Hill today, still fighting to  preserve access to the vote as the SAVE Act is being debated down the  hall, a modern-day poll tax that would require everyone to produce  documents to prove their citizenship.

These are documents that cost money, documents that, if they don't  show the same name as on your birth certificate, aren't good enough.  One of my soror Members of Congress, Joyce Beatty, told a story  yesterday to those Deltas assembled about how, when she went to get her  REAL ID--this is a good example of the hurdles you would have to go  through to meet the requirements of the SAVE Act--she showed up with  her birth certificate and was told that it was not good enough. It is a  copy. You need the original.

Not living in the State where she got her original, she had to go get  another copy of the original and brought that back. That is not good  enough. The  name on her birth certificate is not the name on her driver's license  because she was married.

She had to go back and get another original copy of her marriage  certificate. That wasn't good enough because the name on the marriage  certificate still didn't match the birth certificate because she had  been married before.

She had to go get a copy of that marriage certificate and the divorce  decree and show the chain of custody of her name just to be able to get  a REAL ID to prove that she was a U.S. citizen who could fly.

Yet, that REAL ID wouldn't be good enough for her to register to vote  under the SAVE Act. She would have to go through all those same hoops  all over again.

The history of suffrage in this country is the history of Black women  confronting obstacles, going over them, around them, through them, for  that sacred right to participate in a government by, of, and for the  people.

When the 19th Amendment finally gave women the right to vote in our  Constitution, my grandmothers, my mother, and my great-grandmothers  didn't benefit. They all lived in the South. Through poll taxes,  literacy tests, and other mechanisms, they were still denied access to  the ballot.

Many Black women fought against these obstacles. Fannie Lou Hamer, a  sharecropper from Mississippi, was jailed, evicted from her home, fired  from her job, and severely beaten for daring to try to register to  vote. Hamer cofounded the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party to  challenge an all-White delegation to the Democratic National  Convention.

Ella Baker, whose legacy is often overshadowed by Black male figures  of the civil rights movement, played a crucial role in organizing the  Montgomery bus boycott, which was inspired by another woman, Rosa  Parks, who herself made waves when she refused to give up her seat on  the bus for a White passenger and was arrested.

Baker later founded the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, or  SNCC, and encouraged students to take charge of their activism and  continue to make their perspectives heard. Another SNCC leader, Diane  Nash, became one of the most well-known figures in Nashville and helped  to organize sit-ins and sustained Freedom Rides throughout the Deep  South.

Another Delta, Dorothy Height, whose birthday is today, was one of  the Big Six of the civil rights movement. She was one of the leaders of  the six organizations that planned the March on Washington. Yet, she  was the only one of the six who didn't speak that day because the five  male leaders excluded women from the speaking program.

Dorothy was there anyway and continued to fight for Black women to be  able to vote and to overcome the intersection between racism and  sexism.

These are just a few of the women who fought for the right to vote.  There are other rights that women were denied, particularly Black  women, solely because of the color of their skin.

Everybody knows about the great progressive movement that expanded  worker rights to many, many workers. What most people don't know is  that those rights explicitly excluded so-called Jim Crow jobs, domestic  workers as the main example. Those jobs were jobs that once were  performed by Black men and women for free during slavery, then from  very low wages because they were the only jobs available to Black  people, particularly in the South.

My mother's family saw this firsthand. My mother grew up in the Gulf  Coast of Mississippi, a little town called DeLisle. DeLisle had no  school for Black children because the State of Mississippi didn't think  them worth educating.

She was the third youngest of 14 children. She was born in 1932, her  oldest sibling born in 1918. There was one school that would teach  those children. It was the Catholic Church, but it only went to the  eighth grade. When her brothers graduated eighth grade, the only jobs  available to them were as laborers. When her sisters graduated, the  only jobs available to them were as domestic workers or home care  workers. Her siblings, her sisters, her mother, her grandmothers, her  great-grandmothers were domestics. She wanted more.

She had to leave her hometown to go to high school. She had to leave  her State to get a job, but she did it. By the time I came along in the  1970s, she was running the TRIO Programs at Virginia State University,  three federally-funded programs that helped first-generation and at- risk students get to, thrive in, and graduate from college.

Those three programs are now under attack by the Trump administration  as it works to dismantle the Department of Education. The Department of  Education which was created to fill gaps that State and local  governments refused to fill, particularly to meet the educational needs  and protect the civil rights of students with disabilities.

My mother is an example of the obstacles that had to be overcome  because the rights that many of us take for granted, minimum wage,  overtime protections, wage theft protections, antidiscrimination laws  at the Federal level and in most States, guess who is excluded.  Domestic workers.

As a result, thousands, probably hundreds of thousands of mostly  Black and Brown women across the country struggle to take care of  themselves and their own families as they take care of the needs of  others.

I was proud as a member of the State senate to pass--and make  Virginia the first State in the South to do it--the Domestic Worker  Bill of Rights, to remove these outdated, antiquated, and racist  exclusions. Those exclusions still exist in Federal law.

I am proud to be among a long line of Black women in Congress who owe  our very existence here to Shirley Chisholm, who in 1968 became the  first Black woman elected to Congress, representing New York's 12th  Congressional District.

She didn't get a warm welcome here. She decided not to abide by  longstanding expectations that first-term Members fly under the radar.  ``I have no intention of just sitting quietly and observing,'' she  said. ``I intend to focus . . . on the Nation's problems.'' So she and  12 other Members of Congress founded the Congressional Black Caucus,  the conscience of the Congress, which 55 years later stands at 66  members strong; 32 Black women, the most in history, two for the first  time ever serving in the United States Senate.

Shirley Chisholm became the first woman and Black candidate to seek a  major party's nomination for President the year I was born, in 1972.  While she lost the primary in that race, she continued to serve in  Congress for another 11 years. She served on the Committee on  Agriculture, and she used that role to expand access to nutrition to  millions of poor men, women, and children through the SNAP program,  which last year faced the largest cuts in American history and  threatened to take food out of the mouths of 42 million Americans.

Shirley Chisholm remains a symbol of strength and profound courage in  the face of the intense objections her very existence in this body  inspired in some people. She famously said: ``If they don't give you a  seat at the table, bring a folding chair.'' Thanks to that folding  chair, I and 31 other women stand on her shoulders.

She, alongside of Carol Moseley Braun, the first Black woman elected  to the United States Senate in 1992, and so many others have allowed  little girls everywhere to look at this Capitol and finally say: I  belong there too.

We have made a lot of progress towards the ideal upon which this  country was founded. Yet, every time we have made progress, there has  been a backlash that has involved violence, voter suppression, and  propaganda. We are living through the mother-of-all backlashes.

I think back to what my great-grandparents saw--my great-grandparents  who grew up in the first generation after the Emancipation  Proclamation--men who gained the right to vote, who gained the  opportunity for social and economic wealth. Black women were there  every step of the way in that progress. They also were among those who  were lynched for it. They were also among the ones who were beaten for  it, but they persevered anyway.

Today, we are facing another backlash to progress. It has pushed  300,000 Black women out of the Federal workforce by an all-out assault  by the Trump administration through DOGE. We have seen millions at risk  of losing  their health insurance through devastating cuts to Medicaid and the  expiration of the Enhanced Premium Tax Credits under the Affordable  Care Act, which turned 16 yesterday.

That was personal to me. I was pregnant. Matter of fact, I was the  first member of the Virginia House of Delegates to be pregnant while in  office 16 years ago when Congress passed the Affordable Care Act. I  remember how excited I was that this law could move mountains in  solving the maternal healthcare crisis, which was on my mind in my  first trimester of pregnancy. I was so excited that for the first time  prenatal visits, postnatal visits, and breastfeeding counseling and  equipment would be covered by health insurance. I was excited that for  the first time pregnancy would not be a preexisting condition that  could lead to the denial of health insurance for a woman.

I was excited that Virginia had an opportunity to expand Medicaid and  create our own State-based healthcare exchange. So you can imagine my  frustration when my Republican colleagues who were in control at the  time said we are not doing that. But like many Black women before me, I  persisted. We fought and fought until we finally convinced enough  Republicans in 2018 to expand Medicaid.

In 2020, we finally created the Virginia-based healthcare exchange,  and we saw health outcomes improve, particularly for pregnant and not  pregnant Black women. We saw the statistic begin to turn around where  no longer would a Black woman be three times more likely to die within  a year of childbirth because before she was pregnant she got connected  to a medical home and could get the care she needed for underlying  healthcare conditions that made the pregnancy more risky. All of that  is now under attack.

On Monday, I checked to see the impact that the expiration of the  enhanced premium tax credits had on the Virginia marketplace now that  we have had our first open enrollment since they expired. Mr. Speaker,  19,000 Virginians didn't renew because they couldn't afford the  premium. About 20,000 Virginians renewed but then terminated their  coverage because they couldn't afford the premiums.

Families like Lester and Yolanda Johnson and their 9-year-old  daughter have seen their premiums go from roughly $600 to over $1,000.  I can understand why so many of them are struggling to decide: Can I  afford that health insurance premium?

As the President's war of choice in Iran has seen gas prices spike,  they are wondering: Can I afford to put gas in my tank? Can I afford  that plane ticket? Can I afford that energy bill?

As the tariff policies and this trade war continues to wreak havoc on  grocery prices, they are wondering which of these bills is going to  give, and unfortunately, they are gambling that they are not going to  get sick or injured. They are still going to get sick or injured, and  when they do they are going to show up at the hospital. They are going  to be treated. Somebody is going to pay for that, and that is the rest  of us.

Whether it is access to healthcare, access to the vote, access to  worker rights, access to equal pay, access to equality under the law,  we have made a lot of progress, and all of that progress is being  chipped away as we speak.

But the women of the Congressional Black Caucus are persistent. Yes,  we are fighting the same fights as other mothers, our grandmothers, and  our great-grandmothers, and we could be angry about that. We would have  every right to be. We could be despondent. We could give up, but we  don't because we fight those fights from a position of more strength  and power than our ancestors ever imagined. We fight those fights so  that our daughters and our granddaughters and our great-granddaughters  don't have to, but if they do, they will fight those fights from a  position of more strength and power than we can imagine.

As for me personally--and this is why the President's assault on our  history is so offensive to me personally because we are telling those  stories in my family, but they weren't told in my history books. For a  long time they weren't told in our public museums and our public  spaces. Now, we have begun to tell the stories. Under the President's  DEI executive order many of those stories are being removed.

The President seems obsessed with slavery and not wanting anybody to  talk about it. He thinks we talk too much about it. But slavery is the  original sin of this country. Slavery is the original wound that is  still gaping in this country because it never healed. It never healed  because we didn't talk about it, and we didn't address it. And just  like any wound caused by a family member, if you don't talk about it  and then address it, it festers. It festers until it is infected, and  then comes death.

What the President misses about that history is how it inspires and  how it can keep us going.

My family is coming here for spring break on Friday. My kids came  last year, as well. It was a vote week. So, as we always do, we went to  all of the Smithsonian museums. We went to The National Museum of  African American History and Culture, and we went to the exhibit on  slavery. We went to the exhibit on the middle passage. As I stood in  that exhibit, I imagined what it must have been like to be stolen from  your home and your family, placed on a ship, the bowels of a ship, in  inhumane conditions, treated like animals. I imagined how many people  chose to jump because the alternative they feared when they arrived at  these shores was worse than death. How many died because they couldn't  hold on?

A year ago as I stood in that exhibit, a voice came to me and said:  Somebody survived that so that you can be here in this moment in this  fight in this time. That is what keeps us going. We remember the pain  and the joy and the fight and the progress of our ancestors. We owe it  to them to build on their success and to tell their stories even when  they are uncomfortable, the good, the bad, and the ugly.

Black History Month and Women's History Month and every other history  month allows us to focus in on stories that for too often in our  history went untold. Yet, we have agencies at the Federal Government  from the Department of Defense on down that don't even recognize those  months or allow their employees to. We have an administration that  threatens and bullies private companies if they try to.

We have to tell the story. We owe it to those that came before us who  lived it to tell the stories because how many people do you think knew  when they voted for the Domestic Workers Bill of Rights that the women  who held those roles who were mostly Black and Brown didn't have the  same rights that they took for granted? I can tell you very few did  until they were told. They had no reason to.

We are going to continue to tell these stories. We are going to  continue to fight for that progress. We are going to continue to be the  conscience of the Congress even when the Congress doesn't want to hear  from us. We are going to hold this President accountable, and we are  going to make him listen to the stories even when he wants to shut us  up because that is why we are here.

Shirley Chisholm told us that if they don't create a seat at the  table, bring a folding chair. She didn't want us to just sit there and  be quiet. She wanted us to speak truth to power. She wanted us to  continue her work and the work of everyone that came before her. We are  going to do that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone for their attention tonight, and I  yield back the balance of my time.