Climate Legislation


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to address several  proposals with significant consequences for our environment that have  come before the Senate this Congress. In particular, I would like to  express my support for the joint resolution of disapproval concerning  the Environmental Protection Agency's regulations to reverse the Obama  administration's Clean Power Plan rules and my opposition to two  amendments to weaken existing protections for public lands. 

  I am dedicated to promoting policies that address the urgent climate  crisis. We cannot wait 50 or 100 years to address the climate impacts  that threaten the livelihoods of our farmers, our businesses, our  infrastructure, and our national security. It is for that reason that I  oppose the administration's efforts to overturn, roll back, and weaken  the Clean Power Plan rules, and I cosponsored S.J. Res. 53, a joint  resolution providing for the disapproval of the regulations submitted  by the Environmental Protection Agency to repeal the Obama  administration's Clean Power Plan rules. In order to fully address our  urgent climate crisis, the Clean Power Plan rules must be reinstated  and strengthened. 

  It is also our responsibility to preserve our natural resources and  pass them on to future generations through responsible conservation and  smart policies that allow outdoor recreation to thrive. This Congress,  the Senate has considered proposals--which I oppose--to reduce,  diminish, or eliminate protections for existing national monuments and  to prevent the use of funds from the Land and Water Conservation Fund  for land acquisition. These proposals would weaken the core mission of  two critical conservation programs that preserve our natural resources. 

  I have voted against similar proposals that would undermine the  Antiquities Act or the Land and Water Conservation Fund when they have  been considered as amendments to comprehensive public lands bills  because I believe that we need to do more to protect and conserve our  public lands. I have also cosponsored Senator Udall's legislation to  reinforce existing law on the establishment of national monuments and  Senator Manchin's bill to provide full, permanent funding for the Land  and Water Conservation Fund.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT