Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I am here today to mark 16 years since  the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United, which opened the  floodgates to unlimited special interest money in our elections.

We had a campaign finance system. It wasn't perfect. There was a  bipartisan effort to put some limits on things. The problem with the  way it is now is that it opens it up, and it is impossible to even  trace what money is coming in and from where.

I want to thank Senator Kelly for bringing us to the floor today to  discuss such an important issue for our democracy and thank my  colleagues who are here today.

In the 2024 Federal election, secret money groups spent $1.9 billion,  nearly double the amount spent just one cycle before. This undermines  our democracy and shakes the public's trust because unlimited,  anonymous Federal spending in our elections doesn't encourage free  speech. It drowns out the voices of the American people who are seeking  to participate.

I have long supported a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens  United and restore the authority of Congress and the States to  establish reasonable limits on campaign spending, and I will keep  making the case to build support for that effort. In the meantime,  there are things that we can do to make our campaign finance system  stronger and more transparent.

That is why I have led the effort, alongside Ranking Member Padilla,  to advance commonsense bills, including the Freedom to Vote Act, to  shine light on secret money and make sure Americans know who is trying  to influence their votes. We came very close to passing my bill in the  last Congress. The Freedom to Vote Act would provide important new  tools to rid our politics of Big Money and root out foreign  interference.

It includes the DISCLOSE Act, which I have cosponsored--Senator  Whitehouse's bill--in every Congress since 2012, to end secret money in  our politics. The DISCLOSE Act also makes it harder for billionaires  and others to hide their contributions by ending the use of transfers  between organizations in order to cloak the identity of donors. It  requires organizations that spend money on political activities to  disclose the true owner.

The Freedom to Vote Act also includes my Honest Ads Act, bipartisan  legislation that I first introduced with Senator John McCain, whom we  miss very much and his leadership when it comes to campaign finance.  This bill would require online platforms to take steps to prevent  foreign nationals from buying ads. It would ensure that all online  platforms disclose their buyers of digital political ads if the  platforms reach 50 million or more unique U.S. visitors per month,  meaning online platforms would finally have to follow the same rules  that TV and radio stations already follow for political ads.

It is simply insane that, in one medium, there are some rules and, in  another, there are not. These changes will increase transparency while  including commonsense exemptions to protect the First Amendment rights  of websites that are simply part of traditional media.

Third, the Freedom to Vote Act would strengthen rules banning the  coordination between candidates and super PACs to make sure candidates  cannot evade contribution limits by working with their super PACs.

Finally, the Freedom to Vote Act includes important reforms to the  Federal Election Commission to improve the enforcement of our campaign  finance laws. Since the Citizens United decision came down, 16 years  ago, new technologies have emerged that only make the need for reform  more pressing. AI videos are making their way into political ads,  giving dark money groups a new and cheaper tool with which to influence  politicians and mislead the public.

That is why I lead bipartisan bills to ban the use of AI to create  deceptive campaign ads--that is a bill that Senator Hawley and I lead-- and to require disclaimers on political ads that have content  substantially generated by AI.

Think about it. If they are blatantly deceptive and are not satire or  parody, which is allowed by our Constitution, then they are banned.  Otherwise, at least there is a label that says ``Created by AI.'' That  will let the voters know something is up. Maybe this isn't really the  politician I love or the politician I don't love.

Whether it is a question of who is funding an ad or whether or not  the content of the ad is real, voters deserve transparency. We need to  end secret money in our politics to make sure the American people know  their elected officials work for them, not the wealthy and the powerful  few, and to make sure we have a government that works for everyone.