Confirmation of Mark Meador


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689985/confirmation-of-mark-meador


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise to oppose the nomination of Mark  Meador as a member of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). I respect Mr.  Meador's qualifications and his prior experiences. In fact, I voted to  advance his nomination out of the Commerce Committee because he has  expressed support for strong antitrust enforcement that benefits  consumers and small business, lowers prices, and spurs innovation,  including continuing many cases currently ongoing at the Commission to  free markets from the stranglehold of entrenched monopolies and stop  anticompetitive mergers.

But I cannot support the confirmation of any additional members to  the FTC until Commissioner Slaughter and Commissioner Bedoya are  reinstated. President Trump's dismissal of Commissioners Slaughter and  Bedoya is not only illegal; it hurts consumers and small businesses by  undermining the independence of the Agency that Congress established to  protect consumers from fraud, scams, and monopoly power. An independent  FTC is critical for protecting consumers and has done so in a  bipartisan manner for over 110 years.

Just last year, the FTC returned more than $330 million to consumers  who lost money from scams and deceptive business practices; it blocked  a merger of two large grocery chains that would have raised food  prices; it worked to cap the cost of inhalers to $35 by challenging  anticompetitive patent practices; it took on hidden fees in the  ticketing and lodging markets; it unveiled rules to make it as easy to  stop a subscription as it was to start it; and it has worked to rein in  the monopoly power of Big Tech companies to ensure small businesses and  innovators can thrive online.

The President's attempt to remove independent Commissioners violates  Congress's long-held power to establish bipartisan, multimember, expert  commissions and to shield those commissions from political pressure  with commonsense limits on the President's removal powers. The  structure of the FTC has been upheld by the Supreme Court for 90 years,  holding that Congress's power ``cannot well be doubted.'' While the  Supreme Court recently struck down restrictions on the President's  authority to remove Agencies led by a single individual, the Supreme  Court declined to revisit precedent about independent Agencies run by  bipartisan, multimember commissions, like the FTC. Now-Justice  Kavanaugh, while serving on the DC Circuit, wrote that multimember  independent Agencies like the FTC are part of a ``deeply rooted  tradition'' that ``has been widely recognized by leading judges,  congressional committees, and academics.''

This is because bipartisan commissions allow Presidents to shape the  direction of a commission while protecting the independent Agency from  political meddling. For example, each President can influence the  makeup of the FTC by nominating new members--as President Trump has  done by nominating Mr. Meador--and appointing the Chair--as President  Trump did by selecting Mr. Ferguson--and even appointing a new Chair if  the President is displeased with his initial selection.

Had the President not taken this illegal action, Republican  Commissioners would have secured the majority on the Commission with  the confirmation of Mr. Meador, with two Democratic Commissioners  serving in the minority as required by law. While the minority  Commissioners may not have had the power to stop the Republican  majority from implementing its agenda, they would have served as a  critical check on the Agency, as minority Republican Commissioners have  in the past. They could have used their dissenting voices to hold the  Agency accountable for any action that didn't serve to lower prices,  protect consumers, or even the playing field for small, innovative  businesses. If necessary, they could have pointed out corruption or  backroom dealings. And they would have been able to change the  Commission's course on specific actions by persuading a Republican  Commissioner to join them. But if the President is allowed to  unilaterally dismiss Commissioners, even Republican Commissioners would  be powerless to stand up to the White House if ordered to take an  illegal action at the expense of consumers because the President could  fire them as well. Ultimately, removing the FTC's mandate to act  independent of political pressure to protect consumers serves to harm  those most in need. Only those who have political influence with the  White House stand to gain.

We have already seen some of the ramifications of the chaos wrought  by these illegal firings. In a case about insulin pricing, there were  no remaining Commissioners to hear the case because the two Republicans  were both recused. This led Chair Ferguson to ``unrecuse'' himself,  making him the sole decisionmaker in a matter in which he has a known  conflict of interest. And last week, it was reported that multiple  members of DOGE are now embedded in the Chair's office, raising the  specter that the FTC may face cuts just as it is gearing up to take  Meta--one of the world's richest companies--to trial this upcoming  Monday for buying up competitors to dominate social  media markets. None of this helps consumers. None of this helps small  businesses. None of this lowers prices or spurs innovation. Until these  illegal firings are reversed, I cannot support Mr. Meador's nomination  to the FTC.