Government Funding


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, as my colleague from Delaware just  noted, we are here today because Republicans have created a healthcare  crisis for millions of Americans. And like the Senator from Delaware, I  am someone that works across the aisle all of the time. I have one of  the best records for bipartisan bills, and I think that is an important  part of our governing, and that is to find common ground.

You don't always pick your neighbors, but you find a way to live next  to your neighbors. You find a way to work with them. And what is so  unfortunate about what is going on tonight is that it didn't happen  here. There was no crossing over the fence with some coffee for the  neighbors to try to have a meeting, to try to work this out.

In fact, it was Senator Schumer and Leader Jeffries who had to  request time and time again--that got canceled on--a meeting with the  President.

There is still time to continue to negotiate, but not if they are  just going to say: Hey, this healthcare thing, it is not a problem.  Maybe we can deal with it in December.

First off, who would believe that when Donald Trump just says one  thing one day or posts something on Truth Social, and then everyone  changes what they agreed to, which has happened time and time again. So  that is one reason it is not reality unless he is at the table.

No. 2, it is not reality because this is not a December problem. This  is not a January problem. This is a now problem. November 1, that is  when people start reenrolling--a whole bunch of small businesses, 20  million people, more than a quarter of the farmers in this country, who  are already facing, as one of my farmers said to me last week, ``a  perfect storm of ugly.'' That is about the tariffs. That is about their  input costs with fertilizer, and that is about their personal  healthcare costs--``a perfect storm of ugly.''

When you are in a big storm in Minnesota, you don't just go outside,  hold an umbrella, and think: Maybe it will go away. You do something  about it then. You take cover then. You help people take cover then.

That is not what they are doing with this vote tonight.

We have a bill that would help millions of Americans sleep easier. We  are still dealing with the tariffs. We are still going to push on that,  which has led to all of these grocery cost increases. We see what is  happening with the electricity cost increase.

Costs are up. Chaos is up. And corruption is up.

But there is one thing we can do, and that is one of the biggest cost  drivers when we look at inflation, and that is healthcare.

So let's start with how we got here. We know that over 110 million  Americans depend on Medicare and Medicaid--110 million. These programs  cover everything from hospital visits to lifesaving prescriptions to  the long-term care that allows seniors to remain in their homes.

And these programs, along with Social Security and SNAP, which is the  nutrition program, have driven poverty among seniors, for years, to  record lows. The best poverty-fighting program there is: Medicare,  Medicaid.

But the budget that congressional Republicans passed earlier this  summer, without our votes--again, they didn't listen to us--makes the  biggest cut in history to Medicare and Medicaid. That is right--the  biggest cut in history, while all of these other costs are going up.  Their budget cut Medicaid by over a trillion dollars and will trigger  more than $500 billion in Medicare cuts.

How does that happen? Well, the debt is so high from that bill  because of the trillion dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans  and the trillion dollars in tax cuts and giveaways for corporations  that it actually automatically triggered $500 billion in Medicare cuts  on hospitals.

So when we go, as we did--our Members on the Democratic side--last  week and met with people in hospitals and patients and doctors and  nurses, we heard about that. We heard about the 15 million Americans  who are going to get shoved off their healthcare.

But the one thing they could have done--and they voted against it  once, but we know behind closed doors they are very interested in doing  something about this--it is the tax credits to help people afford their  health insurance. Without these tax credits, more than 20 million  Americans will see their premiums skyrocket.

A Kaiser study, just today, came out: double the premiums--double the  premiums.

That is why one of my hospitals told me: Look, of course Medicaid  hits us hard. Of course, Medicare does. But so many of our patients and  the people who visit our clinic are on MNsure--that is the Affordable  Care Act plan in my State--that, if this happens, a whole bunch of them  won't be able to afford it. Then they are going to show up in our  emergency rooms. They are going to show up without insurance. They are  not going to get the surgeries that they need, and they are not going  to do their doctor's visits.

That is why you are seeing some Republicans--some overtly--saying: We  have got to do something about this.

They shouldn't be talking about off-ramps. They should be talking  about how to get their constituents off a cliff.

Earlier this year, we marked the 60th anniversary of Medicare and  Medicaid. As we look back at this monumental achievement, we should be  strengthening healthcare in the country, not undermining it.

We made progress, right? Capping out-of-pocket costs, passing my bill  to allow Medicare to finally negotiate for better prices, making  healthcare more affordable. But we should be building on that progress  because the status quo is not OK for people right now. We should be  building on that progress by  making improvements to these programs, not making them harder.

So we are all calling on our Republican colleagues to pass our bill.  And if they can bring themselves do that, or at least to sit in a room  and negotiate and actually get this done--the President prides himself  in the ``art of the deal.'' Well, show us the deal. Don't say you don't  need our votes because you just found out tonight that you do.

They need our colleagues to stop taking cues from a guy who, after a  meeting about one of the most important moments in his Presidency, puts  out a deepfake video--offensive, making fun of the leaders. Who does  that? What other President has done something like that when they are  actually in a negotiation? This isn't political theater.

These are real people, like the woman at Senator Shaheen spotlight  hearing today, who was from Maine, and she is going to talk to her  doctor and literally met with her doctor to say: OK, I can't afford  these increases. So how do I manage to ration my medication for MS?

And the doctor said: It doesn't work like that. The pressure will  build in your brain.

Well, I hope the pressure from the public when they see what is going  on is going to build. And we are starting to see it all over the  country right now. This is not the time to just accept the status quo  and say we can't do anything about it while our constituents are going  off that premium cliff.

So maybe the President needs to get out and talk to that farmer whose  soybean market has dried up and who now is not going to be able to  afford his health insurance, and see that ``perfect storm of ugly.'' He  is not going to meet those people on the golf course at Mar-a-Lago. I  can tell you that. He needs to get out there.

And it is time to start taking cues and listen to real people and not  memes and not deepfake videos. This is not a joke.

Our bill is a path forward, and we ask them to come to the table and  negotiate with us.