H. Con. Res. 14


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689542/h-con-res-14


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise in strong opposition to our  colleagues' budget, the Republican budget, the Trump budget and plan  where billionaires win and families lose.

We are voting on this budget resolution because our colleagues are  once again telling us whose problems they are focused on solving, and-- spoiler alert--it is not the problems of everyday Americans. Two-thirds  of these tax cuts go to billionaires.

After an election where the American people sent a clear message that  they were concerned about the high price of essentials like healthcare,  my Republican colleagues are focused on another round of tax cuts for  billionaires. This proposal gives the top 0.1 percent of income earners  a new tax break worth an average of $180,000. It gives a $50 million  tax break to Elon Musk over the next 10 years. That is right--10 years,  $50 million. I bet a lot of Americans would like that, but it is going  to Elon Musk. And it pays for it by threatening the healthcare of 80  million Americans, including 31 million children.

This is not what Americans signed up for when they voted. I have  heard this from constituents. I know because some of the people who--a  number of them, a lot of them--voted for Donald Trump and me--what did  they want? They wanted us to work on costs. They wanted us to bring  down the cost of groceries and bring down the cost of healthcare, bring  down the cost of everything from housing to childcare. They wanted us  to stand up for them. Instead, we get this billionaire tax scam bill.

So let's talk about Medicaid. It is not maybe the first word on  everyone's minds when they wake up in the morning because sometimes  people don't know that Medicaid is helping their parents and their  grandparents pay for their assisted living.

In my case, I knew that my dad was in assisted living that was paid  for by his savings--he had late-onset Alzheimer's--and I knew the exact  day when that savings would run out. He got married three times. That  is another story. But he had limited savings, and the savings would get  him through a certain date, and then Medicaid would kick in. That was  the date when he was going to actually have to move, and I found  another place for him.

He actually died a year before that happened. We miss him every  single day. But I knew that Medicaid was there for him when those  savings ran out, that he had a place to go. It might not have been the  place that he had been at for a few years, but it was a place that was  safe for him.

Medicaid provides healthcare for 20 percent--one in five--of the  people in rural Minnesota, and it provides the long-term care for one  out of two--50 percent--of the people in my State who are in long-term  care. It is pretty important.

About 2 weeks ago, I went on a 14-county tour in rural Minnesota. I  went to a number of senior facilities and assisted living facilities  and heard their stories. So many of them needed Medicaid. But this  partisan budget would force rural hospitals to shut their doors, and it  would be particularly dangerous for people with chronic conditions and  families caring for a child with a rare disease--all to pay for more  than $2 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthiest people in our country.

Slashing Medicare and Medicaid would devastate families across our  country. These are programs that millions of people rely on, like our  neighbors, like our parents, like our grandparents. This is real, and I  think people know that. They understand that.

I think about a constituent from Inver Grove Heights, MN, who told me  that Medicaid helps her to afford the cost of her father's memory care.  She said:

I'm not sure what we will do if we cannot receive this       benefit.

I think about what I heard from another constituent--a working mom of  two--whose parents rely on Medicaid for healthcare. She told me she  doesn't think it is fair to shift the cost of care to families like  hers to pay for tax cuts to the wealthy.

You know, that is the incredible thing about democracies: People  write  in, they send emails, they call our offices, they show up at townhall  meetings, and they tell us what they think.

In this email, she said:

We need to draw the line and say this is enough.

I couldn't agree more.

Today, the day has been a really hard time. I was on a TV program  earlier, and there were a lot of major Wall Street traders--Jim  Cramer--who are experts on Wall Street, and they talked about what a  devastating day this has been. This was actually the toughest day, the  biggest tumble the stock market has taken since 2020 in the pandemic.  But this was not a pandemic. This was not a global pandemic. This was a  self-inflicted wound from the President of the United States, and it,  sadly, affected people not just on Wall Street but on Main Street.

We call this the Trump tariff tax, TTT. Easy to remember: Trump  tariff tax. Estimates are now, based on the announcement made  yesterday, that this is a $4,000 tax per average American family; it is  a $20,000 additional fee on every single home that someone wants to  buy--that is the average; thousands of dollars for a car. Why? Because  our supply chains are forever integrated with the rest of the world. We  get stuff from Canada.

We were able to see four of our colleagues stand up and vote with all  Democrats to say that the basis for the Trump tariff tax on Americans,  based on Canada, was wrong.

And we actually made a statement last night, and then what happens?  We see the effects of the Trump tariff tax: 4 percent down in the stock  market. Some of it is 5 percent down.

The Republican budget doubles down on this because while we are  seeing this assault on Americans' savings and on average American  families who work hard every single day, we are also now hearing about  a budget that would add, in 30 years, $37 trillion to the debt--$37  trillion to the debt--while cutting Medicaid.

Why do I say that? Because in order to meet the targets that were  outlined over in the House, the Congressional Budget Office, which has  long been nonpartisan--used by Democrats and Republicans in Congress-- has made it clear that this would have to involve cuts to Medicaid. Add  that to the firings at the Department of Health and Human Services that  will undercut health services and research.

I just met with a man this weekend from a small town right close to  Brainerd, MN, whose wife had just died in January. In order to figure  out the death benefit, what he got under Social Security, he first  emailed. He is very much with it at age 79. It took too long. On and  on. He called--hours and hours. He went into the office. He drove 30  miles. He was asked to show his ID online. It went on and on and on for  days, until he called our office, and we got involved and tried to help  him--a man who is grieving, who just lost his wife. That is what these  cuts are going to mean for regular people.

Yes, it is a disaster for Wall Street, but it is more of a disaster  on Main Street.

For decades--and here is one example--Big Pharma companies had a  sweetheart deal written into law that allowed them to charge seniors  whatever they wanted for lifesaving prescription drugs. Along with many  of my Democratic colleagues, I led the bill to have, finally, Medicare  negotiations under Medicare Part D.

What happened? The last administration took this on, the top 10  drugs--everything from Eliquis, to Januvia, to Xarelto, to Jardiance.  They finally negotiated the prices and negotiated prices for those 10  drugs--which went down 60 percent, 70 percent--and will save 9 million  seniors $1.5 billion in out-of-pocket costs in just the first year  alone. No one has refuted these stats because this was the negotiation.

Now this torch, this incredible effort to finally bring down  pharmaceutical prices, has been passed on to this administration. They  have been given 15 drugs--that is the next allotment--including  Ozempic, to negotiate the prices down for seniors. They also have to do  it the year after that and the year after that.

There is no sign, based on testimony in the Health Committee, based  on what we have seen out there, that they are going to have the  wherewithal to do this. I hope they do, but there is no sign that they  are going to do this.

I see that Senator Welch just entered the Chamber. He was the lead  author on this bill in the House of Representatives and understands  exactly what I am talking about.

That is an example, when you look at Medicaid and the use for, yes,  children with disabilities, kids throughout our land, but also our  seniors for nursing homes and assisted living, then you look at  Medicare and how important that is, then you look at the progress we  have made on things like prescription drugs--all of these are on the  line at the same time Americans have seen the biggest drop to their  savings, the biggest drop to the stock market, a self-inflicted wound,  a reckless act based on things that Donald Trump has said to his--I  don't know--the people he hangs out with, his friends.

Well, the people that voted for him in my State did not sign up for  this.

Instead of building on our progress, Republicans are driving up costs  by not standing up on these tariffs--although four of them did--on  Canada, by not standing up when it comes to this assault on programs  for our seniors, like Medicaid.

This is unacceptable, and we should not be here advancing policies  that are going to force more Americans to have to choose between  filling their prescriptions and putting food on their table. Too many  Americans struggle with the cost of healthcare. Instead of looking out  for billionaires, let's look out for them.