Healthcare


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I join my colleague from Michigan as  well as Senators Welch and Shaheen and the others that come before this  body today to talk about what is really happening out there.

Well, what is really happening out there is that we are in a  healthcare crisis, and that is because the big beautiful betrayal of a  bill will kick 15 million Americans off their healthcare, force  hospitals, health clinics, and nursing homes to close. This is already  happening with the premium notices, with what they are already seeing.  It is raising costs for everyday Americans.

And now, if Congress doesn't act to extend the Affordable Care Act's  health tax credits before they expire, more than 20 million Americans  will see their premiums soar, putting their coverage at risk.

I go to all 87 counties in my State every single year, and I visit  rural hospitals. I know what is happening out there. I know what is  happening to people who are in small businesses, who rely on the  Affordable Care Act, who are already seeing increased grocery costs,  already seeing increased electricity costs, and are already seeing  dried-up markets because of these tariffs. This is all hitting them at  once.

At the end of the day, everything from regular checkups and  lifesaving prescriptions to hospital visits and long-term care is under  threat--not for the wealthiest. They are going to be able to handle it.  Maybe not even for people in some of the big cities, but for people out  there in rural right now, they are barely holding on as it is.

And this is on top of the funding cuts to public health and medical  research that extinguish hope for lifesaving cures and jeopardize  America's global leadership and medical innovation. Those people are  holding on too.

Just last weekend, I went with the Parkinson's Association on their  charity walk. Those people are holding on for hope in their  wheelchairs. They are holding on for hope. They are daughters and sons;  they are brothers and sisters. We are so close in so many areas because  of the mapping of the human genome, because of AI--as this is coming  from the home of the Mayo Clinic, MN--that we do not want to go  backward when it comes to investment in research.

That is why my Democratic colleagues and I are fighting to restore  healthcare in this upcoming budget bill. Right now, healthcare access  for more than 20 million Americans who benefited from healthcare tax  credits are at risk, as I just noted. As a result, a record number of  Americans, 24 million people, have been enrolled in this Affordable  Care Act, but all of them are going to see this increase if something  isn't done.

This will be a massive hit to working families. It will be especially  harmful to middle-class families, small business owners, and  entrepreneurs, seniors, and people living in rural communities. It will  force States to reduce coverage and shift resources away from other  priorities like education and public safety. In Minnesota, at least  nine rural hospitals are at immediate risk of having to shut their  doors and stop providing care.

Medicare, Medicaid, and enhanced healthcare tax credits are  overwhelmingly supported by Americans. Why? Because this is about their  families. This is about the fact that they know that healthcare--over  the years, they have seen the prices and what has happened with  pharmaceuticals, and they expect us to do better than what is happening  now. They expect us to do better than putting forward what is in this  bill that just happened that hurts their rural hospitals or throws  people off of their coverage or stops lifesaving research on these  cures that has always been so bipartisan or the rhetoric around  vaccines, which so many of them know their kids need. I just found out  this year I had no immunity to measles. I got the shot, but it was at  the wrong time. So I got that vaccine. Right now, so many people don't  even know. They turn on the TV, and they hear the HHS Secretary  question these vaccines against the belief of a number of people on the  other side of the aisle, the Senators, Republican Senators, including  those who are doctors. This is just creating massive chaos.

Costs are up. Chaos is up. Confusion is up. We must do better. More  insured Americans is good for patients, good for families, and good for  our country. More research paves the way for cutting-edge treatment and  the cures of tomorrow.