Immigration


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today in the midst  of this national crisis, this pandemic, to talk about one hero among,  of course, many. 

  First, I thank my friend Senator Durbin for his tireless leadership  on a very important topic--and that is the topic of immigration--and  for his taking the lead in bringing us together today to recognize  heroes in healthcare during this coronavirus pandemic. 

  As many of you know, this pandemic is personal for me. My husband  John was hospitalized with the coronavirus not too long ago, and  although he is a great person and I am so proud of him for coming  through it all and giving his plasma recently, he is actually not the  hero I am referring to. I am talking about an immigrant doctor who is  on the frontlines of the coronavirus pandemic in Rochester, MN. She has  asked that her name not be used publicly because she is applying for a  green card. She came to the United States from her home country for  postgraduate medical training and completed not one but two fellowships  in critical care and pulmonary diseases at the Mayo Clinic, which  happens to be where my husband gave the plasma, which we hope will save  other lives. 

  Under normal circumstances, an immigrant doctor who completes his or  her postgraduate training in the United States has to leave the country  for at least 2 years when their residency is complete. Now, let's look  at that again. They have studied in an American medical school, they  have completed their postgraduate training in the United States, but  then they have to leave the country for 2 years when their residency is  complete, just at a time when we need more doctors and more healthcare  professionals and not less. Why? Because our immigration laws require  them to be outside of the country for 2 years before they can apply to  come back here on a work visa. But under the Conrad 30 program,  doctors--and that is named after Kent Conrad, the Senator who once  represented North Dakota. Since he left, I have taken this on, with  many of my colleagues, to continue this program and make sure it gets  reauthorized, and we would like to see it expanded. 

  Why did he get involved in this in North Dakota? Well, that is  because they had a shortage of doctors in rural areas, and under the  Conrad 30 program, doctors who commit to caring for patients in an  underserved area like rural communities or other areas that may be  underserved, including urban areas, if they face a shortage of doctors,  these doctors are allowed to start practicing in the United States  immediately without having to wait 2 years. 

  I just keep repeating this. They got their training in the United  States. They got degrees in the United States. That is why for years I  have led bipartisan legislation--which has been endorsed by the  American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, and  the National Rural Health Association--that would extend this program  and allow international doctors trained in the United States to remain  in the country if--if--they practice in underserved areas. 

  It was through this program that this hero I am talking about today,  this immigrant doctor, was able to stay in  Minnesota and eventually began practicing at the Mayo Clinic as a  critical care specialist, where she sees patients from all over rural  areas of southern Minnesota. She was working in the intensive care unit  when the first coronavirus cases started coming through the door. 

  Critical care and pulmonary disease specialists are some of the most  in-demand doctors during this pandemic, and as one of these  specialists, this doctor has been managing patients on ventilators,  patients with kidney failure, and patients with blood clots. She has  cared for coronavirus patients on oxygen, and she manages the team that  resuscitates patients whose hearts have stopped. This immigrant doctor  has literally saved lives. 

  Her hospital regularly provides telemedical support to other Mayo  Clinic facilities, and they even helped a hospital in Georgia. And when  the Mayo Clinic received clearance to provide assistance to a hospital  in the Bronx where the medical staff was stretched dangerously thin, as  we see on TV every single day, she volunteered. This immigrant doctor  volunteered during her free time using the hospital's telemedicine  equipment. Talking about her service during this pandemic, she has  said: ``This is not a job, this is a calling. We do this for love.'' 

  Her requirement to work in an underserved area as a condition of the  Conrad 30 program ends this year. She has no plans to move and to leave  our country and to stop providing care to patients if she can help it.  She said: ``I love Minnesota. I hope Mayo never lets me go.'' I hope  that too. She is an American hero, and we could use a lot more like  her. 

  Over the last 15 years, the Conrad 30 program has brought more than  15,000 doctors to underserved areas, including many rural areas that  are short on doctors and rely on the program to fill the gap. I have  been at VA hospitals in other parts of the country, and their No. 1 ask  was this because they don't have enough doctors in the rural areas  where their clinics are located to serve their patients.  

  This is a commonsense program with bipartisan support. I introduced a  bill to reauthorize the program, which we have successfully done in the  past. I introduced a bill to reauthorize it with Senator Collins and  Senator Rosen, and it has 15 cosponsors. Listen to the names here:  Senators King, Ernst, Cramer, Coons, Blunt, Capito, Baldwin, Wyden,  Thune, Merkley, Wicker, Carper, and Paul. What brings all these  Senators together? It is not a common ideological belief on many  issues; it is because they are looking out for their States, and they  want to save the lives of people in their States, especially during  this pandemic, by allowing doctors who have been trained in the United  States of America, who have gotten their degrees, who have done their  residencies here, to be able to stay in our country. 

  Today I am asking all my colleagues to support its inclusion in the  next piece of legislation that is coming our way that we must pass to  address the coronavirus. 

  I have also called on the administration to take action to increase  the number of doctors who are here to help fight this pandemic and help  alleviate the serious strain this pandemic has placed on our healthcare  system. 

  First, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services should resume  expedited processing for employment-based visas for doctors. On March  20, USCIS announced a freeze on expedited processing during the  pandemic, which would exacerbate our shortage of doctors, especially in  underserved rural areas. With Representative Bradley Schneider from  Illinois, I led a bipartisan group of 24 Senators--I again thank  Senator Durbin, who has been such a leader on these issues, for his  support for this--and 13 Members of the House in asking USCIS to  expedite processing for doctors again. We still haven't received a  response. 

  Let's think about what has been happening since we sent that letter  on March 20--the increasing number of deaths in the assisted living  homes, including those in rural areas, which have been plagued by this  pandemic, which have lost dozens of their residents to this pandemic.  Think about some of the rural areas that have been hit hard that simply  don't have the hospital beds or the ventilators. Think about all that  is going on, the thousands and thousands of people who have lost their  lives. And still we wait. March 20--a bipartisan group of Senators has  asked for help since that freeze on March 20 was put into place. We  await a response. 

  Second, USCIS should give flexibility to health systems so that  doctors on employment-based visas, like the Minnesota doctor, the hero  I just told you about today who couldn't even have her name released  when she is managing teams of people--not because she is here  illegally, no; because she wants that chance to get her green card.  Like that doctor whom I told you about today who can provide care where  they need it the most, many doctors in similar circumstances are  willing to volunteer to treat patients in the hardest hit areas, just  like she did when she volunteered to help with the hospital in the  Bronx. They are worried that doing so and leaving their home hospital  will put their immigration status in jeopardy. 

  Last month, I led a letter with Representative   Tom Cole, Abby  Finkenauer from Iowa, and Bradley Schneider, that was signed by 18  other Senators--again, including Senator Durbin and 29 House Members-- urging USCIS to waive restrictions so that doctors can practice in  crisis locations. Once again, we have not received a response. Is that  because the President wants to take a back seat again to the Governors  of this country, when, in fact, Federal policy is holding back not just  equipment from going where we have hot spots but now also actual  doctors and medical personnel? And if they are good enough to get a  degree in a medical school in the United States and if they are good  enough to practice in some areas of the country, they are not good  enough to practice where we have the hot spots? 

  Rather than acknowledging the help that immigrant doctors are  providing during this public health emergency, this administration's  rhetoric has made them feel, well, unwelcome. That would be a  euphemism. It is one of the reasons that Minnesota doctor asked that I  not use her name. 

  When discussing the process of applying for a work visa, she noted:  ``At the same time you're taking boards [medical boards] you are also  filling out hundreds of pages of paperwork to prove that you're worth  keeping.'' 

  OK, picture this. While she is saving lives, managing the team that  resuscitates people, volunteering her time to help at the hospital in  the Bronx, caring for patients on ventilators and bringing their hearts  back to life, she somehow has to prove to our government that she is  someone worth keeping. She said: It is very disheartening at times. 

  But she isn't giving up on us. She said: All of us who come from  foreign countries, we are here because we want to be here. We love this  country. 

  For these brave men and women, it is so important that we do  everything we can to protect them and their loved ones, not just from  the uncertainty that comes with being immigrants but the risk of the  current crisis. 

  So many of our immigrant medical personnel have died, not just in our  country but in other parts of the world as well. They have died saving  lives for people in the country that they love. 

  We need to ensure that all our doctors and frontline health workers  have supplies and equipment, like face masks, gowns, and shoe covers,  so that no one has to reuse their supplies and risk exposure to the  virus. 

  We need to implement a real national testing strategy so that we can  get ahead of the virus and target resources accordingly. The testing  blueprint announced by the administration on April 27 falls well short  of a comprehensive testing plan and puts all responsibility for testing  on the States. 

  Two weeks ago, I was proud that we passed an interim relief package  that included $25 billion to expand our Nation's coronavirus testing  capacity. It will go a long way to ramp up molecular and serum  testing--something that Mayo was a leader in across the country--to  diagnose active virus infections, identify antibiotics against the  virus, and support contact tracing. 

  This investment is a start, but we know there is so much more work to  be done to ensure Americans across the  country have access to accurate testing technologies and innovative  treatments that they need to reduce the risk of infection. 

  Our healthcare workers on the frontlines, including our immigrant  health heroes who sacrifice so much in the pursuit of medicine and  service, deserve better. When the President goes after immigrants in  his press conference, do you know whom I keep thinking of? I keep  thinking of this doctor, this hero in my home State who risks her life  every day managing these patients and managing teams of doctors because  of her know-how and because of the trust that an institution like the  Mayo Clinic has put in her. What are we thinking? These heroes should  be heralded and not condemned. 

  In closing, I want to share this quote from President Franklin  Roosevelt: ``Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the  assessment that something else is more important than fear.'' That is  exactly what these immigrant health heroes are doing. They chose to be  in this country and to come here because, yes, they wanted a good life  for themselves and their families, and they knew they were going to  have to work hard to make that happen. They got a degree. They are on  the frontlines. Then they chose to keep working and to save lives  during an incredibly dangerous pandemic. 

  They understand that courage is not the absence of fear--of course,  they are afraid when they go to those jobs--but, rather, the assessment  that something else is more important than fear. Their life's mission,  to them, is more important than fear. Saving someone's grandma or  saving someone's husband--they decided that is more important to them  than fear. They choose service over fear. 

  What I am asking our colleagues to do here is--we understand there is  anti-immigrant sentiment out there. We know it. We hear it every day  from the President. But I am asking you to actually believe that your  service is more important than that fear that has been stoked.  Certainly, a number of our colleagues decided that when they were  willing to get on that bill--Democrats and Republicans--to reauthorize  the Conrad 30 program to allow these immigrant heroes, these doctors  who were trained in our country, to be able to keep doing their work.  Let me again mention the names of the cosponsors of this bill: Collins,  Rosen, King, Ernst, Cramer, Coons, Blunt, Capito, Baldwin, Wyden,  Thune, Merkley, Wicker, Carper, and Paul, and, of course, I mentioned  Senator Durbin. They are willing to do that, and there is so much more  we can do. We still await an answer for why the visa processing for  these healthcare workers was suspended. 

  Service first, fear last--that is what these doctors did, and that is  what we must do first. That is what we must do now. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT