Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, today is a somber day for our country.  As Senators, we are here as representatives of the American people. It  is our duty, as we each swore to do when we took our oath of office, to  support and defend the Constitution. We also took an oath, as judges  and jurors in this proceeding, to pursue ``impartial justice'' as we  consider these articles--including the serious charge that the  President of the United States leveraged the power of his office for  his own personal gain. 

  Those are the oaths that the Framers set out for us in the  Constitution, to guide the Senate in its oversight responsibilities.  The Framers believed that the legislative branch was best positioned to  provide a check on the Executive. They envisioned that the separation  of powers would allow each branch of government to oversee the other.  They also knew, based on their experience living under the British  monarchy, that someday a President might corrupt the powers of the  office. William Davie from North Carolina was particularly concerned  that a President could abuse his office by sparing ``no efforts or  means whatever to get himself reelected.'' 

  So the Framers put in place a standard that would cover a range of  Presidential misconduct, settling on: ``Treason, Bribery, or other high  Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' As Alexander Hamilton explained in  Federalist 65, the phrase was intended to cover the ``abuse or  violation of some public trust'' and ``injuries done immediately to  society itself.'' The Framers designed a remedy for this public harm:  removal from public office. So now we are here as judge and jury to try  the case and to evaluate whether the President's acts have violated the  public trust and injured our democracy. 

  I am concerned of course that the Senate has decided that we must  make this decision without all the facts. With a 51 to 49 vote, the  senate blocked the opportunity to call witnesses with firsthand  knowledge or to get relevant documents. Fairness means evidence--it  means documents, and it means witnesses. In every past impeachment  trial in the Senate, in this body's entire 231-year history, there have  been witnesses. There is no reason why the Senate should not have  called people to testify who have firsthand knowledge of the  President's conduct, especially if, as some of my colleagues have  suggested, you believe the facts are in dispute. 

  During the question period, I asked about the impeachment of Judge  Porteous in 2010. I joined several of my colleagues in serving on the  trial committee. We heard from 26 witnesses in the Senate, 17 of whom  were new witnesses who had not previously testified in the House. What  possible reason could there be for allowing 26 witnesses in a judicial  impeachment trial and zero in a President's trial? How can we consider  this a fair trial if we are not even willing to try and get to the  truth? 

  We do not even have to try and find it. John Bolton has firsthand  knowledge about central facts in this case, and he said he would comply  with a subpoena from the Senate. We also know there are documents that  could verify testimony presented in the House, like records of emails  sent between administration officials in the days after the July 25  call. We cannot ignore this evidence--we have a constitutional duty to  consider it. 

  And since this trial began, new evidence has continued to emerge. One  way or another, the truth is going to come out. I believe that history  will remember that the majority in this body did not seek out the  evidence and instead decided that the President's alleged corrupt acts  did not even require a closer look. 

  But even without firsthand accounts and without primary documents,  the House managers have presented a compelling case. I was particularly  interested in the evidence that the managers presented showing that the  President's conduct put our national security at risk by jeopardizing  our support for Ukraine. 

  Protecting Ukraine's fragile democracy has been a bipartisan  priority. I went to Ukraine with the late Senator John McCain and  Senator Lindsey Graham right after the 2016 election to make clear that  the United States would continue to support our ally Ukraine in the  face of Russian aggression--that we will stand up for democracy. As the  House managers stressed, it is in our national security interest to  strengthen Ukraine's democracy. The United States has 60,000 troops  stationed in Europe, and thousands of Ukrainians have died fighting  Russian forces and their proxies. 

  Our Nation's support for Ukraine is critically needed. Ukraine is at  the frontline of Russian aggression, and since the Russians invaded  Crimea in 2014, the United States has provided over $1.5 billion in  aid. Russia is watching everything we do. So this summer, as a new  Ukrainian President prepared to lead his country and address the war  with Russia, it was critical that President Trump showed the world that  we stand with Ukraine. Instead, President Trump decided to withhold  military security assistance and to deny the Ukrainian President an  Oval Office meeting. In doing so, he jeopardized our national security  interests and put the Ukrainians in danger. But worse yet, he did so to  benefit himself. 

  Testimony from the 17 current and former officials from the  President's administration made it clear that the President leveraged  the power of his office to pressure Ukraine to announce an  investigation into his political rival. These brave public servants  defied the President's order and agreed to testify about what happened  despite the risks to their careers. Former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine  Marie Yovanovitch showed particular courage, testifying before the  House even as the President disparaged her on Twitter. And I will never  forget when Lieutenant Colonel Vindman testified and sent a message to  his immigrant father, saying, ``Don't worry Dad, I will be fine for  telling the truth.'' 

  As Manager Schiff said, in our country ``right matters.'' What is  right and wrong under our Constitution does not turn on whether or not  you like the President. It is not about whether the disregard for its  boundaries furthers policies that you agree or disagree with. It is  about whether it remains true that in our country, right matters.  Through his actions, the President compromised the security of our ally  Ukraine, invited foreign interference in our elections, and undermined  the integrity of our democratic process--conduct that I believe the  Framers would see as an abuse of power and violation of his oath of  office. 

  The Articles of Impeachment include a second charge: that the  President used the powers of his office to prevent Congress from  investigating his actions and attempted to place himself above the law. 

  Unlike any President before him, President Trump categorically  refused to comply with any requests from Congress. Even President Nixon  directed ``all the president's men'' to comply with congressional  requests. Despite that history, President Trump directed every member  of his administration not to comply with requests to testify and also  directed the executive branch not to release a single document. 

  The President's refusal to respect the Congress's authority is a  direct threat to the separation of powers. The Constitution gives the  House the ``sole power of impeachment,'' a tool of last resort to  provide a check on the president. By refusing to cooperate, the  President is attempting to erase the Congress's constitutional power  and to prevent the American people from learning of his misconduct. As  we discussed during our questions, the President is asserting that his  aides have absolute immunity, a proposition that Federal courts have  consistently rejected. Manager Demings warned, ``absolute power  corrupts absolutely.'' 

  But this President has taken many steps to place himself above the  law. This administration has taken the position that a sitting  President cannot be indicted or prosecuted. This President has argued  that he is immune from State and criminal investigations. And now we  are being asked to say that the Constitution's check on a President's  power, as set out by the Framers, cannot prevent a President from  abusing his power and covering it up. 

  During the trial, we have heard this directly from the President's  defense. In the words of Alan Dershowitz, ``If a president does  something which he believes will help him get elected--in the public  interest--that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo that results in  impeachment.'' These echo the words of  an impeached President, Richard Nixon, who said: ``When the president  does it, that means it is not illegal.'' We cannot accept that  conclusion. In this country the President is not King, the law is King.  But if the Senate looks past the President's defiance of Congress, we  will forever undermine our status as a coequal branch and undermine the  rule of law. 

  So as we consider these Articles of Impeachment, I ask my colleagues  to think about the consequences. Our system, designed by the Framers  232 years ago, is one not of absolute power but of power through and by  the people. We are, in some ways, faced with the same question the  Founders faced when they made the fateful decision to challenge the  unchecked power of a King. 

  When signing the Declaration of Independence, John Hancock signed his  name large and said, ``There must be no pulling different ways. We must  all hang together.'' Benjamin Franklin replied, ``Yes, we must, indeed,  all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.'' 

  We have the opportunity today to stand together and say that the  Constitution, that these United States, are stronger than our enemies,  foreign and domestic, and we, together, are stronger than a President  who would corrupt our democracy with an abuse of power and an attempt  to deny the rights of a coequal branch of government. We do not have to  agree on everything today or tomorrow or a year from now, but surely we  can agree on the same basic principles: that this is a government of  laws, not of men-and women; that in this country, no one is above the  law. If we can agree on that much, then I submit to my colleagues that  the choice before us is clear. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT