Klobuchar-Backed Legislation to Improve the National Suicide Hotline and Veterans Suicide Crisis Line Passes Senate


This week, U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) announced that legislation she cosponsored to improve the National Suicide Hotline and Veteran Suicide Crisis Line (VCL) has passed the Senate. The National Suicide Hotline Designation Act would designate 9-8-8 as the three-digit number for a national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline.

"As we confront the coronavirus pandemic, we must ensure that people suffering from mental health crises can easily access life-saving support," Klobuchar said. "This three-digit number will enable those in need to get help during their darkest hours. While there is more work to do to improve access to mental health services for all Americans, this action by the Senate is an important step in connecting people with the support they deserve."

Klobuchar has been a leader in the fight to improve mental health care for veterans.

In March 2020, Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith (D-MN) sent a letter calling on the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to increase access to Readjustment Counseling Services to help Minnesota veterans, servicemembers, and their families transition to both military and civilian life. In the letter, Klobuchar and Smith also highlighted the importance of mental health services - particularly in rural Minnesota - to combat Minnesota's rising veteran suicide rate.

In 2016, Klobuchar's bipartisan legislation with Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) to establish a patient self-scheduling appointment system at VA Medical Facilities was signed into law. The Faster Care for Veterans Act directs the Secretary of the VA to commence a pilot program under which veterans could use the internet to schedule and confirm appointments for health care at VA medical facilities.

In 2016, legislation that she and Senator John Thune (R-SD) led to improve the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) was signed into law. The No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act would require that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop a quality assurance plan to identify performance metrics and objectives to improve the effectiveness of the VCL.

In 2015, legislation she cosponsored to help prevent veteran suicides was signed into law by the President. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act helps expand access to mental health services for veterans by establishing a loan repayment program to help the VA recruit more psychiatric specialists, enhances resources for veterans transitioning into civilian life, and improves the VA's ability to address traumatic brain injuries. She also introduced the Service Member Mental Health Review Act in 2013 to help veterans who may have been discharged with improper mental health diagnoses get their records corrected and their benefits restored.