Letter to President Donald Trump - Baldwin, Murray, Colleagues Press President Trump For Answers on Mismanagement of the Strategic National Stockpile


Dear President Trump,

As states across this nation grapple with their response to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Disease(COVID-19), we write to express serious concern with your Administration's mismanagement ofthe Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) and the misleading statements regarding the purpose ofthe stockpile by advisors in your Administration.In 1998, Congress appropriated an emergency allocation of over $216 million to the PublicHealth and Social Services Emergency Fund, including $51 million for the Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention (CDC), for "pharmaceutical stockpile activity," noting that this fundaddressed the Clinton Administration's request for activities related to bioterrorism, as well asfor "bolstering public health infrastructure, conducting studies regarding health and nationalsecurity, and combating certain infectious diseases."1

Since its creation, the stockpile has supported individual states and nationwide demands inresponding to disasters and public health emergencies. Following the terrorist attacks onSeptember 11, 2001, the stockpile successfully deployed supplies to New York City and ournation's Capital. 2 Similarly, supplies and equipment from the stockpile were used to respond torecent hurricanes, including Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Sandy. In 2009, the stockpile released11 million regimens of antiviral drugs, as well as personal protective equipment (PPE), includingmasks, respirators, gowns, gloves and face shields, to support every state's response to the 2009H1N1 influenza pandemic.3

On February 25, 2020, Secretary Alex Azar was asked at a Senate Appropriations hearing if hecould assure every single American that if COVID-19 hit our shores, we would have thenecessary supplies stockpiled to respond. He failed to answer that question. Now, according todocuments recently released by the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, ninety percentof supplies of PPE in the stockpile have been depleted, and none of the remaining supplies willbe distributed to states.4 As this crisis continues to unfold, it is abundantly clear that thisAdministration failed to act on every warning sign. 

The COVID-19 pandemic threatens the overall health and safety of families across the country,in every single state. Dozens of states have requested supplies from the stockpile to ensure thatpublic health workers, emergency responders, and frontline health care workers have thepersonal protective equipment they need to prevent the spread of this virus and provide thehighest quality patient care to those impacted. However, your Administration has failed tosufficiently respond to these requests. It should not take public pleas from governors or lettersfrom congressional delegations for states to obtain the supplies they need. The stockpile wasintended to support a response to a large scale disaster, and yet, as the country finds itselfexperiencing exactly the kind of crisis the stockpile was created to mitigate, your Administrationhas failed to respond with the urgency that is so clearly needed.

Furthermore, we are deeply concerned with this Administration's misleading statements andactions when it comes to the stockpile. At a press conference on April 2, Senior Advisor JaredKushner told reporters that "the notion of the federal stockpile was it's supposed to be ourstockpile; it's not supposed to be state stockpiles that they then use." This statement, made by anindividual with no experience in public health or large scale disaster management, is extremelyconcerning and false. The purpose of the stockpile is not up for debate. And yet, on April 3, oneday later, the homepage of the stockpile's website was changed to align with Mr. Kushner'sflawed description.

When state, local, tribal, and territorial responders request federal assistance to support theiremergency response efforts, the stockpile must ensure that the right medicines and supplies getto those who need them. Organized for scalable response to a variety of public health threats, thisrepository should contain enough supplies to respond to multiple large-scale emergenciessimultaneously. Until April 3, this was reflected in the public-facing description of the stockpile.This remains its purpose. Editing a website does not change its intent.

In light of these public statements, concerning changes, and opaque distribution practices, werequest written responses to the following questions:1. We continue to hear concerns about delays in obtaining necessary supplies from thestockpile and from the federal government. How is your Administration prioritizingrequests from states? Who is making decisions about current distribution practices?2. Recent reporting indicates that Senior Advisor Jared Kushner is now charged withoverseeing the distribution of supplies from the stockpile and additional supplies obtainedby the federal government. Please describe his current role, and how it interacts withother established efforts, including the Coronavirus Task Force led by Vice PresidentPence and the Supply Chain Stabilization Task Force led by Admiral Polowczyk.3. On April 3, the stockpile's website was changed to align with inaccurate statements madeby Mr. Kushner. Why were these changes made, and who in the Administration requestedthat the changes be made? Is this change indicative of a larger shift in the management ofthe stockpile?4. What is the current process to replenish the stockpile and how is this coordinated withFEMA's procurement process?5. Please describe how the Administration is working to ensure that the distribution of lifesaving supplies is free from political interference.

Sincerely,