Minnesota Congressional Delegation Releases Video Urging People to Donate Plasma


Today, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tina Smith, and Representatives Jim Hagedorn (MN-01), Angie Craig (MN-02), Dean Phillips (MN-03), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Ilhan Omar (MN-05), Tom Emmer (MN-06), Collin Peterson (MN-07), and Pete Stauber (MN-08) released a video urging Minnesotans who have tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19) and recovered to donate plasma as part of the federally sponsored Expanded Access Program for convalescent plasma, an investigational  treatment program for COVID-19.

"As we confront the coronavirus pandemic, it's important we work together to fight this virus," members of Minnesota's Congressional Delegation said in the video. "And now, by giving plasma, recovered patients can give back and potentially help someone else. Thousands of patients have participated nationwide. We urge all who are able to participate to do so -- it's so vital that we support the development of treatments like this one."

"Go to USCovidPlasma.org or RedCrossBlood.org to find your closest donation center."

The convalescent plasma therapy program involves giving patients with an active coronavirus infection an infusion of antibody-rich plasma from people who have recovered from the virus. People who've recovered from COVID-19 -- such Senator Klobuchar's husband, John Bessler -- have antibodies to the disease in their blood, which may help fight the virus. In April, Bessler was the 7th person who had recovered from COVID-19 to donate plasma as part of Mayo's program in Minnesota. Thousands of additional patients have participated nationwide as Mayo Clinic and hospitals across the country are encouraging anyone who has tested positive for COVID-19 and recovered to donate plasma. 

In March, the delegation wrote an open letter, urging Minnesotans to follow recommendations from the CDC and the Minnesota Department of Health and work with local officials to keep the state healthy and safe.

This national effort collects plasma from donors who meet several criteria established by the Food and Drug Administration. For more information, and to find out how you can donate visit www.uscovidplasma.org

Full transcript of the video below

Hey Minnesota --

As we confront the coronavirus pandemic, it's important we work together to fight this virus.

This is a national public health crisis -- it affects every American, no matter where we live.

And in Minnesota, we see how this affects folks in the rural areas, as well as those in the larger cities.

Every day we read stories about our communities coming together, and it's those stories that inspire and keep us going.

If we work together, we can and will get through this.

Our doctors, scientists and public health officials are on the frontlines saving lives and leading the country on groundbreaking testing and treatment programs, like the COVID-19 expanded access program, to help those who have the virus.

If you have tested positive for the virus and have fully recovered, you can potentially help save the lives of others. How? By donating your blood plasma.

That plasma - the antibodies in it - can help others with infections fight against the virus.

My husband John, who as you know, recently recovered from coronavirus, just donated his plasma a couple of weeks ago. It was a small thing, but it can make a huge difference.

While we work toward a vaccine, doctors and scientists are encouraging anyone who can, who had the disease and recovered, to donate plasma.

So many people have stepped up to support the sick and show care for our neighbors and communities during this time -- our healthcare workers, our first responders, teachers, grocery store workers, businesses, coworkers, and nonprofits.

And now, by giving plasma, recovered patients can give back and potentially help someone else. Thousands of patients have participated nationwide.

If able, please participate and help those in need.

It's so vital that we support the development of treatments like this one.

And it's something that those of you that have had the disease can do to help.

Please go to USCOVIDPLASMA.ORG or RedCrossBlood.org to find your closest donation center.

Thank you.