Nomination of James E. Trainor III


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, we are here to vote on a nominee,  James Trainor, to be a Commissioner at the Federal Election  Commission--the independent agency responsible for enforcing Federal  campaign finance laws. 

  I am deeply disappointed in today's vote, which is a departure from  the Senate's longstanding tradition of considering FEC nominees on a  bipartisan basis and another step in eroding the traditions of the  Senate--all for a candidate who holds extreme views toward the agency  to which he would be appointed. 

  Prior to today, the Senate has voted to confirm 47 FEC nominees, and  42 of those nominees have been confirmed through a bipartisan process.  As the ranking Democrat on the Rules and Administration Committee, I  have repeatedly urged my Republican colleagues to work with us to get  the FEC running again, as it is unacceptable that the agency charged  with protecting the integrity of our campaign finance system has been  without a quorum for 261 days--the longest period without a quorum in  the agency's history--but this is not the way to do it. 

  The FEC has been plagued by partisan gridlock for years. With a  general election only 168 days away, we should be working together to  make sure that the agency is working to the fullest extent possible.  Americans are tired of hyperpartisanship and gridlock. This is not the  time to abandon the bipartisan tradition of moving FEC nominees  together. We need to work to restore their trust in our political  institutions, and with this vote, we are taking a step backward. We all  know that our campaign finance system is broken. Everyone in this room  knows it. Spending on campaigns has gotten out of control, and special  interest groups are a major part of the problem. 

  Experts suggest that at least $6 billion will be spent in the 2020  election cycle on political advertisements alone. That doesn't count  the billions that will be spent by the campaigns themselves and the  additional billions spent by dark money groups and special interests  which are trying to influence this election. In order for our democracy  to work, we need strong rules for campaign spending, and we need a  strong agency to enforce those rules. We should be working together, on  a bipartisan basis, to propose solutions to try to get the FEC back on  track. 

  I have a few ideas. We should work together to pass legislation to  reform the FEC's rules so it functions better. We should establish a  working group that will investigate bipartisan solutions to improve the  function of the FEC. We should also work together to elect strong  nominees from both parties who will serve on the Commission with the  understanding that they are there to enforce the law and protect our  election system--and, oh, does this election system need protecting  right now. 

  We are in the midst of a pandemic. We have people standing in garbage  bags and homemade masks in the rain in Wisconsin just trying to  exercise their right to vote. Nearly 50 of those people got sick. We  have a poll worker who got sick. We have States all over the country,  with both Democratic and Republican Governors, that are desperately  trying to get funding so we can have more at-home voting and have the  polls open earlier and have them open for days so people don't have to  all congregate on 1 day, and on that day we have to also make our  elections safer. We have a lot to do. 

  When it comes to elections, we know that the enforcement agency for  things like campaign finance is the FEC. We know it is broken, and we  as a body should work to improve it. 

  My Republican colleagues, on this particular nominee, have repeatedly  said that by confirming Mr. Trainor they are doing some good restoring  a quorum. OK. That is not the full story of this nomination. It ignores  the fact that gridlock will persist, and Republicans have intentionally  left a Democratic seat on the Commission vacant for more than 1,100  days. 

  It ignores the fact that Leader Schumer and I referred a Democratic  candidate to the White House for consideration and that she has been  vetted and cleared. She is immensely qualified, and she would be the  first person of color to ever sit on the FEC. Yes, that is right, the  first person of color not only in this Congress but the first person of  color in the history of the Federal Elections Commission to serve on  the Commission.  

  Since Republicans refuse to move forward in a bipartisan manner, the  agency charged with enforcing our campaign finance laws will continue  to remain ineffective. This undermines our country's political  institutions, and it does not serve our country's best interests. 

  Many people refer to the Senate as the world's greatest deliberative  body because the Senate, as an institution, is designed for the careful  consideration and debate of legislation and nominations. When we erode  the bipartisan norms that make us the greatest deliberative body, we  end up allowing unqualified nominees who hold extreme views to be  appointed to important positions in our government just at a time when  we should be doing the opposite. 

  In addition to these process concerns, today we are also being asked  to move forward with a nominee to the FEC who doesn't believe in basic  campaign finance law. The FEC was created to enforce campaign finance  law, so it is critical that the agency be staffed by Commissioners who  believe in its mission so it can police people from both parties. 

  Mr. Trainor has consistently worked to dismantle the rules that keep  corruption out of our political system. He has spent his career arguing  that people should not have to disclose political spending and has  worked to stack the deck against voters by gerrymandering districts in  Texas to dilute minority voting power.  

  Trainor's views on disclosure are inconsistent with decades of  Supreme Court precedent, including the views of late Justice Scalia.  When fellow Republicans in the Texas Legislature worked to require  politically active nonprofit organizations to disclose their donors,  Trainor challenged them and said that such a law ``would have a  chilling effect on anybody's ability to speak.'' 

  Let's just step back. Those were fellow Republicans on the Texas  Legislature simply trying to put some reforms in place so we knew where  those donations were coming from, and he spoke out against that. 

  Moving forward with this nomination today may restore a quorum, but  it does not serve the American people. The American people deserve an  FEC that works, an agency that enforces the law and protects our  political system from corruption. At a time when unprecedented amounts  of dark money and foreign money are flowing into our elections and  influencing our courts, a fully functioning FEC is critical to  safeguarding our political system. 

  When it comes to the agency in charge of enforcing our campaign  finance laws, the absolute minimum qualification should be that the  person actually believes in the mission of the agency. Is that too much  to ask? 

  We need to focus on how we can help the American people safely vote  during this pandemic. I mean, we need to focus on this pandemic,  instead of the series of votes that we have seen this week, but if we  are going to decide who should serve on the FEC during this pandemic,  it should be someone who believes in the mission of the FEC. 

  We need to work together to hold hearings with bipartisan groups of  election officials, like we have been working to do on the State level  when it comes to how to vote in this pandemic. There has been a lot of  good work going on with Republicans and Democrats, Governors and  Secretaries of State. We need to do the same thing in this Chamber as  we approach major legislation and as we approach our working with the  FEC. 

  I oppose the process by which this nominee has come to the floor, and  I believe the nominee's extreme views are disqualifying for this  important office. I strongly urge my colleagues to vote no on this  nominee. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT