Recognizing the Joint Congressional Committee on the Inauguration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691709/recognizing-the-joint-congressional-committee-on-the-inauguration


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, on January 20, 2025, the Joint  Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies--JCCIC--hosted the  inauguration of President Donald Trump.

This year, I chaired the joint committee with Senator Fischer, my  counterpart on the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration. I  thank her and the rest of the committee members--Leader Schumer,  Speaker Johnson, Leader Scalise, and Leader Jeffries--for their  partnership.

In the first 20 days of January, the Capitol Complex was the focus of  three large-scale events--the January 6 Election Certification, the  lying in state of former President Jimmy Carter, and the 60th inaugural  ceremonies. And after the President-elect requested the ceremonies be  held indoors, our staff and partners worked around the clock to prepare  the U.S. Capitol Rotunda for the ceremonies and the Capitol Visitor  Center Emancipation Hall for additional guests to watch the  proceedings.

Today, I want to thank those who worked tirelessly to plan and  execute the 60th inaugural ceremonies. The JCCIC staff, partners, and  volunteers were all crucial in countless ways.

I want to especially thank the staff director of the Rules Committee  Elizabeth Farrar, who also served as staff director for JCCIC.

Our committee's U.S. Capitol Police Liaison Captain Sean Patton  worked tirelessly to synchronize the work of the JCCIC and the  department's inaugural task force, commanded by Inspector Mike  Spochart. I want to thank Captain Patton, the inaugural task force, the  National Guard, and the entire law enforcement and security partnership  which makes up the Washington Metropolitan Area's National Special  Security Event Executive Steering Committee.

I also want to acknowledge JCCIC's important partnership with Mayor  Bowser's District of Columbia Presidential Inaugural Committee under  the leadership of Lindsey Parker. Together, we were able to focus on  the end-to-end guest experience of constituents visiting our Nation's  Capital for the inauguration.

The JCCIC ticketing and Member services team, led by Davita Jones and  including Anthony Davis, both detailed from the House Sergeant at Arms  Office, and Navy CAPT Judy Malana, counted, organized, and distributed  more than 200,000 tickets for the ceremonies and coordinated the  attendance with all JCCIC's traditional guests. They were aided in the  counting by over 200 volunteers. Sarah Wheeling and the congressional  publishing team at the Government Publishing Office oversaw the design,  printing, and inspection of all tickets and program materials, working  efficiently on tight deadlines to deliver products worthy of the  occasion.

The operations team, led by Lauren McBride, who was on loan from the  House Sergeant at Arms Office and is a veteran JCCIC staffer, kept  track of every detail, planning rehearsals and walkthroughs, and  executing the day. The operations team supporting JCCIC included Abby  Stahl, Randall Bethea, Elizabeth Khader, Jordan Prince, Destiny Davis,  Martha McPhee, Zachary Hassay, and Chris Brantley.

Abby, a JCCIC veteran from Senator Fischer's office, effectively led  multiple timeline meetings, ensuring both the production timeline and  the Inauguration Day ``run of show'' reflected the synchronized best  information from JCCIC, the Architect of the Capitol, the Capitol  Police, and the military.

Randall taught radio protocols and, by leading Capitol Compass  walkthroughs each week, ensured staff knew their way around the  Capitol. Randall also led inclement weather planning and coordinated  JCCIC participation in the Department of Defense dress rehearsal on  January 12.

Elizabeth, on loan from the Senate Sergeant at Arms office,  coordinated all the rooms JCCIC needed to hold guests and other  Inauguration Day assets, accommodating special requests, furniture, and  catering. Elizabeth was additionally responsible for the signing  ceremony in the President's Room.

As platform director, Jordan ensured the platform was ready to hold  more than 1,300 guests, each with a specific seat based on inaugural  protocol and  precedent. When plans shifted indoors, Jordan's focus pivoted to  accommodating Congress, the President-elect's guests, and traditional  guests in the Rotunda. Destiny provided critical administrative and  logistical support to Jordan.

Martha, another veteran JCCIC staffer, and Zachary had the task of  working with our U.S. Capitol Police partners, including Captain Patton  and the inaugural task force, to manage the credentialing process for  more than 8,000 personnel. They also provided critical liaison with our  Joint Task Force-National Capital Region military partners on all the  military resources needed on Inauguration Day.

Chris Brantley, from visitor services in the Capitol Visitor Center,  recruited, tracked, trained, and managed employment of more than 350  volunteer ``JCCIC Ambassadors'' in tasks ranging from ticket counting  to wayfinding to escorting participants and guests. Though not all  served on Inauguration Day, their contributions were essential to our  overall success, and I would like to thank the following Volunteer  JCCIC Ambassadors:

Althea Abbott, Sara Adams, Harley Adsit, Joey Aguilo, Nolan       Ahern, Joshua Anderson, Michael Appelbaum, Claudette       Archambault, Rebekah Armstrong, Benjamin Arquit, Abigail       Ashcraft, Alexander Attebery, Grant Auman, Sky Avants, Zehra       Bakirdan, Shawn Baldy, Andrew Bambrick, Zachary Bannon,       Jennifer Bastin, Audrey Beck, Sara Bell, Lyssa Bell, Caroline       Bender, Ashlynne Beninga, Craig Berning, Jacqueline Bisille,       Thomas Blanford, Jackson Blodgett, Anthony Bocchino, Micah       Bock, Jody Bogoslavski, Savannah Bolender, Claire Bossong,       Scott Boswell, Taylor Bradley, Lindsay Brand, Matt Brennan,       Alyssa Bretan, Caroline Broom, Joseph Brown, Sarah Brown,       Alex Brunner, Britney Butler, John Byers, Larry Calhoun,       Jillian Cantrell, Molly Carpenter, Luke Catanzaro, Paloma       Chacon, Christy Charbonnet, Daniela Chirinos Vasquez, Peter       Chong, William Christian, Madelon Clark, Patricia Clarke,       Matthew Clemence, Adam Cloch, Sarah Coffman, Rachel Coll,       Katherine Covington, Caleb Crosswhite, Peter Crumpler,       Candace Cunningham, Jacob Custer, David D'Antonio, Miranda       Dabney, Marjorie Daily, Noelle Dana, Owen Dankworth, Graydon       Daubert, Isabel David, Jasper Davis, Bryer Davis, Alexandra       Davis, Alexis Davis, Sean Decker, Catalina Delgado, Arianna       Delgado, Margaret Deneen, Nora Derrick, Luke Diel, Madeleine       Dierksheide, Nathan Dinh, Logan Dobbins, Connor Domingue,       Caroline Donlon, Kelsie Donovan, Jonathan Downing, Sarah       Drake, John Draxler, Benjamin Driscoll, Samanta Dunford,       Elizabeth Dunlap, Darin Durand, James Durham, Anne Earthman,       Benjamin Easter, Flannery Egner, Manik Elahi, Margaret       Elliott, Ross Elston, William Emerson, Alyssa Erdel, Benjamin       Esposito, Carley Esser, Samantha Ewing, Jeanne Fahey, Adam       Fairchild, Lila Farris, Charlotte Featherston, Sarah       Fernandes, Sarah Ferrell, Alex Fink, John Fossum, Emma       Fullerton, Mary Galey, John Ganter, Sara Garcia, Brianna       Garcia, Thomas Garloch, Chongyang Ge, Eric Gebhart, Kristen       Gentile, Madelyn Gerken, Sarah Gilbert, Andrea Gilsdorf,       Andrew Gleaton, Celestine Gold, Ernest Gomez, Kaily       Grabemann, Patrick Green, Nicholas Greene, Mariah Greenlee,       Haley Griffiths, Maddisen Grimm, Khenadi Grubb, Andrew       Guernsey, Ella Gunn, Caroline Hamilton, Hannah Hancock,       Wesley Harkins, Laurie Harris, Austin Harrison, Grace       Harrison, Michael Hart, Daniel Hartl, John Hatfield, Wesley       Helms, Holly Hendrix, Bridget Henne, Bryson Henriott, Nicole       Herman, Rosanna Hernandez, Sofia Herring Jones, Allison       Hibben, Elliot Higgins, Grace Higgins, Emma Hoffschneider,       Ryan Hofmann, Elizabeth Hood, Randall Hopkins, David Horsley,       Kelsie Hovenden, Preston Howey, Charles Huang, Calvin       Huggins, Margaret Hughes, Cecilia Hutton, John Isaacs,       Madeline Jackson, Janquil Jackson, Noah Jackson, Hannah       Jahreis, Danielle Janowski, Matthew Jansen, Andrea Jenkins,       Alexandra Jenkins, Conrad Johnson, Jamie Johnson, Demarion       Johnson, Joseph Johnston, Dylan Jones, Tekia Jones, Hiroya       Jordan, Charles Judson, Samuel Kaardal, Haig Kadian, Charles       Kaiman, Benjamin Kelley, Macie Kelly, Megan Kenney, Lauren       Ketchum, Chelsie Keys, Edward Kim, Hunter Kirkland, Jake       Kirshen, Steven Klausner, Arden Koenecke, Christine       Kortokrax, Alexandra Kotsovos, Sidney Kucera, Erin Kuil,       Brayden Lacefield, Matthew Lamb, John Laseter, Robyn Lea,       Hannah Levins, Luke Lilly, Jack Lincoln, William Lissau,       Amelia Litynski, Alana Lomis, Parker Loy, Kate Lundberg,       April Lyman, Connor Lynch, Joseph Madel, Mary-Eileen Manning,       Andrew Mansell, Skyler Mansell, Joseph Martin, Sarah Martin,       Victor Martins, Kimberly Mash, Justin Mastrangelo, Donald       Mathis, Reagan Mays, Georgette Mbengue, Shekyla McBroom, Max       McClendon, Meghan McCully, Scott McElhaney, Tara McGee,       William McKenna, Brenda McKinney, Jacob McMeekin, Leah       McPhearson, Ian McPhearson, Bryce McWilliams, Walton Mears,       Lauren Meininger, Davis Michols, William Miles, Matthew       Mondello, Morgan Money, Nathanael Monroe, Meredith Moore,       Emma Morris, Ruby Moukadam, Jackson Mountain, Prisila Munoz,       Braden Murphy, William Murphy, Margaret Murphy, Amy Nabozny,       Antonia Nascimento, Bradley Nathan, Casey Nelson, Benjamin       Newhart, Madison Newsom, Luke Nickless, Katherine Nikas,       Malaika Nji-Kerber, Blake Nolan, Amy Nycz, Susan Occhipinti,       Elizabeth Oien, Anderson Okoniewski, Brooke Oliver, Haley       Parker, Adam Parkinson, Drew Parks, John Pecaro, Angelika       Pellegrino, Colm Pelletier, Madeline Peltzer, Mehgan Perez-      Acosta, Carolyn Perlmutter, Matthew Perricone, Mark Peterson,       Jana Pierce, Riley Pingree, Chad Pit-Og, Tyler Platt, Mary       Popadiuk, Gigi Powers, Gavin Proffitt, Ryan Prosperie,       Harrison Ransley, Thomas Reckling, Paula Restrepo, Lauren       Reuss, Kyle Rimando, Katherine Robbins, Elizabeth Robbins,       Ann Robinson, Joseph Rosenwinkel, Elizabeth Rowland, Jackson       Rudden, Joseph Russo, Rebecca Rybczyk, Eduardo Sacasa,       Samantha Salonen, Coby Sammis, Jessica Santos, Robert Sar,       Robby Saunders, Bethan Saunders, Karen Schmitt, Ansley       Schoen, Athena Schritz, Emma Schultheis, Lisa Schultz, Hannah       Schwartz, John Seibels, Sara Severens, Mitchell Shea, Michael       Shinholster, Alexia Sikora, Sophia Slacik, Alexandria Smith,       Elliot Smith, Stephen Spaulding, Adam Stewart, Kennedy       Stowater, Caroline Strock, Kirby Struhar, Robert Sucher, Kate       Sweeney, John Szymanski, Ruby Tavernier, Brooke Taylor, Grey       Taylor, Jon Tester, Christopher Thomas, Katherine Thomas,       Kaitlyn Tomko, Ann Topp, Dominic Travis, Courtney Trigg, Ajai       Tripathi, Shay Turman, Kimberly Vander Meulen, Trysten       Villarreal, Ashlee Vinyard, Jesse von Stein, Landy Wade,       Rachel Walker, Thomas Walker, Carolanne Walls, James Walsh,       Lindsay Walton, Christina Ware, Emily Welch, Laura Wengloski,       Nicholas West, Grayson Westmoreland, Garrett Wilbanks,       Clifford Williams, Jordan Wilson, Luke Wilt, Kaitlyn Wolfe,       Zoe Wong, Noah Yantis, Elizabeth Yoder, Connor Young, Amira       Zaidi, and Kristina Zuccarelli.

The Capitol venues team was led by Grant Scherling from the Office of  the House Chief Administrative Officer, whose acquisition and use of  detailed Capitol complex maps, schematics, and diagrams were essential  to the planning effort. The east front team of Michael Delaune and  Brian Hublar coordinated with partners from the inaugural task force,  U.S. Secret Service, and the Presidential Inaugural Committee on all  motorcade arrivals, movements, and departures on the east front of the  Capitol, to include the landing and take-off of the HMX-1 helicopter  for the farewell of President Biden.

Inside the halls of the Capitol Building, the Capitol core team of  veteran JCCIC staffers Molly Stevens and Abby Stahl was joined by  Noreen Kassam and became the backbone of JCCIC execution on  Inauguration Day. They led multiple walkthroughs with principals and  senior staff and pivoted seamlessly when the ceremonies moved indoors.  Not only did they rehearse every step for every guest, but they also  made sure to document it in ``PILLARS''--the Presidential Inauguration  Line-by-Line and Relevant Seating application developed by the expert  software development team at the Senate Sergeant at Arms--so staff and  volunteers would have real-time access to the most up-to-date plan.

Maggie Tyler, detailed from the National Park Service, worked  tirelessly with the Capitol Police, Tyler Pumphrey and Liz Aduso from  the Office of Congressional Accessibility Services, and other Capitol  Hill and DC partners to plan all aspects of the guest experience on the  west front of the Capitol. With the help of Michelle Reinshuttle, on  loan from the Capitol Police Board staff, Maggie's team maximized on- site viewing of the inaugural ceremonies and allowed the first-ever  indoor rendering of First Honors for the President by the military.

I want to thank Abbie Platt, another former JCCIC staffer, and  McKinley Scholtz for their artistic eye, attention to detail, and  perseverance in the face of change, which made this year's inaugural  luncheon a success. We are grateful for the support of Korbel, Lenox,  the Wine Institute, Brown-Forman, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the  Smithsonian Chamber Players.

The communications team was led by Eliza Duckworth. Eliza, working  closely with my personal office staff, focused on response to and  engagement with national media, while Reilly McBride focused on the  livestream production which reached over 5 million people with the help  of Paul Winston of Razor Management and Ronn Jackson and Emily Boisvert  from Capitol Visitor Services, who served as emcees throughout the day.  Meanwhile, Chase Baran managed our online presence for internal and  external audiences.

Wendy Dawson, our director of press logistics, brought to the team  extensive industry experience covering numerous political conventions,  State of the Union Addresses, and six Presidential inaugurations. The  strong relationships she developed across the Capitol campus,  especially with the Media Galleries and Senate Photographic Services,  enabled the highest standard of press coverage.

The efforts of the administration team of Elisa Mendez, Nick Stella,  and Teddy Kohlhaas, all under the leadership of Christi Mayer, helped  to keep everyone on track and to feel supported, and Thomas Weber  ensured our IT resources never let us down. Toni Coverton, from the  Office of the Clerk of the House, led the gifts and commemoratives  section of the administrative team, spearheading selection and  acquisition of the luncheon gifts and distribution of thousands of  program kits and hundreds of other commemorative items.

I also want to thank my staff, including my chief of staff Tamara  Fucile, Heidi Kraus Kaplan, Jane Meyer, Lizzie Haskell, Jack Hostager,  Madeline Coles, and Maixee Lee, as well as my Rules Committee staff,  especially Ben Driscoll and Stephen Spaulding, who--in addition to  their normal duties--provided expert advice and counsel to the JCCIC.  Thank you also to the JCCIC staff representatives of our committee  members.

Cami Morrison, a veteran of six JCCICs, concurrently served as both  chief clerk of the Senate Rules Committee and senior adviser to JCCIC.  She provided administrative oversight to the JCCIC but, more  importantly, served as a valued mentor to every member of the staff  from the staff assistants to the executive director. When the  ceremonies moved indoors, Cami's in-depth knowledge of inaugural- specific protocol and precedence was critical to the event.

Julia Daniel, our chief of staff, retired from Active-Duty Marine  Corps service halfway through her time with JCCIC and came back onto  the team as a civilian without missing a beat. A veteran of six  inaugurations, her meticulous attention to detail improved all our  plans, and her calm professionalism and decisive leadership preserved  essential elements of the ceremonies while still ensuring the  President-elect was sworn in on time. Stefanie Muchow from Leader  Thune's office provided invaluable support to Julia backstage as she  expertly addressed challenges.

For Mike Wagner, our executive director, participation in inaugural  ceremonies began when he was a high school tuba player at President  Nixon's second inauguration in 1973 and includes a 44-year Army career  culminating as the military lead for the 57th, 58th, and 59th  Presidential inaugurations. His organizational skills, calm demeanor,  and quiet confidence served JCCIC well in this, his 13th Presidential  inauguration.

I want to thank Secretaries of the Senate Ann Berry and Jackie Barber  and from the Office of the Secretary, Sydney Butler, Senate Historian  Kate Scott, Senate Curator Melinda Smith; and from the Curator's staff,  Lacey Baradel, Theresa Malanum, and Jennifer Krafchik.

I also want to thank the Architect of the Capitol Thomas Austin, who  built the outdoor platform and media risers, then seamlessly pivoted to  design, build, and install a beautiful new stage in the Capitol  Rotunda. From Thomas's staff, I thank Mark Reed, Raynell Bennett,  Matthew Aye, Jason McIntyre, and Dwayne Thomas.

I thank House Sergeant at Arms Bill McFarland and his staff,  especially Ted Daniel, Seton Gardner, and Becky Fontaine.

I thank Senate Sergeant at Arms Jennifer Hemingway and her staff,  including Carly Flick and Hannah Pfaltzgraff; Mike Mastrian, Jeff Kent,  Laura Reed, and Justin Wilson from the Media Galleries; Myles Cullen  and the Photographic Services team; Yvonne Bennett, Scott Mead, Chris  Wilde, Blair Cooper, and Diego Torres from the Senate Recording Studio;  Sam Jacobs from Capitol Facilities; Ray Woeller and Jim Green, who  managed the credentialing contract; and the entire PILLARS development  team of Casey Bishop, Jason Blum, Roger Masse, Atul Patel, Silvino Da  Sul, Mehmet Yuksel, Brad Nathan, Claudette Archambault, and Jason  Tongarm.

On January 20, 2025, the world witnessed the 60th inaugural  ceremonies, as they have every 4 years since 1789, and I offer my  sincere thanks to everyone who worked on these ceremonies.