Save America Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700944/save-america-act


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to join many of my  colleagues in standing up to protect American citizens' constitutional  right to vote and fighting back against this administration's most  recent attack on access to the ballot box.

What are Americans really talking about right now? What do they  really wish we were focused on in this great Chamber? Not the SAVE  America Act. They would like us to focus on the ``Save America Money  Act,'' because Americans see rising costs because of these across-the- board tariffs that I oppose, the gas prices that are surging, the  healthcare costs doubling and tripling, because the White House and  congressional Republicans decided not to extend the tax credits for  their health plans--doubling and tripling of people's premiums,  particularly in rural areas where they tend to rely on these plans  more.

So instead of simply making their case to the voters of this country,  the American citizens, or maybe taking a look at their policies in case  there is a way to work with us on the Affordable Care Act tax credits  and compromise, or trying to add more energy to the grid instead of  taking wind projects off the grid, they are trying to pass legislation  to pick the voters with this bill.

And it is by President Trump's own admission. This is not me saying  it. He is the one--an exact quote that says of this bill:

It will guarantee the midterms.

As my friend and colleague Senator Raphael Warnock has said: Some  people don't want some people to vote.

That is why so many of us have come to the floor this week. We don't  think eligible American citizens should be kicked off voter rolls or  there should be burdensome hurdles for people to register to vote.

Nothing is more fundamental to our democracy than our fair and free  elections and rights of Americans to make their voices heard at the  ballot box, whether they are Democrats, Republicans, Independents,  whatever political beliefs they have.

Throughout even the most difficult times, Americans have stood in  ballot lines because a right to vote is what secures our freedoms. But  right now, we are seeing unprecedented attacks on the foundation of  democracy from this administration, and we all know it is not for the  first time.

There was the insurrection on January 6, right here, right in this  Chamber. Someone came up, sat there on the Presiding Officer's desk, a  violent mob, for the purpose of trying to stop us from certifying the  results of the 2020 election.

I know Senator Blunt and I were the only two Senators left at 4 in  the morning with Vice President Pence, who made that walk with the last  of those ballots, by officers whose faces were scratched, over broken  glass, over to the House. That happened, but democracy in the end  prevailed.

And now, the President has threatened to nationalize election  administration, replacing the judgment and experience of State and  local officials, going so far as to say:

Republicans should say, `We want to take over.' We should       take over the voting . . .

Exact quote.

He also issued an unlawful Executive order to overhaul our Nation's  elections and assert Federal control over State-run elections.

Minnesota and 18 other States sued and have won a preliminary  injunction because as the judge wrote: The Constitution does not grant  a President any specific powers over elections.

Undeterred, the President continues to float illegally ending mail-in  voting nationwide, which is incredibly popular in red States and blue,  incredibly popular in Utah and Colorado, in Minnesota; and he continues  to double down on his repeatedly disproven conspiracy theories about  the 2020 election. The FBI seized election ballots from 2020 in  Georgia, as well as election records in Arizona.

There are also concerns that Federal agents could be deployed to  polling locations. When asked at her oversight hearing about ICE being  sent to polling locations, Secretary Noem did not rule out the Agency  deploying officers in the future.

And the Justice Department, under this administration, has turned  away from its mission of enforcing the Voting Rights Act and has  experienced a mass exodus of attorneys.

It has also illegally pressured States to provide voters' sensitive  and personally identifiable information to the administration which, by  the way, is highly relevant to the bill before us now.

In fact, Attorney General Bondi on the same day that Alex Pretti was  killed by Federal agents--shot in the back--that same day, that same  few hours, she sent a letter to Minnesota saying the administration  would remove ICE from our streets if Minnesota violated the privacy of  its citizens by turning over their personal voter data.

So she said: OK, we will get ICE out of there if you guys will give  us your data on your voters.

That happened.

In a court hearing, a Federal judge in Minnesota asked the Justice  Department:

Is the Executive trying to achieve through force what it       cannot achieve through the courts?

That is a pretty good question when you read that letter, but it is  not just Minnesota that is standing up against the Justice Department's  pressure. State election officials in 24 States, including Republican  officials in Georgia, Republican secretary of state of New Hampshire,  Republican officials in Kentucky, and Republican officials in West  Virginia have refused to comply with the voter file demands.

And four Federal judges, including judges appointed by President  Trump, have ruled that the Justice Department's effort to obtain this  data is illegal.

Now, President Trump and congressional Republicans are trying to  force through this bill. That would result mandatory in voters' data  being turned over to the Federal Government and would empower the  Department of Homeland Security to kick American citizens off State  voter rolls.

Under this bill, the Department of Homeland Security would run  voters' personal data through a tool, a DOGE tool, and tell States who  they have to purge from their voter rolls.

So, remember, 24 States, including several Republican officials,  including in conservative States like West Virginia, have said no to  this. They don't want to give over those data rolls, of the voter data  rolls.

But now, this would mandate it that it go to the Department of  Homeland Security, the same Agency that gave us ICE in Minnesota.

This will result in these American citizens--when you go back and you  are supposed to run this through this tool, this system, these  algorithms, and we are supposed to believe that that will all work  great, given what we have seen from Homeland Security in the last few  months. No way.

At least 24 States, as I noted, already have agreements to share  voter data with DHS, and already the Department's tool has  misidentified hundreds of American citizens as ineligible to vote. So I  already have a proof point. The SAVE America Act isn't about what they  are saying it is. In the 64 election lawsuits brought by President  Trump and his allies contesting the 2020 election, no judge, including  judges appointed by President Trump himself, found evidence of  widespread fraud.

His own Attorney General said there wasn't evidence of widespread  fraud.

And according to a bipartisan policy center analysis of the Heritage  Foundation's database of noncitizen voting across 25 years, there were  only 77 cases out of nearly 2 billion votes cast of noncitizens voting.  In each of these cases, they faced an investigation.

I know when I was the county attorney in my State, way before any of  this technology existed, we would get cases referred to us from the  Minnesota secretary of state, and I actually put an investigator on  this and looked at every single case to make sure there wasn't a  problem. And the vast majority of them, with the exception of one where  the school board line went through someone's house and they voted  twice, which was illegal, and another one where a guy decided he was  going to vote twice. This is in our biggest county. They were all  fathers and sons with the same names.

We looked diligently at every single case. We had a Republican  secretary of state. She sent them over. We looked at them. We explained  it back. That is what I did as county attorney. So I had some  experience with this.

Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi Noem said:

[We need to make sure that] we have the right people       voting, electing the right leaders to lead this country . . .

And President Trump himself said that, with this bill, Republicans  will ``never lose a race'' in 50 years.

So you wonder why we are concerned about this. I believe in free and  fair elections. I like the fact that my State has the highest voter  turnout. I like the fact, like a number of States, including some red  States, we have same day registration. I like the fact that we make it  easier for people to vote by mail.

Our State actually was not nearly on the bandwagon with vote-by-mail  like Utah was, the Presiding Officer's State, or Colorado. Some States  recently changed the rules to be consistent with some of these other  States to make it easier for people to vote-by-mail.

But this idea that we are suddenly going to turn over all of our  voter data to what is now Kristi Noem's Department, despite her soon  departure, is just--I don't think most people in America would think  this is a good idea.

The Department of Homeland Security has already violated Federal law  by repurposing its SAVE program to verify voters and only issuing their  prior notice after being sued by the League of Women Voters. And the  Department of Justice even admitted in court--and this was bad--that  Elon Musk's DOGE employees shared Americans' personal Social Security  data with partisan organizations that worked to purge voter rolls.

Let me say that again. They have already admitted, so you wonder why  whenever these secretaries of state, including Republican secretaries  of state, don't want to give up this voter data, well, the Department  of Justice admitted in court that Elon Musk's DOGE employees shared  Americans' personal Social Security data with partisan organizations  that worked to purge voter rolls.

So what else happens? There are costly and burdensome hurdles that  are designed to make it harder for eligible U.S. citizens to register  and cast their ballot. Many common sources of identification that  people have come to rely on--driver's license, military ID--would not  be enough under this bill.

So people would either have to present a birth certificate or a  passport or, as my colleague from Utah pointed out, some kind of  affidavit through a State process that may or may not be set up as an  alternative.

And if someone's current name doesn't match the name on their birth  certificate, the barriers are even higher. So 69 million married women  who changed their name, they have to provide some kind of additional  documentation that they may not have in order to register. Maybe their  State won't set up some process, and maybe they won't want to drive in  rural areas hours to go in and submit some affidavit, or maybe they  won't have someone that can help them do this affidavit.

In most cases, these women will need to dig up their birth  certificates, and I think many of us for one thing or another have had  that experience. It is not always easy to get that birth certificate.  You try to hide it somewhere, and then you don't remember, and then you  have to go and you have to get another copy of the birth certificate.

That is what is going to happen here. Marriage licenses, maybe mine  is in my wedding book, don't know. That is what people are going to be  thinking right now.

So what happens if people don't have these documents on hand? In  fact, more than 21 million Americans lack ready access to the documents  necessary to register under this bill, and more than half of  Americans--146 million--don't have a passport.

So as Americans are already facing rising costs for necessities like  healthcare and housing and energy, now they have to figure out this  paperwork--when they are trying to call Social Security and no one  answers, when they are trying to call the VA and no one answers, when  they are trying to get a loan and USDA is down 20 percent of employees  and they can't get anyone to answer or help them, now they have this.

Marriage license, $10; birth certificate, I don't know, in my State  it is $24; passport, $165. Maybe your State gets you an affidavit, but  where are you supposed to go? How are you supposed to get that done?  But it is not just about the documentation.

The SAVE America Act also makes it harder to vote by effectively  ending some of the most popular methods of voter registration.

Right now, voters in 45 States, including my State, can register to  vote online. And in 2024, more than 14.4 million voters did that.  Americans in 46 States and the District of Columbia can register by  mail using the Federal form, while two other States use a State  absentee voter mail-in registration form.

And in 2024, more than half of all voters registered through  automatic voter registration--what a smart way to do it. When they get  their driver's license renewed at the DMV or when they interact with  another State agency, like their State department of health. But under  the SAVE America Act, Americans wouldn't have these options; instead  they would have to provide necessary documentation in person. As a  result, mail registration, no; online voter registration, no; motor  voter is severely limited; and nonpartisan voter registration drives  are gone too.

Altogether, the SAVE America Act's in-person voter registration  requirements would clearly be a significant barrier, especially for new  voters and people who get registered when they get their driver's  licenses.

For rural Americans driving 4\1/2\ hours roundtrip or people in  Alaska and Hawaii actually having to get on a plane just to register to  vote or Tribal voters in remote areas or people who lack reliable  transportation and then those in Minnesota and in 22 other States who  exercise their rights, under State law, to register in person on  election day, as more than 2.6 million Americans, particularly young  voters, did--uh-uh. It undermines it. It is by design. It makes it  harder. It is kind of hard to see through all of those pages, but it  makes it harder and undermines mail-in voting by requiring Americans to  provide copies of ``this'' and ``this'' when they submit their mail-in  ballots.

President Trump's message on mail-in voting has been inconsistent. He  actually voted by mail multiple times, and in 2024, he urged his  supporters to do the same. It was good enough for him and his  supporters. It should be good enough for all Americans now.

You know, voting by mail is nothing new. It dates back to the Civil  War. Now 36 States allow voters to cast their votes by mail, and nearly  one-third of voters do. That is a good thing, and it is why I lead  legislation that would make sure Americans in every State can request a  mail-in ballot. In Minnesota, as I said, we have made it easier for  people to vote. There is no excuse vote-by-mail--a lot of States have  that--and 46 days of early voting and same-day registration.

By the way, with some of the best voting laws and the highest voter  turnout, we have elected Republican Governors like Tim Pawlenty. We  have elected Independent Governors like Jesse Ventura, and we have  elected Democratic Governors. We had in the legislature, with this  voting system, one House Republican and one House  Democratic last year. We have had statewide officials from both parties  with an election system that makes it easier for people to vote.

But as Steve Simon--Minnesota's respected secretary of state--has  testified, the bill would cost States, counties, and cities untold  millions of dollars to implement, and it would require implementation  within 60 days of becoming law. As Steve put it, it is a recipe for  chaos in our election system.

I think we should be making it easier for people to vote. That is why  I worked with my colleagues on the Freedom to Vote Act. That is why I  support the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.

Instead of talking about this right now, we should be doing something  about Americans' expenses, and why don't we also talk about how AI is  being used to deceive voters? Whether you are a Democrat or a  Republican, no one wants to see fake ads or robocalls where you cannot  even tell if it is a candidate you don't like or the candidate you  love.

While a number of States--red and blue--have enacted laws to address  these threats to our elections, we cannot rely on a patchwork of State  laws. Congress must act. That is why I lead legislation to ban content  that falsely depicts Federal candidates in political ads to influence  Federal elections. I have worked with Senator Josh Hawley--not exactly  a flaming liberal. There is another bill to require disclaimers on  political ads with images--audio or video--that are substantially  generated by AI. That is for the ones, of course, that are  constitutional and that allow for parity in certain uses. You could at  least put a disclaimer on those to show that it is created by AI so you  know if it is real or not. Then, on the ones that falsely depict  people, you could actually ban those. That is what they have done in  other countries.

While we are talking about protecting our elections, we also need to  talk about the need to support our State and local election offices as  they work to maintain their election infrastructure to keep pace with  new technology and combat cyber security.

But instead of strengthening our election security and making sure  that, in our campaigns, AI is not being used in a way that is going to  mislead people and that voters are given knowledge of what they are  seeing, which is something that is coming right at us in this next  election--instead of talking about how to get rid of these across-the- board tariffs that cost households $1,700 last year or the small farm  bankruptcies that are at a 5-year high, which has nearly doubled over  the last year--as one farmer put it, a perfect, perfect storm of ugly-- or instead of working together to extend the healthcare tax credits or  doing something about electricity prices that went up an average of  $110 or doing something with this war that they unilaterally started  and did not allow Congress to have a say in--and now we have seen an  increase of $30 to $40 a barrel. Every $10 increase in a barrel of oil  is a $450-a-year increase in gas prices for the average American  family. But instead of doing all that when we have seen jobs down in  January alone 108,000, and then in February, we lost 92,000 more jobs-- instead of dealing with this and not rubberstamping this President's  policies, we are here, talking about a bill that makes it harder for  people to vote.

So I urge our Republican colleagues to change course and to work with  us on where people really are, which is doing something about how much  it costs for them to go on with their daily lives; to work with us on  everything from permitting reform to doing something about getting more  energy on the grid, to doing something about bringing grocery prices  down. We are messing around here.

Protecting the freedom to vote has never been easy, and we have had  to course-correct many times to ensure that our democracy is there for  people. Americans have fought and died to protect our freedom to vote.  They have done so on the battlefield, and they have done it in marches  and the civil rights movement; and 61 years after the Voting Rights Act  was passed by this Chamber and signed into law, that fight continues  today. This bill is not the right bill for this country.