Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696446/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of our  bipartisan resolution, which Senator Kaine and I lead, along with our  colleagues Rand Paul, Mark Warner, and Leader Schumer.

Our resolution terminates the President's so-called emergency  declaration related to the Canadian border and restores stability and  common sense to our trade with our close ally and neighbor to the  north, Canada.

The administration has used that declaration as a pretext to impose  sweeping tariffs on a friend, on a neighbor, on an ally--which are  taxes, paid by American consumers and businesses, on Canadian imports.

Back in April, this same resolution passed the Senate with bipartisan  support. Under the National Emergencies Act, Congress must review and,  if necessary, vote again every 6 months. Because the administration has  refused to lift this so-called emergency and instead doubled down by  raising tariffs on Canada to 35 percent as of August 1, with a threat  of more, we are back on the floor today, and we will be back on the  floor until this passes.

Just this past week, the President announced, as I noted, yet another  10 percent tariff hike on Canada--this time in retaliation for an  Ontario ad--Ontario, one province. This would be as if the Governor of  Texas put out an ad or if the Governor of California put out an ad. But  President Trump used this as a pretext for another threat. And that ad  accurately used President Ronald Reagan's 1987 remarks criticizing  tariffs.

So that is a good way to begin: with President Reagan's remarks. He  said, in 1987, though there are economic and national security  circumstances during which tariffs are necessary, that, generally,  ``high tariffs inevitably lead to retaliation by foreign countries and  the triggering of fierce trade wars. Then the worst happens: Markets  shrink and collapse; businesses and industries shut down; and millions  of people lose their jobs.''

This new tariff hike isn't about security. It isn't even about our  economy. It is just about the President's personal grievances, and  Americans are the ones paying the price.

Since these chaotic, on-again, off-again tariffs began in March,  cross-border travel and trade have both fallen precipitously. In  Minnesota, we say we can see Canada from our porch. Our people go back  and forth all the time--sometimes for jobs, sometimes to visit  relatives and friends, and sometimes, of course, for vacations. We  welcome Canadians all the time.

I was, in fact, at the Minnesota Frost game in which they played the  Charge, a Canadian team, a women's professional hockey team. It was a  joyous event with our Canadian neighbors.

You see, we know now, the World Series, one of the most exciting  World Series between the Toronto Blue Jays and the Los Angeles Dodgers.

This isn't just some faraway place to us. These are our friends and  neighbors. But yet, despite all of this incredible history of  friendship and booming economic gains because of all the back-and-forth  and travel, trips from Canada to the United States are down roughly 20  percent from last year. Towns in the United States are having to put up  signs that say ``We love you, Canadians'' because they feel so dissed  by this administration.

They are saying: What is happening? We were the first ones on the  ground after 9/11 from another country.

The Canadians were there.

We were the ones that stood by your side in so many foreign wars. We  are the one that, for so many of our States, is the No. 1 trading  partner. How can this be happening?

And, frankly, it pisses them off, and so individual families are  making decisions--are deciding: Well, we are not going to go to  America. Maybe we will go to Mexico. Maybe we will go to another  country. Maybe we will stay in Canada. But we are not going to travel  there.

The average foreign visitor spends about $4,000 when they come to  America.

We are not going to eat their food. We are not going to go to their  restaurants. We are not going to stay at their hotels. We are not going  to fish in their lakes.

You name it, that is what the people in my State are seeing. And  everything from manufactured parts to whiskey have dropped sharply. And  small businesses, farmers, and manufacturers are losing business.

This is not how our economy was supposed to work, if you believe in  capitalism, if you believe in trade, if you believe you just can't put  your head in the sand and think, ``Well, we are just going to be on our  own,'' when 95 percent of our potential customers, particularly in the  agriculture area, are outside of our borders. We should be exporting  more goods, and we should be encouraging more trade.

The President shouldn't be able to just wake up one day and see an ad  he  doesn't like on TV featuring a Republican President by a province in  Canada and decide, ``I am just going to hike up another 10 percent''-- or something happened in Brazil--and I congratulate Senator Kaine and  Senator Paul on their recent overturning from this body--finally,  enough is enough; we are asserting our power. You are not going to be  able to just put a 40-percent tariff on Brazil, a country with which we  have a trade surplus, simply because the guy is facing a trial there,  and the President doesn't like it. No, this is not how this works. It  is not how it works under the Constitution. It is not how it works  under the law.

This resolution is about drawing a line in the sand and saying you  cannot abuse your emergency powers to start an unjustified trade war;  you cannot abuse your emergency powers to hurt one of the finest  relationships in the world; and you cannot drive up prices, eliminate  jobs, and put in place a national sales tax that experts now predict  will altogether--the tariff tax--cost the average family nearly $2,000  per year.

And they are seeing it every day in their grocery bills. They are  seeing it when they want to go out and buy tools. They see it when they  are going out to buy audio equipment.

Minnesota's No. 1 trading partner, one of our country's top 2 trading  partners, and one of our most trusted allies--that is Canada. We export  more goods to Canada than we do--in Minnesota--to our second, third,  and fourth largest markets combined. In 2024, Minnesota's goods trade  with Canada, including ag products, machinery, and medical devices,  amounted to roughly $22 billion--$22 billion. That is more than a  quarter of all the goods that we export, a major hit for our State.

I chair the Canadian-American Interparliamentary Group. I frequently  meet with our partners in Canada. A number of Senators, including  Senator Kaine and Senator Shaheen and Senator Welch and Senator Kevin  Cramer of North Dakota, a Republican--we went up there together to  Ottawa a few months back, met with Prime Minister Carney. And as the  Prime Minister said recently, the U.S.-Canada relationship has become  ``mostly transactional.''

That is not the story of our friendship with Canada. Canada, as I  mentioned, fought alongside us in two World Wars. They are our partners  in NORAD and NATO. They helped us get our supply chain back in order  after the pandemic--and, yes, we helped them. Canada is setting  historic new goals to contribute to our collective defense, planning to  triple defense spending over the next decade--new equipment, new  infrastructure, new technology--to strengthen our NATO alliance, which  means strengthening our own national security.

But rather than supporting a thriving Canadian economy that would  enable the government to fulfill those goals, the tariffs that the  President keeps slapping on this great ally will hinder our potential  and Canada's. These tariffs also undercut the very trade deal the  President himself once called the most ``modern and balanced agreement  in history''--that is, the USMCA, the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement.

I supported that agreement. I was one of the first Democrats--in  fact, the first one during that election, the 2020 election--that  actually came out and said I supported that trade agreement on the  debate stage because I felt it was so important.

So why would the President take this jewel of a trade agreement--that  albeit needs to be changed as we go forward and reviewed, which is  mandatory this coming year, for things like dairy and other things-- that has been acknowledged. We would like to see some changes to it.  But why would he take this incredibly important agreement and just say  it doesn't matter?

The kind of uncertainty that we are seeing with these tariffs shakes  business confidence across North America. These tariffs are paid by  families: groceries, clothes, housing. Homebuilders say higher material  costs from tariffs are adding as much as $10,000 to the cost of a new  home. Americans looking for a new car are paying more than $3,000 more  for an American-made vehicle. And of course it is increasing the cost  of cars made in America because parts come from Canada.

And this is an important point: The tariffs are not just about  raising the prices on the goods that we import; they are also driving  up prices across the board on all types of goods and services-- electricity costs. If we continue down this path, as I noted, the  average family will likely see a $2,000 increase per year.

This might not mean a lot to some of the President's friends and  family members, billionaires on his Cabinet. They are not going to care  about this $2,000 a year. That is true. They are not going to care. But  people right now, that are already faced with all these problems with  healthcare, which is a fight that is raging right now, about this  budget, they can't handle it.

Tariffs, as I noted, can be an important tool for countering other  countries' unfair trade practices. I supported some of the steel  tariffs that were more narrow from the former Trump administration and  the Obama administration and the Biden administration in order to make  sure that our iron ore--very key to my past and our future--mined in  northern Minnesota--my grandpa was an iron ore miner--that that  continue.

But that is not what we are talking about with the President's action  here. The broad emergency power statute enacted from 1977 that the  President has used to justify these across-the-board tariffs didn't  even mention the word ``tariff.''

My colleagues and I have filed an amicus brief to the Supreme Court.  That case is going to be heard next week. But it is not the only  answer. The answer should be that Congress asserts its power, even  though I believe that the use of the statute is clearly illegal and I  believe, as the underlying court--which was made up of the initial  trade court: a Trump judge, an Obama judge, and a Reagan judge--yes,  they still exist. They unanimously, the three of them, said that this  was an illegal use of the statute.

But this, today, is about something else. It is about us asserting  our own power, stopping the chaos with changes over 100 times in these  tariffs: small brewers paying for aluminum cans that can't afford them,  furniture makers paying more for lumber, and family-owned tourism  businesses in my State suffering.

If the Trump administration wants to address trade disputes with  Canada--and the Prime Minister is clearly open to that--it should work  in good faith with our neighbors to strengthen the USMCA trade  agreement that the President himself originally negotiated.

Our bipartisan group of cosponsors understands this. This isn't about  politics. It is about jobs, economic stability, and respect for the  successful agreement that we committed to in the past. It is why this  resolution has support from the United Steelworkers, the International  Association of Machinists, North America's Building Trades Unions, and  the AFL-CIO. The Chamber of Commerce, the National Taxpayers Union, and  the National Retail Federation have all endorsed this resolution.

These are voices from every corner of the political spectrum, every  part of our economy. Maybe we should be listening to them and not be a  rubberstamp, I say to my colleagues. It is time to stand up. Otherwise,  why are you here?

Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, in conclusion, I want to say this: One,  thank you to Senator Kaine and Senator Warner, the two Senators from  Virginia, for their leadership on this important resolution; Senator  Wyden for all of his work; Senator Rand Paul and others who have stood  with us, who have stood with capitalism, who have stood with this idea  that trade matters and that our country is stronger when we do business  and sell our goods across the seas and to our friendly neighbors like  Canada.

Let me start with Canada. As the head of the Inter-Parliamentary  Group with Canada, I spent a lot of time working with the Canadians. It  was one Embassy, years ago, when America was disliked by a lot of  countries, that displayed on their Embassy huge banners that said:  ``Friend, Ally, Partner.''

For so many of our States, they are our biggest trading partner. They  fought alongside us in two World Wars. They are our partners in NORAD  and in NATO. They worked with us together on supply chains and getting  them back working after the pandemic. They are setting new historic  goals, Canada is, to contribute to our collective defense, planning to  triple defense spending over the next decade.

So what does this administration do? Slap them with a 35-percent  tariff. And then, just because the President woke up in the morning and  didn't like an ad that quoted a beloved Republican President, Ronald  Reagan, didn't like it, he said: Well, I am going to give them 10  percent more.

Yet this is a country with which we share a trade agreement that this  President negotiated with Mexico and Canada. If you want to make  changes, like for dairy or other things, do it in the review of that  agreement. Don't do it like this to a neighbor and friend.

Secondly, what do these tariffs mean to America? mean to the people  in our country? Combined, they have been changed over 100 times--total  chaos. Inflation is up. Manufacturing jobs are down. Small farm  bankruptcies are at their highest levels in 5 years, and every Senator  in this Chamber has heard from their beef producers or heard from their  soybean farmers. What is happening right now, as one of my farmers  called it, is a ``perfect storm of ugly.''

For an individual family right now, these tariffs mean a $2,000 tax  per family. Tools are up. Audio equipment costs more. This is the  effect of this tariff policy on individual families in America.

So we can have high-ended debates here, but at home, they are looking  at their grocery prices. They are looking at their markets, their  family farms--that they spent a century there, they are next in line to  take it over--drying up. That is what these tariffs are about.

Then, finally, this President cannot keep abusing his power like  this. There is a reason, when you look at the numbers, who supports  this resolution: United Steelworkers, International Association of  Machinists, North America's Building Trades Unions, the AFL-CIO, the  Chamber of Commerce, the National Taxpayers Union, the National Retail  Federation have all endorsed this resolution.

But, unfortunately, with a few exceptions, our friends on the other  side of the aisle are just rubberstamping what this President wants.

Well, it is time for us to stand up. This vote is about reasserting  Congress's constitutional role, article I, section 8, of the  Constitution gives Congress--not the President--the power to impose  tariffs and regulate commerce with foreign nations. We must stand up  for American workers, businesses, and consumers and remind our allies  and ourselves that America keeps its word.