Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to urge the  Senate to immediately take action to address the issue of elections and  specifically to address technical changes to the $400 million in  election security funding passed in the CARES Act and to talk about the  coronavirus threat to our democracy itself. 

  Sixteen States have already postponed their Presidential primaries or  transitioned their primaries to almost entirely voting by mail. We have  seen Republican and Democratic Governors across the country, from  States like West Virginia, Indiana--the Presiding Officer's State--New  York, and Kentucky, issue waivers allowing all voters to cast their  ballots by mail during the pandemic. This includes States that used to  have requirements that you have to give a reason to even get a mail-in  ballot to vote from home. Both Democratic and Republican Governors have  waived it--not in every State but in a number of States. 

  While it is important that individual States are taking action to  protect voters during this pandemic, it is the responsibility of us, of  Congress, to ensure that States have the funds they need to make our  elections more resilient and to make sure voters don't have to risk  their health to cast their ballots. We must do this because, as we have  seen over the last several weeks, not all States are doing everything  they can to protect voters. That is sad, but it is true. 

  What is coming before us in the fall is a national election. Just  yesterday, we learned that the attorney general of Texas has asked the  Texas Supreme Court to stop county election officials from letting  voters who are afraid of getting the coronavirus to vote by mail. He  basically went to court and said that the counties that are giving out  these ballots should stop. He tried, he tried, and he is continuing to  try to stop them from simply sending out ballots to voters who are  afraid to vote in person. Some of them have preexisting conditions.  Some of them are veterans who served our country. Some of them are  seniors. 

  Basically, in this one State--by the way, there are other things  going on in other States--the attorney general is trying to stop them  from actually voting from home. Under Texas law, you have to have an  excuse in order to vote by mail. 

  This pandemic, as we know, has killed more than 85,000 Americans.  Local officials in Texas have told the voters that the coronavirus-- they have looked at the law and said that it is a valid excuse to  request a mail-in ballot. I guess it is. I would think it is. But the  Texas attorney general disagrees and has asked the Texas Supreme Court  to stop these local election officials from sending voters a mail-in  ballot. 

  That is a disgrace. We shouldn't be playing politics with people's  lives. Even the most cynical Americans believe that. They know people  play politics all the time, but they don't think you should play it  with their lives. 

  We know from what happened in Wisconsin that people who show up to  vote during this crisis are, in fact, risking their health if  precautions are not taken. A little over a month ago, both Democratic  and Republican voters and Independent voters in Wisconsin stood for  hours in the cold and the rain, wearing garbage bags and homemade  masks, in order to cast their votes. There were just 5 polling  locations open in Milwaukee instead of the usual 180 and 2 in Green Bay  instead of the usual 30, and two-thirds of Wisconsin's African-American  voters live in Milwaukee. 

  There is no question that this vast reduction in polling places,  without there being the adequate time to transition to mail-in voting,  ended up disenfranchising voters, particularly in the case of African- American voters. At the same time, we saw people trying to vote in  whatever way they could. They tried to mail in their ballots even when  it was at the last minute. 

  Now health officials say that more than 67 people in Wisconsin may  have become infected with the coronavirus as a result of that election.  This is unacceptable. No one should have to choose between exercising  the right to vote and protecting the health of themselves and their  loved ones. What happened in Wisconsin will be forever etched in the  memory of our Nation. We can't allow this to happen again. 

  In the face of this, yesterday, the Wisconsin Supreme Court actually  struck down the Governor's stay-at-home order. 

  We should actually be taking steps forward now instead of backward.  Public health experts have warned of the possibility of another, more  serious outbreak of this virus in the fall. Congress must act now to  give States the funding they need. We know the States are strapped-- that every single State in this country is strapped. 

  Even if we were to do nothing here, we would know there are going to  be States that are going to get humongous requests for mail-in ballots  that they have never gotten before. We know that in the State of  Wisconsin, Senator Johnson's State. It is traditionally a State in  which about 6 percent of the people vote by mail. Next-door, in my home  State of Minnesota, it is 25 percent. Yes, it is more, but we know it  is probably going to at least double--and more--no matter what party  you are in. 

  This is why the Republican Governors are asking for money. They may  not agree with everything in my bill, but so many of them are asking  for funding to be able to help them send out those ballots and send out  the postage so as to keep their polling places open, say, for 1 week, 2  weeks, or, we think, 20 days in advance so that people could actually  vote and not congregate in one location. That is why this is happening  right now. 

  Nearly 2 months ago, I introduced legislation, the Natural Disaster  and Emergency Ballot Act, with Senator Wyden, along with 35 of my  colleagues. The bill would simply ensure that every voter could cast a  ballot by mail, that those who need it could have expanded access to  early in-person voting, and that States could have the funding and  resources that are necessary to safely administer elections. 

  This week, the House introduced the COVID 4 bill, the fourth COVID  relief package, the HEROES Act. It contains the election reforms found  in my legislation as well as $3.6 billion to help States protect our  elections from COVID-19. That is because mailing mail-in ballots all  over the country is going to cost some change. We know that. Yet what  is the alternative? Is it telling veterans who served on the  battlefield in World War II, like the one I heard about yesterday, that  they can't vote or that they have to stand in line? What is the  alternative--telling seniors they have to stand in line? No, that is  not a good alternative. The alternative is to make sure we expand mail- in ballots. 

  I know negotiations will occur over the coming days regarding the  next relief package. I look forward to working with my Democratic and  Republican colleagues. 

  I see the chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration is  here, Senator Blunt. I look forward to working with him just as we have  recently done on remote committee hearings, which have actually, by all  accounts, gone pretty well in the Senate over the last few weeks. 

  I am here today to push for a change that we know needs to be done,  and that is to make some changes to make sure the first grouping of  money we got--the $400 million of emergency funding in the first bill-- can get out to the States, because of some changes that were made to  the original proposal that have made it hard for some of our States to  be able to get that money out. There is a matching requirement, and we  see it already playing out. Utah and Oklahoma have indicated they will  only be able to access a portion of the funding they have been provided  because they can't come up with the full matching requirement. Florida  has not yet accessed the funds at all because it is working to see if  its legislature can accommodate the matched funding. 

  These are all things we have to work on for this forthcoming  legislation, as well as to look at what we did in the first package.  There are also issues with the reporting requirements in the bill, but  the last thing we want to do is to put an undue burden on the States. 

  What I really want to focus on now, at the end of my remarks, is the  need to pass the legislation in front of us--and I know it will be  negotiated--to make sure that we fund and help our  States fund our elections. Let's dispel the notion that voting at home  is somehow a partisan issue. One of the States with the highest number  of mail-in ballots is the State of Utah. It is not exactly a bright- blue State. Another State that has a very high number of people voting  from home is the State of Colorado. This is a State that tends to be a  purple State. Then we have blue States, like Oregon and Washington.  Then we have a State like Arizona that, again, has a high number of  people voting by mail. On the other end are States that don't have as  many people voting by mail, but we have a mixture of States too. New  York is at like 5 percent right now. Then we have a number of States,  like Alabama, that don't have a lot of people voting by mail. 

  We don't think--at least I don't think--that every single person is  going to vote by mail in the election this November. The key is to give  them options and to be able to work with our States so that, if we do  provide funding--and I am so hopeful that we will be able to come to  some kind of agreement here--they can use that money to expand their  votes by mail, because we know their citizens are going to request it,  and also to make sure voting on election day will be safe. There are  ways to do that by encouraging more people, if they don't want to vote  by mail, to vote early so fewer people will be there on the same day. 

  What do we see when we look at this? A recent poll shows that in some  of the key States across the country, both Republican and Democratic  voters--70 to 80 percent of them--want to be able to vote by mail. We  have Governors in States like New Hampshire--Republican Governors--in  Maryland, and in Ohio who want to vote by mail. That is the way they  want to go. We have a secretary of state who is a Republican in the  State of Washington who wants to vote by mail. Her entire State  basically votes by mail right now, and they are good people who can  talk about why this is working for them and how we can make it work but  only if they have the funds. We are not going to be able to give them  the funds in, say, October and then be able to make sure this has  happened. 

  In conclusion, 17 States still have Presidential primaries, and  numerous others have primaries for other Federal offices, and, of  course, we have the general election on November 3, which is less than  6 months away. We cannot let more Americans experience what we have  just seen happen in Wisconsin with the garbage bags, with the homemade  masks, with the people getting off work at the hospitals and standing  in line. Nobody should have to choose between one's health and one's  right to vote. 

   I further ask that  the bill be considered read three times and passed and that the motion  to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I appreciate my colleague's words in  that he is willing to work with me on this bill. 

  We know we need the immediate fixes to the first piece of  legislation, but we also need to look forward to what we have in front  of us. That is to make sure that we help our States to be able to  conduct their elections in a safe way so that Democrats, Republicans,  and Independents--anyone who wants to vote, whatever party one is in-- is able to safely vote. 

  Let's remember that, while people were lining those streets to vote  in Wisconsin, the President of the United States was able to request a  mail-in ballot from Palm Beach, FL, and vote in the comfort of 1600  Pennsylvania Avenue. That is an image--a split screen--that I don't  think anyone wants to see. I think what we want to see is fairness for  all Americans. You do that by getting them the funding ahead of time,  by making sure we have rules in place that work for everyone, by  acknowledging this has never been nor should it be a partisan issue,  and by telling all Americans that we have worked this out, that we are  getting the funding to the States, that we are working with all of  their States, and that we have put in some fair rules so that no  American will be denied the right to vote. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT