War Powers Resolution


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700320/war-powers-resolution


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I join many of my colleagues today in  mourning the loss of our servicemembers who have been killed in action  in the Mideast, and I am thinking of those who have been wounded. Their  sacrifice is a tragic reminder of the gravity of war and why the  consequential decision of declaring war requires debate and  authorization from Congress.

We must pass Senator Kaine's resolution, which we will be considering  tomorrow, to rein in the President because, under the U.S.  Constitution, it is Congress, not the President, who has the power to  declare war. The President unilaterally, with no authorization from  Congress and without a clear justification of any imminent need for  war, has gone to war with Iran, and he has done so without laying out a  strategic plan or a path forward.

This military campaign has put American troops at serious risk. We  have publicly learned--in addition to the classified briefing that I  attended today with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of War and  the Director of the CIA, we have learned publicly that this is  escalating, and we have seen the results even so far. American  servicemembers and innocent civilians have been killed. U.S. military  bases have been hit. Our Embassies and allies have been attacked.

To be clear, Iran is a terrorist state, and it should never have a  nuclear weapon, and the regime's aggression in the region and its  oppression of Iranian citizens must end. That is why I have long  supported serious sanctions against Iran, why I voted for funding for  the Defense Department, and why I supported the Iran nuclear agreement.  It wasn't perfect--far from perfect--but I supported that agreement  because of our goal--our major foreign policy goal--to assure that Iran  did not have a nuclear weapon.

I opposed President Trump's decision a few years back to take us out  of that agreement. Even some of my colleagues who had not voted for the  agreement to begin with, which I had, did not support the decision of  taking us out of the agreement. Our ultimate goal must be peace in the  region--and we know all too well that wars for regime change can lead  to unintended consequences for years and decades to come. As we see  what is happening, we believe--many of us--that Congress should have  this ultimate authorization. Not having a plan is not only dangerous  for the United States, it is dangerous for our partners and our allies  abroad.

This military campaign has introduced increased chaos and danger  throughout the region. Military action of this size and scope must be  paired with a plan that takes into account the long-term impacts of war  and sets achievable goals that do not unnecessarily endanger our troops  and innocents. That is not what has happened here. The President has  acknowledged that they do not have a clear plan of who will be taking  over this nation of tens of millions of people.

That is why I am on the Senate floor today. The American people don't  want another war--an endless war--that puts our troops at great risk. I  urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this  resolution and stand up for the institution in which we serve and stand  up for the people we represent.