Financial Technology Protection Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693961/financial-technology-protection-act-of-2025


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill for his  leadership on this, as well as Ranking Member Waters.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2384, the Financial Technology  Protection Act of 2025, a bill that I am honored to both lead and  author that was created out of a vast network of partnership on both  sides of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, this Congress cemented the United States as  the crypto capital of the world. The leadership of Members of this  Chamber on both sides took meaningful steps to lay a foundation for a  robust digital asset framework, one that fosters innovation, creates  clarity, and protects consumers.

Now we can start making sure that this foundation is built in a safe  and secure way for every American. We build directly on the momentum  and the strength of our national security posture at this very critical  time.

We all know that blockchain technology and digital assets are here to  stay, and it is good that they are here in America. The question is not  whether this technology will shape the future. It is whether the U.S.  or other competitors, particularly those in China and the Chinese  Communist Party, will write the rules of the road for the future.

As a counterintelligence officer, I have seen firsthand how  terrorists and hostile regimes weaponize technology for illicit  finances and cybercrime. That includes the use of anonymous digital  platforms to launder money, to fund terrorism, and to bypass the very  sanctions this Chamber has helped lead.

However, the transparency and traceability of blockchain enhances our  law enforcement's ability to intercept these threats, recover stolen  funds, and deliver justice for everyday Americans.

In fact, just weeks ago, the U.S. Department of Justice used  blockchain analytics to intercept over a quarter of a million dollars  intended to go to deadly Hamas terrorists who would have used it to  threaten U.S. forces in the region.

Last year, the United States, working with our international  partners, utilized blockchain technology to help dismantle a Russian  money laundering scheme that seized more than $22 million in illicit  funds, many of those taken from Americans right here at home.

This is a threat to America's very national security. From dollar- backed digital assets, we have the ability to help not only defend our  men and women serving on the front line from illicit actors who would  use weapons bought with this technology to threaten them, to the very  mothers, fathers, and grandparents who are being taken advantage of by  foreign actors to steal their money to fund this type of threat.

Mr. Speaker, this bipartisan bill establishes a working group, a task  force of sorts, of key Federal agencies that include our intelligence  experts, private organizations, and private sector leaders who are  experienced in this, all focused on combating terrorism and illicit  finance on digital platforms.

This team is helping to develop the legislative technology infusion  of critical information to help establish the best techniques, tactics,  and procedure to be able to stop this at its very inception.

By preventing money laundering and addressing national security  risks, we are able to help stop the illicit finance activities that do  real harm to the United States.

By passing this bill, we strengthen national security, protect  digital assets, and ensure the next generation of financial and  technological innovation is created right here in the U.S.

I thank Chairman Hill for his leadership and long vision in making  this happen. I particularly express my gratitude to my Democratic  colleague Representative  Jim Himes, who is also the ranking member on  the House Intelligence Committee, the HPSCI, and who knows firsthand  the threats that are posed. I also thank Senator Ted Budd, who is  championing this effort in the Senate.

Together, we have worked on this vital legislation for empowering our  government, as well as our private sector leaders to be the vanguard in  protecting our Nation.