Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

I would like to begin by thanking Representative Collins for his  leadership on the PERMIT Act and the Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee for their joint work in a bipartisan way on many of these  issues in this bill, as well.

I rise in support today of an amendment to the PERMIT Act that would  establish a new State-led water quality pilot program through the  Environmental Protection Agency.

This amendment is straightforward, and like my home State in Iowa, it  is something that can help in our rural communities. It supports States  across the country in working to address water quality challenges using  voluntary, science-backed conservation practices that our landowners  and local partners are already engaged in implementing.

This issue hits particularly close to home for me. In the Hawkeye  State, we have seen some of the highest nitrate levels ever recorded in  our rivers and streams across Iowa. This year alone, the Raccoon and  Des Moines Rivers exceeded Federal nitrate limits multiple times,  requiring expensive water treatment to provide safe drinking water for  more than 600,000 Iowans.

More than 600 water segments across Iowa are now listed as impaired,  with just over 60 percent of our nutrient-impaired watersheds remaining  on the 303(d) list.

Iowans worked hard, as have many States, to address this issue, but  the scale of the challenge demands better coordination and support from  our Federal Government.

My amendment would create a new pilot program to strengthen the State  and Federal collaboration in areas with nitrogen and phosphorus  impairments, exactly what Iowa is struggling with. It would bring the  Environmental Protection Agency to the table with States to help  advance water quality improvements more efficiently and ensure that our  existing tools and conservation programs work together as effectively  as possible in a hybrid model.

This pilot is fully voluntary and keeps the Federal Government in its  proper lane. It does not impose any new obligations on a producer or  private landowner. What it does do is it helps best practices already  being implemented in places like Iowa and many other States that are  working to  meet ambitious nutrient reduction goals.

This amendment will help ensure that projects designed to improve  water quality can move forward smoothly and with support, particularly  in those areas with watersheds.

This approach is the type of State-led partnership that focuses on  solutions the PERMIT Act is intended to help support. It accelerates  the forward progress of water quality projects. It strengthens State  leadership on this issue. It gets buy-in from communities. It promotes  voluntary conservation work that everyone agrees is the best way to  help our family farms, local communities, rural hometowns, and, most  importantly, water quality across this country.

I respectfully ask my colleagues to support this commonsense  amendment as we move forward with the PERMIT Act.

Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, while I appreciate the feedback from  my colleague on the other side of the aisle, I will remind the  gentlewoman from Michigan that not every good answer comes out of  Washington, D.C. In fact, many of them are best practice right in our  family hometowns. In a State like Iowa and in Des Moines, who helped  lead in water quality--and we want to do more--the lag time, the  bureaucracy, the delay, and the permitting coming out of Washington has  made it only harder.

This is a voluntary opportunity to create a pilot program that can  create a new idea, make a good recommendation, capture a best practice,  and help to instill it in a way that improves water quality not only at  source, but downstream for every State, as well.

While I support what the EPA is trying to do at the Federal level, I  think we all recognize that the EPA alone can't solve this. They need  help from great leaders on the ground.

Let's empower locals to have the opportunity to also be part of the  solution and not turn to, as you have noted several times, a long,  delayed permitting process in Washington to be a final solution for  every challenge that America faces.

Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, in closing, this amendment is about  helping States succeed to improve their water quality--not creating a  new mandate and not creating a new bureaucracy. It gives States the  support that they need to do the things that currently aren't being  executed under current law.

This is a good, project-focused effort to help innovators at the  source. It is smart. It is targeted solutions. It supports a cleaner  water for our country. It is strong State leadership. It is better  outcomes for communities. It is locally driven, not federally mandated.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support  H.R. 3898 and my amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.