Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695153/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairman Rogers, as well as  Representative Smith for their leadership on this.

As an Air Force counterintelligence officer, it is good to see  America's defense being lead again by great leaders. Not only does it  include troop pay, but it also ensures innovation in our technology, a  force for good in the world.

Yet challengingly, we have seen on the world stage leaders flock to  Beijing. From Moscow and Pyongyang, they have come to kneel at the  altar of Xi Jinping.

The reality here is that China is looking deep to degrade the West,  fracture our allies, and capture emerging nations around the world. It  illustrates why the U.S. must now, more than ever, continue to lead.

Luckily, we are not alone in this fight. In just the past 5 years,  over $100 billion in private capital flowed to our defense  technologies, signaling that our best innovations and our ability to  solve our Nation's largest security strategies happen not just in this  Chamber but across the whole Nation.

These new entrants need a welcoming defense environment, something  the Department of Defense has struggled with in the past.

This bill takes a long-overdue step to ensure the quick delivery of  advanced capabilities to our warfighters when and where they need them.  I am confident that this bill, along with the number of targeted  amendments that we have been privileged to lead, will help lead in that  fight.

To begin with, expanding private financing. My amendment would expand  the private financing opportunities for equity and private credit  providers. This ensures that the taxpayer alone is not on the hook for  defending our entire national security. Just today, I spoke to another  Member who wanted to invest another $100 billion into private  initiatives to help protect our country.

Additionally, we need to harness the best who are out there,  including those in the defense innovation unit, through putting forward  a joint reserve detachment to bring in our technological partners; as  well as our partnership with Taiwan, an amendment to ensure that we  extend that innovation to where it can do best.

Together we are working on amendments to include blockchain for  CLARITY, an artificial intelligence plan for our defense industrial  base, and integrated air defenses for U.S. CENTCOM.

As someone who has served, as well as our 2,000 members from the Iowa  National Guard, they demand this level of support not only in their pay  but in their protection.