Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700960/bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-2025


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R.  4638, the Federal Working Animal Protection Act. This legislation was  inspired by a member of Customs and Border Protection's Beagle Brigade  named Freddie.

This is a picture of Freddie right here.

Freddie is a 5-year-old agricultural inspection beagle who works for  Customs and Border Protection. His job, along with other members of the  Beagle Brigade, is to prevent the importation of illegal agricultural  products in the United States, imported foods and other products that  pose a significant risk to both American farmers and the American food  supply at large.

Last summer, during a routine inspection at Dulles International  Airport, Freddie alerted his handler to suspicious luggage belonging to  an Egyptian national at which point he was violently kicked and flung  into the air by the man. Fortunately, Freddie has made, as was pointed  out, a full recovery and is back on duty.

With increased attacks on law enforcement, it is vital that our  working animals receive the protections that they deserve.

For that reason, I introduced the Federal Working Animal Protection  Act. This legislation would make the assault of any Federal working  animal by a non-U.S. citizen a deportable offense.

The Federal Government employs a wide range of working animals--a lot  of people don't know that--not just dogs but including horses and even  dolphins. All of these animals work to protect us from threats both at  home  and abroad, and they should be given protection while they are  performing their duties to keep us all safe.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot let this heinous act go unanswered. If you are  a foreign national in our country and you hurt a Federal working  animal, under this new law, you will be immediately deported.

I thank the chairman, Chairman Jordan, my friend Chairman McClintock,  and the House Judiciary Committee staff for helping to bring this  legislation to the House floor. I urge all my colleagues to approve  this bill.