Congratulating the Eastern Municipal Water District


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696365/congratulating-the-eastern-municipal-water-district


Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Eastern  Municipal Water District (EMWD) as it celebrates a major milestone in  the district's history. This year, EMWD will mark its 75th Anniversary  and a proven legacy of service to our community.

EMWD was established on October 16, 1950, through a public vote by  San Jacinto Valley property owners to help facilitate groundwater  rights in the region. In the 75 years since, EMWD has grown from a  small agency into California's sixth largest public retail water  agency, and seventh largest wastewater agency, serving nearly 1 million  customers across 682 square miles.

Throughout its history, EMWD has remained committed to delivering  safe, reliable water, wastewater, and recycled water services. It  serves one of California's fastest-growing regions and continues to  balance the needs of current customers while planning for future  growth. Through forward-thinking investments in infrastructure,  including groundwater desalination and one of the Nation's most  advanced recycled water programs, EMWD has emerged as a leader in water  innovation and resiliency.

EMWD's success is driven by strong leadership and proactive  engagement. Through active collaboration with state and federal  partners and elected officials, the district has advanced policies that  strengthen water reliability and promote long-term resource  sustainability. EMWD and I have worked closely to advance critical  water projects in both EMWD's service area, and the arid west.

On a local level, I have worked with EMWD on a sewer solution in  Quail Valley a community that is reliant on antiquated, and failing  septic systems. One part of the community's septic to sewer conversion  is complete, and we continue to work together on subsequent phases.

Mr. Speaker, for 75 years, Eastern Municipal Water District has  played a vital role in the development and sustainability of Southern  California. I am proud to recognize EMWD for its decades of public  service, and I join the community in celebrating this remarkable  milestone. We look forward to EMWD's continued contributions and  service for the next 75 years and beyond.