President Trump's Immigration Enforcement Policies


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak against the  administration's immigration enforcement policies.

For months the President and House Republicans have said that they  are only targeting violent criminals.

Why is it, then, that last week ICE attempted to deport a constituent  of mine who had been granted legal protections against removal under  the Convention Against Torture?

This woman, the victim of unspeakable crimes in her home country,  came here to the United States for her safety which is now being  undermined by this administration.

Mr. Speaker, imagine being a United States citizen and the horror you  would feel when your family member, again, someone who had been granted  legal protection, is taken in the middle of the night and driven to  Mexico, a country to which she has no ties.

How is this making our country safer?

How is this upholding the ideals of our Nation?

Mr. Speaker, when this administration talks about mass deportations,  this is what they mean: taking people in the middle of the night who  have a right to be here and trying to remove them to foreign countries.

My office is doing everything we can to help this woman and her  family, but it begs the question: If this is how the administration  treats someone with an attorney and the support of a Member of  Congress, what does that mean for all those who don't have anyone  fighting for them? Who is speaking up for them? If we say nothing, then  what does that say about us?

This can't be what we stand for as a country. As a grandson of  immigrants and the Representative of a proud immigrant community, it is  something that I will always fight against.                GOP Attempting to Undermine Separation of Powers

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, in recent weeks, the Trump administration  and House Republicans have set their sights on the Federal judiciary,  calling for unprecedented changes to our courts, attacking the  character of dedicated Federal judges, and attempting to undermine the  separation of powers that has upheld our democracy for centuries.

As an attorney by trade, I understand how concerning this is for our  Nation's future. In this moment, we cannot be silent nor treat these  attacks as normal.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to read excerpts from the American Bar  Association's statement on the Republican assault on our judiciary into  the record.

``There have now been statements by officials criticizing judges for  not following the last people. Judges swear oaths to follow the law,  not public opinion polling or political chatter or what someone  contends is the will of the people. The Chief Justice of the U.S.  Supreme Court wrote in his `2024 Year End Report on the Federal  Judiciary': ` . . . Attempts to intimidate judges for their rulings in  cases are inappropriate and should be vigorously opposed.'

``We may disagree with interpretation of case law, but it is  unacceptable to personally target judges just because we disagree with  their ruling. We cannot have a judicial system where the government  seeks to remove judges simply because they do not rule as the  government desires. Considering the increasing physical threats to  judges, these are clearly efforts to intimidate judges and our  courts.''

``We reject efforts to undermine the courts and the profession. We  will not stay silent in the face of efforts to remake the legal  profession into something that rewards those who agree with the  government and punishes those who do not. Words and actions matter. And  the intimidating words and actions we have heard must end.''

``Consistent with the Chief Justice's report, these efforts cannot be  sanctioned or normalized. There are clear choices facing our  profession. We can choose to remain silent and allow these acts to  continue or we can stand for the rule of law and values we hold dear.  We call upon the entire profession, including lawyers who serve in  elected positions, to speak out against intimidation. We acknowledge  that there are risks to standing up and addressing these important  issues. But if the ABA and lawyers do not speak, who will speak for the  organized bar? Who will speak for the judiciary? Who will protect our  system of justice? If we don't speak now, when will we speak?

``The American Bar Association has chosen to stand and speak. Now is  the time for all of us to speak with one voice. We invite you to stand  with us.''