Threats Nonessential Helicopters Pose to Public Safety


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690739/threats-nonessential-helicopters-pose-to-public-safety


Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, last month, an air tourism helicopter  crashed into the Hudson River near Jersey City killing six people,  including three young children.

This tragedy is yet another example of the threat that nonessential  helicopters pose to public safety, especially in the congested airspace  over New Jersey and New York.

Since 1983, there have been at least 30 helicopter crashes in our  region, resulting in at least 31 fatalities. We also continue to hear  from countless New Jersey residents whose lives are upended by the  constant, incessant noise of helicopters traveling at low altitudes  over our neighborhoods.

Since taking office, we have consistently worked to address these  challenges, from the noise and nuisance they cause to the safety risks  that have been well documented.

In the 118th Congress, we introduced two pieces of legislation and  directly engaged with the FAA to address these issues, hosting a  workshop in Jersey City with stakeholders and local leaders, but this  crash is a clarion call to every level of government that further  urgent action is needed.

That is why, along with my colleagues from New Jersey and New York, I  introduced the Improving Helicopter Safety Act, which bans all  nonessential helicopter traffic within a 20-mile radius of the Statue  of Liberty.

It is clear that the helicopter industry is not a good actor or one  willing to proactively take measures to protect our communities. In the  wake of this most recent tragedy, one air tourism  company offered discounts to their customers for flights in our region.  They are clearly more interested in profit than public safety, making  it abundantly clear that they should no longer be allowed to operate.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in support of this bill  so that we can protect lives in our communities and ensure that  tragedies like this one never happen again.        Celebrating the 10th Anniversary of Buddy Baseball in Bayonne

Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 10th  anniversary of Buddy Baseball in Bayonne.

Every year, more than 100 children and young adults with special  needs gather for a season of Buddy Baseball, giving everyone the  opportunity to succeed, play, and enjoy this incredible game.

This year, I was proud to march in the parade to celebrate their  opening day and commemorate the opening of their brand-new field.  Hundreds of spectators lined the streets to cheer on this year's  players, and it was heartwarming to see our community come together for  such a great cause.

The city of Bayonne is leading the way in bringing communities  together in an inclusive way, lifting up those around us, and showing  what we can achieve when we work together.

Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone who made this dream a reality and for  reminding us what we can do when we come together as one in a  community.