Benefits of the One Big, Beautiful Bill


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693037/benefits-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, the House Ways and Means Committee has run the  numbers for the American people. They all point to this fact: The One  Big Beautiful Bill Act is good for this Nation, good for everyday  Americans, and certainly good for the men and women I represent in  Tennessee.

Here are the numbers. The bill, which this body passed and which I  was proud to vote for, some experts say could produce an annual GDP  growth rate of more than 5 percent in the next 4 years, with longer  term annual growth reaching 3.5 percent.

The bill is also set to preserve between 6 and 7 million  manufacturing jobs nationally. That would impact a whole lot of  families. In my district alone, this bill protects 12,000 manufacturing  jobs, more than $1.1 billion in wages, and more than $2.2 billion in  economic growth. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill  without delay.

Mr. Speaker, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is about restoring  fairness and awarding work, and it begins with Americans' taxes.

In Tennessee, the bill we passed here in the House would put an  average of $11,700 more in the pockets of a family of four every year.  Under this bill, everyday Americans will see lower income tax rates, a  larger standard deduction, and an expanded child tax credit. That means  more take-home pay, more money for groceries, gas, and healthcare.  Filing will be simpler. Refunds will be bigger.

This bill doesn't just cut taxes. It makes them fairer. It puts  kitchen-table concerns at the center of policy and shifts the balance  back toward the middle class. With the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, we  are saying yes to opportunity, yes to working families, and yes to an  economy that grows from the bottom up.

Mr. Speaker, it would be hard for me to count the number of job  creators I have met in Tennessee's Sixth Congressional District since I  came to Congress in 2019, but I can tell you that nearly all of them  emphasized to me the need for tax certainty and for tax and regulatory  relief.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act includes something called R&D  reprieves. That sounds like jargon to most people, but if a piece of  equipment is the only thing separating you from expanding your business  or hiring more employees, you know the term well.

Research and development tax credits have been the lifeblood of  growth for small businesses and for our Nation's economy for several  years. Estimates tell us that the immediate expensing for R&D will  accelerate more than $20 billion in investment. I have seen this  firsthand in my own small business that I continue to operate. This  bill is further proof of promises made, promises kept, and I was proud  to support the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

Mr. Speaker, the men and women who put a badge on every morning,  every afternoon, every evening want to leave the world better than they  found it. Yet we civilians don't fully appreciate just how much time  they spend away from their families to protect ours. They stay late  writing reports or working events. They are often required to testify  in court on their days off to ensure the conviction of a suspect they  have arrested. That time, overtime, is needed to truly serve their  communities. They do it without complaint.

They do receive extra pay, of course, for their overtime, yet that  often comes with the burden of extra income taxes. It puts many of our  law enforcement officers in a tax bracket that costs them more money.

Fortunately, it is not about the money for most of our men and women  in uniform. Fortunately, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act ensures that  our brave law enforcement officers won't be taxed on their overtime  pay.