Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689836/disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill for yielding me time to  discuss this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, it is no secret that the sky was the limit when it came  to regulations for the last administration. Our Nation endured 4 years  of costly new rules, rules that continue to wreak havoc on our economy  and stunt economic growth. Indeed, it is going to take some time to  undo the mess from the last White House.

S.J. Res. 18 puts us one step closer to cleaning up this mess. It  calls the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's overdraft rule what it  is: drastic, punitive, and harmful to banks and credit unions. It also  stands to harm the very people it purports to protect.

Mr. Speaker, I share with you today a story of a lady in one of the  towns in my district, Lafayette, who said to me fairly recently:  ``Please don't take away my overdraft protection.''

If the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau requires banks to charge  no more than $5 for a $200 overdraft, we will likely see an end to that  service altogether. No one wants to overdraft. Unfortunately, it isn't  uncommon. In fact, many Americans can recall using overdraft services  and them being a lifeline at one point or another in their lives. This  is just one of many examples of overreach by the last administration,  and it must be overturned.

In America, we celebrate capitalism. We encourage competition. We  don't smother our financial institutions just for political favor.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote for this resolution in  defense of financial institutions that choose to extend overdraft  lifelines to their customers who need them.