Homebuyers Privacy Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692803/homebuyers-privacy-protection-act


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2808) to amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act to prevent consumer  reporting agencies from furnishing consumer reports under certain  circumstances, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2808

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Homebuyers Privacy       Protection Act''.       SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF PRESCREENING REPORT REQUESTS.

(a) In General.--Section 604(c) of the Fair Credit       Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)) is amended by adding at       the end the following:

``(4) Treatment of prescreening report requests.--

``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:

``(i) Credit union.--The term `credit union' means a       Federal credit union or a State credit union, as those terms       are defined, respectively, in section 101 of the Federal       Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).

``(ii) Insured depository institution.--The term `insured       depository institution' has the meaning given the term in       section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.       1813(c)).

``(iii) Residential mortgage loan.--The term `residential       mortgage loan' has the meaning given the term in section 1503       of the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C.       5102).

``(iv) Servicer.--The term `servicer' has the meaning given       the term in section 6(i) of the Real Estate Settlement       Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2605(i)).

``(B) Limitation.--If a person requests a consumer report       from a consumer reporting agency in connection with a credit       transaction involving a residential mortgage loan, that       agency may not, based in whole or in part on that request,       furnish a consumer report to another person under this       subsection unless--

``(i) the transaction consists of a firm offer of credit or       insurance; and

``(ii) that other person--

``(I) has submitted documentation to that agency certifying       that such other person has, pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), the       authorization of the consumer to whom the consumer report       relates; or

``(II)(aa) has originated a current residential mortgage       loan of the consumer to whom the consumer report relates;

``(bb) is the servicer of a current residential mortgage       loan of the consumer to whom the consumer report relates; or

``(cc)(AA) is an insured depository institution or credit       union; and

``(BB) holds a current account for the consumer to whom the       consumer report relates.''.       SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take       effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act.       SEC. 4. GAO STUDY.

(a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United       States shall carry out a study on the value of trigger leads       received by text message that includes input from State       regulatory agencies, mortgage lenders, depository       institutions (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit       Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), consumer reporting agencies       (as defined in section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act       (15 U.S.C. 1681a)), and consumers.

(b) Report.--Not later than the end of the 12-month period       beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the       Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report       containing any findings and determinations made in the study       required by subsection (a).

Mr. Speaker, before I get to the specifics of this bill, I extend my  heartfelt gratitude to Congressman Ritchie Torres who has been an  outstanding co-lead and steadfast advocate for the Homebuyers Privacy  Protection Act.

This has been a long journey leading up to today's vote, and I thank  Representative Torres for his unyielding desire to put a stop to the  scourge of abusive mortgage trigger leads.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2808, the Homebuyers Privacy Protection Act will  literally impact each and every consumer that applies for a mortgage in  this country.

Currently, credit bureaus are notified when a consumer applies for  mortgage financing. That information, which is referred to as a trigger  lead, is then often sold by the credit bureaus to data brokers and  other lenders without the consumer's knowledge or approval. Consumers  are then often bombarded with hundreds of unwanted solicitations.

The Homebuyers Privacy Protection Act would dramatically reduce the  number of unwanted calls and messages that millions endure during the  home-buying process.

The bill prohibits a consumer reporting agency from furnishing a  trigger lead to a third party unless the consumer has opted in. The  third party must be a federally insured depository institution, a  federally insured credit union, or an originator or servicer of a  consumer's existing mortgage. Agencies can also furnish a trigger lead  if a consumer has a preexisting relationship with a covered entity.

Over the years, I have heard from individuals from all walks of life  about their deep-seated frustrations when it comes to being inundated  by abusive mortgage credit trigger leads. Being contacted dozens to  hundreds of times a day after applying for a mortgage is simply  unacceptable. Many abusive trigger leads occur at nearly all hours of  the day and night. This is especially true if the trigger lead user  resides in a different time zone than the individual that they are  contacting.

It is also important to note that many of these merciless trigger  leads come from unscrupulous companies that misrepresent the important  fact that they are not affiliated with the mortgage company the  individual initially applied with.

Another important factor to consider is that when consumers get  flooded with trigger leads, they often blame their mortgage originator,  despite that mortgage originator having no role in selling their  information.

Just this weekend, my own sister-in-law, who applied for a mortgage  last week, was inundated with literally hundreds of these contacts, so  this is very personal to me and my family.

Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close and reserve the balance  of my time.

I emphasize just how much support there is for this legislation. My  colleague has just enumerated some of that. This month, 43 attorneys  general and members of the National Association of Attorneys General  signed a letter supporting this bill.

Additionally, many organizations, some already mentioned, have come  out in support of this bill, including the American Bankers  Association, the Tennessee Bankers Association, America's Credit  Unions, the Broker Action Coalition, the Independent Community Bankers  of America, the Mortgage Bankers Association, and the National  Association of Mortgage Brokers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge each of my colleagues to stand up for every  future home buyer in their district by voting ``yes'' on H.R. 2808, and  I yield back the balance of my time.