Housing for the 21st Century Act


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman, my good friend from  Arkansas, for yielding me time today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Housing for the 21st  Century Act.

This legislation will lower housing costs for millions of Americans,  including tens of thousands of Tennessee families whom I represent.

I am proud that my bipartisan bill, the Housing Supply Expansion Act  of 2025, was included in the Housing for the 21st Century Act. My bill  removes an outdated Federal chassis requirement that has stifled  manufactured housing construction for decades.

When we hear the term ``manufactured home,'' many people still think  ``mobile home.'' That is because Federal law has forced us to adhere to  a permanent chassis requirement. Since 1974, manufactured homes have  had to be built on a permanently installed steel chassis, even after  the home is placed on a site, never to be moved again.

This bill will give millions of Americans a path to homeownership  without going over budget. It will provide young and low-income  families with the opportunity to build equity instead of being locked  into rising rents year after year.

You don't have to be a trained economist to understand why home  prices and rental rates have skyrocketed. Demand continues to outpace  supply in our cities, suburbs, and even in many rural communities  across this country.

The simple truth is that we need more homes. This bill takes  meaningful steps toward making that happen. We are reducing unnecessary  regulatory barriers, removing financing roadblocks, and modernizing HUD  programs.

Municipalities across the country have restricted or outright banned  homes built on permanent steel chassis. The result has been less  construction, higher costs, and fewer opportunities for working  families to own where they live.

Yet, manufactured housing is one of the most effective ways to expand  housing supply quickly and affordably. By removing this outdated  Federal restriction, more homes will be built, and ultimately prices  will come down for everyone.

The experts in the manufactured housing space tell us that allowing  manufacturers to design a single-family home without a permanent  chassis will bring about modern low-profile builds, multistory  construction, and urban-friendly designs. It will also improve  efficiency and eliminate unnecessary steel, waste, and cost.

We cannot sit by while 50-year-old policies prevent folks from  signing on the dotted line. Imagine if the Federal Government had  mandated that every vehicle coming off of Henry Ford's assembly line  had to remain permanently attached to a trailer in order to be owned.  We all know that didn't happen because the trailer was a means of  transportation, not a permanent feature.

Housing should work the same way. There is a reason why this bill has  so much bipartisan support.

Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, it includes commonsense solutions for building  more homes, lowering costs, and giving more Americans dignity and  stability.