Repeal of Senate Payday Provision


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699753/repeal-of-senate-payday-provision


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Speaker, President Trump signed a funding bill into law  yesterday that did more than just end a partial government shutdown. It  corrected a serious wrong.

Buried deep inside the funding bill that the Senate passed and sent  to us last November was a hidden provision that never should have seen  the light of day. It was quietly inserted without transparency, without  debate, and without notice to House leadership.

It allowed a handful of United States Senators to sue taxpayers for  the rogue actions of the last administration. It enabled them to seek  $500,000, per occurrence, for having their phone data seized by the  Biden FBI.

This could have resulted in millions of tax dollars lining the  pockets of a select group of United States Senators. It is no doubt  that they were the architects of this provision. That is not  accountability. That is corruption.

Nevertheless, Leader Thune and these Senators forced the House to  swallow that provision in order to reopen the government after 43 long  days. Families across the country were hurting. Pay for our troops was  in jeopardy. Our airports were facing serious safety risks. In the  meantime, congressional Democrats were referring to the shutdown as  leverage.

Ultimately, House Republicans voted to fund the government and end  the suffering. However, we never lost sight of undoing the self-serving  money grab from taxpayers by a select group of Senators.

Hours before our vote, I introduced the first standalone bill to kill  that provision. I also cosponsored Representative Austin Scott's  legislation, which achieved the same outcome. It passed the House  unanimously.

Yet, just like the SAVE Act, the bill sat on Leader Thune's desk week  after week, month after month. I introduced a resolution that would  have enabled Speaker Johnson to argue the unconstitutionality of the  Senate payday  provision and to ask the courts to strike it down.

I even attempted to insert a repeal amendment into the National  Defense Authorization Act. Yet, when we sent our funding bill to the  Senate last week, we gave Senate leadership a taste of their own  medicine and forced them to choose between the Senate payday or  reopening the government.

Let me be very clear. I support real accountability. Last October, I  signed onto a letter urging Attorney General Pam Bondi to launch a  criminal investigation into the activities of Special Counsel Jack  Smith and to consider possible Fourth Amendment violations during  Operation Arctic Frost.

That deserved scrutiny. That deserves answers. It doesn't merit  restitution paid for by hardworking waitresses, truck drivers, and  small business owners. Hardworking taxpayers shouldn't be punished to  put millions of dollars into the pockets of a select group of Senators.

The Tennesseans who I represent have suffered enough because of the  many failed policies of the last administration, and they shouldn't be  forced to pay more.

The House prevailed in putting a stop to this.