Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695237/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. ROSE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendment to H.R. 3838,  Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution of Delivery and the  National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026.

My amendment is intended to address the Janet Mello fraud case, the  Army civilian who was indicted and pleaded guilty to stealing over $100  million that were intended for the 4-H Military Partnership Grant  Program.

The 4-H Military Partnership Grant Program serves 4-H clubs that are  in many military installation youth centers. These programs include 4-H  positive youth development programming, engaging in hands-on learning  in day and overnight summer camps, including military team adventure  camps.

We, as a nation, ask so much of our military families. Frequent moves  can be especially difficult for children. However, the 4-H Military  Partnership Grant Program can serve as a lifeline to military families  by providing continuity, as it is often the case that a family can move  from one installation to another and maintain active participation in  4-H programs because they are located at so many military  installations.

Janet Mello ruthlessly plundered more than $100 million from this  program meant to support the children of our military heroes. This  calculated betrayal was not only a staggering act of theft but a cruel  assault on the very families who sacrifice the most for our Nation's  freedom. By draining critical resources, she robbed military children  of the opportunities and security promised through 4-H.

The American people deserve answers, and they deserve to know how  such a monumental fraud was allowed to fester in the shadows for so  long. My amendment requires a report on how this fraud was missed, what  red flags were ignored, and what fixes are needed to prevent this from  ever happening again.

The House passed my amendment last Congress. Unfortunately, it was  not included in the final bill. I am proud to reintroduce this  amendment again this Congress with slightly adjusted reporting  requirements.

I also note for my colleagues that my office sought and received  technical assistance on this amendment from the Office of the Secretary  of Defense Comptroller.

Mr. Chairman, I include in the Record a press release from the  Department of Justice describing this fraud in greater detail.   [From US Attorney's Office, Western District of Texas, July 23, 2024]   Former Army Civilian Employee Sentenced to 15 Years in Federal Prison                       for $100 Million Fraud Scheme

San Antonio--Janet Yamanaka Mello, the civilian Army       employee who stole over $108 million from a grant program       designed to provide services to military dependents and their       families was sentenced today to 180 months in prison for five       counts of mail fraud and five counts of filing a false tax       return.

According to court documents, Janet Yamanaka Mello, 57,       worked as a financial program manager for the U.S. Army,       Installation Management Command--G9 (Morale, Welfare and       Recreation) Child and Youth Services (CYS) at Fort Sam       Houston. In or around December 2016 through at least August       29, 2023, Mello formed a business she called Child Health and       Youth Lifelong Development (CHYLD). The sole purpose of CHYLD       was to receive grant funds from the 4-H Military Partnership       Grant program, which Mello fraudulently secured by way of her       position as a CYS financial program manager.

Once Mello received a grant check, she deposited the check       into her bank account, spending the money on clothing,       jewelry, vehicles and real estate. Court documents indicate       that Mello repeated the process 49 times during a six-year       period, requesting approximately $117,000,000 in payments,       and receiving approximately $108,917,749.

Subsequently, Mello failed to accurately report her income       for tax years 2017, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, omitting       millions of dollars in income fraudulently received through       CHYLD.

``Janet Mello betrayed the trust of the government agency       she served and repeatedly lied in an effort to enrich       herself,'' said U.S. Attorney Jaime Esparza for the Western       District of Texas. ``Rather than $109 million in federal       funds going to the care of military children throughout the       world, she selfishly stole that money to buy extravagant       houses, more than 80 vehicles and over 1,500 pieces of       jewelry. Her actions reflect exactly the opposite of what it       means to serve your country, and my office will continue to       work tirelessly to prosecute those who illegally seek       personal gain at the expense of their fellow citizens.''

``Corruption and fraud in U.S. Army programs jeopardize the       safety and security of our Soldiers and their families. When       discovered, fraudulent activities by Army employees will not       be tolerated, and those involved will be brought to       justice,'' said Special Agent in Charge Maria Thomas for the       Department of the Army Criminal Investigation Division,       Central Texas Field Office. ``The Army community, and the       public, can rest assured that we remain committed to       aggressively pursuing anyone that uses government programs       for their own personal gain.''

``Mello's penchant for extravagance is what brought her       down. We identified that her reported income was well below       the lavish lifestyle she lived. As we uncovered the details,       the criminal scheme grew, the dollar amount grew, and the       reach of her spending grew,'' said Acting Special Agent in       Charge Lucy Tan of IRS Criminal Investigation's Houston Field       Office. ``Financial crimes have victims, and this one took       opportunities away from the children and families of our       military men and women.''

CI and Army CID investigated the case.

Assistant U.S. Attorneys Justin Simmons, Antonio Franco,       Kristy Callahan, Todd Keagle, and Steven Seward prosecuted       the case.

Mr. ROSE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Chair, in closing, I thank Congressman Fulcher for cosponsoring  this amendment, and I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting  accountability by ensuring that we get answers to how this fraud was  able to steal from military families and taxpayers undetected from 2016  through 2023.

Mr. Chair, I urge Members to vote ``yes'' on my amendment, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. ROSE. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.