Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and ranking member of  this committee for their thoughtful leadership in navigating us toward  passing this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3838, the  Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and  National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026.

This NDAA emphasizes ensuring the lethality of the U.S. armed  services by reforming the acquisition process to deliver innovative  equipment to the warfighter at speed and scale. It does so by  accelerating the requirements process to reduce decision timelines from  3 years to 3 months, by making other transaction authorities more  easily available for prototyping, and by cutting red tape through  eliminating duplicative cost reporting requirements.

As the chairman of the Subcommittee on Cyber, Information  Technologies, and Innovation, we have worked tirelessly to deliver the  best and most cutting-edge technology to our servicemembers. To that  end, this bill authorizes $142.6 billion for research, development,  testing, and evaluation to field essential technologies, like  hypersonics, AI, and autonomous vehicles, to win the wars of tomorrow.

China has a cyber force that is 10 times that of the United States.  China and Russia are attacking our networks every day. The threat in  the cyberspace domain is real, and this legislation reflects that  reality and takes essential steps to address it.

I thank the outstanding subcommittee staff that made this possible:  Sarah Moxley, Caroline Kehrli, Andrew Smith, Brooke Alred, Mireya  Jurado, Michael Hermann, and Wendell White.

Specifically, this NDAA helps small businesses by fast-tracking  promising technologies, establishing a pilot program to test and  procure technologies that bolster operational capabilities,  incentivizing the consideration of commercial, off-the-shelf products  prior to entering expensive contracts, and authorizing the Defense  Innovation Unit to develop regional outreach centers.

The fiscal year 2026 NDAA is a strong bill that prioritizes our  national security through commonsense acquisition reform and innovation  at scale. I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.