Happy 90th Birthday to Beth Ragland


Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Beth Ragland, who I call  my honorary mother, a remarkable Nebraskan who is celebrating her 90th  birthday this week.

Beth represents the spirit of our district. After the passing of her  husband, Ken, she chose not to slow down but to keep moving forward  with a purpose. She returned to the classroom, pursued her long-held  interest in law, and earned a degree with a perfect 4.0 grade point  average.

She went on to serve as an intern at the Sarpy County Courthouse,  where her curiosity and work ethic stood out immediately. I know  firsthand that the county attorney from Sarpy, Lee Polikov, values her  hard work and support.

Beth is an inspiration to her fellow students. She reminded them, and  all of us, that learning, service, and ambition never end at any stage  of life.

Her unyielding spirit inspires us all to work hard for whatever we  desire. Her generosity, resilience, Christian spirit, and joy for  learning continue to uplift everyone around her.

On behalf of Nebraska's Second District, I wish Beth Ragland a very  happy 90th birthday and thank her for being such a powerful example of  perseverance and purpose and for being my friend.                       Celebrating Black History Month

Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, in recognition of Black History Month, I rise  today to honor two community leaders and two outstanding youth for  their contributions to the Second Congressional District of Nebraska.

Brenda Council has been described as a pure force, a trailblazer, a  fighter, and a leader who has paved the way for so many in Omaha. As a  prominent politician and community leader from North Omaha, she has  established a historic career marked by several firsts for African- American women in Nebraska.

She was the first African-American woman to serve on the Omaha City  Council and president of the Omaha School Board and first to serve in  the Nebraska Unicameral. She served on the Omaha Board of Education for  11 years and is president of the National Caucus of Black School Board  Members and State senator for the 11th legislative district.

Council has held leadership roles in many organizations such as the  Urban League of Nebraska, North Omaha Community Care Council, and  United Way of the Midlands.

Ms. Council has been married to her husband for 40 years. Together,  they have one son and five grandchildren.

Fred Conley is a pioneering figure in Nebraska politics, recognized  as the first African American elected to the Omaha City Council. His  career, spanning over 50 years, is defined by breaking racial barriers  and advocating for the revitalization of North Omaha.

Raised in Omaha, Mr. Conley is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force. His  political career was born from community activism, specifically the  right for district-based voting. Prior to the city's removal from at- large elections, a system that historically marginalized Black  candidates, Conley ran for the city council twice.

Following the transition to district elections in 1981, Mr. Conley  was elected to represent North Omaha and dedicated his efforts toward  infrastructure and economic development. His leadership was recognized  by his peers who elected him city council president. In 1988, Mr.  Conley served as Omaha's first African-American acting mayor.

Mr. Conley's legacy includes the enforcement of fair housing laws and  the physical reclamation of community landmarks. He was instrumental in  their naming of the Malcolm X Park and supporting the Martin Luther  King, Jr., Memorial.

His continued civic work through service on the Papio-Missouri River  Natural Resources District Board, and as a founding member of 100 Black  Men of Omaha leave a great mark in our city.

Mr. Conley and his wife, Teresa, have three children and have resided  in the same North Omaha district they have dedicated themselves to for  over 40 years.

Earsul Banks IV exemplifies resilience, resilience in the face of  adversity. Despite significant academic disruptions caused by a chronic  battle with sickle cell disease, Banks utilized mentorship from 100  Black Men of Omaha to regain his academic standing. He is a dedicated  member of the chorus, drill team, and marching band. Mr. Banks is an  unstoppable force who transformed health challenges into an opportunity  for personal and academic growth.

Mara Johnson Anthony is a high-achieving high school student who  maintains a 4.0 GPA with AP courses. She balances academic rigor with  leadership in volleyball, the art club, and the Girls Inc. Eureka!  program.

Her extensive history of community service includes the Open Door  Mission and organizing gift drives for overseas troops and local  seniors. Ms. Anthony is known for her compassionate leadership and is a  role model for her peers.

Mr. Speaker, I greatly admire these leaders in the Second District of  Nebraska. They make our district better and our community better.