Assisting Small Businesses Not Fraudsters Act


Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Velazquez for this  opportunity to speak. I thank Chairman Williams for working with me to  introduce this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this effort to  prioritize small businesses in the future through funding opportunities  by preventing pandemic fraudsters from accessing Federal small business  funds.

Like other communities around the United States, in California's 12th  District, small businesses are the lifeblood of our communities. Over  29,000 small businesses in our district bolster our region. These  businesses struggled throughout the pandemic.

In Oakland's downtown, for instance, many of these institutions are  fighting day in and day out just to stay afloat. I thank the Small  Business Administration employees who work hard to support them.

These wonderful Federal employees have been connecting with small  businesses in our district with emergency assistance, access to  capital, advice on how to keep the doors open in the darkest times, how  to pay their workers, and how to be strong servicemembers in our  community. I have heard from many of these Federal workers who say they  have been under assault by this current administration.

Just last month, I visited the Small Business Administration field  office. Less than 2 hours after I left, two of those employees had  received layoff notices.

Mr. Speaker, firing Federal employees in this moment does not  decrease the need or importance of the agency; it just makes it harder  for entrepreneurs, for restaurateurs, for childcare operators, and  others to keep their employees paid, to keep their doors open, and to  keep our downtowns thriving.

Every dollar that Congress gives to the Small Business Administration  in this moment means the difference of a small business opening and  employing folks or filing for bankruptcy.

The Small Business Administration has provided $1.2 trillion, let me  say that again, $1.2 trillion in Paycheck Protection Program loans and  other emergency assistance during the pandemic. As the ranking member  has told us, unfortunately, there have been serious bad actors who took  advantage of these funds, and those folks defrauded not only the  government, but they defrauded the mom-and-pop shops on Main Street  and, in my case, on Broadway.

Those dollars could have been used to create jobs, revitalize  communities, and to help those businesses stay open and thrive.  Instead, these fraudsters took advantage of the lax application  screenings, which we believe may have resulted in them receiving at  least 17 percent of the total Small Business Administration assistance.

Ms. SIMON. Mr. Speaker, the Biden administration has created new  safeguards to reduce the potential for this fraud, but this legislation  that is supported by our committee would build  on this effort, making convicted fraudsters ineligible for Federal  small business assistance.

Mr. Speaker, as someone who has driven a payroll for over 30 years, I  cannot express how important this legislation is at this moment. We  love and support our small businesses with all that we have.