Filing Relief for Natural Disasters Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689382/filing-relief-for-natural-disasters-act


Mr. KUSTOFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Jason Smith for his leadership and also his support on this  legislation, and I thank our colleague, Judy Chu, for joining me in  introducing what I think is an important piece of legislation.

This bill, the Filing Relief for Natural Disasters Act, H.R. 517, is  a bipartisan bill and a commonsense bill. It  will provide relief to Americans who have been impacted by natural  disasters and emergencies.

Just about every Member of this body at some point has seen their  State, their district, or their constituents impacted by a natural  disaster or an emergency.

Mr. Speaker, just last month, Obion County, which is in my district  in Tennessee, was devastated by severe flooding following a levee  failure. The disaster displaced hundreds of my constituents and left  the town of Rives in Obion County basically underwater.

After the initial flooding, I visited Rives with our Governor of  Tennessee, Bill Lee, to survey the damage and to meet with local  officials and residents. For the Rives community, recovering and  rebuilding is not going to be easy and is not going to happen  overnight.

I am sure that my colleagues who have toured disaster areas in their  own districts know exactly what I mean.

For communities that have been impacted by disasters, it is critical  that they have timely access to the support they need to begin the  recovery process and get their lives back on track.

This also, Mr. Speaker, includes regulatory relief. Filing season can  be long, and it can be burdensome for many taxpayers and for small  businesses. This is obviously no secret.

Under current law, the U.S. Department of the Treasury can postpone  tax filing deadlines for taxpayers who have been affected by federally  declared disasters, but right now, Treasury does not have the authority  to provide relief for State-level declarations.

State-level declarations are normally issued immediately or almost  immediately after a disaster. Federal declarations, on the other hand,  can take weeks or even months before being issued. You have disparate  treatment between Federal- and State-level declarations under the  current law, and that can delay relief and create significant confusion  for impacted taxpayers.

This bill makes two straightforward reforms to the Internal Revenue  Code that will address this flaw in the tax code and ensure that  disaster victims are able to receive more timely relief.

Number one, it will authorize the Secretary of the Treasury, in  consultation with FEMA, to extend filing relief to taxpayers as soon as  the Governor of the State declares a disaster or a state of emergency.

Number two, Mr. Speaker, it will expand the current mandatory filing  extension following a Federal declaration from 60 days to 120 days.

Disaster victims should be focused on rebuilding, recovering, and  caring for their loved ones. What they should not have to be focused on  is complying with bureaucratic red tape at the IRS.

For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to  support the Filing Relief for Natural Disasters Act, a bipartisan, pro- taxpayer piece of legislation that was passed out of the Ways and Means  Committee unanimously by a vote of 42-0.