Recognizing Medal of Honor Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701318/recognizing-medal-of-honor-day


Mr. KUSTOFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Utah for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the life of a really good friend,  Steve Stamson, who was a devoted public servant and a veteran whose  record left a lasting mark on Shelby County in west Tennessee.

Steve passed away just a few weeks ago on March 11 surrounded by his  family in Florida.

Steve Stamson was born in Memphis, Tennessee, and he lived a life  grounded in faith and commitment to others.

Steve served in the United States Marine Corps during Vietnam. He was  a rifleman. Steve's time in uniform shaped his character in lasting  ways and informed how he approached the rest of his life.

I do want to note that during his military service, Steve received  the Meritorious Mast, recognizing performance and leadership that went  above and beyond. This distinction reflected the character and the  standard that he held himself to each and every day.

When he came home, Steve continued to serve his community. He worked  for International Harvester before starting a long and distinguished  career in Shelby County government.

He served in the Shelby County Court Clerk's Office. He served in the  Juvenile Court Clerk's Office and in the General Sessions Court Clerk's  Office. In 2002, the people of Shelby County elected him to be the  juvenile court clerk, to which he was reelected in 2006, and he served  until 2010.

I think about Steve's time in public service, and if you had a  dictionary, Mr. Speaker, and looked up the term ``public servant,''  there would be a photo of Steve Stamson right there in the dictionary.  He went and did whatever he could for anybody, and it didn't matter who  they were or what side of town they lived on.

I will note that Steve's career in public service did not end after  his time as juvenile court clerk.

Following his retirement, if you will, Mr. Speaker, Steve was  appointed as an election commissioner for Shelby County, and he served  as chairman of the Shelby County Election Commission.

On all sides of the aisle, Steve was widely respected for his  dedication to election integrity and the responsibility that comes with  the right to vote.

Steve also gave his time to civic and community organizations,  including the Boy Scouts of America, the Scottish Rites, and the Al  Chymia Shriners. He was active in his political life in the local and  State Republican Party.

I want to note that Steve took on roles that carried significant  responsibility, and he always led with a steady hand. I think about  Steve, that he made time for others and was always willing to step up  when it was needed.

This morning, I talked to our mutual friend, Joy Touliatos. Joy  Touliatos succeeded Steve as the juvenile court clerk of Shelby County.  She was a longtime friend of Steve and his wife, Debbie, who was also a  longtime public servant in Shelby County. When I asked Joy her thoughts  about Steve, I wrote them down word for word. She said: ``If you knew  Steve, you knew his door was always open; his handshake was sincere;  and his word actually meant something.''

Beyond his work, Steve was absolutely devoted to his family. I have a  photo of Steve and his wife, Debbie. They shared 45 years of marriage,  and Debbie was his equal partner and his best friend. Steve was a proud  father to Chris and to Clay, and I know he was a proud grandfather to  Keelie and to Hunter.

Mr. Speaker, I do want to say that Roberta and I are deeply saddened  by Steve's passing, but we are thinking about Debbie. We remember all  the good times, how full of life and how much Steve gave to everybody  he cared about and to the entire Memphis and Shelby County community.

Steve's warmth and his generosity will be greatly missed.