Remarkable Life and Legacy of Frederick W. Smith


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692825/remarkable-life-and-legacy-of-frederick-w-smith


Mr. KUSTOFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy  of Frederick W. Smith, who left us this past Saturday, June 21, 2025,  at the age of 80.

Mr. Speaker, if I were to stand and speak at this podium all day, I  would barely be able to scratch the surface of Fred Smith's  extraordinary life, his influence on the country and the world, and his  profound impact on the city of Memphis.

To many people, Fred Smith will likely be remembered as a titan of  industry and the founder of FedEx. To my constituents, he will be  remembered as a champion for the city of Memphis. Personally, I will  remember Fred Smith as a man who loved his country and devoted his life  to the American Dream.

Born in Marks, Mississippi, and raised in Memphis, he was very proud  of his country. Fred Smith was a true patriot, serving honorably as a  captain in the United States Marine Corps in Vietnam. After that  service, he returned home with a bold idea: a company that could  deliver packages overnight around the world.

Fred Smith turned that idea into a global enterprise, revolutionizing  international supply chains, transforming how businesses operate, and  changing how people connect. Fred Smith not only directed and dominated  the modern logistics industry; he created it. For more than 50 years  after the conception of FedEx, he continued to lead it.

Today, FedEx operates in over 220 countries, but its heart and  headquarters remain in Memphis, Tennessee. Through FedEx, Fred Smith  turned Memphis into a global logistics hub, driving economic growth  across the region while employing tens of thousands of Tennesseans.

Today, the FedEx World Hub at Memphis International Airport is one of  the busiest and largest cargo airports in the world. FedEx is the  largest Fortune 500 company in the State of Tennessee.

Fred Smith's commitment to Memphis went far beyond business. In fact,  upon Fred's passing on Saturday, former Memphis Mayor Jim Strickland  said: ``Fred Smith was the most significant Memphian in history.''

Indeed, he gave Memphians a fair shot at their American Dream, and  his philanthropic work helped support countless organizations.

Thanks to Fred Smith, Memphis acquired the NBA's Grizzlies in 2001  when he committed to purchasing the naming rights for the future home  of the basketball team, the FedExForum.

Just 2 years ago, when The University of Memphis was ambitiously  pursuing stadium upgrades for the football team, Fred Smith and his  family committed $50 million to help the school achieve its financial  goals.

Fred and Diane Smith and the Smith family have donated to so many  worthwhile causes in the Memphis area, including the world-class  Memphis Zoo.

Memphians can also thank Fred Smith for saving the FedEx St. Jude  golf tournament when it lost its previous title sponsor.

Yesterday, when discussing the life of Fred Smith, I talked with my  good friend, Chris Richards. She was the general counsel at FedEx and a  close adviser to Fred Smith.

A little over 25 years ago, Fred came to Chris with an idea that he  told her that she would not like. He wanted FedEx to be involved in a  major motion picture in which the plot involved crashing a FedEx plane.  Fred thought that the script for ``Cast Away'' was a great read and  could be a good movie that could benefit the company.

As FedEx's lead attorney, Chris told Fred that there had never been  an airline that willingly participated in a movie where they gave  permission to crash their plane. Chris advised against all of it.

Yet, Fred wanted to think outside the box, and he signed off on the  idea. He was really impressed with the production staff and the movie's  star, Tom Hanks.

That would be important years later because, at the request of former  Senator Bob Dole, Fred became involved in the creation and fundraising  of the World War II Memorial to honor and remember our Nation's  Greatest Generation.

Fred would become a major factor in getting that memorial  constructed. It would cost a lot of money to raise and build such a  monument. As a result of that movie, Fred turned to his friend Tom  Hanks for his help in public service to help raise funds for the  memorial.

Indeed, that movie ended up being good for FedEx and, in turn, good  for the World War II Memorial and our Nation.

With his passing, we honor and celebrate a lifetime of inspiring  service and leadership. We celebrate a marine, a Memphian, and a really  good man.

Roberta and I mourn with Diane and the entire Smith family. Our  Nation lost an innovator, a job creator, a trailblazer, and a leader.  We are all better off for the remarkable life that he led.