Agoa Extension Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698906/agoa-extension-act


Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I support strengthening our relations  with African countries through the African Growth and Opportunity  Extension Act. I think increased trade, economic activity, and  development that respects human rights, labor rights, and the  environment can benefit both Americans and Africans.

I think that trade is especially important at this time after the  profound damage done by the consistent disrespect by President Trump of  Africans, unless they happen to be White Afrikaners, and, more  importantly, by his abrupt and unjustified termination of the Agency  for International Development, which has cost tens of thousands of  lives in Africa and other places, and thousands of American jobs. AGOA  cannot undo all of that harm, but it can be part of responsible  engagement, if it is done right.

It is important, however, to understand that this reauthorization  does not guarantee a single African country the benefits of this bill  if they fall out of favor with President Trump. The role of Congress is  constrained. The bill continues to empower the President to include or  exclude countries entirely at his whim, and we know how unpredictable,  vengeful, and punitive he can be.

While I support AGOA, I do not support extending it to countries with  serious human rights abuses, nor to those engaging in serious  environmental destruction, such as the devastation of Africa's  rainforests.

In Tanzania, bodies filled morgues as more than 700 people last fall  were reportedly killed in connection with the recent election. Peaceful  protesters in Mozambique, Angola, and Madagascar were shot by security  forces. Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are involved in  multiple war crimes, despite President Trump's failed attempts to  achieve a peace agreement.

I have particular concern about Kenya from a business standpoint. A  longtime, well-respected Austin resident, an engineer and law-abiding  citizen, serves as co-president of LightPulse, a respected Kenyan  healthcare and educational institution. Kenyan authorities cooperated  in the abduction of one of his employees, who was taken to Turkiye and  tortured. The next thing that we knew, up on a website in Turkiye was a  declaration that my constituent was being labeled as a terrorist.  Another incident of this type occurred only last month, and the Kenyans  have been unable to provide a suitable explanation for their conduct.

Finally, American workers should not be forced to compete on an  uneven playing field, where China sends manufactured products to  Africa, there are minor changes made there, and then this product is  sent here as an AGOA trade preference product. Our trade laws should be  clear and not put our workers at a disadvantage by forcing them to  compete with these kinds of practices.

AGOA cannot undo the immense harm that President Trump has already  inflicted, but if properly structured, it can strengthen democratic  rights and environmental protection.

I would support a short-term extension paired with meaningful  reforms. We have had no shortage of time in order to get these reforms;  only a lack of will. We do not have that reform bill before us.

Madam Speaker, for all of those reasons, I respectfully urge my  colleagues to reject this bill and instead work toward a more  responsible, accountable reauthorization of AGOA.