Choosing War is Not Peace Through Strength


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700406/choosing-war-is-not-peace-through-strength


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, as Baghdad was first bombed 23 years ago,  Americans were bombarded with lies. When that giant statue of Saddam  Hussein was pulled down, the lies were paired with attacks on all of us  who opposed what was ultimately recognized by almost all as a colossal  American blunder.

Though later President Bush announced ``mission accomplished,'' the  killing continued. Ultimately, over 4,400 American lives were lost and  $2 trillion spent on this unwarranted invasion that, unfortunately,  only benefited Iran.

Now, as Tehran is bombed, we are once again being bombarded with  lies. Our trigger-happy President issued his personal declaration of  war without approval of Congress, without exhausting nonviolent  alternatives, and without any real plan after the bombs stopped  falling.

Just months ago, Trump told the Nation that he had obliterated the  Iranian nuclear capability. With no imminent threat to our country, he  declared war just because he likes issuing decrees.

He loves issuing imperial decrees, whether it is imposing new tariff  taxes, obstructing our voting rights, or declaring himself the acting  President of Venezuela. It is the American people who will pay the  price in blood and treasure for his military adventurism.

Trump callously has responded already ``that's the way it is'' to the  deaths of American servicemembers and so many innocent civilians. With  his war spreading across the Middle East, Trump is not ruling out  ground troops, since airpower alone will not be sufficient to  accomplish the regime change that he is obviously seeking.

While certainly not mourning the death of Iranian tyrants, despicable  people, rarely has assassination of such foreign leaders produced a  peaceful result. Two decades of experience in Afghanistan and Iraq tell  us that even boots on the ground are insufficient to accomplish a  peaceful democratic society. Only the Iranian people can do that.

Of course, Trump is also sending a message to fellow authoritarians  Xi and Putin that might makes right. Use war if it is helpful.

Ironically, we learned that President Trump's action does not  demonstrate strength, but rather weakness. Secretary Rubio has  confirmed that Trump was just yielding to Netanyahu's planned attack by  saying, essentially, ``me, too.'' He was too weak to tell Netanyahu no,  as President Bush had wisely done. Trump talks tough and brandishes a  very powerful military, but he cannot stand up to powerful leaders like  Netanyahu and Putin.

Choosing war is not ``peace through strength.'' It is a means of  diverting attention from multiple Trump failures here at home. Coming  just after revelations from the Justice Department of hiding documents  accusing Trump of sexually abusing a minor, this war of choice may even  be useful as a distraction from the Epstein files that have not been  fully disclosed.

In Trump's own words, this is a war that could go on ``as long as it  takes,'' perhaps as long as it takes for him to interfere in the  November elections and secure a Congress that will continue to be  little more than a doormat for him.

With war so much easier to get into than to get out of, it is  imperative that this Congress act swiftly this week to approve the War  Powers Resolution to save American lives and stop another  destabilizing, bloody conflict that will have repercussions for  generations to come.