Ending Improper Payments to Deceased People Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698920/ending-improper-payments-to-deceased-people-act


Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 5 minutes.

Madam Speaker, information on the deceased is already shared among  Federal agencies under existing law. This is really a trivial bill that  is designed only to make it appear that Republicans are doing something  about supposed fraud. An independent investigation found that the  Social Security Administration has an incredible success rate with less  than 1 percent of payments found to be improper, some of those being  overpayments and some of those being underpayments.

Today, of course, is not the first time we have heard these claims  about fraudulent Social Security payments to the dead. Indeed, from  that very podium, Madam Speaker, we heard President Trump last March  come to give a lengthy address to a joint session of this Congress. In  his remarks that combined misinformation, outright lies, and a good  many platitudes, the President devoted special attention to Social  Security, ridiculing it with outlandish tales. He spoke of ``3.9  million people from ages 130 to 139, 3.5 million people from ages 140  to 149. And money is being paid to many of them.''

What nonsense. Thanks to the anti-fraud guardrails that are already  available, that has not happened, and the President's representation  was absolutely wrong.

While today's bill essentially duplicates existing efforts to prevent  erroneous payments, the focus on improper payments to deceased people  is just another part of the Republican plan to undermine public  confidence in Social Security, a social insurance program that has been  one of the most valuable initiatives ever approved in this Congress.

Yet Trump appointed Elon Musk, who proclaimed that Social Security is  ``a Ponzi scheme.'' He gave him the authority to take a hatchet to the  Social Security Administration. For months, DOGE, the department of  government evisceration, promoted related lies.

Undermining the delivery of checks and quality service, the Trump  regime, through DOGE, abruptly fired thousands of Social Security  workers, and it continues to enact erratic policy changes. This comes  on top of years of Republican opposition to adequately staffing the  Social Security Administration.

Social Security has less staff today than it did a decade ago,  despite the fact that it now serves many, many more Americans. As a  result, at Social Security, under the Trump regime, there is a backlog  of 6 million cases, public inquiries, along with an agency that is  riddled with errors and delays from the shortage of adequate staffing.

Now, the plan from the Trump regime on Social Security is to cut in- person visits at offices around the country, which is just another  effort to obstruct Americans from getting straight answers, not from a  machine but from a person, concerning their hard-earned benefits. These  are just more ways to cause Americans to question this vital Federal  program so that nobody is surprised if, one day, the payments are late  or the trust fund is insufficient.

We have had one current Member of the United States Senate, a  Republican, who has declared that what we need to do, he insists, is to  ``pull it up by the roots and get rid of it'' with reference to Social  Security.

Providing modest retirement, disability, and retirement benefits to  69 million Americans, Social Security is what puts food in the fridge  and keeps the lights on week after week.

For 22 million Americans, Social Security is the difference between  living in poverty, and for 40 percent, it is more than one-half of  their income.

It is a lifesaving, irreplaceable, social contract. As stewards of  this hard-earned benefit, we must protect taxpayers' dollars, but empty  promises to address supposed fraud are not the answer.

Americans deserve a restored watchdog and efficient program at Social  Security that ensures swift and easy access to their payments.

Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself another 5 minutes.

This bill is really another missed opportunity. The protections that  are most urgently needed are not these new guardrails, but guardrails  to protect our inalienable right to privacy.

Through the Privacy Act and other means, this Congress has long set  limits on what the government can and cannot do with intimate details  that it collects about each American. Government officials are not free  to use our sensitive personal data however they wish, but that may  actually be happening under the Trump regime.

When this legislation was before the Ways and Means Committee, I  offered an amendment to address a serious and looming threat to our  privacy. The Trump administration is pursuing an unprecedented effort  to consolidate Federal data on virtually every American into a single,  centralized master file, a de facto digital ID on every American.

This would be a digital record containing most anything that any part  of the government knows about you, tracking where you live, where you  work, your earnings, your bank account, your health insurance, your  child support agreements, and more.

To understand the scope of this extraordinary project, my amendment  required the administration to produce materials related to the Social  Security Administration's role in data aggregation and its chosen  contractor, Palantir, a company that one Silicon Valley executive once  described as ``building the infrastructure of the police state.'' This  project would further empower a President whose priorities include  revenge, personal enrichment, and self-glorification to misuse this  data.

Beyond the obvious danger of empowering a surveillance state or  enabling the targeting of political opponents, the other danger  associated with this mass centralization is that this sensitive  information held by the Federal Government in one place could be  exposed to hacking. One vulnerability, one malicious actor, one insider  threat, and millions of Americans could be exposed.

A whistleblower has already revealed that the Social Security records  of roughly 300 million Americans were uploaded into an unsecured cloud  environment without adequate safeguards. Internal Federal reviews have  identified serious weaknesses in Palantir's systems.

One internal U.S. Army memorandum described Palantir's platform  as ``very high risk,'' warning that any unauthorized user, regardless  of clearance, could access all the applications and datasets, the very  kind of thing that would interfere with our privacy from private  entities.

Palantir, of course, disputes these findings, but the concerns are  real, and the consequences of getting it wrong would be enormous. My  approach would not have stopped this project. It would not have  dismantled anything. It simply would have required transparency, basic  disclosure of how Social Security data has been used or misused by the  Trump regime in the creation of this centralized database.

Yet, despite the gravity of these concerns, Republicans voted to  block this reasonable inquiry from a regime that seems to thrive on  secrecy.

This vote follows a troubling pattern that occurred right here in the  House when rules were adopted to block a resolution of inquiry that I  and other Members had to ask for this data from the administration.

Twice now, Republicans have adopted special rules, extraordinary  measures that are designed to prevent the House from ever considering  this question. Twice they have used the process to hide from the  American people what is happening and to protect their Members from  having to take a vote about this sweeping intrusion into our privacy.

Remarkably, Palantir has even said they are willing to support the  resolution. That hasn't been enough for our Republican colleagues. This  is the time for sunlight instead of fear of sunlight. It is unfortunate  that this transparency, which should not be controversial, is not  included in this bill.

I will be voting for this bill, as we did in committee, but it is  relatively meaningless, and the big issues of the day are not being  addressed in this legislation.

Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself 3 minutes.

Madam Speaker, I think it would be more accurate to say this bill is  a tiny step, it is a trivial step, and it is curious how narrow the  interest of our Republican colleagues are with regard to fraud.

Trump has been busy pardoning one fraudster after another. We haven't  heard a peep from our Republican colleagues about that nor about his  wrongful action within days of his inauguration of abruptly and  unjustifiably firing the chief inspector general of the Social Security  Administration. That is the public watchdog who is there to ensure that  no fraud--dead, living, or otherwise--occurs. In only a single year,  that inspector general had saved Social Security about $12.4 billion  through audits and investigations.

House Republicans have similarly remained totally mute about the fact  that as of today, almost a year later, Trump has continued his failure  to nominate a replacement inspector general. They are apparently not  too eager about addressing fraud to have a real watchdog there.

Just as they yell ``fraud'' as an excuse to replace ObamaCare with  Republican nothing care, while Trump reinstates the suspended insurance  brokers that were causing the fraud, the Trump regime and its  congressional enablers are really just yelling ``fraud'' as a cover for  the real agenda, which is to privatize Social Security.

Trump's Treasury Secretary, Mr. Bessent, recently blew their cover by  indicating that the big, ugly bill about which Republicans have been so  gleeful is really a ``back door'' to privatize Social Security, a step  that will undermine the program that so many Americans are counting on.

This bill offers no additional protection to them or to the taxpayer.  What it does do is continue the myth that Social Security is  fraudulent, that it is not delivering the benefits that Americans have  been able to rely on for generations, and with appropriate action will  be able to rely upon for generations to come.

Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

As stewards of Americans' hard-earned tax dollars, we have a  responsibility to ensure efficient and appropriate government spending.  The dollars that have been spent on Social Security have been spent  well and effectively to benefit millions.

For years, I have sought action on several fraud prevention measures,  efforts that have been repeatedly rejected, not even heard by the  Republican majority.

Ignoring my legislation and other proposals that have been offered  from the Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, another  inspector general that was fired by President Trump, Republicans  instead offer this minor bill that does little to address fraud, that  raises a myth concerning payments to the deceased, and perpetuates that  myth that Social Security should be, in the words of one Republican  Senator: pulled up by its roots and gotten rid of.

It is all fear-mongering from some of the same people who recently  enacted a truly horrifying scheme with the largest cuts to healthcare  and SNAP food assistance in the history of this country, all in order  to further enrich some billionaire donors. These cuts leave millions of  children, people with disabilities, and seniors without access to a  doctor, struggling to afford their medications, and unable to receive  in-home support.

The billionaire class was so greedy that even $1 trillion in cuts to  healthcare wasn't enough to pay for everything that they demanded. The  total receipt from Republicans' legislation means that trillions of  dollars are being added to our national debt, even after these  draconian cuts to healthcare. Those additions to the national debt will  endanger the long-term promise of Social Security and Medicare.

This legislation does nothing to address Social Security's guarantee  to American workers. If this Congress fails to act, the Federal  Government will default in 2032, and people would see their Social  Security payments cut.

Meanwhile, this bill also ignores the Trump regime's effort, which I  discussed, about the development of a digital file on every American  and the invasion of our privacy. It is good that this legislation  requires the Treasury Department's Do Not Pay system to reimburse  Social Security and State agencies for its use of death records that  the States collect and provide to Social Security.

Social Security should not bear the price for that Do Not Pay  system's use of the data. I certainly support that provision, but every  American will bear the cost of Republicans' failure to protect their  hard-earned benefits and private information from Trump's hatchet job  on the Social Security Administration.

While I don't oppose the bill, I do oppose the misrepresentations  that are made about it.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.