Providing for Consideration of H.R. DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Policing Protection Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lowering Age At Which A Minor May Be Tried As Adult for Certain Criminal Offenses in District of Columbia; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Guaranteeing Reliability Through the Interconnection of Dispatchable Power Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. National Coal Council Reestablishment Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act; and for Other Purposes


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, this rule further erodes the system of  checks and balances that has served our democracy so well. Republicans,  through it, are surrendering more and more unrestrained power to  President Trump. This rule is but another step on the march to tyranny.

Trump is seeking to create a master file of information on every  single American, a digital ID tracking your movements, where you live,  where you work, when you see a doctor, how much money you have, even  child support agreements, and much more. Today, Republicans are simply  rubberstamping that plan, the very kind of surveillance and intrusion  that Libertarians have always opposed.

Today, these Republicans are blocking us from presenting any  resolution of inquiry concerning the Trump administration, like the one  that I introduced on June 11 to demand the facts from the  administration about all of its wrongdoing, including what confidential  information it has accumulated on each American. Your data becomes  fully public and available to President Trump even as the Epstein files  remain fully buried.

Republicans are keeping the American people ignorant of what Trump is  doing with their private data: Ignorant of how he may use it against  his political enemies or his business competitors, ignorant of what he  may do if you have ever expressed any criticism of him, his family, his  policies, or maybe you just expressed support for someone that with his  latest whim he is opposed to. Now he will have a master file that  includes you to persecute and even prosecute.

Too intimidated by this self-proclaimed king, Republicans are  empowering what could become a police state. To shed light on this  descent into authoritarian darkness, to let the American people know  how their own government is centralizing their personal data, I  introduced a resolution of inquiry demanding that the administration  produce all the information related to the creation of this vast  searchable database with its handpicked contractor, Palantir, a company  that one Silicon Valley executive accused of building the  infrastructure of the police state.

I do agree with one Republican, Representative Warren Davidson, who  does believe in freedom and has described Trump's deal with Palantir as  dangerous and has said when you start combining all these data points  on individuals into one database, it really essentially creates a  digital ID, and it is a power that history says will eventually be  abused. With this administration, ``eventually'' will be very soon.

A vote for this rule is a vote to bury the truth and allow the  Federal Government to track Americans and invade their privacy with no  restraint. I strongly urge my colleagues to stand up for freedom and  reject this rule.