Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688501/raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, Al Green is my friend and, for that matter,  so is Mr. Newhouse, though I don't know him quite as well.

I think this motion is a serious mistake. I sat here in this House  the night that President Obama made his state of the Union speech, and    Joe Wilson from South Carolina jumped up and said: ``You lie.''

Nothing was done about that.

Mr. Green engaged in conduct that I chose not to participate in,  though I found that a number of my constituents wished I had joined  him. He expressed his strong views in a way that I would not have  voiced them myself, but he left this Chamber voluntarily after doing  so. To censure him now sets us back. It does not move us forward toward  a more bipartisan and a more respectful House.

Indeed, I think many Americans will be surprised that Republicans get  upset about decorum on anything. There was no Republican objection when  President Trump decided to pardon the criminals that were responsible  for the deaths of police officers in this building when they defended  us on January 6, sprayed them with bear spray, and harassed and harmed  so many officers.

There has been no Republican concern about decorum when the President  fired the head of the Office of Ethics at the White House, when he  fired the watchdogs of about 17 different Federal departments and  agencies, the inspectors general that are designed to uphold and check  out corruption and waste in our government.

There has been no outrage when President Trump decided that he would  take on General Milley for being the patriot that he is and seek to  obtain revenge on him.

What Mr. Green was talking about was outrage about something that is  very important. There are 700,000 seniors in Texas who rely on Medicaid  and nursing homes.

Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, half the children in my hometown, and  probably more in Mr. Green's, are at risk of losing their care as seen  in our Children's Hospital. Medicaid is a lifeline to individuals with  disabilities.

He was passionate. He was emotional. He is deeply committed to  protecting the vulnerable. He should not be censured for the way in  which he expressed his passion and his concern and his love of justice.