Recognizing His All-Holiness Bartholomew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695051/recognizing-his-all-holiness-bartholomew


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Archbishop of  Constantinople-New Rome and Ecumenical Patriarch, His All-Holiness  Bartholomew.

Born Demetrios Arhondonis in 1940 on the island of Imvros (today,  Gokceada, Turkey), His All-Holiness Bartholomew was elected in October  1991 as the 270th Archbishop of the 2000-year-old Church founded by the  Apostle Andrew. His formal office is Archbishop of Constantinople-New  Rome, and Ecumenical Patriarch, a historic title dating to the sixth  century.

The role of the Ecumenical Patriarch as the primary spiritual leader  of the Orthodox Christian world and transnational figure of global  significance has increased exponentially during the tenure of His All- Holiness.

He has co-sponsored international peace conferences, as well as  meetings about racism and fundamentalism, bringing together Christians,  Muslims and Jews for the purpose of advancing greater cooperation and  mutual understanding. He has advanced Christian-Muslim relations in  such places as former Yugoslavia, advocating for peace-building  measures to diffuse global conflict in the region, while supporting  many traditionally Orthodox countries emerging from decades of wide  scale religious persecution and oppression behind the Iron Curtain.  Moreover, he has initiated international meetings and theological  conversations with Muslim and Jewish leaders to promote mutual respect  and religious tolerance on a global level, proving a pioneer in  interfaith encounters and traveling to Muslim countries rarely visited  by Christian leaders.

He has organized international, inter-faith and inter-disciplinary  symposia and summits to address ecological problems of the world,  earning him the title ``Green Patriarch'' and prestigious international  awards. His efforts to promote religious freedom and human rights, his  initiatives to advance religious tolerance among the world's religions,  together with his work toward international peace and environmental  protection, have justly placed him at the forefront of global  visionaries as an apostle of love, peace and reconciliation.

In 1997, he was awarded the Gold Medal of the United States Congress.  The Guardian recognized him as one of the world's leaders in raising  environmental awareness. And, in its category of Leaders and  revolutionaries, Time Magazine named him as one of the world's most  influential people. Now, he is being rightfully honored with the  Templeton Prize, previously received by Mother Teresa, the Dalai Lama,  and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, among others. Congratulations to  Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew on this honor and I thank him for his  life of service.