Recognizing the 30th Anniversary of the National Domestic Violence Hotline


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700099/recognizing-the-30th-anniversary-of-the-national-domestic-violence-hotline


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a critical  national resource that for 30 years has served as a lifeline for  victims and survivors of domestic violence and relationship abuse  across our country: the National Domestic Violence Hotline.

Based in Austin, Texas, in my Congressional district, the National  Domestic Violence Hotline is the only national hotline that operates  24/7, responding to all those in the U.S., its territories and military  bases across the globe via phone, chat and text. These services are  free and confidential.

Authorized by the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 and funded  through the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, the National  Domestic Violence Hotline was created to ensure that anyone  experiencing relationship abuse would have a safe, confidential place  to turn for help. On February 21, 1996, the National Domestic Violence  Hotline answered its very first call--marking the beginning of a  national commitment to listening to survivors, offering support without  judgment, and helping people see pathways to safety and healing.

Since that first call, The Hotline has served more than 7.8 million  people through phone, chat and text--each contact representing courage,  resilience and hope. Its highly trained advocates provide compassionate  support, personalized safety planning, and connections to local  resources, responding to thousands of contacts each day as the demand  for services continues to grow. Thirty years later, The Hotline  continues to experience incredibly high demand for its services. Every  day, The Hotline receives nearly 3,000 calls from those needing crisis  support and a path to safety--demand for services has more than doubled  during the past decade.

As the needs of survivors have evolved, The Hotline has implemented  responsible, survivor-centered technology innovations--including  expanded chat and text services and improved resource navigation to  increase access, reduce barriers, and better meet demand nationwide.

This 30-year milestone is not a celebration of the continued  prevalence of domestic violence. The ongoing need for a national  hotline is a sobering reminder that relationship abuse affects millions  of people across every community, demographic, and geography.  Survivors, particularly those from marginalized communities, often face  compounded barriers to safety and support, and too many endure abuse in  silence.

But the courage of survivors is something worthy of recognition.  Every day, individuals reach out to The Hotline, often for the first  time, taking a brave step toward safety, healing, and freedom. The  Hotline bears witness to that courage by offering hope, validation and  practical support in moments of crisis.

In addition to its core hotline services, The Hotline operates the  National Dating Abuse Helpline, which provides 24/7/365 chat, text and  phone support to help teens and young adults experiencing abuse or  unhealthy dating situations. The Hotline also runs love is respect, a  program dedicated to engaging, educating and empowering young people  facing abusive or unhealthy relationships.

I also wish to recognize the dedicated advocates who staff the  National Domestic Violence Hotline and its programs. Their work  requires extraordinary compassion, resilience, and skill, as they  respond to heart-wrenching calls and messages with care and  professionalism. Their commitment saves lives and strengthens families  and communities across our Nation.

For 30 years, the National Domestic Violence Hotline has stood as a  beacon of hope--answering the call when it matters most. As we mark  this 30th anniversary, we honor the survivors who inspire this work,  the advocates who make it possible, and the enduring mission to ensure  that everyone can live a life free from violence.