The War in Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701272/the-war-in-iran


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, before departing the Capitol last week, I  stood at this very spot with Democratic and Republican colleagues,  three separate times, to honor, with moments of silence, American  servicemembers who have fallen in Trump's reckless war in Iran. If  congressional Republicans continue to remain silent, the only result  will be more of those ceremonies and more deaths of innocents like the  168 children and teachers who were killed by a U.S. bomb.

An arrogant Hegseth dismisses all of this with a shrug as ``bad  things happen.'' To Trump, he sees it as a fundraising opportunity as  he solicits money using the pictures of these fallen heroes.

But for the families who lost a father, a son, or a daughter, a  spouse, it means an empty seat at Thanksgiving. It means a bride  walking unaccompanied down the aisle. It means an untouched pillow on  the bed. It means years of grief without the good advice, the laughter,  the hope, and the bear hug that will never come.

While Iran certainly has a tyrannical regime that has murdered  thousands of its own citizens and in prior years was responsible for  the deaths of some Americans, Iran posed no imminent or immediate  threat at the time President Trump chose to suddenly abandon  negotiations and launch an assault. Republicans are rubber-stamping a  war that lacks any plan or any set goal. More than 200 American  servicemembers have already been wounded, and Trump is certainly not  dispatching more ground troops to the area for the sunshine.

We are now in week 4 of what he told us was a 4- to 5-week war. All  we have to show for it is death and destruction, a depleted weapons  supply, soaring gas prices, and an Iranian regime that is intact and  more hardline than ever.

Israeli officials have advised that any Iranian protestors will be  ``slaughtered'' by a brutal regime that is ``not cracking.'' What is  much worse about this is that Trump knew. He was told by close advisers  that this would be the outcome before this war began. As one said: ``It  wasn't just predictable, it was predicted.''

Instead of acknowledging this complete failure, Trump continues to  endanger all of us. Now, he is submitting to this Congress a bill for  American taxpayers of $200 billion. Let's face it, Iran has grabbed  Trump by the Hormuz, with no path out of a quagmire that could be like  Iraq where we lost 4,400 servicemembers and wasted over $2 trillion.

With Trump's $200 billion bill, about 22 million Americans could have  affordable access to healthcare, not just this year, but with restored  tax credits for the next 7 years. Our veterans, 9 million veterans  could get their VA healthcare paid for for the next 2 years. With $200  billion, we could double the National Institutes of Health budget to  explore research for Alzheimer's and  other dreaded diseases. We could fully fund Pell grants and educational  opportunities for 7 million Americans over the next 7 years, actions  that could have been taken here at home, but Trump yielded to pressure  from abroad.

We know that under Trump it is Netanyahu first and Americans second.  Too weak to prevent this war by saying no to him, he continues to  blindly follow strongmen. Amazingly, when Trump is told that war  criminal Vladimir Putin is helping Iran target American servicemembers,  he shrugs it off. He is so desperate that he has now not only lifted  sanctions on Russian oil, fueling the Russian war machine to attack  innocents in Ukraine, he has actually removed sanctions on Iranian oil  to fund the Iranian Government and the missiles that they continue to  send our way.

While Trump declares himself the ``acting president of Venezuela''  and says that he can do ``anything I want'' to Cuba, while one of his  many lies contradicts the next one, he really believes that he is not  just king of America, but king of the universe. Yet, it is Americans  that will pay the very severe price for his gigantic ego and constant  whims that embark us in danger around the globe.