Welcoming the Honorable Christian D. Menefee to the House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699521/welcoming-the-honorable-christian-d-menefee-to-the-house-of-representatives


Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, Saturday was a great day for progress in  Texas, from Houston to Fort Worth. For almost a year after the tragic  death of our late colleague, Sylvester Turner, the citizens of the 18th  Congressional District of Texas in Houston have been denied  representation in this Congress.

After Governor Abbott delayed the call for the election for almost 8  months and then delayed the runoff election another 3 months, these  Texans finally have the representation that they deserve.

At this moment, we remember the life of Sylvester Turner, who  honorably served Houstonians for a decade or more as mayor and State  representative, and who took over after the passing of our colleague,  Sheila Jackson Lee, who we all remember for her tenacity.

This is in a district that was once represented by the legendary  Barbara Jordan. This is also a district with a long legacy of fighters,  fighters for justice. I am confident that Christian Menefee will carry  on that tradition.

He was raised in the 18th Congressional District by two military  parents who taught him about the values of hard work, of loyalty, and  of standing up for what is right.

With the help of a Pell grant, he was the first member in his family  to graduate from college. He graduated from UT San Antonio and then  went on to St. Louis to get a law degree from Washington University.

He built a successful career as a commercial litigator in Houston and  provided extensive pro bono work there, including his working with  immigrant families affected by the Muslim ban. He most recently served  as the Harris County attorney, the youngest person and the first  African American to ever hold that office.

At this troubling time in our country, please join me in welcoming  someone who I know will be a great colleague, carrying out the  incomplete term of Mr. Turner in this Congress.

Congratulations, Christian.