Extend Enhanced Premium Tax Credit


Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, right now, we have a chance to protect  Americans from going broke.

On January 1, families across this country were hit by the largest  healthcare cost increases we have seen in more than a decade. Millions  of Americans watched their premiums more than double overnight. A  family of four making $128,000 a year--teachers, nurses, small business  owners--just got slapped with an average $14,000-increase in their  silver plan premiums.

As the senior Democrat on the Health Subcommittee of the Committee on  Energy and Commerce, I have been raising this issue, along with my  colleagues, for many months now. Despite the warnings, President Trump  and congressional Republicans did nothing. They could have had a vote  in December, yet they blocked Democratic efforts to extend the  Affordable Care Act's enhanced premium tax credits. They looked  Americans in the eye and said no.

We have an opportunity to fix this right now. This week, we can pass  the bill that would extend the ACA's premium tax credits for 3 years.  This extension will cut premium spikes by 80 percent, on average. It  will wipe out increases for lower income families. It will save over 5  million Americans from losing their insurance.

This is the solution. We have it in our hands.

While this is a straightforward fix for the short term, we know that  our entire healthcare system needs to have reform so that we can  control costs.

I was part of the original team that negotiated and passed the  Affordable Care Act. While we were forced to accept less than the  universal healthcare plan we wanted, we secured protections that have  since saved tens of thousands of lives, ending discrimination against  people with preexisting conditions, letting parents keep their kids on  their insurance policies while the kids start their careers, and  guaranteeing that every plan covers basic essential care.

The majority, since that time in the last 15 years, has tried to  destroy it. They have voted more than 70 times to repeal the Affordable  Care Act and always with no replacement. They subjected the ACA to  death by a thousand cuts, offering nothing but snake oil alternatives  like high-deductible plans and health savings accounts that would leave  families high and dry.

When we passed the ACA on this floor, I said this is just a start to  affordable universal healthcare. Democrats have worked to improve the  ACA. That is why we passed the tax credits in the first place. Millions  of people signed up, and they were able to sleep without worrying about  one hospital visit bankrupting their families. My colleagues on the  other side want to rip that away, the reason for which I have no idea.

This crisis has shown that the only solution is ultimately universal  healthcare. I have been a cosponsor of the Medicare for All Act since  day one because I know it will guarantee a healthy nation.  Unfortunately, my colleagues across the aisle have made it crystal  clear: They have no appetite for meaningful reforms like Medicare for  All.

Here is what we need to do right now: We need to extend the enhanced  tax credits. They are the only thing standing between millions of  Americans and complete financial devastation.

In my State of Colorado, we did the right thing. The State stepped in  with our own tax credits, but not every State is Colorado. Americans in  States like Florida and Texas will be out of luck, and in Colorado and  every other State, we can't afford to take this burden on forever.

We need a nationwide solution. We have the votes for this fix. Four  Republicans joined us in the petition to bring this bill to the floor.

We must pass it. We must bring it to the floor, pass it in the House,  and send it over to the Senate this week. President Trump must sign it  into law. If we don't, here is the reality: Families will drop health  coverage to put food on the table, gambling with their lives. Medical  debt will bury them bill by bill, week by week. They will keep waiting  for the Trump healthcare plan that will be promised but will never  come.

For anybody at home sitting there asking: Do the Republicans know  what they are doing? The answer is, sadly, yes, they do.

Americans are watching. They know that the Democrats are fighting  like hell for them and for their healthcare. Now, they are waiting to  see if the majority has any conscience left.

It is time to vote ``yes.''