Hawley, Tester Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Ensure VA Infrastructure Better Serves Veterans


U.S. Senators Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) and Jon Tester (D-Mont.) introduced a bipartisan bill to ensure U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) infrastructure is better suited to provide timely and quality health care to veterans across the country.

The Build, Utilize, Invest, Lease, and Deliver (BUILD) for Veterans Act would cut red tape, expedite Congress' approval process of VA medical leases and provide the Department with more flexibility to lease unused VA property and facilities for veteran-focused services and operations. Among the bill's many provisions, it would also increase accountability of taxpayer dollars by requiring VA to employ qualified staff in each state, whose sole responsibility would be facility planning and management of all VA construction projects.

Senator Hawley said, "Gridlock in Congress has too often delayed the VA from securing the facilities it needs to provide critical services to our veterans. This bill streamlines the leasing approval process to ensure Missouri veterans can get the care they need, when they need it."

Senator Tester said, "Too often, veterans--and the dedicated VA employees and medical providers who serve them--find VA facilities outdated or cramped for space. And unfortunately, the process for updating or replacing that space is inundated with red tape. Our bipartisan bill streamlines the process for how Congress approves VA leased space for new facilities in Montana and across the country, and provides VA with more flexibility to utilize unused VA property to benefit veterans. Most importantly, it ensures that VA has the necessary tools, facilities, and staff to provide both quality care to veterans and accountability to taxpayers."

This bill ensures the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has the facilities it needs to provide high-quality care to Missouri's veterans:

Accelerates delivery of new medical facilities to Missouri's veterans by streamlining the Congressional approval process for major medical leases.Allows to VA to lease unused land or property to third parties providing housing, services, and other benefits to Missouri's veteran community.Requires every VA medical facility to have dedicated staff for managing construction projects, in order to ensure those projects are done in a timely and responsible manner.Makes sure the VA takes Missouri's veterans' perspectives into account when planning new construction projects in Missouri.  This legislation is supported by Veterans Service Organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Disabled American Veterans (DAV), and Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA).