Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HAWLEY. Madam President, I come here today with the business of  impeachment before this Chamber. It should hardly be necessary at this  late juncture to outline again the train of abuses and distortions and  outright lies that have brought us to today's impeachment vote: the  secret meetings in the Capitol basement; the closed hearings without  due process or basic fairness; the failure of the House to follow their  own rules and authorize an impeachment inquiry and then the bipartisan  vote against impeachment; and the attempt to manipulate or even prevent  a trial here in the Senate--holding the Articles of Impeachment for 33  days--in brazen defiance of the Constitution's mandates. 

  The House Democrats have given us the first purely partisan  impeachment in our history and the first attempt to remove an elected  President that does not even allege unlawful conduct. 

  Animating it all has been the bitter resentment of a professional  political class that cannot accept the verdict of the people in 2016,  that cannot accept the people's priorities, and that now seeks to  overturn the election and entrench themselves in power. That is how we  arrived at this moment, that is how we got here, and that is what this  is really about. 

  Now it is time to bring this fiasco to a close. It is time to end  this cycle of retribution and payback and bitterness. It is time to end  the abuse of our institutions. It is time to let the verdict of the  people stand. So I will vote today to acquit the President of these  charges. 

  You know, it has been clear for a long time that impeachment is not a  priority of the people--it is not even close. It is a pipe dream of  politicians. And as the Democrats have forced it on this country over  these many months, it has sapped our energy and diverted our attention  from the real issues that press upon our country, the issues the people  of this Nation have tried to get this town to care about for years. I  mean the crisis of surging suicides and drug addiction that is driving  down life expectancy in my State and across this Nation. I mean the  crisis at the border, where those drugs are pouring across. I mean the  crisis of skyrocketing healthcare costs, which burden families, young  and old, with bills they cannot pay. I mean the crisis of affordable  housing, which robs parents of a safe place to raise their children and  build a life. I mean the crisis of trafficking and exploitation, which  robs our young girls and boys of a future and our society of their  innocence. I mean the crisis of the family farm and the crisis of  education costs for those who go to college and the lack of good-paying  jobs for those who don't. I mean the crisis of connectivity in our  heartland, where too many schoolchildren can't access the internet even  to do their homework at night. I mean the crisis of unfair trade and  lost jobs and broken homes. And I could go on. 

  My point is this: When I listen to the people of my State, I don't  hear about impeachment. No, I hear about the problems of home and  neighborhood, of family and community, about the loss of faith in our  government and about the struggle to find hope for the future. This  town owes it to these Americans--the ones who sent us here--finally to  listen, finally to act, and finally to do something that really matters  to them. 

  We must leave this impeachment circus behind us and ensure that our  Constitution is never again abused in this way. It is time to turn the  page. It is time to turn to a new politics of the people and to a  politics of home. It is time to turn to the future--a future where this  town finally accepts the people's judgment and the people's verdict and  where this town finally delivers for the people who elected them; a  future where the middle of our society gets a fair shake and a level  playing field; a future where maybe--maybe--this town will finally  listen. 

  When I think of all the energy and all the effort that has been  expended on this impeachment crusade over almost 3 years now, I wonder  what might have been. 

  Today is a sad day, but it does not have to remain that way. Imagine  what we might achieve for the good of this Nation if we turn our energy  and our effort to the work of the American people. Imagine what we  could do to keep families in their homes and to bring new possibility  to the Nation's heartland and to care for our children in every part of  this society. Imagine what we could do to lift up the most vulnerable  among us who have been exploited and trafficked and give them new hope  and new life. Imagine what we could do for those who have been  forgotten, from our rural towns to our inner cities. Imagine what we  could do to give them control over their own destinies. 

  We can find the common good. We can push the boundaries of the  possible. We can rebuild this Nation if we will listen to the American  people. Let us begin. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT