Letter to American Companies in China - Senator Hawley Calls for American Companies in China to Stand Up Against Crackdown in Hong Kong


Today marks the 31st anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre. Fordecades, many around the world thought that growing prosperity would lead the ChineseCommunist Party (CCP) to liberalize and show respect for human dignity and freedom.Unfortunately, the CCP has only grown more committed to its authoritarian model as theyears have progressed, and today, it is poised once again to destroy a peaceful protestmovement, this time in Hong Kong.The fate of Hong Kong hangs in the balance. The CCP is forging ahead with anational security law that will effectively ban protests in Hong Kong and authorizeBeijing to use mainland security agencies to target Hong Kongers. This effort comes ayear after millions of Hong Kongers took to the streets to peacefully protest attacks bythe CCP and its proxies on the basic rights and liberties promised to them under the SinoBritish Joint Declaration and the Hong Kong Basic Law. If Beijing enacts the nationalsecurity law as it has promised to, it will mean the death of democracy in Hong Kong.American companies like your own have a say in what happens next. The CCPmay not care about freedom, democracy, or any of the other things for which we, asAmericans, have long stood and fought. But it does care about you. It cares about thebusiness you bring to its shores, and more importantly, about the opportunities yourbusiness provides for it to grow its own economy and then use its economic poweragainst others.Indeed, for decades, Beijing has studied, stolen, and replicated your best practicesand products in order to propel its own commercial expansion. It has simultaneouslymastered the art of economic intimidation and used its growing economic power tosilence the world's nations, corporations, and others while it crushes those it deems athreat to its rule or hegemonic ambitions. None of this would be possible without accessto companies like your own, from which it has learned and gained so much.Although the CCP has grown stronger over the years, it still has a way to gobefore it can dominate the United States and others seeking to live free from Chinesecoercion. That is why your voices matter. The CCP knows that its economic fortunes arestill tied to your companies' participation in its markets. If it knows that you may retractthat participation in response to the Hong Kong crackdown, then it may yet restrain itself.And some vestige of freedom -- some glimmer of hope -- might yet live on in that city.This is the power you hold. In the final calculus, you may be doing business in China. But you are anAmerican company first and foremost. And you have a responsibility to your nation --and indeed, to all free nations of the world -- to speak up for what is right. You have anobligation to put principle ahead of profit and to ensure that your actions do not enablethe destruction of others' freedoms. Nowhere is this truer than in Hong Kong, thefrontline of the fight against CCP imperialism.With that in mind, I request your response to the following questions:1. Have you publicly condemned the CCP's proposed national security law andother attacks by Beijing and its proxies on Hong Kongers' basic rights andliberties?2. If you have not, why have you chosen to remain silent, and do you plan to speakout publicly against the CCP's crackdown in Hong Kong?3. Have you reevaluated your presence or activities in China in light of thecrackdown in Hong Kong?4. What other steps are you taking to ensure your company is not complicit in theviolation of Hong Kongers' basic rights and liberties?5. What additional steps are you taking to stand with the people of Hong Kong?Time and again, companies like your own have claimed to stand for freedom. Now isyour opportunity to align your actions with your words. The CCP's crackdown in HongKong poses an unignorable threat to the values you purport to hold dear. It is time for youto stand with the people of Hong Kong and show that your claims are more than justhollow words.Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter.