Letter to Mr. Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google - Senator Hawley Demands Google Explain Continued Censorship of Criticism of CCP


I write to ask you to respond to troubling reports that your company has resumed its longpattern of censorship at the behest of the Chinese Communist Party.These reports suggest that Google engineers may have changed the algorithms on YouTubeto automatically censor certain criticisms of the Chinese Communist Party. In particular, Googleengineers appear to have altered YouTube code to automatically block the Chinese terms for"communist bandit" and "50-cent party"--the latter term referring to a division of the ChineseCommunist Party whose purpose is deflecting criticism from the Party by using sockpuppetaccounts to spread online propaganda.1 These reports follow in the wake of Google's purported"mis"-translation last year of the phrase "I am sad to see Hong Kong become part of China" to "Iam happy to see Hong Kong become part of China."Shortly after these reports were unveiled, YouTube dismissed the censorship of these termsas "an error," but this purported "error" follows a long, disturbing pattern of Google censoringcontent to try to gain favor with the Chinese Communist Party. Until 2010, for example, youactively censored content through your search engine Google.cn, which operated in China. Despiteyour stated commitments to free speech, you were happy to censor if it meant obtaining morerevenue; you shelved the Google.cn search engine only after you were targeted with a cyberattack.Indeed, as recently as last year, you were secretly working on a new censorship-based searchengine, Project Dragonfly, development of which was paused only in the face of immense backlashinternally.2 Even worse, while Google.cn at least disclosed to users that it was censoring content,Google engineers designed Project Dragonfly to conceal that fact.Unfortunately, your company is not alone in censoring content to curry favor with theChinese Communist Party. Last year, Apple removed the Taiwan flag emoji from iPhonesoperating in Hong Kong.3 And last fall, the NBA, famous for encouraging players and membersto criticize American government officials, cracked down when individuals started criticizingofficials in Beijing.4

This kowtowing is unacceptable. Selling out American principles to curry favor withcommunist officials is no way to run an American business--regardless of who else is doing it.Please respond to my office by June 12 with information about your censorship of terms criticalof the Chinese Communist Party:1. Identify any discussions you or other executives have had--and conclusions from thosediscussions--about the potential conflict between Google's financial interest in developingproducts for the Chinese market and Google's purported commitment to free speech andhuman rights.2. Some reports suggest that this censorship problem first arose last fall. Identify when youbecame aware that YouTube was censoring this content and how much time elapsedbetween that time and May 26, 2020.3. Identify any discussions you or other executives have had, the timing of those discussions,any conclusions arrived at during those discussions, and the results of any internalinvestigations about YouTube's censorship of the Chinese terms for "communist bandit"and "50-cent party."4. Describe the date of, and circumstances surrounding, the changes that led YouTube tocensor the Chinese terms for "communist bandit" and "50-cent party."5. Explain Google's reason for censoring these terms.6. Explain what consideration, if any, was given to Google's history of censoring content onbehalf of the Chinese Communist Party before this most recent censorship of terms criticalof the Chinese Communist Party.7. Explain whether Google or its partners had any conversations with members,representatives, or proxies of the Chinese Communist Party about these terms.8. Explain what steps have been taken to ensure that the Chinese Communist Party cannotmanipulate Google's algorithms.Thank you for your attention to this matter. I look forward to your response.