Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Boozman and Warner Lead Effort to Urge USDA to Assist Cotton Industry in Wake of Coronavirus


Dear Secretary Perdue:

We write today concerning the ongoing public health crisis caused by the spread of COVID-19and its impact on the agricultural industry. We appreciate all the work USDA is doing to ensurefarmers, ranchers, and the entire food and agricultural industry can continue to operate duringthis uncertain time. As you know, American agriculture has suffered greatly in recent years, andthe economic strain from the COVID-19 pandemic has presented further challenges for ourproducers. While all sectors of the agricultural economy have been impacted by this publichealth crisis, the U.S. cotton industry been particularly hard hit during this time.

Since the beginning of 2020, cotton futures prices have declined 30 percent. As retail storesaround the globe have shuttered, orders from U.S. textile mills have dropped as much as 90percent in the last month. Cotton merchandisers and distributors are also facing additional costsfor storage, interest, and other carrying costs as worldwide demand is significantly depressed.Cottonseed, a majority of which is used as a feed ration for dairy and beef cattle, is in a tenuoussituation as its main customers -- dairy and beef cattle producers-- are also facing severeeconomic losses because of the ongoing public health crisis.

We understand the cotton industry has reached consensus on a package of recommendations toassist all segments of the industry. We encourage you to work with the industry, so that neededaid can be delivered in a timely manner. In responding to the current crisis, Congress and theAdministration have acted swiftly to assist the people of our country during this time. We askthat you use that same approach to ensure that this critical industry represented throughout ourstates receives the necessary assistance.

Thank you for your ongoing efforts to provide relief, and we look forward to working with youin this regard.

Sincerely,