Letter to Jovita Carranza, Administrator of the Small Business Administration - Senator Hawley Asks SBA to Explain Planned Parenthood Loans Scandal


Dear Administrator Carranza:I am extremely concerned about the reports of Planned Parenthood affiliatesreceiving $80 million in Paycheck Protection Program loans from the Small BusinessAdministration. Planned Parenthood is plainly ineligible for the program, and it is criticalto identify how and why this was able to happen.From the very beginning, Planned Parenthood's exclusion from the PaycheckProtection Program has been well known and the subject of much discussion. That isbecause the CARES Act that Congress passed into law in March expressly stated thatorganizations like Planned Parenthood are ineligible for the program. Section 1102 of thatlaw says that nonprofits are eligible for the program only if they and their affiliateorganizations have no more than 500 employees. As the White House correctly said lastmonth,1 Planned Parenthood, at about 16,000 employees nationally, fails to meet thisrequirement.Despite this text and public understanding, 37 Planned Parenthood offices stillapplied for and received funds from the program. But even Planned Parenthood admits thatevery one of its offices--regional and national--are affiliated, making each officeineligible for the Paycheck Protection Program. Planned Parenthood's most recentfinancial statement describes the organization as one national branch, 55 "PlannedParenthood Affiliates," and 110 "ancillary entities" that are "control[led]" by those"Planned Parenthood Affiliates." Planned Parenthood further stresses that "The [national]Organization, PP Affiliates and the ancillary organizations together comprise PlannedParenthood."2In the light of the clear text of the CARES Act and Planned Parenthood's ownadmission that every one of its offices are affiliated with each other, it is hard to concludeanything other than that Planned Parenthood committed fraud. The SBA application formrequired each of the 37 Planned Parenthood affiliates to certify that Planned Parenthood,as a whole, employs no more than 500 employees. The application form further requiredPlanned Parenthood to certify that it "underst[oo]d that knowingly making a false statementto obtain a guaranteed loan from SBA is punishable under the law."3 Yet even thoughPlanned Parenthood employs 16,000 people, and even though Planned Parenthood itselfadmits that all its offices are affiliated, Planned Parenthood falsely certified 37 times thatit employs no more than 500 employees.Planned Parenthood is not a small business. It is a multi-billion-dollar company. Inthe fiscal year ending last June, Planned Parenthood had $2.3 billion in assets and nearly$2 billion in revenue. The year before, Planned Parenthood paid its CEO more than $1million. And now, Planned Parenthood has diverted $80 million from actual smallbusinesses during a global pandemic even though Planned Parenthood knew it wasineligible for this program.The question is how this could happen. Why, when 37 Planned Parenthood officesapplied under the program, did your system not flag these applications? Did you notappropriately instruct lending organizations? The ease with which Planned Parenthood wasable to unlawfully divert $80 million should concern everyone. Promptly respond to thefollowing requests:1. Identify each Planned Parenthood affiliate that improperly applied for funds, andprovide copies of their applications.2. Identify each Planned Parenthood affiliate that improperly received funds.3. Identify each lending institution through which these Planned Parenthood affiliatesapplied.4. Identify each regional SBA official who was responsible for funds that went toPlanned Parenthood.5. Explain what methods you took to instruct lending organizations not to lend fundsto ineligible organizations.6. Explain why your processes did not automatically flag applications from PlannedParenthood and freeze those funds.7. Identify the steps you are taking to ensure that Planned Parenthood returns theseimproperly diverted funds, with interest.8. Identify all criminal referrals you have made for fraud and lying on governmentforms.