Sen. Hawley Introduces Resolution Condemning China's Plans to Violate the Sino-British Joint Declaration and Hong Kong Basic Law


Today, Senator Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) introduced a resolution with more than ten cosponsors condemning the Chinese Communist Party's (CCP) proposed "sweeping national security law" for Hong Kong that would ban secession, subversion, and foreign interference.

Senator Hawley's resolution states unequivocally that passage of this proposed law would put the Beijing in direct violation of the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Hong Kong Basic Law. The resolution also calls upon all free nations to stand firm against the CCP's campaign to destroy Hongkongers' basic liberties and human rights.

Senator Hawley said, "With the world focused on the pandemic, Beijing thinks this is their opportunity to steamroll Hong Kong. They say they want to "improve' the lives of Hongkongers, but in reality, that means stripping the people of Hong Kong of the basic rights and liberties guaranteed to them under the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Hong Kong Basic Law. This resolution condemns the Chinese Communist Party's premeditated violation of these agreements and calls on other free nations to join with us. We must stand up to China's continued imperialism, and if the Beijing government goes through with this, then we need to be ready to respond strongly, including by reconsidering their trade status."

Last fall, Senator Hawley joined pro-democracy protestors in the streets of Hong Kong and called for Chief Executive Carrie Lam to resign. He was an original cosponsor of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act. Senator Hawley has also introduced the Hong Kong Be Water Act and called upon the United Nations to pass a resolution condemning Beijing's abuse of the people of Hong Kong.

Joining Senator Hawley as cosponsors are Senators Martha McSally (R-Ariz.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), and Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Ted Cruz (R-Texas).

Representative Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.) plans to introduce companion legislation in the House.