Senator David Perdue Takes Action To Allow Dismissal Of Impeachment Against President Trump


In response to U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's unprecedented attempt to prevent an impeachment trial in the U.S. Senate, U.S. Senator David Perdue (R-GA), U.S. Senator Josh Hawley (R-MO), and colleagues introduced a resolution to update Senate rules to allow a motion to dismiss articles of impeachment for lack of prosecution within 25 days.

"The Democrats' impeachment process in the U.S. House of Representatives was nothing more than a partisan show trial. Now, Speaker Pelosi and Leader Schumer are trying to play the same political games in the U.S. Senate," said Senator Perdue. "President Trump deserves his day in court, and the Senate is fully prepared to conduct a fair trial. However, if the House refuses to send over the articles, the Senate should have the ability to dismiss and move on to finding real solutions for the American people."

"Speaker Pelosi started this bogus impeachment by claiming President Trump was an urgent "threat to democracy' who had to be removed now," said Senator Hawley. "But after a bipartisan vote against the articles in the House, and with the public opposed to the Democrats' partisan games, Pelosi has changed her tune. Now she wants to prevent a Senate trial, perhaps indefinitely. But the Constitution gives the Senate sole power to adjudicate articles of impeachment, not the House. If Speaker Pelosi is afraid to try her case, the articles should be dismissed for failure to prosecute and Congress should get back to doing the people's business."

In addition to Perdue and Hawley, this resolution is cosponsored by U.S. Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Mike Braun (R-IN), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), and Rick Scott (R-FL).

Background:

The U.S. Senate has adopted a set of 26 rules that govern all impeachment proceedings. Those rules presume prompt delivery of the articles of impeachment to the Senate following their adoption by the U.S. House. Article 1, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitution gives the Senate the "sole" power to try impeachment cases. If the Speaker refuses to transmit the articles after the President has been impeached, she could prevent the Senate from exercising its constitutional right.

This resolution would:

Amend the U.S. Senate's impeachment rules to prevent this abuse of the Constitution and protect the Senate's sole power to try impeachment.Allow the Senate to dismiss for lack of prosecution any articles of impeachment that the U.S. House of Representatives has delayed transmitting for 25 calendar days or more.Provide any U.S. Senator with the ability to move to dismiss once the allotted time period has elapsed. Any motion to dismiss would be voted upon by the full Senate.