Senate Unanimously Passes Blunt-Hawley-Roberts-Moran Resolution Honoring Kansas City Chiefs as Super Bowl Champions


U.S. Senators Pat Roberts (Kan.), Jerry Moran (Kan.), Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Josh Hawley (Mo.) today announced that their resolution congratulating the Kansas City Chiefs on their historic Super Bowl LIV victory over the San Francisco 49ers has unanimously passed the Senate.

"I'm proud to honor the Kansas City Chiefs' historic Super Bowl victory with this resolution," said Roberts. "From Patrick Mahomes' no look pass to some of the greatest comebacks in NFL history, this team had an unforgettable season and their hard work and determination deserves to be recognized. Whether you're from Kansas, Missouri or somewhere else, the Kansas City Chiefs are a team everyone can support!"

"For the first time in 50 years, the Kansas City Chiefs are Super Bowl Champions; that's a great reason to recognize them in the United States Senate," said Moran. "I'm proud to join my colleagues in introducing and passing this resolution to honor the Chiefs Super Bowl victory and to congratulate all the players, Andy Reid and his coaching staff, the Hunt family and the entire Chiefs Kingdom in both Kansas and Missouri and across the country."

"Watching the Chiefs bring home the Lombardi Trophy for the first time in 50 years is something my family and I will never forget," said Blunt. "The Chiefs brought a level of determination to the field that made us all proud and set an example for young athletes. When you look at who they are, how they play, and the excitement they bring to the game, I think the Chiefs are well on their way to becoming America's team. I look forward to seeing the Chiefs build the next NFL dynasty in Kansas City."

"As a lifelong Chiefs fan, I've waited my entire life to see the Lombardi Trophy return to Kansas City. The team worked hard for this, and Chiefs Kingdom rallied behind them every step of the way," Hawley said. "Congratulations to the Chiefs organization on an incredible season and their hard-fought victory in Super Bowl LIV."