Senator Hawley Announces Witness List for "Dangerous Partners: Big Tech & Beijing' Subcommittee Hearing


Today U.S. Senator Josh Hawley (R-Mo.), Chairman of the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, announced the following witnesses for the hearing entitled "Dangerous Partners: Big Tech & Beijing." The hearing will be held on Wednesday, March 4, at 2:30 p.m. ET in Room 226 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building.

Senator Hawley invited representatives from both Apple and TikTok to testify. Both companies declined his invitation -- just as they did for the Subcommittee's hearing in November.

Panel OneMr. Clyde Wallace, Deputy Assistant Director, FBI Cyber DivisionMr. Wallace oversees Cyber Division operations and the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force at the FBI. Throughout his career, Mr. Wallace has held leadership positions in the FBI's Criminal Investigative Division, Cyber Division, Human Resources Division, and the Director's Office as well as the Atlanta and Birmingham Field Offices. He was named Deputy Assistant Director for the Cyber Division in July 2019.Mr. Bryan Ware, Assistant Director for Cybersecurity, CISAMr. Ware serves as the Assistant Secretary for Cyber, Infrastructure, and Resilience Policy. He is responsible for leading U.S. Department of Homeland Security policy development in support of department-wide efforts to reduce national risks with a focus on critical infrastructure cybersecurity, federal network security, countering cyber-crime, and improving the security and resilience of the global cyber ecosystem, as well as national resilience initiatives that enhance federal, state and local government and community preparedness and response capabilities.Mr. Adam Hickey, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, DOJ National Security DivisionMr. Hickey is Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the National Security Division at the U.S. Department of Justice, where he oversees the Counterintelligence and Export Control Section and the Foreign Investment Review Section. Among other things, he supervises investigations and prosecutions of foreign, state-sponsored computer intrusions and attacks, enforcement of the Foreign Agents Registration Act, and the Division's foreign investment security reviews (e.g., CFIUS cases). Mr. Hickey currently focuses much of his time on the Department's China Initiative, a program dedicated to better combatting national security threats from China.Panel TwoMs. Samm Sacks, Cybersecurity Policy and China Digital Economy Fellow, New AmericaMs. Sacks is a Cybersecurity Policy and China Digital Economy Fellow at New America. Her research focuses on emerging information and communication technology policies globally, particularly in China. She has worked on Chinese technology policy issues for over a decade, both with the U.S. government and in the private sector. Ms. Sacks leads New America's Data & Great Power Competition project, which looks at the relationship between geopolitics and emerging rules for who harnesses the value of data. She runs New America's New York China Tech Roundtable series and is a frequent contributor to the DigiChina project, publishing translations and analysis of the latest developments in Chinese tech policy.Dr. Derek Scissors, Resident Scholar, American Enterprise InstituteDr. Scissors is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, where he focuses on the Chinese and Indian economies and on U.S. economic relations with Asia. He is also chief economist of the China Beige Book, which provides large-scale data on the Chinese economy. Before joining AEI, Dr. Scissors was a senior research fellow in the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation and an adjunct professor of economics at George Washington University. He has worked for London-based Intelligence Research Ltd., taught economics at Lingnan University in Hong Kong, and served as an action officer in international economics and energy for the U.S. Department of Defense.