TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, we have a lot of problems in America  today--a pandemic, a recession, a surge of violence in our major cities  drowning out a nationwide call for justice and hope. We have work to do  in this body and this city to solve these problems and to heed that  call. 

  Our voters sent us here to make things better, to rebuild, to heal,  but that is not what we are doing. No, for the last several weeks, my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle and their allies in the media  and some professional political activists on a payroll have been trying  to divide us against each other, to paralyze us, to stoke resentment of  our fellow citizens and hatred of this Nation that we call home. 

  It is really remarkable, if you think about it. Just a few short  weeks ago, we were united in outrage at the murder of George Floyd. We  were united in impatience for justice for his family. And nothing has  changed about that. All people of good will still want justice to be  done. I do. But the call of the marchers has been weaponized by  partisans who want nothing more than to say that only some Americans  really support equal justice under the law; only some institutions of  government are really committed to that cause; only one party can be  trusted to govern in good faith; only one political coalition is  righteous enough to rule over the other. 

  You don't hear talk of unity when watching MSNBC or reading the New  York Times these days. Instead, those outlets are drawing up a new list  of villains--not Floyd's killer. No, not him. We are way past George  Floyd now, I guess. No, we are talking about new grievances, structural  evils endemic to America itself--the police, the military, the flag,  oh, and of course the President. It is always about the President. 

  Actually, what it is really about is the President's voters. It is  about the people who elected him. It is about the red States, like  mine. It is about the people who live there. The elite media, the woke  mob--they don't like these people, and they want the rest of America to  dislike them too. This is why they are telling us that it wasn't a  homicidal cop who killed George Floyd. No, his death now is the product  of systemic racism, we are told, and anyone who doesn't acknowledge  their role in his death, anyone who doesn't bend their knee to this  extreme ideology, is complicit in violence. 

  It is not enough, apparently, to bring Derrick Chauvin to justice for  his crimes. No, now we have to defund all the police. There is no scab  they will not pick at, no divide they will not exploit, no controversy  they will not gin up to make us hate each other. Well, we cannot take  their bait. 

  In the last weeks, we have seen a professor put on leave for quoting  the words of Martin Luther King, Jr. Not woke enough. We have seen the  New York Times fire its opinion page editor for daring to publish the  words of a Republican Senator. He forgot the party line. We have seen a  literal insurrection in the streets of Seattle, a breakaway Antifa  enclave ruled by a self-described warlord--you cannot make this stuff  up--lauded now, in some quarters at least, as an experiment in post- police governance. 

  We have had a bill introduced in the House to bring that experiment  in chaos to our cities and towns all across the country and to demonize  the fine men and women who put their lives on the line day and night to  protect protesters' rights to demand justice. 

  The madness is accelerating this month, but the radical left has been  at this for a while. 

  The New York Times won a Pulitzer Prize for the 1619 Project--a  propaganda campaign designed to recast America's founding as an evil  event and American democracy as a system of violent racial oppression.  It won that prize despite wide criticism by historians who objected to  its historical revisionism. 

  Now, with the Pulitzer's seal of approval, the Times is developing a  1619 grade school curriculum so that our children will be indoctrinated  to hate this country at taxpayer expense. They want to do to our public  schools what they have already done to the universities. 

  What does any of this have to do with healing our Nation? What does  it have to do with bringing about that more perfect union, whose  achievement is our shared ambition and shared obligation as Americans?  The answer is, nothing. And that is the point. 

  As has been widely reported, this week one of my Senate colleagues  introduced a measure to strip all military installations and bases in  this country of reference to Confederate soldiers or Confederate  history. And for what purpose? To achieve justice for  George Floyd? To bring our Nation together? No, I don't think so. The  purpose was to erase from history--erase every person and name and  event not righteous enough--and to cast those who would object as  defenders of the cause of slavery, to reenact in our current politics  that Civil War that tore brother from brother and divided this Nation  against itself.  

  You would think, the way some in the media talk about this country,  that they are sad we are still not fighting the Civil War. They would  like us to fight a new civil war in our culture day and night, without  end. 

  I would suggest to my colleagues that the Civil War not only gave us  villains, it also gave us heroes and a more perfect union to love.  Maybe we should learn from those heroes. 

  We should learn from Lincoln, who called our Nation to unity at  Gettysburg. ``It is for the living,'' he told us, ``to be dedicated  here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so  nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great  task remaining before us--that from these honored dead we take  increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full  measure of devotion--that we here highly resolve that these dead shall  not have died in vain--that this nation shall have a new birth of  freedom and that the government of the people, by the people, and for  the people, shall not perish from the earth.'' 

  If you visit Gettysburg, you will find monuments to the dead of free  States and slave States alike, and you will see children who are  brought there by their parents after long car drives from their homes,  drawn in by these old symbols and memorials to the lessons those teach  about our Nation's new birth of freedom. 

  The Americans who visit these hallowed grounds all across our country  want to know why this Nation fought a war against itself, why brothers  could not live under one flag together. We teach them there in those  places how we became a better nation through the crucible of that  terrible war, and we teach them there to be proud that we did so. 

  That hard-fought pride in the shared struggle that unites us is now  fading. That story is being erased. A nation united in the cause of  justice is dividing, and we are increasingly at war with ourselves.  This cannot continue. This great Nation and its good people cannot  continue our life of freedom together if we vilify and destroy each  other from within. 

  Now, before we vote on this floor on the National Defense  Authorization Act, I will offer an amendment to undo this effort at  historical revisionism. I will offer it not to celebrate the cause of  the Confederacy but to embrace the cause of union--our union, shared  together as Americans. 

  It is time for our leaders to stop using their position here to  divide us. Let us work together instead to build on the history and the  responsibility that we share as Americans to continue that unfinished  work of this Nation that we call home. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT