Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Young and Senator  Collins, who have just preceded me and set the tone, as only they can  do, with regard to honoring Memorial Day. 

  It is truly an honor to stand on the floor of the Senate and speak  about so many who have served and defended our Nation. As the son of a  World War II veteran--a marine veteran, I might add--and a veteran  myself, also a marine, it is a privilege to represent our men and women  in uniform in the U.S. Senate and to be able to ensure they have all  the tools they need to fulfill their missions, to ensure their families  are supported here at home, and to ensure our veterans receive the care  and services they deserve. 

  Just a word about my dad. He was 41 when the war started. He joined  the Marines--he was in a non-combat role--at a recruiting station in  Kansas City. They looked and looked and looked for a combat billet and  finally found one that said that the top age was 39. They really needed  people. He was 41. He lied about his age, and then went into that  billet to see action in Guam, Okinawa, and, yes, Iwo Jima. 

  I went to Iwo Jima on the 15th anniversary--that was about 60 years  ago. We now have the 75th. When standing on top of Mount Suribachi, you  really stop and realize exactly the sacrifice my dad and others made.  He survived those attacks, and thank you to President Truman for  allowing my dad to get back. 

  Throughout our Nation's history, our service men and women have  repeatedly answered the call of duty and stepped forward to defend the  freedoms we hold dear. From the earliest days of struggle for our  Republic to the current unprecedented threats from terrorism, to cyber  attacks, to unpredictable regimes with missile capability to attack our  shores, and, yes, to global pandemics, the principles set forth by our  Founding Fathers have been defended by our brave men and women in  uniform. 

  I stand here once again to commemorate those who have made the  ultimate sacrifice for our freedoms. Hopefully they will continue to be  remembered by those of us who enjoy the freedoms for which they fought  and died. 

  Memorial Day is the day when a grateful nation recognizes those who  have given so much out of love for their country, their family, and  their fellow citizens. 

  Remembering service and sacrifice does not happen just on Memorial  Day. One of the greatest honors to me is meeting the veterans who visit  Washington, DC, through the incredible efforts of the Honor Flight  Network. Having the opportunity to visit with members of the ``greatest  generation'' who make the journey to Washington--often with high school  students who are learning firsthand about their service and that  history--so they can see their memorial is a humbling and uplifting  experience for me and for all of us. To watch these men and women share  their stories, many for the first time, is incredibly moving. 

  When meeting these members of the ``greatest generation,'' you  understand how befitting that label is for these humble men and women  who stood in the face of tyranny and triumph. We see this same courage  and resolve demonstrated daily by the good men and women currently  serving in our Armed Forces throughout the world. We see acts of  uncommon valor and great sacrifice for a cause and a deep belief in  something bigger that just one person. 

  We honor all the American men and women who have given their lives  for their country since our Nation's founding. Susan Collins just  referred to that in her very fine speech. We honor the more than  300,000 living veterans, from those folks to the ``greatest  generation,'' and we honor the families of those who are here and are  serving. 

  Speaking of the ``greatest generation,'' I have the honor of being  the chairman of the Eisenhower Memorial Commission, the memorial which  pays tribute to Kansas's favorite son Ike's leadership both as Supreme  Allied Commander, where he saved Western democracy, and the 34th  President of the United States, where he gave us 8 years of peace and  prosperity. This memorial will serve as a symbol for all generations of  the promise of America and what our values make possible here and  around the world. 

  We were supposed to dedicate this memorial this month, but, like  everything else, the pandemic put those plans on hold. When we dedicate  the memorial in September, we hope to have many World War II veterans  attending, including Kansas's other favorite son, Senator Bob Dole. 

  While our debt to these heroes can never be repaid, I know that my  fellow Kansans agree that these liberators and defenders of democracy  deserve our utmost respect and gratitude. 

  I am going to quote from General Eisenhower when he was President and  following that. ``There is nothing wrong with America that the faith,  love of freedom, intelligence, and energy of her citizens cannot  cure.'' I hope those words by Ike at that particular time can ring true  in this body and more especially, those of us who are privileged to  serve in this body. 

  There is another quote I will repeat from Winston Churchill, who  said: ``Kites rise highest against the wind, not with it.'' We have  seen a lot of talk about the pandemic, and those winds have been a bit  partisan, to say the least. I would hope that we would stop for a  moment and honor Memorial Day in the true way we should do that. 

  I would close by saying, in the words of Ronald Reagan:  

       Freedom is never more than one generation away from       extinction. It is not ours by inheritance. It must be fought       for and defended constantly by each generation, for it comes       only once to a people. Those who have known freedom and then       lost it have never known it again.  

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT