MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, I thank the Senator for yielding to me. 

  As has been aptly pointed out by Senator Hoeven, who, by the way,  does an outstanding job as our protector on the all-powerful Senate  Appropriations Committee, we are in a tough place. We really are-- rural, smalltown America--given the rural healthcare delivery system  with regard to this virus. 

  I thank Senator Fischer, who is in the business and always does a  good job of telling the story of the beef producer and of always trying  to tell me that Nebraska's beef is more tender or delicious than the  beef in Kansas, but that is her right. 

  As Senator Hyde-Smith has just pointed out and what we have been  trying to point out--and Senator Stabenow, who just recently spoke on  the floor--we on the Ag Committee like to say we are the least partisan  committee in the Congress. I think that was evident by the time we  passed the farm bill. It took us a year to do it--a little over that-- but we got 87 votes. It was truly bipartisan. I deeply regret that we  have reached a point here in the Senate where that is not the case with  regard to the whole Senate. 

  If you talk to any agriculture commodity group, any farm  organization, or just up and down Main Street throughout Kansas--as a  matter of fact, I talked to the chamber of commerce, Senator Moran, who  just gave some very pertinent comments to our situation out in Kansas,  about the second question in: Chairman Pat, what about our rural areas? 

  Well, at that time, we were having trouble with regard to the  testing, and some rural hospitals were having to drive a great deal of  miles to Topeka. That was the only source. That stopped. In other  words, it hasn't stopped, it has gotten a heck of a lot better, with  Quest and LabCorp and other folks who are now making these tests  available. 

  But I want to get back to agriculture, and the Senator from North  Dakota is exactly right--we have been hit pretty hard. Two thousand  thirteen was the last time we had our prices above the cost of  production, and that involves everybody involved in agriculture, along  with Senator Thune.  

  I am going to try to wind this down here pretty quick so we can get  to you, Coop, and I thank you for your help, and I thank you for your  overview of what is in this bill, what isn't in this bill, and why on  Earth we can't get to it. 

  So I think probably the best thing to do for our beef industry is to  continue to work with our Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue. If  there is anybody who is more knowledgeable about what we are facing, I  don't know who it is. And I think possibly there could be a CCC payment  that would help us out in the beef industry in particular because that  is where we are really in trouble. But you could go down every  commodity, and you would see the same thing. People from all of their  organizations are coming forward to all of us on the Ag Committee and  saying: Why can't you help? 

  I am going to leave that subject. I think we can work on that. I  think we can get some more help from CCC, and that would be a direct  payment that would be immediate and that could be of help to people who  are really in trouble. 

  I want to say something else with regard to Senator Manchin, who is  sitting over here by his lonesome on the other side of the aisle. I  really like this guy. We are good friends. We hit it off right from the  first. Both of us want the same thing. In particular, his comments this  morning were about the rural healthcare delivery system in West  Virginia going through the same tribulation that we are going through  nationwide with regard to our rural areas. 

  I want to point out that there is $75 billion in this bill for our  rural hospitals to pay doctors and nurses who are dealing with the  virus. Well, we all are doing that. 

  It lifts the 2-percent sequester that happens all the time. You have  to go back to 2013, and under the Budget Control Act that was passed at  that particular time--not in force but at least was--what is the word  for it? Referring to President Obama, he would always be under the  Budget Control Act, finding the necessity that--no matter what we got  from the CMS, the Centers for Medicare Services, which is lovingly  called in our rural areas ``It's a Mess''--not under Seema Verma,  though. I think she is doing a good job. But every time we would  convince CMS to raise the Medicare reimbursement to critical access  hospitals, of which we have over 80 in Kansas, there was, again, that  2-percent cut. So we waived that cut for the first time since 2013. 

  In addition, let me say that there is special funding called for by  all of the community healthcare centers and rural health centers--of  which I know there are a lot in West Virginia, as there well are in  Kansas--for telemedicine. That was something back in the day that we  couldn't even have thought would be feasible, but it is now. There is a  15-percent reimbursement increase for these folks who are using  telemedicine. 

  So it is not like we haven't put together something we think will be  approved. We could do more. We could do more, and the Senator from West  Virginia has certainly indicated a strong interest in doing that. My  point is, we could do that if we would just vote to get on the bill,  and we would have 30 hours. I know that Senator Manchin and Senator  Roberts, working together, could accomplish darn near everything. 

  I see the Senator rising. I am not quite through. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROBERTS. Yes, if you have to. You are my distinguished friend. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROBERTS. I appreciate your comments. I guess it is OK to call you  Joe. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROBERTS. And I appreciate your friendship. 

   Well, about 2 hours ago, when we got this whirlwind or this  dustup going again, when our distinguished leader pointed out that we  have a good bill, and it is a bipartisan bill, and now we are talking  about the footprint that the airlines--the carbon footprint, that we  have to take a look at that, and on the boards of these corporations,  we want to investigate whether they are truly diverse, et cetera, et  cetera, and something about the Green New Deal. That is not pertinent  to this particular situation, to say the least. 

  Then when you said an objection, here is what I am worried about: We  had the Democratic leader, whom I have known from his House days--we  used to play basketball together, for goodness' sake, both of us very  slow. What I was doing on the court at my age, I have no idea. My job  was to set blind-side picks on Democrats, which I enjoy, one of whom  was Chuck Schumer. 

  But here we have the Democratic leader--Susan Collins, sitting right  here, stood up to be recognized, and there were three objections to her  even talking? That is going back to the days we really don't want to go  back to. 

  This is not the Senate I came to 24 years ago or, for that matter,  the House 16 years ago or as a staff director for 12 before that and 2  before that in the Senate. I mean, I have been around here for quite a  while. And these are not the worst of times. I mean, Washington was on  fire when we had the horrible assassination of MLK. Then we went  through Watergate, and then we went through the Vietnam war. Actually,  it was the Vietnam war before Watergate. And that tore the country  apart. Here in this Senate, we were able to come together to try to  reach bipartisan agreement. 

  I am telling you that this blanket of comity and respect is pretty  threadbare right now. We are right there--for a lot of reasons. I could  go back to the Kavanaugh hearings or the impeachment hearings, where  one of the House Members--I was sitting right here, he was talking  right here, looking right at me, and said: You are on trial, and if you  do not vote for this, it is treachery. I said: What? Me? I mean, what  was that all about? 

  At that time, by the way, we could have taken first steps with regard  to this virus. 

  I know that the assistant or the deputy leader there on your side  said: Everybody take a deep breath. We don't want to take a deep breath  anywhere now. But I will tell you that I hope we can come together on  this and see if we can't reach some agreement. Let's get on the bill.  We have got 30 hours to do it. 

  The Senator from West Virginia said that if we could just come to an  agreement--I suppose he is meaning beyond those two doors. We have been  meeting along and along and along. 

  I would ask the Senator, the distinguished Senator who is sitting  right down here, who is about ready to do a speech, how many workshops  have we had? I thought there were three. I guess there are five. But  each one of them worked with our Democratic counterparts, and they  got--I mean, they produced a bipartisan agreement.  

  I really don't understand why we can't get to at least vote for  cloture, and then we have 30 hours to--and maybe we could cut back that  30 hours. I would hope that is the case if we finally come to an  agreement. But with some of the things that I have heard that you want  put in this bill, A, they don't fit, and two, they are  counterproductive. 

  Let me just say this. There is a saying out in Dodge City, KS: There  is a lot of cactus in the world; you don't have to sit on every one of  them. And it appears to me that is what we are doing. 

  I have a nice square saying that is in an 8-by-10 right next to my  desk, and it is a quote from Lyndon Baines Johnson: ``Sometimes you  just have to hunker down like a jackass in a hailstorm and just take  it.'' Well, I am tired of just taking it. I am tired of the  partisanship. I am tired of all of this work that we have put together  to address what everybody understands is a national pandemic--a world  pandemic--and here we are, messing around, trying to say: Oh, no, we  can't vote for cloture and address some of these things with the now  five working groups who have worked together to produce a product. That  is wrong. That is really wrong. 

  So I plead with my colleagues. I don't do this. I don't come down to  the floor and make partisan speeches. You do that to introduce an  amendment; half of your folks won't vote for it. The same thing the  other way around. When they say ``Senator Roberts,'' I hope they  remember that I am chairman of the Ag Committee, and I work very well  with Senator Stabenow, and we produced a great farm bill. So I don't  like doing this. But I have to warn my colleagues, this so-called  blanket of comity that we always have here in the Senate is pretty  threadbare. I hope we can get past this, and I hope we can vote to get  to cloture and then get to a bill as soon as we can 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT