Senator Roberts Applauds Senate Passage of the CARES Act


U.S. Senator Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) today voted in support of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which passed the Senate with a vote of 96-0.

"The CARES Act provides one of the most powerful and timely economic relief packages in our nation's history" said Sen. Roberts. "Responding to the challenge of the novel coronavirus will require a collective effort from our entire nation. The bill that passed the Senate today represents ideas from both sides of the political aisle but with a shared purpose: to deliver a necessary financial bridge to American households, workers, and businesses through the economic shock from COVID-19.

"The comprehensive relief package provides emergency checks to individuals and families; cash flow assistance to protect workers and small businesses; significantly expanded unemployment benefits and availability; financial assistance to severely distressed industries of the national economy; and increased funding for hospitals and healthcare providers.

The legislation includes S. 1089, the Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2019 and the Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug designation, Senator Roberts' zoonotic animal drug priority.

"I'm glad to see two of my key priorities included in the coronavirus legislation. The Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2019 will make it easier to purchase medications through health savings accounts, which will help stop the spread of the coronavirus by keeping those who are experiencing mild symptoms out of the doctor's office," said Sen. Roberts. "The Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug designation will help treat future zoonotic diseases, like the coronavirus, before they cause serious harm to humans."

S. 1089 would allow people with mild symptoms to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medications through a health savings account (HAS) without going to the doctor's office. Currently, patients have to seek permission from their physician to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medications with a health savings account. This will help increase social distancing to combat the coronavirus.

Senator Roberts' zoonotic animal drug priority expedites Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of animal drugs that treat zoonotic and vector borne diseases, like the novel coronavirus, through a new designation.