Senator Pat Roberts' OTC Legislation and Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug Designation Included in Coronavirus Phase III Package


Legislation introduced to combat the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) includes the Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2019 and the Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug designation, Sen. Pat Roberts' zoonotic animal drug priority. Sen. Roberts introduced S. 1089 this Congress that would allow Americans to use their health savings account funds to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medications. Currently, patients have to seek permission from their physician to purchase OTC medications with a health savings account.

"Allowing patients to use their health savings account funds to purchase over-the-counter medications without getting permission from their doctors will help improve social distancing to combat the coronavirus," said Sen. Roberts. "This allows people with mild symptoms to stay out of the doctor's office and treat symptoms at home with OTC medications more easily, which will help stop the spread of this dangerous virus.

S. 1089 repeals section 9003 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), restoring the ability of those participating in a medical savings account, such as a Flexible Savings Account (FSA) or Health Savings Account (HSA), to use the funds to purchase OTC medications.

Nearly 50 million Americans participate in FSAs and other health savings accounts. The accounts allow individuals to set aside their own money each year on a pre-tax basis to pay for health care expenses, such as co-payments, and other health care expenses not covered by insurance. 

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act also includes Sen. Roberts' zoonotic animal drug priority that expedites Food and Drug Administration approval of animal drugs that treat zoonotic and vector-borne diseases through a new Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug designation.

"Now, more than ever, it is critical for our nation's preparedness and response capabilities to include efforts to combat zoonotic diseases, like the novel coronavirus," said Sen. Roberts. "The Priority Zoonotic Animal Drug Designation can help prevent future pandemics by treating zoonotic diseases before they cause serious harm to humans." 

Among the bioterror threats for which the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has issued a Material Threat Determination, all except for smallpox are zoonotic, meaning they pose a direct threat to humans through animals.

Sen. Roberts has been the leading advocate in the Senate for securing the nation's plant and animal health.