-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695289/9999


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I offer a motion to instruct conferees.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the motion to instruct conferees to  adopt the Senate funding level for Special Supplemental Nutrition  Program for Women, Infants, and Children, WIC, as part of the  conference on three fiscal year 2026 funding bills: Agriculture,  Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and legislative branch.

Besides cutting WIC to unacceptable levels, House Republicans are  coming to the table with funding bills that are filled with extreme  reckless cuts and harmful riders that have been rejected on a  bipartisan basis.

We are now 9 months into this administration and weeks away from the  end of the fiscal year, and the cost-of-living crisis has only gotten  worse under President Trump. Americans are struggling with rising costs  of everyday necessities. They are living paycheck to paycheck, but the  President and House Republicans are not laser focused on the cost-of- living crisis. They are making it worse.

Instead of lowering prices, Republicans passed a bill to cut nearly a  trillion dollars from Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, which will  strip healthcare coverage for more than 15 million people. Over $500  billion in cuts to Medicare will be triggered by this law, harming  America's seniors. In their signature law, Republicans slashed  nutrition benefits for poor families, which will cause an additional 1  million kids to go hungry.

They did all of this in order to pass trillions of dollars in tax  cuts for big corporations and for billionaires, adding $4 trillion to  the national debt over the next 10 years.

Since then, House Republicans have only doubled down on their attacks  on the working class, the middle class, and vulnerable Americans.

Last night, Republicans on the Appropriations Committee forced  through their reckless 2026 Labor, Health and Human Services, and  Education, and Related Agencies funding bill that assaults public  health, slashes medical research, eliminates funding for reproductive  health, and eviscerates education and job training.

They used this bill not to right the wrongs of their big, ugly law,  but to make healthcare even more expensive and slash research into  lifesaving cures.

They cut funding for the National Institutes of Health and the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They slashed funding for  State and local health departments, substance use prevention and  treatment, mental health services, and eliminated funding for tobacco  prevention and HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment.

To top it all off, House Republicans continue to full-scale attempt  to eliminate public education, decimating support for children in K  through 12 elementary schools, and threatening the future of the entire  generation.

The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education funding bill was  cut from the same cloth as the agriculture funding bill we are  preparing to conference. At a time when families around the country are  struggling to  afford healthcare, housing, and other essentials for their families,  House Republicans fail to provide WIC with the resources it needs to  help Americans keep food on their tables.

That is why the House conferees must support the WIC level in the  Senate bill, $500 million over the budget request and the House bill.  This should be a simple ask. On Monday, the Office of Management and  Budget, OMB, asked for funding of the continuing resolution at the  Senate's level of $8.2 billion.

Mr. Speaker, this should be a simple ask. On Monday, the Office of  Management and Budget asked for funding in the continuing resolution at  the Senate's level of $8.2 billion. Yesterday, the administration  released its Make America Healthy Again report. The report commended  the WIC program for its science-based approach to evaluating the health  and the diet of participants and working to improve them.

Unfortunately, the report made no mention of the administration's  drastically insufficient budget request for WIC or the need to fully  fund vouchers issued to participants for fruits and vegetables.

House Republicans must do more than pay lip service to the goal of  making healthy food available to children and families. They must fund  WIC at the Senate's proposed level and support the fruit and vegetable  vouchers.

House Republicans' Agriculture funding bill also fails to provide the  Food and Drug Administration with the funding it needs to keep  Americans healthy and safe from foodborne illnesses and harmful  additives. From keeping track of food recalls to rigorously inspecting  processing facilities to protecting infant formula to banning toxic  dyes, the FDA cannot accomplish its missions if we slash its resources.

Given many recent food recalls, and particularly with contaminated  foods and medical products that are imported, there is a need for the  FDA to expand its presence. That cannot be done for free.

We must follow the Senate's lead on funding the FDA. The Senate bill  provides $3.5 billion for the vital agency, $332 million over the House  bill and roughly equally to the 2025 level. This level provides  significantly more funding for human foods and drugs work, two of the  most vital responsibilities of the FDA.

Even beyond the insufficient and dangerous funding levels for WIC and  FDA, there are other reckless cuts and policies in the Agriculture  funding bill that must be addressed in conference.

Despite Republicans claiming to support farmers and rural  communities, their bill cuts investments in rural America, including  grants that help hardworking Americans buy homes in rural areas and  programs to help build drinking and wastewater infrastructure in rural  communities that need it most.

House Republicans are using this bill to eliminate protections for  small meat and poultry producers against large corporations that have  dominated the market, forced small producers out of business, and price  gouged consumers.

We are in an era of unprecedented corporate consolidation. Mr.  Speaker, four countries control over 80 percent of the beef market,  four companies control 70 percent of the pork industry, and four  companies control more than half of the chicken industry.

House Republicans' bill will help these major companies dominate the  market, grow their power, and raise prices on the backs of hardworking  Americans.

The two other bills in this package, the Military Construction and  Veteran Affairs and Legislative Branch funding bills, also need  significant improvements in order to earn support from Democrats.

As it stands now, the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and  Related Agencies appropriations bill would worsen the quality of life  for servicemembers and their families and raise costs for Americans,  while helping big corporations profit from privatizing medical care for  veterans and hurt military readiness.

This extreme proposal also furthers Republicans' constant attempts to  roll back women's rights by restricting healthcare access for  servicemembers and their families.

House Republicans' Legislative Branch funding bill, typically a bill  that has been quickly agreed to by both parties, jettisons bipartisan  priorities in order to aid and abet OMB Director Russ Vought in  stealing funds from American taxpayers.

This bill's drastic cuts and restrictions on the Government  Accountability Office and the Library of Congress will inhibit our  ability to hold government accountable and will let waste and fraud run  rampant.

It is astonishing that for all the talk about finding and rooting out  waste, fraud, and abuse, that House Republicans would defund the  watchdog that is tasked with precisely that role.

The only plausible explanation is that the majority, and the  administration to which it is blindly loyal, is upset that GAO has  repeatedly found that the White House is stealing funds away from  taxpayers.

This conference takes place as our entire legislative branch of  government is being undermined. The Trump administration, guided by  Project 2025 author and Office of Management and Budget Director Russ  Vought, is unlawfully stealing funds that we, Democrats and Republicans  in the House and the Senate, elected by our constituents for this  purpose, passed into law.

Russ Vought continues to withhold more than $410 billion from  families, from farmers, from children, from small businesses, and from  communities in every part of the country.

As the courts have repeatedly concluded, this administration's  disregard for our Nation's spending laws and Congress' power of the  purse has harmed every corner of our country. Children in elementary  schools have been denied resources they need to succeed. Farmers in  rural communities have been left to fend for themselves. Communities  have been robbed of resources to keep people safe.

Russ Vought has stripped hope away from cancer patients and  singlehandedly made the cost-of-living crisis even worse for working  families.

Make no mistake. This is all part of Russ Vought's plan to centralize  and hoard power for himself over all others. He is poisoning these  negotiations. Every illegal action he takes is designed to spite  Congress and make sure his dark vision comes to pass.

Russ Vought wants a shutdown. He wants the country to continue  spiraling into chaos so that he can keep stealing from our communities  and dismantling Congress' power of the purse.

I stand ready to move forward to fund the government in a bipartisan  way, and to pass funding bills that address the cost-of-living crisis  that President Trump is escalating. Any funding agreement must reflect  Democratic priorities. We must pass full-year spending bills that  ensure that lawmakers, not President Trump and Russ Vought, decide how  taxpayer dollars get spent.

Democrats want to lower the cost of living for all Americans and  deliver critical services and investments to the working class, the  middle class, and the vulnerable. That victory can be achieved through  bipartisan cooperation to pass annual funding bills, signed into law by  President Trump, that ensure this elected body's commitments to our  constituents are fulfilled.

It cannot be achieved through another full-year continuing resolution  that only increases Russ Vought's power. If Republicans choose to  empower an unelected bureaucrat over the voices of the American people,  then Democrats will not provide our vote to such a dangerous usurpation  of congressional power.

Mr. Speaker, as our leader said, we are ready to move forward to fund  the government in a bipartisan way, as we have done historically, and  to pass funding bills that address the cost-of-living crisis that is  the central issue for the American public today.

It is the cost-of-living crisis that the President is escalating.  Take a look at food prices today. He said that prices were going to  come down on the first day. They are skyrocketing.

While I am prepared to meet anytime, anyplace, anywhere, what is  critical is that any funding agreement must reflect Democratic  priorities. We must pass full-year spending bills that ensure that  lawmakers, Democrats and Republicans, decide how taxpayer dollars get  spent and not the President and not Russ Vought. They have no authority  to steal the funds that Democrats and Republicans, in a bipartisan way,  historically appropriated.

We need to lower that cost of living. Bipartisan cooperation is  essential, and we need to ensure that this body's commitments to our  constituents are fulfilled.

I also believe it cannot be achieved through another full-year  continuing resolution. That only increases Russ Vought's power. If  Republicans choose to empower an unelected bureaucrat over the voices  of the American people, then Democrats will not provide our votes to  such a dangerous usurpation of congressional power.

Once again, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the  motion to instruct. I yield back the balance of my time, and I move the  previous question on the motion.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.