Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, as ranking member of the Appropriations  Committee, I am responsible for funding programs and services that the  American people rely on.

I also see the importance of programs like Medicaid, which help tens  of millions of people afford health insurance. After all of their talk  of lowering the cost of living, Republicans wasted no time in making  their real priorities clear. For this majority, billionaires and the  biggest corporations always come first.

Elon Musk and President Trump are hard at work trying to gut Medicaid  and the Affordable Care Act, which helps nearly 100 million Americans  afford health insurance, medications, and lifesaving care.

Nationwide, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program  provide medical coverage to nearly 4 in 10 children. Almost 40 percent  of the children in the United States get their healthcare through  Medicaid.

These programs were designed, improved, and expanded over decades by  both parties to help people deal with the high costs of healthcare, and  they have delivered for so many families. In my district alone, there  are 229,000 people on Medicaid, including 79,000 children and 33,000  seniors. Medicaid paid for 3,000 births last year, providing  comprehensive prenatal, delivery, and postpartum care to newborns and  mothers. These are programs that help families and children. Medicaid  works.

Elon Musk is only interested in helping the richest among us. His  dream is to fully extend more than $4.5 trillion worth of tax breaks to  his billionaire friends and the wealthiest corporations in the world.

How will they pay for these tax cuts and pay for this massive  giveaway? Republicans want to pay for this with cuts to Medicaid, $880  billion from Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, putting coverage at  risk for millions of Americans and raising their premiums.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chairman, who bears the brunt of these cuts:  seniors, children, low-income families, people with disabilities, those  struggling. The most high healthcare costs impact the first ones left  behind.

Republicans are coming for SNAP next, threatening 40 million  Americans who are just trying to put food on the table. Democrats will  stand where we always do, on the side of the middle class, against yet  another reckless Republican budget that steals even more wealth for the  billionaire class.