Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699573/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

There are two paths before us today: one if this bill passes and  another if it fails. If we take the first path, if the bill passes,  here is what will happen: The Departments of Defense, Labor, Health and  Human Services, Education, State, Treasury, Transportation, and Housing  and Urban Development will be fully funded through the end of  September.

The Democratic wins we secured in this bill will be locked in. We  will reject $163 billion in cuts to public services proposed by  President Trump. We will increase funding for the National Institutes  of Health biomedical research by $450 million. We will provide over $66  billion for rental assistance programs.

We turn back in the Labor-HHS bill 47 programs that the  administration had slotted for elimination. In the Transportation,  Housing and Urban Development, 24 programs were slotted for  elimination. We reversed that.

We will increase funding for childcare and Head Start by $170  million, secure an additional $5.5 billion for humanitarian assistance,  and boost funding for Federal Public Defenders by $350 million.

We will establish meaningful constraints on the Trump  Administration's ability to abuse the budget process, take expansive  power over Federal funding, Federal spending away from Russ Vought, and  reclaim it for the Congress. If not, the President and Russ Vought will  be in charge of the funds, and we will have no say.

At the same time, funding for the Department of Homeland Security  will continue at its current level for 10 days. It is important to note  that is about 6 legislative days. If we do not pass another bill by  next Friday, the Department will shut down. Having passed the other  full-year funding bills  today, every other department would remain open.

If we are not satisfied with where we are in those 10 days--6  legislative days--we can withhold our votes without jeopardizing all of  the important Democratic priorities I just laid out and more. We will  be in the strongest possible position to fight for and win the drastic  changes we all know are needed to protect our communities: judicial  warrant requirements, no more detentions or deportations of United  States citizens, an enforceable code of conduct, taking off the masks,  putting the badges on, requiring body cameras, and real accountability  for the egregious abuses we have seen.

If we choose the second path, however, if this bill does not pass,  none of that happens. Instead, we enter a prolonged government  shutdown. Workers across broad swaths of the Federal Government would  be furloughed, public services would be scaled back, paychecks would be  missed.

My Republican colleagues will only talk about those not getting  paychecks--and you can hear it already--instead of my Republican  colleagues having to defend the Department of Homeland Security with  what is happening across the country with these lawless, reckless, out- of-control agencies marauding over our cities and towns and striking  people where they work and where they live.

Instead of increasing funding for the National Institutes of Health,  new research grants would be frozen, interrupting efforts to treat and  prevent deadly diseases.

Instead of providing funding for rental assistance, payments would be  delayed and families would face the prospect of eviction.

Instead of increasing funding for Head Start, Health and Human  Services would be unable to issue new grants, jeopardizing access to  early education for countless children across this country.

Instead of reclaiming Congress' power of the purse, we would concede  even more discretion to Russ Vought and the White House to abuse the  budget process for their own partisan gain, which they would certainly  exploit, as we have seen.

In 10 days--6 legislative days--we would be in the same place with  regard to Homeland Security. We would have had the bill passed; except  we will have lost all of the Democratic priorities I have laid out.

I have no illusions about ICE and CBP. We must rein in these rogue  agencies. We need to protect our communities. We need to protect the  people and the children in our communities. We must have accountability  for the egregious abuses we have seen. It is understandable the rage  and the fear in the outrageousness of what these activities have been  all over this country.

The only way we can get these things is to fight for them, win them,  and let the public know what we are fighting for. Passing these five,  full-year funding bills today puts us in the best position to win that  fight over the next 10 days--the 6 legislative days--and beyond, if  need be.

I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this bill today and  continue to fight to protect our communities in the coming weeks.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  Maryland (Mr. Hoyer), the distinguished ranking member of the Financial  Services and General Government Subcommittee.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from Maryland.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the  gentleman from Maryland.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  South Carolina (Mr. Clyburn), the distinguished ranking member of the  Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies  Subcommittee.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  Hawaii (Mr. Case), a member of the Appropriations Committee.

Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the  gentleman from Hawaii.

Mr. Speaker, I just would outline for a moment the impacts of the  failure to pass the five bipartisan, House-passed spending measures and  what that would do.

For military personnel, an extended shutdown will harm both military  and civilian personnel at DOD who could not legally receive pay during  a shutdown.

Federal courts would no longer have funding to sustain full-paid  operations, and the courts can only carry out limited functions.

The Community Development Financial Institutions, if that lapses, the  money will be withheld in funding for almost 1,500 credit unions,  banks, and community financial institutions.

The SBA would be unable to approve $170 million per day in loan  assistance.

For the Social Security Administration, thousands of Social Security  Administration employees would likely be furloughed, there would be  delays on the SSA's 800 number and limited hours of operation.

At the National Institutes of Health, it would freeze funding for new  research grants, including research on cancer, Alzheimer's, ALS, heart  disease, diabetes, kidneys, mental health, maternal mortality,  infectious diseases, genetic diseases, and the list goes on and on.

Community health centers would receive only partial funding to  provide healthcare services for low-income patients.

For Head Start, if funding lapses, thousands of low-income children  would be at risk to losing access to Head Start programs.

Senior nutrition grants are at risk, Meals on Wheels as well as  congregate meals.

Worker protection agencies would likely furlough Federal staff who  are responsible for investigating wage theft and safety and health  hazards in high-risk areas.

That is just a small smattering of the impact of the failure to pass  these five bipartisan bills, where we had 341 ``yes'' votes in this  Chamber not 3 weeks ago.

Now, some might say: Well, what do you think about what ICE and the  CBP are doing? I am not unaware of that. I share the anger. I share the  outrage of what they have done. Yes, it is Minnesota, but it is also  what is happening all over this country.

People are being beat up. They are being pulled out of schools,  pulled out of churches, and people are so frightened to death that they  carry their passports with them. They are American citizens, and they  are frightened.

What have we proposed in this area? This is when we were doing the  appropriations bill: Prohibition on detaining or deporting U.S.  citizens, reducing funding for ICE, prohibition on the use of Border  Patrol and CBP officers, a requirement for DHS law enforcement to use  body-worn cameras, require reporting on the use of force, training  standards--they should be trained in de-escalation, and that is what  ought to be happening instead of fomenting escalation--requiring ICE  warrants, and there are other things.

I might add, just so that the people on the committee here  understand, in June of 2025, the House Committee on Appropriations  advanced the fiscal year 2026 Department of Homeland Security  appropriations bill. It included bipartisan reforms and safeguards  designed to protect U.S. citizens and vulnerable communities.

However, when the bill was renegotiated in January 2026, these  critical reforms were removed. Democrats and Republicans voted for  these reforms, and they must do it again.

The list goes on: No funds if DHS violates the First Amendment, the  Fourth Amendment, the Fifth Amendment; no funds for detaining and  deporting U.S. citizens; no prohibition on video recording for ICE.  This was all passed in the Committee on Appropriations and then  stripped out.

The fact of the matter is we need to focus like a laser in these 10  days--6 legislative days--on DHS. Let's not have to focus on five  agencies where there is agreement on what we do. There is agreement on  our side of the aisle. Despite what the press may report, there is not  a single Democrat in this body who believes what ICE and the CBP are  doing is acceptable. I cannot believe that a number of my Republican  colleagues don't feel the same way.

Let us focus in on the Department of Homeland Security. Let the  public understand the nature of the fight. Quite honestly, let my  Republican colleagues at the administration defend the Department of  Homeland Security and its lawlessness and recklessness when the  majority of this country are seeing what they are doing.

We all want the same thing. We want to keep our constituents safe. We  want to stop the violence in our streets. We want to end chaos in our  communities that these out-of-control agencies have created.

The simple truth is we have a better chance of imposing real  constraints on ICE and the CBP if this bill passes than if it fails. We  have a better chance at securing justice, justice for Renee Good, Alex  Pretti, and all of those people all over this country who have been  harassed, who have been beaten, who have been taken out of their homes,  5-year-old children being detained. That is the reality. Nobody wants  that.

However, we have a better chance of justice for these folks if this  bill passes rather than if it fails. We have a better chance of putting  an end to what has become a season of terror if this bill passes than  if it fails.

I am asking my colleagues to understand the moment and meet the  moment. We have an opportunity over these next several days to lay out  the arguments against what the Department of Homeland Security, its  leadership, and what this administration has wrought on the American  people.

We serve in this body to be responsive to the American people. They  are clamoring, and they are crying out for help. We can help them with  passing five bills that meet their needs, and we can help them by  gaining control and focusing our ire and our anger over an agency that  is run, in my view, by incompetence, by lies, and by terror. That is  not who we are. Those are not the values of the American people. Those  are not the values of the people in this body.

Everyone sees what is happening. We can't let go of the gains that  have been made that make a difference in people's lives, in the  education of their kids and their health and their safety, of looking  at substance abuse and opioid addiction and how we can deal with that,  transportation, rent assistance, homeless assistance, maternal  mortality, childcare, and Head Start.

There are two paths that we face today. One: If we pass the bills and  see what our opportunities are to make a difference and make changes in  an agency so needed to be changed--and I do believe we all recognize  that--and at the same time to save the American people. We understand  the crisis of the cost of living that you have.

We are there to defend you and your family and to make life and make  government work on your behalf. That is our responsibility. I view that  as my responsibility as the ranking member of the Appropriations  Committee. This is the way our government functions, and we have a  better chance to end this season of terror.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 217,  nays 214, not voting 1, as follows:                                    [Roll No. 53]                                 YEAS--217       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Bishop      Bost      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Calvert      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Case      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyburn      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Courtney      Crank      Crawford      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      DeLauro      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foster      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Gottheimer      Graves      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Himes      Hinson      Houchin      Hoyer      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kaptur      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      Langworthy      Larsen (WA)      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perez      Peters      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schrier      Scott, Austin      Scott, David      Sessions      Sewell      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Epps      Van Orden      Veasey      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--214       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Biggs (AZ)      Boebert      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brecheen      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Burchett      Burlison      Bynum      Cammack      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Craig      Crane      Crockett      Crow      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Donalds      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fine      Fletcher      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Luna      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Massie      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menefee      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Mills      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Ogles      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perry      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Roy      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schweikert      Scott (VA)      Self      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Spartz      Stansbury      Stanton      Steube      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Timmons      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Velazquez      Vindman      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--1               Crenshaw

Mr. TIMMONS changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Mr. DAVIDSON and Ms. MACE changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the motion to concur was agreed to.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.