Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696741/continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2026


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill that does nothing, not  one thing to address the Republican healthcare crisis amid a cost-of- living crisis.

More than 20 million Americans will have to pay double, even triple  their monthly insurance premiums in just a matter of weeks, and this  bill leaves families without even a glimmer of hope that their costs  might go down.

Energy prices are up. Grocery prices are up. Housing costs are up.  When two-thirds of American workers are living paycheck to paycheck,  you can understand why the most important issue on their mind is  affordability.

What does President Trump say? Affordability is a ``con job.'' How  out of touch can he be? The President should start to listen to the  American people, not his millionaire, billionaire friends.

President Trump and my Republican colleagues refuse to address this  issue. They continue to avoid it. They were so intent on avoiding it  that they shut down the government instead of dealing with it.

Speaker Johnson has indicated that he will not deal with it. He has  shown no interest in holding a vote on extending the healthcare  subsidies, which would prevent monthly costs from soaring.

Republicans have tried to say they will deal with this problem their  own way, but they have no plan. They are trying to repeal the  Affordable Care Act, as they have been trying to do unsuccessfully for  15 years. However, they are poised to succeed, which is why it is so  important for this continuing resolution to fail.

President Trump and Republicans' plan is to drive up prices for  everybody, compounding the cost-of-living crisis. More than 2 million  Americans are expected to lose their health insurance next year because  it has simply become too expensive.

There are more than 50 pages of healthcare provisions in this bill.  Not one of them stops costs from skyrocketing at the beginning of next  year. Not one of them offers relief to American families being squeezed  tighter and tighter by the Republican crisis.

There is one group of people, however, who will receive some relief  thanks to this bill: United States Senators who may have participated  in an insurrection. Snuck into this bill at the eleventh hour by Senate  Republicans is a provision to pay out at least a million dollars each  to eight United States Senators implicated in the January 6  insurrection. Understand, this is a corrupt precedent. This is where  Members can profit from their own votes. It is the fleecing of the  American people, which they get and understand.

At the same time, this bill excludes a provision that would order a  plaque to be hung that honors the police officers who put their lives  on the line to defend our democracy from that same insurrection. What a  contrast.

It is yet another instance of this administration's shameless  corruption that is financially ruining American families. While there  is $230 million for the President to pay himself from the Department of  Justice, $8 million for some of his closest Senate allies, $200 million  for a pair of private jets for the Department of Homeland Security  Secretary, and $40 billion to Argentina, the American people are left  with nothing but higher costs.

This bill also fails to fully cover the Toxic Exposures Fund, which  was created to support veterans exposed to burn pits and Agent Orange.  We made a promise to stand by the men and women who served our country  in uniform. This bill does not live up to that promise.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans need to stop taking photographs with  veterans and then vote against their healthcare.

Those who lead in the appropriations process here believe in the  constitutional power of the purse. Over the past month, President Trump  has been firing Federal workers en masse. When his administration has  failed there, they have made life so miserable for Federal workers that  they had no choice but to leave.

Federal workers should be ``traumatically affected.'' Those are the  words of the Office of Management and Budget Director Russ Vought, an  unelected bureaucratic.

The Federal workforce has dwindled by 200,000 since January,  jeopardizing the public services that so many people rely on. I say:  Spare us your false concern.

Mr. Speaker, since January, this administration has been stealing  from our communities, withholding as much as $410 billion in funding  approved by Democrats and Republicans--House and Senate--signed into  law. They are illegally blocking authorized funds from being  distributed.

Even now, as we debate this bill, the Trump administration is arguing  to the Supreme Court that they should be allowed to withhold food stamp  funding that Congress lawfully approved. They were ordered by three  separate courts to distribute food assistance and are still fighting to  withhold it.

It is not connected to opening this government. They have the money.  They have it now for food stamps. They just refuse to use it. Imagine  using food as a political weapon. It is unspeakable and immoral. It  seems like their only plan is to strip children of food assistance,  while kicking their parents off their health insurance.

They have demonstrated that that is who they are. These are their  true colors. We cannot expect Democrats to go along with any bipartisan  funding deal if that agreement can be undone with a party line vote.  Congress must assert its authority over the power of the purse.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I remind the majority leader that for a 60- year-old couple earning $82,800 per year, their premiums will rise by  over $17,000. This is a 255 percent increase.

Ms. DeLAURO.  Wasserman Schultz), who is the distinguished ranking  member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this slush fund for Senators bill that  will force healthcare costs to explode for millions of Americans.

In fact, this legislation guarantees only two things: Republican  Senators suspected of helping Trump try to steal an election will get a  whole lot richer, and life will get more expensive for everyone else.

That is because this bill adds rocket fuel to Republicans' larger  assault on Americans' access to quality, affordable healthcare.

Remember, Mr. Speaker, Republicans already slashed $1 trillion from  Medicaid, $500 billion from Medicare, and let Trump steal billions in  medical research. With this bill, Republicans dump massive healthcare  price hikes on struggling Americans. Millions will be priced out of any  coverage at all, which will drive coverage costs up and health services  down for all of us.

It is a health budget nightmare for America's families and a slush  fund lottery win for eight Republican Senators. That is because the one  thing we can all agree on, unless you are Jeffrey Epstein's best friend  in the White House, is that the cost-of-living is out of control. Rent,  home insurance, and electric bills are all soaring. The cost of beef,  coffee, and vegetables just keep climbing.

People are really struggling to get by, yet Donald Trump continues to  block SNAP benefits to 42 million struggling seniors, parents, and  veterans.

How anyone could swipe food from the plates of nearly 20 million  children like that is simply disgusting, but that same moral bankruptcy  is embedded in this bill.

This bill unleashes huge health insurance hikes on 203,000 people in  my district alone. Mr. Speaker, 82,000 people will lose coverage  altogether due to the impact of the big, ugly law and soaring ACA  prices.

Worse, this bill also reneges on our commitment to veterans. As the  ranking member of the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and  Related Agencies Subcommittee, I take our promises to veterans  personally and seriously.

Just this summer, I secured bipartisan support for my amendment to  restore $51.7 billion in advance funding for the Toxic Exposures Fund.  This is funding, mind you, that President Trump sought in his budget.

Yet, as Republicans slipped a slush fund for Senators into this bill,  they gutted a critical funding protection for veterans.

Just so we are all clear, average Americans will see their kitchen  table budget blow up from the health coverage price hikes, and veterans  will see their future healthcare funding for toxic exposures put in  jeopardy, all so billionaires can keep getting huge tax breaks.

It is hard to pick between the worst moral outrages behind this bill.  Was it covering up for Epstein's best friend for nearly 2 months just  so Republicans could vacation and avoid negotiating a better healthcare  plan for our struggling families, or is it the slush fund that  personally enriches Republican Senators and will haunt everyone who  votes for this bill?

Well, House Democrats will oppose this partisan spending bill that  guts America's healthcare, and we will keep fighting to extend  healthcare tax credits.

Donald Trump and Republicans broke their promise to lower costs, and  this bill certainly cements that betrayal.

Democrats will stand by our promise to lower costs, and we will make  sure every American knows Republicans are responsible for this  devastating healthcare crisis.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I have the greatest honor to yield 2  minutes to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Pelosi), the  distinguished Speaker Emerita and, I might add, probably the epitome of  the best Speaker that  this Nation has ever had, in addition to which millions of Americans  have healthcare coverage through the Affordable Care Act because of  Speaker Pelosi. She is also Italian American.

Ms. DeLAURO.  Kaptur), the distinguished ranking member of the Energy and  Water Development and Related Agencies Subcommittee.

Ms. DeLAURO.  McCollum), the distinguished ranking member of the  Defense Subcommittee.

Ms. DeLAURO.  DelBene).

Ms. DeLAURO.  Barragan).

Ms. DeLAURO.  Clark), the distinguished Democratic whip.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, this bill fails to prevent healthcare costs  from skyrocketing and fails to address the crisis of affordability. It  fails to keep our promise to veterans. It provides a million-dollar  jackpot to eight Senators. It fails to protect Congress' power of the  purse. I encourage my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Mr. Speaker, I have the honor of yielding 1 minute to the gentleman  from New York (Mr. Jeffries), our distinguished Democratic leader.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 222,  nays 209, not voting 2, as follows:                               [Roll No. 285]                                 YEAS--222       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Gray      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Mast      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Orden      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--209       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gottheimer      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Massie      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Sherrill      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Steube      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--2       McCaul      Watson Coleman

Ms. SCHOLTEN changed her vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

So the motion to concur was agreed to.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.