Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693648/department-of-defense-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chair, I thank the ranking member for yielding. I  also want to thank all the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee staff on  both sides of the aisle. In particular, I want to shout out Jennifer  Chartrand, Jason Gray, and Ed Etzkorn.

Through this bill, we have the solemn responsibility of appropriating  the funds necessary to defend our Nation and to protect the safety and  well-being of our men and women in uniform. However, I must oppose this  bill which abandons our allies, damages our military readiness, and  promotes divisive policies that undermine morale.

I come from a defense-dependent State. I understand the importance of  the investments we make in our Nation's defense. We must always work to  ensure that our servicemembers have the best possible equipment to  defend our Nation. I am proud that the American-made Black Hawk  helicopters, the best helicopters in the world, are made by Sikorsky  Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut, in my district.

I am also proud that Pratt & Whitney produces the F135 engine, the  power plant for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, in my district. The  highly skilled workers in this plant are critical for our defense  industrial base, and the rising cost of living is making it harder for  them to make ends meet.

These workers bring immense value to Pratt & Whitney, to Connecticut,  and to our national security, and they recently fought for their value  to be recognized. I proudly joined them on the picket line.

While I am pleased that Pratt & Whitney and the union representing  that facility's workers have agreed on a contract, Congress must do  more to address the cost of living. The cost-of-living crisis is felt  by every American family, and it has a direct effect on our military  readiness and capabilities.

Instead of addressing the cost of living, President Trump and  Republicans are only making it worse. Safety net programs and other  basic services have been attacked by the administration and defunded in  the Republicans' big, ugly bill.

I said this to Secretary Hegseth in our hearing last month: America's  future servicemembers are learning in our public schools. They might  rely on Medicaid to see a doctor. They may only have a meal to eat  because of WIC or food stamps, or they may live in subsidized housing.

If tomorrow's servicemembers are worried today about having their  most basic needs met, then they are being held back from their fullest  potential, and that weakens our national security.

In the bill before us, rather than working with House Democrats to  strengthen our national security and prioritize the issues that matter  most to our men and women in uniform, House Republicans are abandoning  our allies, undermining democracy at home and abroad, and failing to  support our servicemembers.

Despite broad support in Congress for helping Ukraine defend itself  against Russia's brutal invasion, they empower Putin by failing to  include $300 million for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.

The majority's bill holds the door open for disinformation created by  America's enemies rather than allowing the Department of Defense to  counter the threat, allowing extremism and propaganda to proliferate  across the internet and media landscape.

The bill continues House Republicans' attacks on the right of women  to seek an abortion and the rights of minorities to be protected from  discrimination, while destroying the Department's efforts to build a  more inclusive, effective, and modern military.

Moreover, the bill weakens the department by continuing the  administration's reckless and indiscriminate cuts to vital civilian  personnel and yielding to DOGE and Elon Musk.

In further conceding Congress' prerogative over funding the  Department of Defense to DOGE, the majority directs the Department to  find nearly $8 billion in undetermined cuts, with everything from  military healthcare to troops' pay and operations accounts, potentially  facing reductions to the detriment of our readiness, and to  servicemembers' and military families' quality of life.

Instead of focusing on how to keep the American people safe and  improve the quality of life for members of our Armed Forces, House  Republicans' bill undermines readiness and abandons our allies.

I cannot support this bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''