Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699345/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. Speaker, I begin by thanking Ranking Member Cuellar for his work  on this bill. He is a tough negotiator, and this bill is better for his  efforts.

I also thank the committee staff. In particular, Shannon McCully,  Jamie Wise, and Jim Ellsworth. They spent many long hours and a lot of  sleepless nights fighting to make this bill as good as it could be.

The Homeland Security funding bill before us today has gotten a lot  of attention over the past few days, and rightfully so. It deals with  funding ICE, an agency that has shown itself to be lawless, vindictive,  aggressive, cruel, and, thus far, unaccountable both to Congress and  the American people.

That is not all that the Homeland Security bill deals with, however.  Before I return to the topic of ICE and its funding, I will share some  of what else is contained in this bill.

This bill rejects President Trump and Secretary Noem's attempts to  eliminate FEMA, increasing funding for the agency by over $870 million,  in addition to providing more than $26 billion for the Disaster Relief  Fund. It increases funding for TSA by $149 million and provides a pay  raise for air traffic controllers and uniformed members of the United  States Coast Guard.

This is important funding, and I am glad that these provisions which  we fought for were included in the bill. The final product, though far  from perfect, is better because of it.

Despite these inclusions and others, it is impossible to ignore the  impact that ICE's conduct had on completing this bill. ICE has operated  with brutality, terrorizing our constituents, abducting our neighbors,  and violently assaulting lawful residents who have done nothing but had  the misfortune of crossing ICE's path on their way home from work.

Unfortunately, this month, we saw how this unchecked lawlessness can  have fatal consequences with the killing of Renee Nicole Good.

This is a rogue agency. Substantial constraints must be placed on it.  During negotiations, we proposed such constraints, but our Republican  colleagues refused to include almost all of them.

We sought to prevent any funds from being used to detain or deport  U.S. citizens, a commonsense measure. They refused to commit to that.

We proposed prohibiting interior enforcement by non-ICE personnel,  like the Border Patrol. That was rejected, as well.

We put forward a provision to ensure that Members of Congress can  continue to conduct our lawful oversight of all ICE facilities,  uninhibited. That, too, was deemed unacceptable.

Democrats did win some battles in this bill, however. Under this  bill, we reduce ICE's Enforcement and Removal Operations budget by $115  million. We reduce their detention capacity, providing funding that  could only be used for body-worn cameras. We increase funding for the  Office of Inspector General, specifically for oversight of ICE  detention facilities.

These are good provisions. I am glad they are in this bill, but it is  clear that more must be done. ICE believes it can act with impunity,  and it is behaving accordingly.

I trust that my colleagues have taken the time to review what is  contained in this bill and have determined for themselves what is best  for their constituents and communities. I have made my own  determination, and that determination leads me to a ``no'' vote on this  bill.

Ms. DeLAURO.

Ms. DeLAURO.  Clark), the distinguished Democratic whip.

Ms. DeLAURO.  McCollum), the distinguished ranking member of the  Defense Subcommittee.

Ms. DeLAURO.  Lois Frankel), the distinguished ranking member of the  National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs  Subcommittee.

Ms. LOIS FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition  to this Homeland Security funding bill.

We cannot continue to fund an agency that ignores the Constitution,  abandons due process, interrupts businesses, and traumatizes families.

Across the country, ICE enforcement is no longer about public safety.  It has become a campaign of cruelty and fear. Families are being torn  apart with no warning and no plan. Children are afraid to go to school.  Homes are being entered without warrants. Workers are being dragged off  of jobsites by their hair. People are being abducted when shopping for  groceries, going to church, or taking their kids to school. Peaceful  citizens are being pepper-sprayed and shot in cold blood for daring to  speak up.

When Members of Congress try to conduct oversight, we are blocked. We  are denied access. We are told to look the other way.

This is not law enforcement.

This is not accountability.

That is not who we are as a country.

This bill writes a check for an agency that is violating basic rights  while refusing basic oversight. It pours money into detention and  enforcement without guardrails, without transportation, and without  respect for human dignity.

I want to be clear. Security does not require cruelty. Enforcement  does not require lawlessness, and immigration policy should never  require us to abandon our values.

Yes, we need border security and an orderly immigration system, but  we can secure our borders and uphold due process and enforce the law  and protect families. This bill does neither, and until the Trump  administration ends these abuses, restores transparency, and respects  the Constitution, I cannot and will not support funding that enables  this harm.

Ms. DeLAURO.  Escobar), who is a member of the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. Speaker, as I said in my opening, this is a bill that has gotten  so much attention over the past few days, and I think that that is the  reality of where we are.

I have watched this bill over the years, and it has always been a  struggle to deal with the Homeland Security bill. I thought that we  were really on track to be able, this time around, to make some  significant progress in the Homeland Security bill, and we were on  track to do that.

However, then we watched unfold an unspeakable tragedy in Minnesota:  the unspeakable loss of a young woman who was killed.

We have heard from my colleagues from Minnesota not just about the  killing of Renee Nicole Good, but of the other unspeakable  transgressions by an agency that has made a determination that they are  not accountable to anyone, to no law, no rule of law, and even no  higher calling of understanding how you treat human beings.

They have run roughshod over United States citizens. No one here  believes that criminals in this Nation shouldn't be deported or that  they shouldn't face the legal system that we have because the strength  of the United States is that we are a nation of laws; that we abide by  the rule of law. This agency is defying this at every step of the way,  every day, with the sanctioning of the President of the United States  saying that we are going to work to increase the pain, that we are  going to detain and potentially deport United States citizens.

We asked for some simple reforms: Don't deport United States  citizens. Require the training and hiring of personnel that are  competent and capable for this job.

Do you know that training has gone from 5 to 8 months to 6 to 8  weeks? The sensitivity around this issue has been broken, and the trust  of the American people and the people of Minnesota has been broken.  Children are frightened. Families are frightened. There is no need for  that in this country.

We need to have the rule of law reinstated. We can't have masked,  armed people on the street pulling over anyone that they choose to  based on the color of their skin or how they look.

I said this in the Rules Committee when I testified. I actually have  two grandsons who are adopted. I have one from Guatemala. Yes, he is  brown-skinned, but he is a citizen. He lives in Los Angeles. I find  myself telling him, ``Make sure you carry your passport,'' because it  scares me that, because of his brown skin, he can be pulled aside,  detained, and deported. He is a United States citizen.

My other grandson's parentage is Uzbekistan, but he is a United  States citizen. He is a youngster, and he could be snatched up and  separated from us.

This is the United States of America. We have watched and focused on  Iran. We watched the SAVAK in Iran take people off the street, detain  them, kill them, and never heard from them again. We are not going down  that road. We cannot go down that road. The Congress cannot take us  down that road.

I was hopeful, as the ranking member of the Appropriations  Committee--and my colleague and the chair knows this--to get what we  need to get done, and we were on the road. We were on a good track, but  we have to face the circumstances.

We have to deal with the environment. We have to deal with what has  happened in this country. We cannot turn a blind eye. We cannot say  let's overlook it because if we overlook it, it will not get better. It  is our responsibility now to make it better so that we can turn this  around and make this agency work.

I am not for abolishing ICE. There will be a lot of people who are  going to be unhappy with my saying that, but so be it. We need to  reform it. We need to turn it around. We need to make it work on behalf  of the American people, not make it the fear that a KGB, a SAVAK, or  other agencies have had in other countries that we oppose. We can't go  down the road of making that who we are. It is our responsibility. It  is our responsibility.

I have said to my colleagues over and over again: Make the decision  based on where your heart is and what you believe in. This is a moment  and a vote that says you have to determine what you believe is the  right thing to do, and that is the basis on which to do it. I have made  that decision, and the right thing for me to do is to vote ``no'' on  this bill.