Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701518/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, the bill we are debating tonight will never  become law. It is dead on arrival, doomed. The Senate has gone home.  They did their job. They worked together in a bipartisan way to  negotiate, deliberate, and strike an agreement that passed unanimously  out of the Senate Chamber.

Imagine, Democrats and Republicans said ``yes.'' How often does this  happen?

House Republican leadership refuses to bring it up for a vote because  they know if they did, it would pass overwhelmingly. By blocking the  Senate's agreement from receiving a vote, Republican leadership extends  the shutdown, and that means another missed paycheck for Federal  workers.

What is the Republican leadership position? Let us continue to  withhold paychecks from TSA agents. Let us continue to force them to  sleep in their cars, to continue to have to sell their plasma, to stay  frightened to death of evictions.

Republican leadership is doing this because they do not want to enact  even the most fundamental constraints on ICE, a rogue, lawless, and  reckless agency. They want to allow them to continue harassing, beating  up, and, yes, even killing American citizens.

They would rather prolong this shutdown, continue withholding  paychecks from TSA workers, and keep extending the lines at airport  security than enact a requirement that Federal officers obtain a  warrant from a judge before they kick in your front door or they pick  you up on the street.

They do not want to require independent investigations into egregious  misconduct by ICE officers. They want  to allow them to continue to detain and deport American citizens, allow  them to go to sensitive locations, like churches and hospitals and  schools.

They side with out-of-control Federal agencies over the responsible,  dedicated workers who keep air travel safe.

Only yesterday, President Trump decided that he has the ability to  pay these workers. If the White House believes they have the authority  and the funds to pay these workers, then they have had this authority  all along for the past 42 days. However, what they chose to do was  withhold the paychecks from TSA workers for political gain. It is  shameful.

ICE is funded. Don't listen to them. They have $75 billion plus  another $10 billion in a slush fund, and they can do whatever they want  with it. Customs and Border Protection have $65 billion and another $11  billion in the Senate bill. Spare us the lies.

The American people know exactly who is responsible for prolonging  this shutdown. The TSA workers, putting in yet another shift with no  pay, will know when they see Republican Members hightailing it home to  enjoy their spring break.

Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, we have an opportunity to end this  shutdown. If we defeat the previous question, I will offer an amendment  to the rule to bring up the bipartisan bill passed unanimously by the  United States Senate.

If the House passed the bipartisan Senate agreement, I sincerely  doubt, my friends, that the President of the United States would veto  it. We can stop the madness tonight. Instead, Republican leadership is  choosing to continue it for politics and political gain. It is  shameful.