Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Deporting Fraudsters Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of and Relating to Consideration of Motions to Suspend the Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700839/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-deporting-fraudsters-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-and-relating-to-consideration-of-motions-to-suspend-the-rules


Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding.

Madam Speaker, last Friday, workers across the Department of Homeland  Security missed a full paycheck. Reports have shown that a number of  TSA agents have had to find new jobs or to take up additional work to  make ends meet while their pay is frozen.

This is wrong. No Democrat wants this, but my Republican colleagues  want it. Republicans insist on conditioning funding for TSA workers on  more money for ICE. ICE is a lawless and reckless agency, which is  terrorizing our community, masked and armed and marauding and roving  through our communities nationwide.

The Republicans will only agree to pay TSA officers, FEMA employees,  cybersecurity experts, and Coast Guard servicemembers if we also  provide another $28 billion for ICE and CBP on top of the $140 billion  that they already have from the big, beautiful bill.

If we defeat the previous question, I will move to bring up my bill,  which will fully fund TSA workers. It will fully fund FEMA, including  the Disaster Relief Fund. It will fully fund the Coast Guard, the  Secret Service, and our cybersecurity efforts. In short, it will fund  everything except ICE and CBP. I am tired of the crocodile tears on the  other side of the aisle talking about TSA workers and cybersecurity and  the Coast Guard.

They have a chance to fund these efforts so that people can get paid.  They refuse to do it. The Republican leadership blocks this bill. Their  approach is all or nothing. It is not enough for them if we fund the  vast majority of Homeland Security, if we pay workers who follow the  law, people who keep us safe, who do not harass us, do not detain us,  do not beat us up, do not abuse our constituents at whim, or kill  American citizens.

Ms. DeLAURO. No, they will not support any measure unless it gives  ICE and CBP more money without any of the protections our communities  need and the American people demand. If Republicans allow my measure to  come to a vote, we could end the impasse today. Hardworking Americans  will get paid. Have the courage to stand up and do it. I encourage them  to do so.