Providing for Consideration of H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691687/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague and good friend, the  Ranking Member of the Rules Committee Jim McGovern. He is a tireless  fighter for working families and I am proud to be in that fight with  him. I am glad to call out the egregious giveaway to billionaires and  big corporations being orchestrated in this Republican tax bill.

The $4.5 trillion--and counting, counting because we do not have the  full CBO score as this bill is being jammed through the House--is what  we are talking about. That is what Republicans are preparing to shower  on the richest companies and their billionaire owners, while giving  mere pennies to the middle class, working class, and vulnerable  families who are struggling with the cost-of-living crisis.

President Trump campaigned on lowering prices. He pledged to ``bring  food costs down on day one.'' Instead, the opposite has happened. His  own USDA recently reported egg prices could rise 41 percent over the  next year. Since taking office, he has done nothing to help families.

This is shameful, because the alternative is clear. A few weeks ago,  I reintroduced the American Family Act, legislation to reinstate the  improved, expanded Child Tax Credit. The American Family Act would  create the strongest version of the tax credit ever, indexing the value  of the credit to inflation, and it would establish a baby bonus to help  families in that critical first year after birth.

The data proves that the expanded Child Tax Credit that we passed in  2021 delivered the greatest middle class tax cut in a generation,  reaching nearly 36 million families--61 million children. It was the  antidote to child poverty and to inflation. It gave real money back to  millions of working families in the form of monthly checks, cutting  child hunger by a fourth and bringing child poverty down to the lowest  recorded levels in history.

The watered-down imitation of a Child Tax Credit included in this  bill will not continue this progress. I want to take this time to  address a few misconceptions about the Child Tax Credit that have been  present in this debate so far. According to the Columbia Center on  Poverty and Social Policy, nearly one out of four children, 17 million  children nationwide, are excluded from full credit because their family  incomes are too low to qualify. This is not an issue of work  requirements. The current version of the CTC functions as an income  requirement, hurting families who work hard or are retired grandparents  who are now caring for a second generation, but simply do not earn  enough to qualify. Families with parents who work hard will be excluded  because their wages are too meager. Are you truly saying that  billionaires and corporations need tax breaks more than the youngest of  your constituents? This bill would make that problem worse, not better.

This bill pays lip service to the Child Tax Credit--I believe the  American people need more than that.

Our bill is the real deal. The improved, expanded Child Tax Credit  fixes this problem. We need that now more than ever. Across the  country, families are living paycheck to paycheck while prices for  everyday goods and essential services, from eggs to gasoline to  medicine and childcare, continue to rise.

This should not be a partisan issue. Republicans like former Senator  Mitt Romney, Senator Josh Hawley, and even Vice President J.D. Vance  have supported the Child Tax Credit because the evidence that it helped  families is so overwhelming.

But Republican leadership in Congress has been clear: they want to  give the corporate lobbyists everything they ask for and then some.  They are gutting Medicaid, food stamps, and anything else that stands  in the way of more money for billionaires.

This bill is not responding to the cost-of-living crisis. This bill  is pouring gasoline on the fire. My promise to American families is  that I will fight as hard as I can, with every ally I can find, to stop  this corrupt giveaway and focus on bringing down the cost of living  through a proven policy, the expanded Child Tax Credit--not the meager  substitute in this bill.