Recognizing Amanda Barlow on Her Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692562/recognizing-amanda-barlow-on-her-retirement


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate  Amanda Barlow, for the 30 years of service she has given to the Federal  Government at the Department of Health and Human Services'  Administration for Children and Families.

Ms. Barlow has been with ACF since 1994, when she joined the agency  as a presidential management intern, and then as a budget analyst. She  became the Director of Budget in 2009 and has served as the Director of  the Office of Legislative Affairs and Budget since 2017. Ms. Barlow has  also served in an acting capacity for several of ACF's executive  leadership positions, including the acting ACF Commissioner from  January to November 2021, and the acting Assistant Secretary for ACF  from February to May 2017.

Through her work overseeing a budget of more than $70 billion for  ACF, Ms. Barlow has played a key role supporting the programs and  services that provide critical assistance to vulnerable populations,  including Head Start and Child Care services for millions of children  and families, and the heating and cooling of millions of households  through the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Over the last 30  years, these programs have helped millions of children and families  achieve prosperity and independence.

In addition to overseeing the 60-plus programs ACF administers, Ms.  Barlow has also served as ACF's liaison to the Committees on  Appropriations. She has been an indispensable resource to the  Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. Her  budgetary expertise and round-the-clock responsiveness has helped the  Subcommittee to draft annual appropriations bills and emergency  supplementals--for which I am deeply grateful.

In 2024, Ms. Barlow earned the Presidential Rank Award for  Meritorious Service, one of the most prestigious awards in the Federal  career civil service, which recognizes members of the Senior Executive  Service for a sustained record of exceptional professional achievement.  It was aptly awarded and richly deserved.

I thank Ms. Barlow for her tireless public service--which often  included long days, evenings, and weekends--as she worked to ensure  that critical economic and social services programs funded through the  agency had the necessary resources to serve millions of children and  families in communities across the country. Her talents and  contributions will be sorely missed.

I congratulate Ms. Barlow on a distinguished career and wish her the  best in her upcoming retirement. I hope her retirement gives her more  time with family, including her husband and two children, and much  success with her community garden plot.