Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693721/relating-to-consideration-of-the-senate-amendment-to-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I remain strongly opposed to this  rescissions bill, which is a rubberstamp on stealing from the American  people.

Since taking office, the Trump administration has stolen funds  appropriated by the Congress, passed by Republicans and Democrats in  the House and Senate, and signed into law by the President of the  United States, upending the separation of powers and our constitutional  order.

This rescissions bill is another effort to subvert the Congress'  power of the purse. That is precisely what they are trying to do. For  what ends? To hand billionaires and the biggest corporations that  already pay little or no taxes a massive tax break and, ultimately, to  embrace privatization; to give the biggest companies unchecked power to  rig the economy against the middle class, the working class, and  vulnerable people; and to ensure the American people have no faith in  their government.

This bill will shut down rural television and radio stations, cutting  off coverage of local news, eliminating emergency information like  severe weather alerts, jeopardizing access to PBS KIDS, children's  programs like Sesame Street--yes, Sesame Street.

This bill rips lifesaving support away from hungry, displaced, and  sick people in developing countries and conflict zones and will end  programs that prevent conflict and pandemics.

This bill abandons the people of Ukraine while they resist Putin's  tyranny.

This bill puts America last.

When we retreat from the world diplomatically and through our  assistance to vulnerable people, America will be alone without allies  in a less stable world without the support of the international  community.

Do you know who will come out ahead? China, Russia, Iran.

All of this is being done in the name of combating waste. I will tell  you what waste is: 500 tons of food grown by American farmers destroyed  at a cost of $130,000 to American taxpayers because of the chaos caused  by dismantling USAID. It was left there to expire.

This is the bill to help Republicans claim that they are practicing  fiscal responsibility while concealing that what they are doing is  ripping health insurance away from at least 17 million Americans in  order to make billionaires even more rich, and they increase the debt  by $4 trillion.

How dare they talk about the deficit when they have just increased  it? They are not addressing the cost of living in this country, the  single biggest issue. They are making it worse.

Ms. DeLAURO. This bill codifies the right of the Trump administration  to steal from vulnerable American communities, children, and the global  poor for the sake of handing even more money to billionaires.

Congress needs to reassert its role. Fight for the middle class, the  working class, the vulnerable, not to protect the interests of  billionaires and big corporations.

I strongly oppose this bill. It forfeits our global leadership,  undermines our national security, and steals from the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''