Advancing America First Policies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689153/advancing-america-first-policies


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Utah for his  leadership.

Mr. Speaker, the United States spends more money per student than any  country in the world, yet among developed nations, we sadly rank near  the bottom in educational outcomes.

Mr. Speaker, 70 percent of eighth graders, 70 percent, Mr. Speaker,  aren't proficient in reading or math according to the latest National  Assessment of Educational Progress.

Believe it or not, and it gives me no joy to say this, there are  reports that say 54 percent of Americans cannot read at a sixth-grade  level. This is not just disappointing; this is indeed a national  failure.

At this point, the Department of Education just doesn't need reform,  it needs a complete overhaul.

In the last 5 years, the Department of Education has spent over $1  trillion with no measurable gains. Under President Biden its spending  surged over 200 percent from $71 billion in 2019 to $268 billion last  year.

At the same time, the Biden administration's love of excessive  regulations imposed an additional 4.2 million hours of paperwork  burdens on schools pulling teachers and administrators away from what  matters most--the students.

President Reagan said back in 1982, and President Trump has recently  echoed, that we need to turn the schools back to the States and to the  local school districts. President Reagan rightly noted that `` . . .  the decline and the quality of public education began when Federal aid  became Federal interference.''

Fortunately, President Trump and Secretary McMahon are committed to  returning control of education back to the States where it belongs and  empowering parents, local leaders, and definitely teachers, but putting  funding and decisionmaking back in the hands of States is just one  piece of the puzzle.

If we truly want to improve student outcomes, we must embrace school  choice and voucher programs, something my home State Governor's office  in Pennsylvania still refuses to do.

School choice States have flourished. Florida, Indiana, Utah, and  Ohio now rank among the best performing K-12 systems in the country.  President Trump recognizes the importance of school choice, issuing an  executive order directing the Department of Education to guide States  on how to use Federal funds for K-12 scholarship programs.

It also instructs the Education Secretary to prioritize school choice  when awarding discretionary grants. That is real leadership focused on  students, not bureaucracy.

To that end, I am pleased to support H.R. 833, the Educational Choice  for Children Act, which offers a Federal tax credit to encourage  charitable donations toward scholarships that help families cover K-12  expenses, tuition, books, supplies, and more.

This bill is expected to benefit over 2 million students nationwide,  opening the door to better opportunities whether in public, private,  religious, or homeschool settings.

Unfortunately, forward-thinking solutions like this are not being  considered in my home State of Pennsylvania where there are some  families that feel trapped in a system that puts bureaucracy before  students.

We cannot allow the status quo to be accepted.

School choice works, Mr. Speaker, and what are these politicians  afraid of? I went to a public school, and I had some great teachers. My  son went to public high school, and he had some great teachers, but not  all of them were.

We need accountability. Parents and children must come first. Reforms  are needed, not a year from now, not 5 years from now, but right now.  This is critical. We are failing far too many young people.

Education is the foundation of a better life, a stronger economy, and  a more advanced society, yet we continue allowing too many students to  fall behind.

A child only gets one chance at a quality education. The time for  change is now, and thankfully we have a President who puts students,  families, and results first. President Trump and his administration  will deliver for our students and for their futures.

The executive orders returning education authority to the States not  only prioritizes school choice, it also ensures that vital services and  benefits continue without disruption during the transition.

That is how we reform education the right way: by empowering parents,  protecting students, and putting our educational life and results ahead  of regulation.