Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700510/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his leadership,  service, and sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Con. Res. 38 which would  limit the President's ability to protect the American people from  Iran's terrorist regime. I believe that this resolution--and maybe  misunderstood--sends a troubling message to our troops and a perhaps  interpreted welcome message to our enemy.

The War Powers Act is very clear. Enacted in 1973, it requires the  President to notify Congress within 48 hours of deploying forces, and  the President has 60 days before he must seek congressional approval.

President Trump has clearly acted within the provisions of the War  Powers Act. President Obama, on the other hand, used these authorities  to launch operations in Libya for over 7 months, Iraq, Syria, and  Yemen. President Biden invoked the same authorities for strikes against  threats in Syria, Iraq, and Yemen. Yet no resolution to limit those  Presidents was brought up in this House by our colleagues.

As Secretary Rubio said, and he described in great detail, there was  an imminent threat upon the United States and our allies from Iran.

Speaker Johnson also warned: The idea that Congress would now take  away the ability of the Commander in Chief is dangerous and is a threat  to the safety of the United States of America.

We must remember whom we are dealing with. We are dealing with Iran,  which has been a terrorist state for 47 years. Its proxies range from  Hezbollah to Hamas to the Houthis, and the list goes on. Directly and  through these proxies, Iran has maimed and killed thousands of  Americans. They orchestrated the massacre in Israel on October 7. We  know this.

They are, in fact, doing their utmost to continue enriching uranium  to make it weapons grade. According to Special Envoy Witkoff, just the  other day, the Iranian negotiators opened negotiations by bragging  about presently controlling 460 kilograms of uranium enriched to 60  percent, enough weapons-grade material for 11 bombs within 4 to 6  weeks.

Because of this regime's reign of terror, their own civilians rose up  and protested, Mr. Speaker. Over the last 2 months, there are reports  that as many as 90,000 Iranian civilians were murdered.

Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, President Trump has strategically developed  regional trust throughout the Middle East. This is why we have a strong  coalition in this region to confront this threat. Today, Iran is an  island thanks to the strategy of the Trump administration.

The Iran of the past, one that oppresses and commits terrorism and  all kinds of atrocities on its own people and the world, is history.