Increasing Investor Opportunities Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697823/increasing-investor-opportunities-act


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Chairman, I thank Chairwoman Wagner for her  leadership and, with all due respect to our minority leader, I oppose  this amendment. I do support the INVEST Act, led by Chairman Hill and  subcommittee Chairwoman Wagner strongly.

The INVEST Act broadens opportunities for everyday Americans to  invest in public and private markets, expands access to capital,  facilitates capital formation, promotes transparency, and helps  charitable organizations build retirement security for their employees.

For example, it allows people to invest in private markets based on  their knowledge and experience, whereas previously they could only  qualify based on their income.

It encourages new public companies to issue more shares without  burdensome regulations so they can focus on hiring and expanding  instead of diverting limited resources to filing paperwork with the  SEC.

Thanks to Representative Huizenga's leadership, investors can now  access important disclosure forms electronically for the first time  instead of only on paper through the mail.

The INVEST Act also includes my bill, H.R. 3645, the ACCESS Act,  which passed the Financial Services Committee earlier this year 51-0.  Right now, if a small business uses crowdfunding--which is raising  money online for everyday people who want to invest--the moment the  business raises more than $100,000, they have to pay for financial  statements that can cost up to $10,000. For many start-ups, that is a  huge chunk of their money that they are trying to raise. This makes  this an improved situation.

The ACCESS Act simply lifts the limit to $250,000 so small businesses  can raise the early capital they need. Its inclusion in the INVEST Act  is a significant bipartisan step toward making capital formation more  practical and affordable.

This legislation puts everyday Americans first and uses the strength  of our capital markets to fuel growth on Main Street, not Wall Street.  The INVEST Act is a major win for workers, entrepreneurs, and small  businesses, and I support its passage.