Investing in All of America Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697260/investing-in-all-of-america-act-of-2025


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I thank our chairman very much for yielding  and for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, H.R. 2066, the  Investing in All of America Act of 2025. This legislation will  incentivize greater investment from small business investment  companies, SBICs, to small businesses located in rural or low-income  areas, as well as small businesses in the manufacturing and national  security technology sectors.

SBICs are privately owned and managed investment funds that are  licensed and regulated by the SBA. These companies raise private  capital, which is then matched with additional leverage by the SBA,  capped at $175 million.

SBICs then invest both their private capital and SBA leverage into  small businesses in communities across the country. Importantly, the  SBIC program operates at zero subsidy cost to the American taxpayer.

Over the last 5 years, SBICs have invested over $130 billion in small  businesses across America, including $1.3 billion in my home State of  Pennsylvania's small businesses.

Though the SBIC program is successful, recent studies have shown that  less than 20 percent of SBIC investment reaches low- to middle-income  communities, especially rural communities.

The Investing in All of America Act encourages additional private  capital investments in parts of America that are often overlooked by  not counting dollars invested in these areas against an individual  SBIC's $175 million leverage cap. By creating this incentive, my bill  will increase investment for these currently underserved communities.

It is important to note that the bonus leverage included in this  legislation does not change the costs or risks of the SBIC program. The  existing model operates at no cost to the taxpayer and will remain the  same.

The Trump administration and SBA Administrator Kelly Loeffler are  focused on fueling small business growth and reinvigorating domestic  manufacturing throughout the United States. This legislation supports  that effort by encouraging increased private investment in the  manufacturing sector.

By expanding access to capital and reducing barriers to entry, this  legislation helps manufacturers scale operations and create high- quality American jobs.

I thank Representative Scholten for her continued partnership, as  well as the support from the Democratic leadership, on this legislation  and the bipartisan group of all Members, Republican and Democrat, who  have cosponsored it. This legislation will have tangible, positive  impacts on our communities.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support passage of this  important piece of legislation.