Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701521/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, reality sometimes hurts. The fact is that  the Democrat leadership, over a 4-year period, let millions and  millions and millions of illegal aliens and illegal persons into our  country and, along with it, tons of drugs and all kinds of human  trafficking.

Now, they are arguing against deportations and are doing their very  best to create chaos and hope the American people allow them to blame  it on President Trump and Republicans.

After the House passed a bipartisan DHS funding bill, along with  concessions from the White House and good faith efforts from both  Chambers, Chuck Schumer still refused to take yes for an answer.

The bill we received does not fund DHS. It sets border security  operations and CBP at zero quite intentionally. Zero dollars means that  day-to-day operations at Customs and Border Protection are not funded.  That is explicitly attempting to open our southern border.

Homeland Security Investigations, which stopped sex and child  trafficking, is left out as well. Was that deliberate? Apparently so.

For the second time within a year, TSA agents are working without  pay. That is terrible for them, for their families, and, of course, as  we see, for the traveling public.

President Trump took action today, thankfully, to find a way to pay  our TSA agents and allow our airports to run more smoothly. Now, we  have to do our job.

The short-term CR that we have presented is far from perfect, but it  keeps DHS running and our airports moving during Easter and Passover,  heavy travel times. We have time now to work out a better long-term  plan and agreement, as well.

Look, let's do what is right for once. Let's do what is right tonight  for the American people and try to stop the politics. Let's fund  Homeland Security and end this quite deliberately created chaos.