Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693710/relating-to-consideration-of-the-senate-amendment-to-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman Foxx very much for her  leadership.

Mr. Speaker, let's set something straight about tax cuts, so-called,  for billionaires. There are fewer than 800 billionaires in the United  States of America. We kept taxes low for over 160 million Americans,  and the Democrats all voted to increase taxes on 160 million Americans.  As a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, most of those billionaires--over 70  percent--are huge Democratic donors.

During President Trump's first term, we had progrowth policies, a  booming economy, and revenues increased. Then the Biden administration  accelerated the deficit by those in the administration, by the way, who  referred to themselves as the Politburo who were actually running the  administration.

Service on the debt alone increased during that time from $400  billion in 2020 to nearly $1 trillion last year. That is why we must  rein in irresponsible agencies. They have been taken over by  ideologues, Mr. Speaker, doing things that are simply not in the  interest of the people of the United States.

USAID has done some good things, but they have also done things that  were an enormous waste, totally inappropriate, and, in fact, they lost  the trust of the American people. Agencies like this need to be  reformed. The American people aren't going to put up with it anymore.

Why is the government still funding public television when most  people have hundreds of channels, as has been mentioned, to watch their  news or whatever they want to watch? Is it just because it has been  around for 50 years? That is not reason enough.

Unless we want to pass along $37 trillion, and climbing, of debt to  our children, we have to start spending money on the must-haves, not on  the nice-to-haves. These stations are not only nice-to-have to some,  they are not-nice-to-have to most, and they are certainly not must- haves.

Mr. Speaker, let's pass this rescissions package. Let's get on our  way to having some accountability for the American people and codify  President Trump's spending reductions into law.