Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act--Veto Message From the President of the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698700/finish-the-arkansas-valley-conduit-act-veto-message-from-the-president-of-the-united-states


Ms. BOEBERT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman of our House Natural  Resources Committee and the ranking member of our committee for all the  work that has been put in on this legislation. I also thank my  colleagues in the Senate for their work on this important bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of today's veto  override to ensure my bill, H.R. 131, becomes law.

In December of last year, this commonsense, bipartisan, and bicameral  bill passed both the House and Senate unanimously. The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office has estimated that my bill will not result  in a measurable increase to Federal spending.

H.R. 131, the Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act, will help small  rural communities in southeast Colorado finally complete a Federal  water project that was authorized in 1962 under the Kennedy  administration.

Radium, uranium, and other naturally occurring elements are found in  the surface and groundwater of southeastern Colorado, and the water  quality is problematic year-round because of its salinity, selenium,  sulfate, hardness, and manganese levels.

The Bureau of Reclamation has found that these contamination levels  are so severe that local communities could see the costs of their  drinking water triple without this legislation.

Contrary to what the veto message states, my bill does not authorize  any additional Federal funding. It simply modifies the repayment terms  for small rural communities in my district so they are able to afford  their 35 percent cost share of the project that they are statutorily  obligated to repay.

After the project broke ground, inflation took place. Costs doubled  under the previous administration. The price tag of this project  doubled due to construction and labor costs.

Once completed, the Arkansas Valley Conduit will provide 7,500 acre- feet of water per year to as many as 50,000 Coloradans across 40  different communities in Pueblo, Otero, Bent, Kiowa, Prowers, Crowley,  and Baca Counties.

I boldly remind my colleagues here today that this project broke  ground during the first Trump administration in 2020 due to major  investments from the Trump-led Bureau of Reclamation and the State of  Colorado.

From 1962 until 2020, only $24 million had been invested in this  project. In 2020, President Trump and his team, his administration, did  the right thing, continuing with their commitment to improve Western  water infrastructure. He more than doubled the Federal investments in  this project with $28 million going toward it. The State of Colorado  then invested over $100 million in this project.

Former Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt personally attended  the groundbreaking of the AVC and retweeted: ``For nearly 60 years,  Colorado's leaders have worked to move the Arkansas Valley Conduit  forward.''

The Trump administration got it done.

A press release from the Department of the Interior announcing the  groundbreaking reads: ``Western water supply reliability and  infrastructure investments has been a priority for President Trump and  his administration.''

This bill makes good on not only a 60-year plus commitment without  wasting hundreds of millions of dollars in State and local and Federal  investments, but it also makes good on President Trump's commitment to  rural communities, to Western water issues.

President Trump's commitment to Western water supply and reliability  will be upheld, and the Arkansas Valley Conduit will finally be  completed.

We were able to get this bill passed and sent to the White House the  right way, the way that I have fought for since I have been in  Congress. This is a piece of legislation that has gone through  committee, has been negotiated, has been debated, has gone back and  forth between both Chambers, and we were able to pass this single- subject legislation all the way through with unanimous support in this  body and in the Senate. It is something I am very, very proud of, and  it is past time that we finally fulfill the promise that the Federal  Government made to the communities I represent in Colorado. I urge my  colleagues to support this override to finish the Arkansas Valley  Conduit.