Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my  Congressional Review Act joint resolution of disapproval which seeks to  overturn the Department of Energy's final rule on the Energy  Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification  Requirements, Labeling Provisions, and Enforcement Provisions.

Over the past 4 years, the Biden-Harris administration has flooded  our economy with burdensome regulations, stifling growth and  restricting Americans' freedoms. In total, these regulations have  imposed a staggering $1.7 trillion in costs on the American people.  Fortunately, House Republicans and President Trump are committed to  rolling back these unnecessary and costly mandates.

The latest example of overreach came in October of 2024, when the  Department of Energy finalized new certification, labeling, and  enforcement requirements affecting 20 different consumer and commercial  products, including dishwashers, central air conditioners, heat pumps,  washing machines, battery chargers, and light bulbs. These new mandates  add unnecessary red tape, disrupt supply chains, limit consumer choice,  and drive up prices. It is time to get the Washington bureaucracy out  of Americans' everyday lives.

My legislation seeks to rescind this final rule which places  excessive costs and bureaucratic obstacles on appliance manufacturers,  costs that will inevitably be passed down to consumers. In its broader  push against fossil fuels, the Biden administration has imposed at  least 31 appliance regulations at an estimated cost of over $60  billion. This resolution would eliminate Biden-era energy conservation  certification and labeling regulations, ensuring that American  consumers, not Washington bureaucrats, decide which appliances best fit  their needs.

Even the Biden-Harris Department of Energy acknowledges that this  rule will increase annual costs for individual manufacturers by  $213,000 and require an additional 2,905 hours of compliance paperwork,  just paperwork, a major burden, particularly for small businesses. As a  small business owner myself, I understand how crushing regulations like  these harm the small businesses that drive our economy, especially in  rural communities like northeast Georgia.

Last November, the American people soundly rejected the Biden-Harris  administration's disastrous policies. Now, as President Trump moves  swiftly to get our country back on track, Congress must act to roll  back these costly misguided regulations, starting with the Department  of Energy's appliance rule.

I thank Chairman Guthrie, Chairman Griffith, and House leadership for  prioritizing this commonsense legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support its final passage to  protect consumer choice, reduce costs, and eliminate unnecessary  regulatory burdens.