Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the SAVE  America Act, which implements commonsense measures backed by the vast  majority of Americans, across party lines, to secure our elections and  ensure that it is easy to vote but hard to cheat.

As my great State of Georgia knows all too well, we must do more to  deliver secure elections. The survival of our constitutional Republic  relies on free, fair, and secure elections.

Thankfully, this legislation bolsters election integrity by requiring  a government photo ID to vote, requiring proof of U.S. citizenship to  register to vote, and directing States to remove noncitizens from  existing voter rolls.

These are not controversial issues. In fact, leftwing CNN's own  recent polling shows that 83 percent of Americans support voter ID,  including the majority of Republicans and Democrats, as well as voters  regardless of their race.

Who would oppose such a bill and why? Unsurprisingly, my Democrat  colleagues oppose the SAVE America Act because it hurts the Democratic  Party's ability to cheat in our elections.

Just think of all the things Americans need an ID for, yet face  absolutely  no backlash from the Democratic Party. For example, to exercise another  constitutional right, the Second Amendment, an individual must present  a government-issued photo ID to purchase a firearm from a Federal  firearms dealer. Yet, requiring identification to vote is somehow  portrayed as controversial.

To underscore the Democrats' hypocrisy even further, in funding  negotiations, Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries  are demanding that ICE agents show IDs to arrest illegal aliens. They  support photo ID to enforce immigration laws but oppose photo ID to  ensure our elections are secure. This is incredible hypocrisy.

In Proverbs 11:9, God says: ``The hypocrite with his mouth destroys  his neighbor.'' That is exactly what Democrats are trying to do:  destroy this country with their hypocrisy over voter identification.

Mr. Speaker, I support this act.

Mr. CLYDE. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my good friend from Texas for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the question I wanted to ask to my Democratic colleagues  is  that since they have made it abundantly clear that Democrats strongly  oppose photo identification in order to vote, now that is a First  Amendment right, so am I correct in assuming that Democrats also  strongly oppose a government-issued photo ID to exercise a person's  Second Amendment right? So, therefore, no ID required to buy a firearm.

If they are going to be against voter ID to exercise a First  Amendment right, then I would assume also that they would be against  photo ID to exercise a Second Amendment right.

I have not seen any legislation from my Democrat colleagues to do  that, so I really don't believe that. I think it is all a hoax.