Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


Ms. DelBENE. Mr. Speaker, we find ourselves in an all too familiar  situation. Speaker Johnson and House Republicans are trying again to  prevent our ability to have an up-or-down vote on Trump's tariffs, like  they have done multiple times over the last year.

The President's chaotic trade war has been crushing businesses and  raising prices on families across the country. I am hearing from  communities across Washington about the devastating impact of these  tariffs. A small business owner in my district told me he is being  tariffed out of business. I know my colleagues are hearing the same,  especially from farmers who are often the first and hardest hit when  countries retaliate against these tariffs.

Yet, despite all of this damage, Republicans have sheepishly fallen  in line behind the President and gone along with avoiding a vote. They  would rather bend the knee to the President than stand up for their  communities.

Affordability is the number one issue facing families right now.  Tariffs are taxes that raise prices, plain and simple. These illegal  tariffs cost the average American family $1,700 last year. Today is an  opportunity to break this cycle, but Republicans need to be part of the  solution. This is a chance to stand up for our constituents, who  deserve to know that their elected Representatives really work for  them.

If my colleagues think these sweeping tariffs are such a good idea,  then vote for it, but stop hiding. We are not elected to dodge  important issues just because we are afraid of the President. The  Constitution gives Congress, not the President, authority over trade  policy.

I am grateful for my colleagues who have been fighting with me  against these tariffs since the beginning. I hope that more of them  will find the courage to say enough is enough today. Vote ``no'' on the  rule.