Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. JAMES. Mr. Chair, dramatic pause for effect, I rise today to  speak in favor of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities  Reauthorization Act of 2025. I thank my friend, Chairman Guthrie, for  his very hard work and leadership in getting this done.

Fentanyl is a scourge on our Nation, leaving a trail of heartbreak  and destruction in its wake. We cannot allow this poison to continue  tearing our families apart, and I am proud the House Republicans are,  once again, leading the fight to protect our communities and get  fentanyl off our streets.

Nationally, in 2022, the United States saw over 107,000 overdose  deaths in 1 year. That is 45 more deaths in 1 year than we lost during  the entirety of the 20-year war in Afghanistan. It is unconscionable.

While I am thrilled to see that opioid overdose deaths have declined  from an estimated 83,000 in 2023 and 54,000 in 2024, there is still so  much more that we have to do.

The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of 2025  plays a critical role by ensuring first responders have access to  lifesaving naloxone, increasing treatment options, and bolstering  support services.

I am especially pleased to see that provisions of my Road to Recovery  Act were included in this SUPPORT for Patients and Communities  Reauthorization Act of 2025. The bipartisan Road to Recovery Act  reauthorizes lifesaving resources vital to addressing opioid addiction  and substance abuse across the country.

It provides critical resources for SAMHSA's National Helpline, a  free, confidential, 24/7, 365-day-a-year treatment referral and  information service for individuals and families facing mental and/or  substance use disorders. This service provides referrals to local  treatment facilities, support groups, and community-based  organizations.

Mr. Chair, the American people are tired of Democrats and Republicans  bickering. I imagine both Democrats and Republicans agree on fentanyl  and any direction on fixing this scourge is a step in the right  direction.

Mr. Chair, with this bipartisan legislation and action that we are  taking to save lives, I encourage all of my colleagues to support this  crucial legislation.