Electric Supply Chain Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697892/electric-supply-chain-act


Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chairman, energy security is national security. As the 119th  Congress works to protect and strengthen America's energy backbone, we  have a responsibility to ensure our decisions are informed,  transparent, and grounded in vigorous oversight.

The American people expect us to safeguard the systems that power  their homes, businesses, and daily lives.

My amendment is straightforward and common sense. It directs the  Secretary of Energy to identify any vulnerabilities to our domestic  energy grid that may arise from noncitizens' access to U.S. facilities  that generate or transmit electricity. That is it. It creates no  prohibition, no hiring restrictions, and no burdens on industry. It  simply asks for information, information Congress needs to do its job.

The numbers alone underscore the importance of this issue. According  to the report, the Department of Energy's 2024 Energy Employment by  State report, my great State of Arizona employs more than 135,000  energy workers, including 25,000 in power generation and another 25,000  in transmission. Comparably, in Texas, 1 million Americans work in the  energy sector. These are enormous workforces operating critical  infrastructure that keeps our country moving.

Under Article I, Section 8, Congress has clear constitutional  authority under the Commerce Clause to regulate interstate and  interregional commerce. Electricity, the last time I looked, doesn't  stop at State lines.

Earlier this year, the House passed H.R. 3062, the Proposing Cross- Border Energy Infrastructure Act, to streamline energy transmission  across our international borders.

As we take steps to expand and modernize our energy systems, we must  ensure our oversight keeps pace. By requiring the Secretary of Energy  to periodically review access to critical facilities and notify  Congress if any of these vulnerabilities are found, my amendment  enhances that oversight. If risks exist, we address them. If they  don't, the Department of Energy can focus its efforts on more pressing  threats from our adversaries like China and Russia.

Mr. Chair, this is responsible governance. It strengthens  transparency, fortifies national security, and ensures Congress remains  fully informed about potential threats to the grid.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I think the gentleman is suffering from power  phobia, but this is a report. That is all it is, a report. I think the  old wives' tale actually says it best: ``An ounce of prevention is  worth a pound of cure.'' This is a report. It has nothing to do with  immigration or immigration-like actions. It is a simple report. If you  do your oversight right, you better be following these reports. You  better be finding where those little glitches may be, and this is one  of those aspects.

Mr. Chair, I ask that everyone vote for this amendment, and I yield  back the balance of my time.