La Paz County Solar Energy and Job Creation Act


Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1043) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain  Federal land in Arizona to La Paz County, Arizona, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1043

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``La Paz County Solar Energy       and Job Creation Act''.            SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) County.--The term ``County'' means La Paz County,       Arizona.

(2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the       approximately 3,400 acres of land managed by the Bureau of       Land Management and designated as ``Federal Land to be       Conveyed'' on the map.

(3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map prepared by the       Bureau of Land Management entitled ``BLM Arizona--La Paz       County Land Conveyance Map'' and dated June 29, 2023.       SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE TO LA PAZ COUNTY, ARIZONA.

(a) In General.--Notwithstanding the planning requirement       of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and       Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and in       accordance with this section and other applicable law, as       soon as practicable after receiving a request from the County       to convey the Federal land, the Secretary shall convey the       Federal land to the County.

(b) Restrictions on Conveyance.--

(1) In general.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall       be subject to--

(A) valid existing rights; and

(B) such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines       to be necessary.

(2) Exclusion.--The Secretary shall exclude from the       conveyance under subsection (a) any Federal land that       contains significant cultural, environmental, wildlife, or       recreational resources.

(c) Payment of Fair Market Value.--The conveyance under       subsection (a) shall be for the fair market value of the       Federal land to be conveyed, as determined--

(1) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and       Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and

(2) based on an appraisal that is conducted in accordance       with--

(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land       Acquisitions; and

(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal       Practice.

(d) Protection of Tribal Cultural Artifacts.--As a       condition of the conveyance under subsection (a), the County       shall, and as a condition of any subsequent conveyance, any       subsequent owner shall--

(1) make good faith efforts to avoid disturbing Tribal       artifacts;

(2) minimize impacts on Tribal artifacts if they are       disturbed;

(3) coordinate with the Colorado River Indian Tribes Tribal       Historic Preservation Office to identify artifacts of       cultural and historic significance; and

(4) allow Tribal representatives to rebury unearthed       artifacts at or near where they were discovered.

(e) Availability of Map.--

(1) In general.--The map shall be on file and available for       public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of       Land Management.

(2) Corrections.--The Secretary and the County may, by       mutual agreement--

(A) make minor boundary adjustments to the Federal land to       be conveyed under subsection (a); and

(B) correct any minor errors in the map, an acreage       estimate, or the description of the Federal land.

(f) Withdrawal.--The Federal land is withdrawn from the       operation of the mining and mineral leasing laws of the       United States.

(g) Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance of the Federal       land under subsection (a), the County shall pay--

(1) an amount equal to the appraised value determined in       accordance with subsection (c)(2); and

(2) all costs related to the conveyance, including all       surveys, appraisals, and other administrative costs       associated with the conveyance of the Federal land to the       County under subsection (a).

(h) Proceeds From the Sale of Land.--The proceeds from the       sale of land under this section shall be--

(1) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal Account       established by section 206(a) of the Federal Land Transaction       Facilitation Act (43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and

(2) used in accordance with that Act (43 U.S.C. 2301 et       seq.).

Mr. GOSAR.  1043, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, H.R. 1043, the La  Paz County Solar Energy and Job Creation Act.

My bill requires the Secretary of the Interior to convey 3,400 acres  of BLM land to La Paz County, Arizona, for rural economic and solar  development.

If you have ever visited southwest Arizona, Mr. Speaker, you will  know it is pretty darn sunny. Conveying the land to the county for  solar maximizes the potential for renewable energy generation and  unlocks employment opportunities for county residents.

It is simple: energy and jobs.

This conveyance is vital to the financial future of La Paz County.

Only established in 1983, La Paz is home to nearly 17,000 residents  with a median household income of $49,000 per year. It is primarily a  farming economy, with nearly 78 percent of cash receipts derived from  the sale of crops, like sugarcane and alfalfa hay.

As Arizona expands its technology and semiconductor industries, it is  critical to meet the needs of our electric grid, and I believe we must  take an all-of-the-above energy approach to ensure the grid's  reliability.

In fact, on July 9, Arizona's largest utility providers, APS and SRP,  reported a State record of energy demand as we were hit by a heat wave.  Luckily, Arizona did not have a blackout, but we must meet the growing  needs for electricity.

Mr. Speaker, this has been a legacy priority of mine since 2015. In  2019, the House passed the first allotment of this land for the county,  and now my bill conveys the remaining acres to provide the maximum  benefit of renewable energy production and a vibrant local economy.

Importantly, this bill respects the land's cultural and Tribal  significance. It requires consultation with the Colorado River Indian  Tribes if any Tribal artifacts are uncovered during the conveyance  process. However, it also enhances the partnership between the county  and the Tribes for years to come.

At a time when Congress is exploring all opportunities for cost  savings, the La Paz County Solar Energy and Job Creation Act is a win- win. The county receives opportunities for jobs and economic  development, and the Federal Government receives a fiscal benefit for  otherwise undeveloped lands.

My neighbors in La Paz County need a hand up, and I hope that I can  count on my colleagues to lend a helping hand.

Mr. Speaker, I once again ask my friends to support this legislation,  H.R. 1043, and our Nation's domestic energy dominance, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, American energy is America First. My bill means more  American jobs, more American energy, and more American prosperity.

On January 20, 2025, his very first day in office, President Trump  declared a national energy emergency to expedite permitting and  emergency regulations to unlock domestic energy production. Now it is  time for Congress to do its part.

This modest land conveyance will empower the people to meet the  national demand for energy generation with countless jobs and the  capacity to power thousands of American homes.

I thank the chairman of the committee, Mr. Westerman, committee  staff, and my colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee for helping  me bring this legislation to the floor today. A special thank you to my  Arizona delegation cosponsors, my good friends, Representatives Biggs  and Schweikert.

Mr. Speaker, I once again ask all my colleagues to support my  legislation, H.R. 1043, the La Paz County Solar Energy and Job Creation  Act. I yield back the balance of my time.