Civil Rights Cold Case Records Collection Reauthorization Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698140/civil-rights-cold-case-records-collection-reauthorization-act


Mr. OSSOFF.  1510 and the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration.

Mr. OSSOFF. Mr. President, in the summer of 1962, in Albany, GA, an  effort was underway to desegregate the city, and a young woman named  Marion King, participating in those efforts, carrying in her arms her  3-year-old daughter and 5 months pregnant at the time, was brutally  beaten for demanding the desegregation of Albany, GA. That was July of  1962.

Just this week, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution announced that the  Cold Case Records Review Board, whose purpose is to investigate civil  rights cold cases--the beatings, the killings and lynchings, the  intimidation; cases that were never investigated and never solved,  especially in the Deep South, especially in the State of Georgia during  the civil rights movement--that review Board will soon release the full  investigative files from the beating of Marion King in Albany, GA, in  July of 1962.

There is no expiration date on justice. And Mrs. King--who was a  Spelman College graduate, married to a prominent Albany civil rights  organizer, Slater King--she still deserves justice, and the work of the  Civil Rights Cold Case Review Board is helping take a step toward  justice in this case.

In 2022, Senator Cruz and I worked together to pass into law a  bipartisan bill that extended the work of the Civil Rights Cold Case  Records Review Board, this vital work pursuing justice in cases that  were swept under the rug, some of the most brutal crimes in our  Nation's history targeting Black Americans in the American South in the  Jim Crow era and during the civil rights movement. We passed that bill  in 2022.

I am grateful for the unanimous, bipartisan support of the Senate  tonight in passing the Civil Rights Cold Case Records Collection  Reauthorization Act. The Senate has just passed this bill, which  Senator Cruz and I, again, have offered to continue this vital work  pursuing justice in civil rights cold cases.

As divided and bitter and hateful as American politics is today, for  the U.S. Senate--Democrats, Republicans, and Independents--to stand  together with one united voice demanding justice for the victims of  these civil rights crimes is a much needed breath of fresh air.

We must continue working for justice for these victims, for these  survivors, for these families--especially the families of those who  were killed--and continue our work to safeguard civil and human rights  in the United States.