Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691457/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. OSSOFF. Madam President, Evyatar David has always loved music,  singing, and playing instruments with his brother Ilay and his sister  Yaela at Shabbat dinners. Evyatar dreams of becoming a music producer  one day, and that love of music led Evyatar to the Negev Desert for the  Nova Music Festival on October 7, 2023. For months, he had been looking  forward to a weekend of music and friends. But instead, Evyatar, is  now, as I speak these words on the Senate floor, living his 591st day  of captivity in a Hamas dungeon under Gaza.

His brother Ilay told me recently that another hostage, recently  freed, brought him a message from Evyatar that Evyatar misses most of  all playing music with his family. Instead, Evyatar has been starved  and kept in chains with a bag over his head. He and his best friend Guy  Gilboa-Dalal have been held together and tortured together.

Evyatar and Guy both have younger sisters, older brothers, parents,  friends whose lives are shattered by their absence.

This is Evyatar before, but recent photos show a man abused and  malnourished. And he was recently taken to witness the release of other  hostages and then returned to captivity simply to torment him.

I first met Evyatar's brother Ilay when he visited Atlanta and then  hosted Ilay in my office here in the Senate, and I was inspired by the  tenacity of his hope and his relentless effort to ensure his brother is  not forgotten. And today I rise to demand Evyatar's freedom and to  demand yet again the release of all hostages held in Gaza.

Many of us in Atlanta's Jewish community, including Ohr HaTorah, Beth  Jacob, B'nai Torah, and now all of the synagogues of the Atlanta  Rabbinical Assembly have decided to adopt Evyatar's case, to call  relentlessly for his immediate release and to ensure he is not  forgotten or left for dead.

This 24-year-old man has now spent two birthdays in brutal captivity,  where he remains right now at this moment, but he belongs at home with  his family.

Evyatar, you are not forgotten.

Free Evyatar David. Free him now.