In Memory of Mr. Bobby Beagles


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688335/in-memory-of-mr-bobby-beagles


Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize the  life of my good friend, Mr. Bobby Beagles, who passed away on February  16, 2025, and is survived by his loving wife, Vickie, son, Thomas,  daughter, Rachel, and his five grandchildren. Bobby was a loyal friend  of mine for almost 60 years who dedicated his life to advocating for  Florida's agriculture industry. Born on April 6, 1942, in Samson,  Alabama, Bobby later moved to Florida, where we shared an alma mater,  Maynard Evans High School, and community, Pine Hills, Florida.  Following his graduation in 1961, Bobby began his lifetime service to  the Central Florida community.

Bobby first served as an area representative for the Communications  Workers of America for over 20 years. Representing an area of Florida  that stretched from Jacksonville to Tampa, it was through this  opportunity that Bobby first developed his passion for the political  arena, an opportunity he contributed to his later years of service to  Florida's agricultuie industry.

From 1993 to 2000, Bobby served as President, Vice President, and  Director of the Orange County Cattlemen's Association. It was  during this tenure that he also began serving on the Orange County  Agricultural Advisory Board, a committee established as the voice for  agriculture within the government of Orange County. Bobby took the lead  on several issues but is best known for playing a vital role in the  establishment of a vibrant agricultural education program in Orange  County Public Schools. Thanks to his leadership, there is now an  agriculture program in every middle and high school in Orange County,  Florida.

Perhaps Bobby's most well-known role was through his service to the  Orange County Farm Bureau. Bobby served in every position within Orange  County Bureau and holds the distinct honor of the longest serving  President. After his service on the Board of Directors, he continued  devoting his time to the Farm Bureau as Executive Director, a position  he held for 38 years.

Aside from his professional service, Bobby still devoted his time to  growing the agriculture community within Central Florida. Through his  cow-calf operation in Christmas, Florida that he established in 1956,  serving in multiple capacities with the Central Florida Fair since  1987, serving as Chairman of the Large Animal Evacuation Team to aid  livestock during natural disasters and emergencies, and serving on the  Orange County Public Schools Career & Technical Education Advisory  Board from 2013 to 2022, Bobby dedicated his life to serving Central  Florida's agriculture industry.

Bobby was honored for his years of service by receiving many awards  and acknowledgements including his induction into the Florida 4-H Hall  of Fame, National FFA Honorary American Degree, Florida Farm Bureau  Distinguished Service Award, Honorary State FFA American Degree,  Partners in Education Award, Certificate of Appreciation for Commitment  to Orange County Public Schools, and the Jefferson Award. There is no  question that Bobby's commitment to agriculture was everlasting, and  his legacy will continue to live on. It is hard to imagine Florida  agriculture without Bobby. He embodies exactly what agricultural  advocacy works to represent.

Throughout his life, Bobby worked tirelessly to grow, advance, and  defend Central Florida agriculture, especially through his commitment  to supporting youth involved in the industry. He will forever be  remembered as a man of honor, of humility, and as one who served his  community with the utmost dedication. I am truly thankful for Bobby's  friendship and service to the Central Florida community.