Recognizing Reba Y. Mazak


Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor and recognize my  friend, Reba Y. Mazak as the 2025 Woman of the Year in Agriculture for  the State of Florida. Today, she was honored at the Florida State  Fair--America's Sunniest Celebration--during the annual Woman of the  Year in Agriculture Luncheon.

Since 1985, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer  Services, in partnership with the Florida State Fair Authority, has  recognized an outstanding Woman of the Year in Agriculture. Last March,  Commissioner of Agriculture Wilton Simpson bestowed this distinguished  honor upon Reba Y. Mazak in recognition of her lifelong dedication to  advancing Florida agriculture.

Reba is a fifth-generation Florida cattle producer with deep roots in  agriculture. She was born into the Yarborough pioneer ranching family  in Sanford, Florida, where she was raised with a deep respect for the  land and livestock, learning the ranching lifestyle through hard work  alongside her parents.

In 1985, she married her high school sweetheart and late husband,  Paul Mazak. Based in Sumter County and starting with just seven acres  and a mobile home, they built both a ranch and a family--raising two  daughters, Rebecca and Audra--while transforming their modest  beginnings into a thriving cattle operation spanning thousands of  acres. Together, they built Mazak Ranch into a successful cattle  operation with land in both Florida and Texas.

From attending Florida CowBelles events with her mother as a young  girl, Reba has been a dedicated advocate for the beef industry from the  very beginning. She has been active in Florida Cattle Women for more  than 40 years and served as its President in 2004. She also served as  President of the American National Cattle Women in 2022 during the  organization's 70th anniversary. Reba has completed the Masters of Beef  Advocacy Program and is Beef Quality Assurance certified.

Reba does not just represent a legacy of Florida ranching, she is  actively shaping its future. She is deeply passionate about mentoring  youth in agriculture and remains active in Farm Bureau leadership.  Through her advocacy and hand-on mentorship, Reba has made a lasting  impact on the next generation, including her four grandsons--Mayland,  Myles, Waylon, and Warren--who are already learning the values of hard  work, stewardship, and service that she lives every day.

Florida agriculture is stronger because of leaders like Reba. I am  deeply grateful for her commitment, her example, and her lifelong  service to our agricultural community. I congratulate Reba.