Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, over the weekend, cases of the  coronavirus have been confirmed in New York, Rhode Island, and Florida.  Officials in Washington State have also reported that now six Americans  have died from the coronavirus--the first fatalities in the United  States. 

  At this critical moment, we need an administration that acts with  persistent and unrelenting transparency and decisiveness, and that  leans on the expertise of our scientists and doctors. But this  administration, unfortunately, has spent years hollowing out the  domestic and global health security teams in the executive branch. It  has proposed cutting funding from the infectious disease rapid response  fund, the emerging infectious disease account, and public health  preparedness and response programs. Undoubtedly, the Trump  administration would have been better prepared to respond to the  coronavirus if the President had prioritized these programs rather than  urged them to be cut. 

  The administration's early response efforts have not instilled much  confidence either. Testing kits were not promptly sent to the hospitals  and medical labs around the country, political personnel have overruled  the recommendations of the CDC, and the administration was slow to  appoint any single official with public health expertise to coordinate  our government's response. 

  Even now, President Trump seems to be spending more of his time  blaming the media and blaming the Democrats than being constructive. In  fact, he blames everyone not named Donald Trump. The President is  downplaying--he is downplaying--the threat of the coronavirus to a  dangerous degree, and his Chief of Staff, amazingly, said to Americans:  ``Turn off your televisions.'' 

  We know the history of how these viruses spread and work. When you  deny them, when you don't let people know what is happening and what to  do about it, things get worse. Yet the President, being as self- centered as he is, only cares about himself and his image. As usual,  instead of solving the  problem, he tries to blame somebody else. 

  The deflection and finger-pointing and denial must stop. President  Trump must take responsibility to ensure that everyone in the public  health community has the authority and the resources needed. We need  the President and his team to level with the American people and get a  handle on the situation. 

  Later this week, appropriators will put together an emergency  supplemental package to surge resources into the domestic and global  response and to help local communities quickly prepare for the  coronavirus. I have said that we need about $8.5 billion, and, from all  reports, the appropriators are very close to that number, rather than  the $2.5 billion the President talked about early on. That is good  because when it comes to Americans' health, when it comes to our  safety, and when it comes to dealing with this problem head-on,  skimping doesn't make any sense at all. If there was ever something  that is pennywise and pound foolish, that is it. 

  As this package comes together, I am going to have more to say, but,  at a minimum, any package needs to have provisions that ensure that the  President cannot transfer these new funds to anything other than the  coronavirus and American and global preparedness to combat epidemics  and infectious diseases. 

  Vaccines must be affordable and available to all who need them.  Yesterday, I called for vaccines, when developed, to be fully covered  by Medicare, because seniors who need the vaccines most should not have  to worry if they can afford it once it is available. 

  There should be interest-free loans made available for small  businesses impacted by the outbreak, and State and local governments  should be reimbursed and provided new grants for response activities.  In the meantime, the administration needs to keep working with local  communities--including schools, universities, and local agencies--on  the steps they must take to prepare for an increase in coronavirus  cases. 

  Specifically, the administration needs to do the following: First,  issue coherent guidance on what school districts should do in the event  the virus is detected in a community; second, establish a uniform  screening policy for airports and ports of entry, as our frontline  transportation professionals at TSA and CBP need clear guidance on the  coronavirus; and, third, make it clear that our Federal scientists and  medical experts can speak out freely and be heard by the American  people--no gag rule, no downplaying this because that makes things  worse when people don't know the facts. 

  Democrats are ready to work on a bipartisan basis to make sure  Federal, State, and local officials are ready for whatever scenario the  coronavirus presents. The President and his administration and our  colleagues in the Senate must be ready to do the same.                                 Energy Bill  

  Mr. President, on the Energy bill, tonight the Senate will vote on a  motion to proceed on a bill that will make changes to our Nation's  energy policy. Ranking Member Manchin and I have had several  discussions with Chairwoman Murkowski and the Republican leader about  having a fair amendment process on this legislation. As a result of  these conversations, I will be voting yes on the motion tonight as a  show of good faith. 

  Democrats want amendments to the Energy bill so we can make real  progress on climate change. That is what we are hoping to achieve this  week. Few pieces of legislation offer more opportunity for progress on  climate than those that concern our energy policy. We cannot miss this  opportunity to make real, substantive progress on climate change. I am  hopeful that our amendments this week and the potential progress we can  make on climate change this week can be bipartisan. 

  For months, Republicans have been trying to adjust their posture on  the most pressing issue facing our planet--the climate crisis. This  bill provides a real test for Senate Republicans. Will they join Senate  Democrats in fighting for and passing bipartisan legislation that will  address climate change in a significant way, or will our Republican  friends continue to do what they have done for the last several years-- do the bidding of corporate polluters and Big Oil and block amendments  with bipartisan support?                      Director of National Intelligence  

  Mr. President, finally, on the DNI, on Friday, after dismissing  Acting Director of National Intelligence Maguire and replacing him with  Rick Grenell, a partisan loyalist with no experience, President Trump  proposed installing as a permanent Director of National Intelligence  Representative   John Ratcliffe of Texas. 

  Replacing one highly partisan operative with another does nothing to  keep our country safe. At a time when Vladimir Putin is once again  interfering in our elections, we need a nonpartisan leader with a high  level of expertise and trust on both sides of the aisle, someone who  sees the world objectively and speaks truth to power, at the helm of  the intelligence community. Neither Acting Director Grenell nor  Representative Ratcliffe comes close to that standard. Representative  Ratcliffe, in particular, falls short of that high bar. 

  John Negroponte became DNI after decades of working in the Foreign  Service. Former Directors Dennis Blair, James Clapper, and Mike  McConnell--whatever you think of them individually--came from both  parties, and all had decades of experience in and working with the  intelligence community. Dan Coats, the President's last nominee to this  position, served as a diplomat, a Senator, and a sergeant in the Army  before assuming the post. Representative Ratcliffe, on the other hand,  is a three-term tea party Congressman. He has shown extreme  partisanship in the House. He lacks the experience required to lead a  community of 17 intelligence agencies. 

  The experience Mr. Ratcliffe does have in Congress has been  alarmingly partisan. He was a fierce critic of the Mueller  investigation and earned praise from deep-state conspiracy theorists.  During the Mueller hearings, Ratcliffe badgered the former special  counsel with baseless lines of questioning--highly partisan and not at  all related to fact. He didn't seem to care. He showed little regard  for the seriousness of Putin's interference in our elections and the  need for election security. 

  Since World War II, since OSS, and since the formation of the CIA,  the intelligence agencies have, by and large, been immune from  politics. Like he does with everything else, this President seems to  make them the arm of his likes and dislikes, of what is good for him  and what is not good for him, even if he denigrates these fine men and  woman. He doesn't seem to care that we need intelligence agencies who  find the truth and tell the Congress and the American people the truth.  Now he appoints a rank partisan to this agency, someone he probably  sees on FOX News mouthing the conspiracy theories that only the  President and his avid supporters seem to believe. 

  It is such a decline in America when this great agency, where people  have risked their lives for America quietly, is made into a political  football to serve one man, Donald Trump, who we all know doesn't really  have a penchant for truth, for honor, and for decency. 

  With this nomination, President Trump has again shown a lack of  respect for the rule of law and for the intelligence community, which  Republican and Democratic Presidents have all shown in the past. 

  Republicans must join Democrats in swiftly rejecting the nomination  of the partisan Mr. Ratcliffe. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT