Border Security


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on the wall, yesterday the Washington  Post reported that the Trump administration is planning to divert $7.2  billion in funding from the Defense Department to fund his border wall  with Mexico. 

  Once again, the administration proposes stealing this funding from  military families and counterdrug programs, bringing the total amount  that the President has stolen--stolen--from our troops and our families  to over $13 billion. 

  The last time the President took money away from military  construction, serious military projects suffered--schools in Kentucky,  medical facilities in North Carolina, and hurricane recovery projects  in Florida. Now the President wants to take even more money away from  these projects for a border wall that he promised Mexico would pay for.  This is another slap in the face to our Armed Forces, their families,  and all of the places throughout America that have military bases that  need new construction funding. 

  Some Senate Democrats strongly oppose this action. We will continue  to oppose the transfer of counterdrug funding for the wall, and we will  force yet another vote to terminate the President's bogus national  emergency declaration and return these much needed military  construction funds back to the military, to the men and women in our  Armed Forces, and to their families. Our Republican friends, hopefully,  will join us in that vote. 

  President Trump is once again subverting the will of Congress--once  again thumbing his nose at the Constitution. The Founders gave Congress  the power of the purse, not the President, and this Chamber has refused  repeatedly to fund the President's wall. But whether it is to Federal  appropriations, foreign policy, or our oversight authority, President  Trump seems to have little regard for constraints placed on the  Executive. He seems to view the Constitution as merely a nuisance, some  inconvenient obstacle in the way of his personal and political  interests. It is time for Democrats and Republicans to say: Enough. 

  I would say one final thing to my conservative friends. The true  foundation of conservatism is to minimize the powers of government,  particularly the Executive, because they believe it provides more room  for the individual. Where are our conservative voices when Donald  Trump, in issue after issue--one of the most egregious being this  border wall--takes the power away from Congress, away from the American  people, and arrogates it onto his own personal wishes? 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT