Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, the Senate Banking Committee this  morning will hear testimony from Secretary Mnuchin and Federal Reserve  Chairman Powell about the economic distress caused by the COVID-19  pandemic. This testimony from the Secretary and the Chairman of the Fed  is one of the requirements that Senate Democrats secured in the CARES  Act, and we have been pushing for it to happen for several weeks. The  fact that it has taken so long is, once again, one more indication that  our Republican Senate colleagues are not focused on the COVID crisis  but on other diversionary issues, as witnessed by Leader McConnell's  speech, which I will have something to say about in a few minutes. 

  It could not be more urgent that they are testifying. The COVID-19  pandemic has thrown over 35 million people into sudden unemployment,  the highest level since the Great Depression. Chairman Powell has said  that further layoffs can continue for months. The anguish that so many  people feel. Without further action, Powell said, we risk ``prolonged  recession and weak recovery,'' with unemployment reaching 20 percent or  even 25 percent. In Chairman Powell's words, it may be that Congress  has to do more, and the reason we have to do more is to avoid longer  damage to the economy. Those are Chairman Powell's words, a  nonpolitical appointee by President Trump. 

  Mr. Powell's testimony this morning, hopefully, will jolt my  Republican colleagues into action, finally. At the very least, his  testimony should awaken them from their slumber and compel some  understanding of the scope and urgency of the problem at hand. Maybe  his speech will somehow galvanize our Republican colleagues into coming  forward and talking about COVID, doing oversight of COVID, and coming  up with the kinds of plans that we saw in COVID 4.0 in the House that  are so well needed. Maybe they will talk about things like this. Are  they for aiding State and local governments? Are they for so many of  the things in the bill--more help for hospitals, more help for testing,  more money for PPE, more help for those who have lost their jobs, or  are they not? All we hear is silence from our Republican colleagues. 

  I sat on the House and Senate Banking Committees for decades. I may  hold the record for attendance at hearings with Fed Chairs, so I can  state that Chairs of the Federal Reserve, whether appointed by  Democratic or Republican Presidents, do not frivolously suggest that  more congressional action is taken--rarely, do they do that. They try  to avoid it. That is another reason why Chairman Powell's comments are  so important. If he feels the need to push this Congress, and  particularly this Republican Senate, to act, problems must be deep and  real, and most Americans know it, but our Republican Senate colleagues  don't seem to. 

  We are looking at an economic situation ``without modern precedent''  in Powell's words. We can either take action to soften the blow to  businesses, families, workers, and average folks or, through inaction,  prolong the recession and hamstring our Nation's recovery. Up until  now, it seems our Republican colleagues are, unfortunately, choosing  the latter: no immediate need for urgent action. Amazing. Amazing. This  is the greatest crisis America has faced in decades and decades. 

  Now my colleagues like to point out the costs of the House Democratic  bill to provide another round of emergency relief. Republican  leadership has taken time to assail parts of the Democratic bill that  account for 0.0003 percent of the bill. They are not expected to like  every single piece, but they are expected by the American people to  act, and, mark my words, the American people will force them to act. 

  There are so many costs to inaction, and none other than the  Republican-  appointed Chairman of the Federal Reserve is saying that those costs  are likely greater than the costs of any relief bill. When will our  Republican Senate colleagues start to get the message 

  Looking at the floor of the U.S. Senate, you would never guess that  we are in the middle of a national economic crisis. For 3 weeks, Leader  McConnell has not scheduled any legislative business related to the  coronavirus. Senate Republican leadership is not even discussing their  response to COVID-4 in the House. 

  Instead, this week, the Republican leader has scheduled five  rightwing judges for the floor of the Senate. The Republican chairman  of the Homeland Security Committee will hold a hearing tomorrow  designed to slander the family of the President's political opponent,  delving into a Kremlin-concocted conspiracy theory that has no truth  and fell over like a dud in the impeachment hearing. Last night, the  chairman of the Judiciary Committee announced that his committee will  soon consider subpoenas relating to another conspiracy theory pushed by  President Trump, this time to try and rewrite the history of Russian  interference in the 2016 election to match the fantasy in President  Trump's head. What does Leader McConnell devote more of his floor  remarks to today? That wild conspiracy theory aimed at somehow smearing  the fine reputation that President Obama has well deserved. It is  amazing that was the bulk of the speech. 

  Leader McConnell, stop listening to President Trump and his wild  theories and listen to the American people. We need action. We need  action now. Every day, every week, and now almost every month we wait.  The recession gets deeper and worse. More people are unemployed. More  people lose their jobs, more small businesses are in jeopardy, and we  are talking about some wild theory because President Trump demanded it,  when everyone knows the President's penchant for truth is at a bare  minimum, as exemplified by his hydroxychloroquine comments last night. 

  Wow. This is unbelievable. In the midst of historic unemployment and  economic and health tragedy, Senate Republicans are using their  majority to simply block and tackle for the President's reelection  campaign. Senate Republicans are using their majority not to tackle the  COVID crisis but to block and tackle for the President's reelection  campaign. In the midst of a public health crisis, Senate Republicans  are diving headfirst into the muck to smear the family--the family--of  the President's political opponent. 

  It is such a gross misuse of the power of the majority. We were sent  here to do the Nation's business. At the moment, that means helping our  constituents through a time of immense challenge and hardship, but  Senate Republicans are using their committees to hold fishing  expeditions dictated by the President's Twitter feed, which even his  supporters don't usually believe. 

  If anyone doubts this is about politics; that this is about Senate  Republicans doing the bidding of President Trump's personal political  agenda, just remember what House Minority Leader McCarthy said before  the last Presidential election. Leader McCarthy went on FOX News  bragging that the Republicans put together a Benghazi select committee  to bring Hillary Clinton's poll numbers down. Now Senate Republicans  are using the same playbook to smear President Trump's political  opponents once again. It will not work. 

  The American people know it is a crisis. They know the Republicans  are doing nothing right now. They know that this is political folderol  to please President Trump and will not solve America's problems.  Rightfully, many Americans are just furious at Senate Republicans using  their majority to pursue the President's political agenda in a time of  national crisis. 

  The President is tweeting insane conspiracy theories, demanding that  his water carriers on Capitol Hill make them look legitimate. Instead  of focusing on testing capacity and policies to safely reopen our  country to help so many individuals and businesses that are in need,  the President is telling the press that he has taken an unproven  treatment, hydroxychloroquine, for a disease he doesn't have. That is  reckless. 

  Please, citizens of America, don't take hydroxychloroquine as a  prevention for COVID, and medical experts have said it is not.  Remember, it is risky. The FDA has said it has risks. This is a  medicine that experts say, at best, may not be effective in treating or  preventing COVID-19 and, at worst, causes serious heart problems in  patients with certain conditions. 

  It is astonishingly reckless. I don't know why the President did it.  Maybe he has family or friends who stand to benefit from the popularity  of this drug. It wouldn't be unlike the President that someone called  him who said it is a great drug, and he just talks about it. He has no  penchant for research or science or even truth. It just pops into his  head, and he thinks it sounds good. He thinks it is a diversion from  his failures--which are so many--for dealing with COVID. He just says  it. He doesn't care if it hurts people. He just says it. But I do know  this. If the President was focused on testing or production of PPE or  fashioning a careful plan to reopen the country instead of pushing  quack medicines and inventing new conspiracies, the country would be in  far better shape than it is today, and the country knows it. 

  The majority of Americans don't trust the President to handle this  crisis, and Senate Republicans just say how high when he says jump, no  matter how off base, false, or unrelated to COVID his theories are    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT