Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, every time we hear the majority leader  come out, it is a partisan screed. I am in my office with the  President's Secretary of Treasury, the President's congressional  liaison, getting things done. We Democrats are trying to get things  done, not making partisan speech after partisan speech. 

  In the past 24 hours, we got word that a Member of this Chamber,  Senator Paul, has tested positive for coronavirus, and the husband of  another Member, Senator Klobuchar, also tested positive. He is in the  hospital. I want to let them know--both of them--that the Senate is  thinking of them and praying for their speedy recovery, as we are for  tens of thousands of American families who are confronting the same  situation right now. 

  Whether you are afraid for a sick family member, an older relative in  the hospital, or struggling without work, income, or the knowledge of  when your isolation might end, our thoughts are with you right now.  These are trying times for all of us, but the scourge of this disease  will pass. The American people, as always, will prevail. 

  As the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the United States  eclipses 35,000, the Senate continues to negotiate what will likely be  the largest emergency funding bill in American history. As I have  mentioned, we have had almost continuous discussions with Secretary  Mnuchin. He left my office at about 12:15 last night and was there at  about 9 o'clock this morning. The White House congressional liaison,  Eric Ueland, has been in and out of the office as well. We are very  close to reaching a deal--very close. Our goal is to reach a deal  today, and we are hopeful, even confident, that we will meet that goal. 

  We have been working on a few outstanding issues that are no surprise  to everyone. From the very beginning, Democrats have insisted on a  Marshall Plan for our medical system, more money for hospitals,  community health centers, nursing homes, and urgent medical supplies,  such as gloves and masks, ICU beds, testing kits, ventilators, and PPE.  Since our negotiations, the numbers have gone up dramatically because  the hospitals and our healthcare workers need the help. 

  We are fighting hard and making progress on funding for State and  local governments. They are propping up local healthcare networks  virtually on their own. Their revenues are dramatically declining. Many  towns and villages across America--the smaller ones in particular-- might go broke pretty soon if we do nothing. If we can help the big  corporations, we can help our local towns and villages and the  taxpayers they represent. 

  On unemployment insurance, the bill has moved in the direction we  have outlined. The original bill has the unexpanded employment benefits  last only 3 months. We need to make it longer because the dislocation  caused by this crisis will not be over in 90 days, and people who lose  their jobs need help. It says to every American who loses his or her  job--the Democratic plan that is now in the bill: You will get your  full pay from the Federal Government. You can be furloughed by your  employer. That means you will keep your benefits, health and otherwise.  And it means that you will be  able to come back, and the business you had to leave can reassemble  itself quickly after, God willing, this crisis ends. 

  The bill still includes something that most Americans don't want to  see: large corporate bailouts with almost no strings attached. Maybe  the majority leader thinks it is unfair to have protections for workers  and labor to companies that are getting hundreds of billions of  dollars. We think it is very fair to ask for those. Those are not  extraneous issues. That is a wish list for workers--nobody else. 

  We are looking for protection. We are looking for oversight. If this  Federal Government is making a big loan to someone--to a big company,  we ought to know it and know the details immediately. The bill that was  put on the floor by the Republican leader said no one would know a  thing about those loans for 6 months at least. In those so-called  bailouts, we need to protect workers--the workers those industries  employ. 

  We have been guided by one plan: workers first. That is the name of  our proposal. The bill needs to reflect that priority. 

  We are working on all of these items in good faith as we speak, and  we hope and expect to conclude negotiations today. This vote the  Senate--it is no surprise--is about to take is merely a repeat of the  vote that failed last night. Leader McConnell continues to set  arbitrary vote deadlines when the matter of real importance is the  status of the bipartisan negotiations. 

  Let me be clear. The upcoming procedural votes are essentially  irrelevant. The negotiations continue no more than 30 feet away from  the floor of the Senate in our offices, where the real progress is  taking place. Once we have an agreement that everyone can get behind,  we are prepared to speed up the consideration of that agreement on the  floor. So I am going to get back to negotiations. 

  We all know time is of the essence. The country is facing twin crises  in our healthcare system and in our economy. We have an obligation to  get the details right and get them done quickly. That doesn't mean  blindly accepting a Republican-only bill. That was the bill we were  given. There were lots of things we didn't even know about on Saturday.  That means working to make this bill better--better for our small  businesses, better for our working families, better for our healthcare  system. 

  Democrats--Democrats--will not stop working with our Republican  counterparts until we get the job done. I will continue to update the  Senate on the progress of our negotiations. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. I would simply like to know for the sake of the  Members-- BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President-- 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER.  I have the floor. I would ask-- BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. I would simply like to ask the leader--before we have  these speeches, because we were supposed to vote for the next time  after he and I spoke--what is the schedule for the rest of the day? 

  Will he respond? BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER.  As long as we have a  schedule,  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT