Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I thank my good friend, the Senator  from South Dakota, for his usual display of patience. 

  The coronavirus pandemic continues to test our Nation in new and  difficult ways. There is now a confirmed case of coronavirus in all 50  States and the District of Columbia. Our public health system was  understaffed and underresourced, and without intervention, it could  soon become overwhelmed. 

  Even as the market shifts from day to day, the coronavirus is slowing  our economy to a near-standstill, and we are almost certainly  anticipating a recession. You go to the streets of many cities, towns,  and villages, and they are empty. Schools are closed in large portions  of the country. Businesses are struggling not to lay off workers  because they don't have customers, they don't have clients, and they  don't have income. There is great urgency here. 

  There are really two separate and simultaneous emergencies--one in  our healthcare system and another in the economy. We have to deal with  both. If we don't solve the one in our healthcare, the economy will  continue to get bad no matter what we do for it. 

  Less tangible than those two emergencies but still very real is the  impact the virus is having on American society. My home city of New  York is effectively on lockdown. You can go to a place like the Times  Square subway station and see actually nobody there. Americans are  being asked--rightly--not to gather in groups of 10 or more, not to go  to dinner or to a bar or to their church or place of worship. 

  I lived through 9/11. It occurred in my city. I knew people who were  lost. I lived through the days of the financial crisis in 2008 and  other moments of national urgency. But there is something much worse  about this crisis we face. I have never sensed a greater sense of  uncertainty, a greater fear of the future, of the unknown. We don't  know how long this crisis will last. 

  You don't even know if you contracted the virus right away, or maybe  your spouse, maybe your child, maybe your parent, maybe your friend. 

  Then there is a much greater sense of isolation, a problem for which  there is no cure. I miss not meeting and talking to my constituents.  They are our lifeblood. That is not happening just to us here in the  Senate; it is happening across America--friends who used to get  together and families who had gatherings. Different social activities  are gone--book clubs, card games. The fabric and sinew of our lives as  human beings have been put on hold, and nobody knows for how long. 

  By necessity, Americans are now sacrificing their normal lives and  daily routines and, maybe worst of all, sacrificing the sense of  community because we all, each individually and together as a country,  must fight this awful virus. 

  Unfortunately, we are only just beginning to see the necessary  seriousness and mobilization of resources from the Federal  Government. Sadly, unfortunately, and with awful consequences, this  administration took far too long to wake up to this global crisis. It  has wasted precious weeks in downplaying the severity of the  coronavirus--weeks that could have been spent in earnest in the  preparation of building our testing capacity. As a result, the United  States continues to lag behind other countries in the number and the  percentage of the population we are testing.  

  Stories of Americans who feel sick and show symptoms but who are  unable to access coronavirus tests appear every day in every single  newspaper. Warnings of the potential shortages of masks, hospital beds,  and ventilators appear in the paper every day. In 2 weeks, the issue of  ventilators and ICU beds will be like the issue of tests today. In  other words, 2 or 3 weeks ago, many of us were saying to get those  tests out. A month ago, people were saying it, and now we are seeing  the consequences--lockdowns because we can't test people. We don't know  who has the virus and who doesn't. The same crisis will be occurring in  a few weeks. Mark our words. Unfortunately, it is true about  ventilators and ICU beds. We are behind the eight ball on tests, and we  are soon going to be behind the eight ball on ICU beds and ventilators  as more and more people get sick. 

  The administration didn't pay attention to tests, and now we are  paying the price even though many of us were hollering for weeks about  the emerging issues with testing. The same problem is about to happen  with ventilators. We know, in 2 weeks, the number of ventilators might  become a massive problem. We must get ahead of it and get ahead of it  now. I call on President Trump to use his existing authority to help  address the widespread shortages of medical equipment, particularly  ventilators, as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak.  

  I joined 27 of my colleagues in a letter to President Trump to urge  him to invoke the Defense Production Act of 1950, which authorizes the  President to strengthen domestic manufacturing capacity and supply in  extraordinary circumstances. It is used in times of war, and we must  mobilize as if it were a time of war when it comes to hospitals--beds,  supplies, equipment. The DPA, the Defense Production Act, allows for  the President to direct the production of private sector firms of  critical manufactured goods to meet urgent and national security needs.  The President should do so immediately. 

  A report came out today that the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA are  ready and willing to participate in the response process. The Army  Corps could build temporary hospitals with beds, but it still hasn't  received instruction from the White House, from the administration. I  thank the men and women who are willing to be on the frontlines,  combating the pandemic, but this kind of inexcusable action is  maddening, infuriating, and must be rectified. Lives are at stake. 

  Public health infrastructure is the top priority because, if we can  curb this virus, the economy will get better. We need to do things to  help it, obviously, but if you ignore the public health crisis with  regard to the equipment and infrastructure and personnel which is  needed in many more numbers than we have ever seen, the economy will  not get better. 

  The legislation passed by the House on Saturday--phase 2 of the  coronavirus response--has a little bit of this, and it must pass the  Senate today. Unfortunately, first, we must dispose of a Republican  amendment that would make a condition of the bill a requirement for the  President to terminate military operations in Afghanistan. Yes, you  heard me right. Our Republican leadership has put on the floor an  amendment that would make a condition of the bill a requirement that  the President terminate military operations in Afghanistan. 

  In a time of national emergency, this Republican amendment is  ridiculous--a colossal waste of time. We probably could have voted on  this bill a day or two ago if it had not been for the need to have  scheduled this amendment. I am eager--we are all eager--to dispatch  this absurd Republican amendment and send this bill to the President.  For instance, it allows for the free testing and treatment of the  coronavirus, which is very much needed. We can send this bill to the  President and begin work on the next phase, phase 3. 

  As my colleagues know, Senate Democrats have already outlined several  proposals for the next phase of legislation, and the specifics have  been made public. The proposal has four main priorities: public health  capacity, unemployment insurance, paid sick leave, and priority  treatment for labor in any bailout to industry. There are many things  in this bill that are important: no payment on student loans or  mortgages and help with our mass transit systems. There are many  things, and the Democrats are going to fight for them in the next phase  of the response, but the priorities I mentioned are key: public health  capacity, unemployment insurance, paid sick leave, and priority  treatment for labor in any bailout to industry. 

  On the public health capacity, as I mentioned, we need masks; we need  hospital beds; we need ventilators; and we still need testing kits. So  the Democrats are proposing a Marshall Plan for our public health  infrastructure. The sooner we act on it, the better. We also need to  help in terms of public transportation for our healthcare system. Tens  of thousands of healthcare workers in New York City and in many other  cities cannot get to their jobs--their very needed jobs--if there is no  public and mass transit. So a Marshall Plan for our public health  infrastructure is what is needed now. It will prevent the situation  from getting even worse, and it will allow our ailing economy to begin  to heal once we contain this virus. 

  Workers who get laid off or have their hours cut to almost nothing  need expanded unemployment insurance--period. The Secretary of the  Treasury reportedly told Republican Senators yesterday  that unemployment could hit 20 percent. Unemployment insurance is a  nonnegotiable part of our response to the coronavirus.  

  With regard to paid sick leave, Senators Murray and Gillibrand have a  paid sick leave policy to meet this crisis. It should be added to this  part of the legislation. I think they will ask for it in a unanimous  consent request or will offer an amendment to do so. If it is not  included in this part, it should, certainly, be included in the next  phase of legislation. 

  There will be other items that we will have to address down the road.  Certain industries are struggling--airlines, hotels--but we must make  sure that we prioritize public health and workers over corporate  bailouts. If there is going to be a discussion about a bailout, it must  include workers' priorities and protections. The airlines are very  important, for sure, as they employ a lot of people. Many of us who fly  back and forth to our States know of the good people who work as the  pilots and the flight attendants and the mechanics and the clerks and  the ticket takers. They are good, fine people. We want to make sure  they are protected. One of the reasons--let's not forget--that many  airlines are so short of cash right now is that they have spent  billions on stock buybacks, which is money they had to send out when  they should have been saving it for a rainy day for their workers and  customers. That issue should be addressed. 

  A few of my Republican colleagues have proposed a onetime cash  payment of $1,000. My fellow Americans, this is not a time for small  thinking, and this is not a time for small measures. This is a time to  be bold, to be aggressive. A single $1,000 check would help people pay  their landlords in March, but what happens after that? How do they pay  their rent in April when their offices or restaurants or stores are  still closed for business? How about May? How about June? The President  has suggested that this recession could last through the summer. One  thousand dollars gets used pretty quickly if you are unemployed. In  contrast, expanded unemployment insurance, beefed-up unemployment  insurance, covers you for a much longer time and would provide a much  bigger safety net. 

  This is the time to put tribalism aside and acknowledge that this  recession, if we allow it, will do real harm to Americans up and down  the income scale, and it will hurt Americans of all ages. So, if we are  going to provide direct payments, they need to be bigger, more  frequent, and more targeted. Millionaires shouldn't get them. 

  These are the kinds of issues that all parties are going to have to  discuss--Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate with the  White House. The sooner we discuss them together, the quicker we will  be able to move forward. Yet Leader McConnell announced yesterday that,  in his plan to develop the next phase of legislation, Senate  Republicans would sit among themselves and then sit down with the  administration and come up with their own proposal before presenting it  to Senate Democrats, let alone to House Democrats. The process that  Leader McConnell has outlined for phase 3 legislation is too  cumbersome, too partisan, and will take far too long given the urgency  and need for cooperation. 

  Secretary Mnuchin says he wants legislation passed by the end of the  week. The McConnell process will not get us there. The phase 3  legislation should be the product of a five-corners negotiation, that  being with House and Senate leaders--majority and minority--plus the  White House. That is the way it has worked the best, the quickest, and  the fairest in the past. If all parties are in the room from the get- go, the final product will be guaranteed swift passage. The process  Leader McConnell outlines is far too reminiscent of the typical  legislative process in the Congress--a process that far too often  results in delay and gridlock. We can't afford that right now. 

  Leader McConnell was right when he said that, in times of national  emergency, we must shed our partisanship and rise to the occasion. So  let's begin that way--Republicans and Democrats, the House and Senate,  Congress and the White House. The best way to advance phase 3  legislation is to have a five-corners negotiation from the outset. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT