Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Of course, there is another crisis in the country crying  out for action and leadership.  

  The COVID-19 pandemic didn't go away while the Nation rightfully  turned its eyes to issues of racial justice. 

  Yesterday, the United States eclipsed 2 million cases of coronavirus.  Another 1.5 million Americans filed for unemployment this week. Federal  Reserve officials--sober, nonpolitical--are predicting that, best case,  we will end the year around 10 percent unemployment--a staggering  figure. One out of every 10. 

  The disease is spiking in a number of States around the country.  Arizona officials have warned that its hospitals could be filled by  next month. Texas has gone 3 straight days with record numbers of  hospitalizations. North Carolina, New Mexico, California, Oregon, and  several other States are experiencing a resurgence or peak levels of  COVID-19. 

  As the President continues to fixate on the stock market and Senate  Republicans are prematurely ready to declare victory, we need to wrest  the focus back to these crucial issues. So today I am requesting that  Dr. Fauci and Dr. Birx and other members of the administration's  Coronavirus Task Force conduct a briefing for Democratic Senators on  the recent spikes and do it next week. We need to understand why these  spikes are happening and how to adapt our national response. 

  The President--always interested in himself, not in the good of the  country--was too quick to sideline the Coronavirus Task Force, too  eager to pretend that everything was back to normal and better than  ever. The country needs Dr. Fauci on billboards, but the President  wants to put him on a milk carton. 

  The Vice President yesterday was photographed with campaign staffers  in a tight space, no social distancing, without anyone wearing a mask.  The very least the administration could do is lead by example and often  cannot even manage that much. 

  At the same time, we cannot forget that the issues of racial justice  and COVID-19 are intricately related. The COVID-19 pandemic  disproportionately kills Black Americans. Communities of color have  less access to quality healthcare, greater food insecurity, greater  percentages of poverty, and a disproportionate number of our frontline  essential workers--41.2 percent--are African American and Latino. The  majority of African Americans are renters and dedicate more than 50  percent of their income to rent. 

  The truth is, an emergency bill on COVID-19 is a racial justice issue  too. Hazard pay for essential workers is a racial justice issue too.  Healthcare is a racial justice issue too. Rent assistance and  forbearance from eviction is a racial justice issue too. These are all  items that must be discussed in another COVID relief bill, and it is  past time to get to work. 

  African Americans, Latinos, and other minorities are taking the  economic hit from the coronavirus on the chin, but Senate Republicans,  led by Leader McConnell, are reportedly unwilling to consider another  emergency relief bill until late July. How many more workers will lose  their jobs between now and late July? How many renters will be kicked  out of their homes between now and late July? How many State and local  government workers will lose their jobs, as State and local governments  meet their budget deadlines on July 1 and don't have the dollars to  deal with them? How many of them will lose their jobs? Waiting until  late July is callous, it is cold, and it is wrong for our economy.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT