Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, our country is facing an unprecedented  public health emergency with severe and potentially long-lasting  economic consequences. As COVID-19 spreads, our local health officials  and health experts tell us we are woefully unprepared for what is about  to hit us. Public health infrastructure, like hospital beds and masks  and ventilators, must be produced and procured. Testing is still not at  its proper capacity. The resulting economic downturn from this virus is  already impacting millions of American families, workers, and  businesses--small, medium, large, alike. 

  First, on a personal note, please, Americans, take care of  yourselves. Avoid unnecessary contact, even though I know so many of  the meetings and gatherings and celebrations that we have planned must  be postponed. It is painful but not as painful as the continuing spread  of this awful virus. 

  And a little advice--this is not universal, but I have heard this  from a number of medical people whom I trust: Take your temperature in  the morning and in the evening. It is a good way to check whether you  have this illness and it is progressing within you. Not all experts  agree with that, but many do. In my view, it can't hurt. It is  something I am doing. I am urging my family to do it, and I am urging  my staff to do it. 

  Our response in the Senate and in Congress--the response to the  coronavirus--will require a massive mobilization of public resources-- Federal, State, and local--as we have marshaled before only in  wartime. It is going to require Congress to work in a bipartisan way  and with uncommon speed. And the American people, too, must pull  together and sacrifice in ways small and large their normal way of life  in an effort to combat this disease and limit its spread. All hands  must be on deck because the task before us is daunting and may yet  eclipse the pain felt by workers and families during the great  recession--at least for many things.  

  The first order of business here in the Senate is to take up and pass  the recent House bill and do it today. It will provide free coronavirus  testing. That is essential. It would extend paid sick leave. It would  give food assistance, Medicaid reimbursement, and expanded unemployment  insurance. 

  I understand that some of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle might want to amend the legislation or have it written  differently if they were the ones putting it together. But I remind  them that Leader McConnell said that he would defer the agreement  between the Speaker of the House and Secretary Mnuchin. The President  has said he will sign this bill if the Senate passes it. If we change  the bill, it will go back to the House and be delayed and delay the aid  it contains for American families coping with the impact of the virus. 

  Please, my colleagues, we will have other opportunities to legislate,  and there will be a great need for them, but let's move this now. Let's  move this now. I believe our side of the aisle will clear this. I hope  the other side will, and it will be on the President's desk today.  Let's hope, and let's not delay any longer. 

  But there is much more to be done. Once this legislation is sent to  the President's desk--COVID 2--our work will not be over, not even  close. We must soon move to other very necessary measures to address  the coronavirus and its widening impact on the health and well-being of  the American people. 

  Today, I am presenting a series of proposals to congressional  appropriators that would provide initial infusion of at least $750  billion. Our proposal is big, it is bold, but it is also targeted. It  focuses on those Americans in the parts of the health sector and the  economy most in need now: hospitals and treatment, unemployment  insurance and Medicaid, loan forbearance and aid for small business,  childcare, and senior citizens. It focuses on those who need help-- those who don't have an income because they have lost their job  temporarily; those who need help with senior citizens, with children  who are not in school; hospitals that are short of equipment and maybe  personnel. That is the immediate focus. That is what we must do right  now. We must focus on those who need help immediately and do it in a  way that deals with the structural problems in the country that have  made the attack of this virus more virulent, more harmful, and worse. 

  By contrast, it is reported that the administration is proposing a  massive Federal bailout of industry and a payroll tax cut. If we are  going to follow up the House bill with another major economic stimulus  package, which we must, our major focus cannot be based on bailing out  airlines, cruises, and other industries. We must first prioritize  economic solutions that are focused on workers and their families,  solutions that would allow us to fix our broken unemployment system;  rebuild our public health system, which is overburdened; save small and  medium-sized American businesses that have a cash crunch and will go  out of business, even though they were healthy a month ago, because no  one is buying their products or using their services. 

  Let's remember--corporations are not people. People are people. And  when it comes to this cascading crisis, we should help our fellow  Americans first, even as we plan and execute policies that protect our  economy. The administration's proposal, if that is the sum of it--a  massive bailout of industry and a payroll tax cut--doesn't do that. It  doesn't target the people who most need the help. Any package we are  going to do here, which must be passed in a bipartisan way, must  contain large elements of what I am talking about and maybe other  things as well that help the people who are in need. 

  I will be sending my proposal and a PowerPoint slide to every one of  my colleagues shortly, and I hope they will understand the need for it.  I have consulted with large numbers in our caucus, and we have broad  support for these proposals and some others. 

  Again, when it comes to this cascading crisis, we should help fellow  Americans first, even as we plan and execute policies that protect our  economy. 

  First, we take actions to fight this virus. First, we get lifelines  to our workers, our parents, our students, our seniors, our small  businesses. If your house is on fire, the first thing you worry about  is not smoke damage to the roof; you try to put out the fire. That is  what our proposal does. It means, first and foremost, we work to  address the virus itself and the people most impacted. 

  In the midst of a sprawling health and economic catastrophe, industry  bailouts should not be at the top of our  priority list. Our proposal also does not include a payroll tax cut.  That option may be premature and the wrong response to the problems we  face today. There are much better ways to get money in the hands of the  Americans who need it most and in the ways they need it most. 

  For example, in our proposal, the Senate Democratic proposal, if you  are a worker and lose your job or can't work, you would qualify for  nearly $10,000 over 6 months in unemployment benefits. If you can't  work because you get sick and your employer doesn't provide paid sick  leave, we would allow you to apply for unemployment insurance and get  reimbursed. Under Senator Murray's leadership, we are also doing more  on the sick leave front. 

  If your hours are cut and you suddenly can't pay your mortgage, you  are going to lose your home, or if you are otherwise struggling to make  ends meet because you choose to pay your mortgage but then can't pay  other vital expenses, our proposal would let you defer your mortgage  loans for 6 months with no penalty, fees, or impact on your credit. We  will do the same for student loans. We will do the same for small  business loans. There will be a 6-month moratorium. That helps real  people. 

  If you are a working parent and suddenly you have to worry about  finding a safe place for your kids to stay during the day, we would  provide emergency funding to safely ramp up childcare services for  heavily impacted parts of the country. If you are a small business  suddenly facing cash flow problems, we would allow you to apply for  low-interest loans and other forms of direct financial assistance that  can offer relief quickly and allow you to overcome this problem and  keep your business going in a healthy way. 

  These are just a few examples. Our proposal includes much more but  includes what is needed and needed immediately. It includes what  Governors across the country are calling for--aid to public health  systems and citizens impacted by this crisis. 

  I would say to my Republican colleagues: We want to work with you.  You will have different ideas, but our ideas must be contained in a  package. The thing the administration has been talking about, if that  is true, is not good enough at all. 

  There is one other thing we need. As more testing becomes available,  the number of confirmed coronavirus cases will inevitably increase and  the strain on our public health system will become even greater. We are  going to need massive investments to ensure we have the capacity and  necessary infrastructure to treat all Americans who need it. Our  proposal addresses that as well. 

  As we discuss what is to come in the next few weeks, I strongly urge  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, both ends of the Capitol, to  review our proposal and organize our next legislative response around  these ideas. 

  In conclusion, this crisis is going to demand more from all of us-- more from the administration and a President who has been far too slow  in waking up to the scale of the challenges we now face, more from a  Congress that has to set aside partisan squabbles and work together,  and more from the American people, who must diligently follow public  health guidance and endure massive disruptions of their daily lives. I  know my family is enduring that right now, and so are millions and  millions of families across America. 

  We have to stick together, be strong, support one another, and we  will get through it. We will. We have not faced a public health crisis  of this global scale in recent times. We are unsure how long the  disturbance to our national economic life will last. Yet we Americans  have overcome challenges of this magnitude and even greater before, and  we will again. It will demand determination, cooperation, and  sacrifice. It will demand an enormous, coordinated effort by the  Government of the United States at all levels to protect the health and  safety of the American people. But we will overcome this problem,  together--strongly, forcefully, and smartly. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT