Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, in the space of less than 24 hours,  yesterday, the number of coronavirus cases in my dear home State of New  York has more than doubled. The spread of the virus has been rapid and  the consequences severe. The coronavirus is slowing our economy to a  near standstill, promoting widespread layoffs and the likelihood of a  deep recession that will be painfully felt in households from coast to  coast, from New York to California and every other State. 

  We are living in a time of public emergency--in our healthcare  system, in our economy, and, indeed, in our society itself. Separated  from one another, we are going to have to pull together in spirit. The  American people have to sacrifice their routines. They don't want to,  but we have no choice if we want to stay healthy and arrest the spread  of the disease. 

  Our healthcare workers and our first responders every day are being  asked to perform daunting and heroic tasks for which we all are already  in their debt. 

  The anxiety, the fear, and the confusion that New Yorkers and  Americans feel today is palpable, but I would remind them that there  has never been a challenge too great for our country to overcome. I  remember the dark days after 9/11. So many were prepared to write New  York City off the map. They said no one would live or do business in  the southern part of Manhattan. They said the whole city and its  suburbs would never come back. 

  But we did come back, strongly, more resilient than we ever were  before. We can and will do it again--in New York and throughout the  Nation. But we must act urgently and boldly now, during what may still  be the early days of this crisis. 

  Regarding the business before the Senate right now, yesterday we  passed the second phase of legislation to respond to the coronavirus,  which included important provisions to extend  paid sick leave, unemployment insurance, and provide free--free, no  copays, no deductibles--coronavirus testing for all Americans. That  bill was a first step. I am glad it is now done. I am glad it got  support from both sides of the aisle--I believe 90 votes on passage-- and the aid will begin to flow.  

  Now, Leader McConnell has just outlined and will soon announce plans  of what the Senate Republicans believe should be included in the third  phase of legislation to confront the coronavirus. We are ready and  eager to look at what Republicans put together and to work with them,  but we believe that, whatever proposal emerges--and it will be  bipartisan--it must be a workers-first proposal. 

  Workers first--that is our motto in what we are proposing. That means  help for all workers: service workers, industry workers, factory  workers, office tower workers, small business workers, gig workers,  freelancers, bartenders, retail workers, airline attendants, and so  many more. 

  We owe a great deal of gratitude to the working people of America,  whether they be blue collar or white collar; whether they work in high  office towers, on the farms, or in a local drug store; those who clean  our buildings and streets; those who are still working to collect the  garbage and keep the power on; and, of course, our healthcare workers,  who are risking everything to keep the rest of us safe. 

  Workers first--that is the motto that I have and I believe Speaker  Pelosi has, as well, as we Democrats seek input into the joint,  bipartisan package that will be put together. Our goal is to make sure  that no one--no worker, no family, no one--loses a paycheck or goes  into financial ruin as a result of the coronavirus. That will take  strong, bold, immediate action. 

  That is why we must work so quickly but carefully, as well, to put  together a bipartisan package. I spoke with Secretary Mnuchin several  times. I think he is of that view. I have heard that Leader McConnell  has said he will sit down with our Democratic Senators to come up with  a bipartisan package. That is what we must do. 

  So let me outline a few of our priorities. First, if there is going  to be a bailout of any sort of industry, worker priorities and worker  protections must be included. Corporations should not get a bailout and  then be allowed to fire employees or cut their salaries, cut their  benefits. 

  The airline industry just spent billions and billions in stock  buybacks in the last 2 years, liquidity that would come in handy at a  time like this. If there is a bailout, there need to be conditions to  make sure the interests of labor are given priority and that  corporations can't buy back stock, reward executives, or lay off  workers. 

  We cannot repeat the mistake that was made in 2008 when the big boys  and the big girls benefited, and no one else did--workers first. 

  Second, phase 3 must include a massive infusion of resources for our  healthcare system, for hospitals and medical supplies. America needs a  Marshall Plan for public health and public health infrastructure. In  the wake of World War II, America helped rebuild a continent. Right  now, we need to rebuild our health infrastructure on a continental  scale. We need a Marshall Plan for our healthcare system. 

  Without a massive commitment from this Congress, our healthcare  system will not be able to handle this crisis. There are not enough  workers, not enough supplies, not enough beds, not enough State and  local funding. There is a major concern that, as this virus spreads,  countless Americans will not be able to access or afford treatment if  they get the coronavirus. 

  It goes from the very big--we need lots of ventilators--to the  smaller. A hospital in New York told us that they didn't have enough  nasal swabs to conduct the coronavirus test. Healthcare workers in  Washington State are fashioning homemade masks out of vinyl, elastic,  and double-sided tape. The need for ventilators, which will save the  lives of those who are afflicted by the disease in a severe way, is  desperate. 

  Yesterday, President Trump finally took our suggestion and invoked  the Defense Production Act, but what is happening now? We don't know.  Who is in charge? Which factories are being asked to make the  ventilators, and which factories are being asked to do other things as  well? We need that kind of information, but just as important as the  information is the urgency of getting these things done. 

  Machines like ventilators can be the difference between life and  death. According to one projection, it is possible that up to 960,000  Americans will need a ventilator during the coronavirus pandemic. Right  now, only 160,000 are available, and only 12,700 are in stockpiles. 

  The President must direct a massive mobilization to ramp up  ventilator production. He also must do so to acquire new hospital  space. We will be short of beds, particularly ICU beds. The Army Corps  must be involved in helping to build temporary hospitals that can take  on the new burden. We are on the verge, unfortunately, if we don't act  quickly, of repeating the heartbreaking collapse of the hospital  capacity experienced in Italy. That must not be allowed to happen. 

  I was glad yesterday that President Trump heeded the call by  Democrats on the Defense Production Act, but we need to go further. The  President must make this an urgent responsibility. 

  We need a Marshall Plan for our healthcare system, and that also  means getting new workers involved. We are going to be short doctors  and nurses. We have to make sure those in the healthcare system can get  to work. The New York subway system is still needed to carry them  there, and in many other cities they depend on one form of mass transit  or another.  

  The next legislation that we are putting together must include a  historic commitment to supporting our healthcare system and our fellow  Americans who get sick. We cannot get this wrong. The stakes are too  high. 

  And third, phase 3 legislation must address the plight of workers and  families struggling with the economic ramifications of the virus.  Millions and millions of American workers have been laid off. They  didn't do anything wrong--neither did the owner of their business--but  there are no people coming into the restaurants and the stores and the  shops. There may be no customers for businesses that provide services  or goods. Storefronts are closed. The service industry is shedding  jobs. Small businesses, small businesses owners who have devoted their  lifetime to building their businesses are on the brink of collapse. The  gears of American manufacturing are grinding to a halt. There are  millions of American workers home at night, home during the day. They  are doing the right thing, but now they have no income, no idea where  the next paycheck will arrive or when they can return to work. We must  step up to the plate immediately and help these suffering workers who  don't have a paycheck and are worried about how they are going to pay  the rent, the mortgage, buy the food, the necessities, the medicines  they and their families need. Congress must help them. 

  We should enact a new form of unemployment insurance. We call it  ``employment insurance.'' It is really unemployment insurance on  steroids--assistance until these already employed Americans can get  back to work. Existing unemployment insurance has a lot of failings. It  doesn't cover enough people to meet this crisis. So many who work part  time, who are gig workers, and for many other reasons are not covered  by unemployment insurance--our new employment insurance must cover them  all. 

  Second, the payments must be full. The payment should be equal or  come as close to equaling as possible the salaries they got. Most  people who get unemployment insurance don't get close to the percentage  they need to live on. 

  And third, it must be quick and easy. In many States--some by  design--it is very hard to get employment insurance. You have to go  through the whole rigmarole. That must end. 

  Our new employment insurance--an unemployment insurance on steroids-- must have full payment so lost salaries are totally made up for, it  must be quick and easy to access, and it must be broad-based. Democrats  will ask for that as one of our most important asks because that goes  to the people who need help; that goes to the people who are not  getting their salaries because they have been laid off or furloughed.  That is the most immediate and quick thing to deal with the problem  right at the level where it exists.  

  Another must for us is paid sick leave. Senators Murray and  Gillibrand have important legislation on this issue and want to get  this done. 

  And for small businesses, there must be liquidity. Many of these  businesses are great businesses. They were doing fine until 2, 3 weeks  ago, but no customers are coming in the door or calling on the phone.  In addition to paying their workers through our employment insurance,  we must see that these businesses have liquidity to pay their insurance  bills, to pay their mortgages, to pay their problems, and deal with  that so when, God willing--and I am confident it will happen--this  crisis leaves us, they will be able to open their businesses stronger  than ever before. 

  There are many other things we want to get done. Today, Senator  Warren, Senator Murray, Senator Brown, and I are announcing a bill to  cancel--cancel--student loan payments during the duration of the  coronavirus and to provide a minimum of a $10,000 payoff for all  student loan borrowers. This is a problem that has been going on for  too long. It is exacerbated by the crisis. We have to help the students  and those with big loans on their backs. That legislation--something  like it--should be in phase 3 of legislation. 

  There are many other things that must be done. As we Senate Democrats  a couple of days ago announced a $750 billion package--well, there are  other things that are in there, and there may be other things that have  to be added, but we have to look at this crisis in its totality and  address it. 

  Some have proposed--I have heard this coming out of the  administration and from some of my colleagues--an alternative to these  policies: a one-time cash payment of $1,000. That might help families  cover rent, groceries for a month, but then what? If we are going to do  this kind of payment plan--first, it cannot be a substitute for the  things I have mentioned. It must be in addition. I think there is a  general, unanimous view on our side that should be the case. 

  But second, if we are going to do it, it has to be bigger, more  generous, and more frequent than some that I have heard proposed from  the other side. We all know that workers and families need assistance,  and they are going to get it. Democrats want to get that assistance as  quickly to the American people as possible, and I believe our  Republican colleagues do as well. But those who want to limit that  assistance to a one-time payment of around $1,000 given to everybody,  for people who make $1 million and people who make $500 a week, that  doesn't make sense. 

  The pandemic requires bold, structural changes to our society's  safety net to give people a lifeline for months, not just weeks. It  requires the kinds of things I have mentioned. If we are going to go  this route, it has to be bigger, more generous, more frequent. 

  I have taken time to lay out these ideas on the floor because--thus  far, at least--Senate Democrats have not been included in discussions  with Senate Republicans about phase 3. Leader McConnell is putting  together his own plan. He is talking to his chairman and his Members,  and then, he has said, he will present it to Senate Democrats or even  House Democrats. 

  As I have said before, if we want to get this done quickly, the best  way to do it is to have a four-corners negotiation: House and Senate,  majority and minority. If we do it in each step, obviously--knowing how  the Senate and the House work--it will take much longer. We have to  move quickly. 

  Make no mistake about it, our entire caucus wants to work in a  bipartisan way to get this done quickly. What we are prescribing are  some of the things we think would do the most good. 

  In reference to that, we are living in a time of emergency. The  typical legislative process takes too long and will not work. I believe  all parties should be in the room from the get-go so that any final  product can pass as swiftly as possible. We are all interested in  coming together as quickly as we can. Time is of the essence.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT