Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, this has been a very difficult week  after what has been a very difficult few months. A nation, beleaguered  by disease and economic depression, has once again come face-to-face  with the racial injustice that infects our society. The death of George  Floyd in police custody was a searing reminder of a long list of  unarmed African Americans whose lives have been taken under similar  circumstances--Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and too many others--a  well of grief and loss and pain too deep to express. It was a searing  reminder of the bigotry and discrimination that African Americans  encounter as part of their daily reality. 

  That is why so many Americans of all ages, colors, and faiths are out  in the streets protesting right now. They are fed up with racial  injustice in this country and want to see some change. Here in the  Senate, Member after Member has come to the floor to share support for  the same cause. 

  Yesterday, our caucus held a somber, emotional, and very personal  meeting, during which our Members shared their own lived experiences of  racism and spoke about what we need to do next because the truth is,  while speeches and protests are vital, they will never be enough. 

  We need greater accountability and transparency in police departments  and reformed police practices so these events don't happen in the first  place. We need to reform the criminal justice system that is still too  short on justice and begin chipping away at the racial disparities that  exist in healthcare, housing, education, and in the economy. 

  These issues will not be solved in a week or a month or in a year.  Let's hope they can be solved in this decade. But I will be damned if  we don't at least try to make some progress. Already, my colleagues  Senators Booker, Harris, Cardin, Klobuchar, Duckworth, Schatz, Smith,  and others are working with the Congressional Black Caucus in the House  to develop legislation to address a number of issues related to police  violence and racial justice. Senate Democrats will not wait to propose  and push for bold, bold change. 

  Will our Republican colleagues join us? Leader McConnell, commit to  put a law enforcement reform bill on the floor of the Senate before  July 4.  

  I have made this request for several days without an answer from the  Republican leader. Even more disappointing, the Republican leader  blocked a simple resolution I offered last night that reaffirmed  Americans' constitutional rights to peaceful protest, condemned the  violence that is occurring in too many places, and condemned the  President as well for having gas and rubber bullets used on a peaceful  protest in Lafayette Park, where there were families and children  protesting in the grand American tradition of peaceful protest. 

  There was no partisan rhetoric in this resolution. It was three  simple concepts, a recitation of the facts, but because Senate  Republicans are so afraid--shivering--at the thought of criticizing the  President, even when they know his actions are way out of line, Leader  McConnell came and blocked this resolution. Shame, shame, shame. 

  We all know there are very few checks on the President, especially a  President who believes he can do anything he wants--and he said it. One  of the most effective checks on President Trump could be the caucus of  Republican Senators for once standing up to him when he is way out of  line. Where are they? Where are they? 

  Even a columnist like George Will has shown a disgust at the  Republican Senate, and he is a conservative, for their failure to stand  up to Donald Trump on issues like this. All too often on thorny issues  such as gun safety, racial justice, and police reform, my Republican  colleagues sort of say what is necessary to get through the day, when  there is an immediate crisis, and then wait for public attention to  fade. 

  Leader McConnell called us back into session in early May during the  height of the COVID pandemic, but we still have not considered a single  piece of legislation on the floor. Now listen to this. Yesterday, when  Leader McConnell was listing legislative priorities for June, he did  not mention COVID legislation. Let me repeat for those who may have  missed it in the swirl of news and events of the day. When listing his  June priorities to reporters, Leader McConnell did not mention COVID- related legislation. Other Republican Senators have said that another  relief bill might come in late July--might, might. 

  This is shocking. This should be a wake-up call to the American  people. Americans of all ages, races, creeds, and philosophies, call  your Republican Senators. Demand action. 

  The recession will get deeper. It could develop into a depression if  we don't have relief. We have not done enough in the eyes of every  economist I have looked at and respected. Governors and mayors across  the country in red States are slashing budgets in advance of the new  fiscal year, which for most States starts July 1. States will be forced  to cut millions of jobs and critical services. These cuts mean  increased school class sizes, longer emergency response times, fewer  services to keep the elderly at home and out of nursing homes. These  cuts not only exacerbate the recession but the wrath of the coronavirus  itself. That is what is happening while Senate Republicans wait until  July, maybe, to consider another relief bill. 

  America, look at what our Republicans are doing: not giving the  relief you need for your safety, for your schools, for the services  that local government provides. 

  The Republican majority doesn't seem to have time to address a  cascading series of national crises--no time. Why is that? 

  Where is President Trump? Where is his Cabinet? They all know that we  need more. They all know we haven't solved the economic problem--far  from it. They all know that we have to do a lot more on testing. 

  So our Republican majority doesn't seem to have time to address the  COVID national crisis, but do you know what it does have time for?  Chasing President Trump's wild conspiracy theories. It sounds like the  death knell of the Republican Party as we know it. They can't deal with  the two major crises of the day--racial justice and the COVID crisis-- and they are busy pursuing conspiracy theories, some of them emanating  from Russia, to go after President Obama and Vice President Biden. 

  This makes no sense. This, again, sounds like the death knell of the  Republican Party. The Republican Party we used to know would have some  principles but not be afraid to run to every major issue--to any major  issue almost. But that is what they are doing. 

  Today, in the Judiciary Committee, the Republican committee chairman  has called in Rod Rosenstein to dredge up the President's favorite  conspiracy theory related to the 2016 election. It is an egregious  misuse of the institution--the Senate. 

  Nearly a quarter of our workforce is unemployed. Over 100,000  Americans are dead from a strange and contagious disease; Americans are  in the streets demanding racial justice; and shopworn, discredited  conspiracy theories are what the Republican majority is focused on?  What alternative universe do they live in? What alternative reality are  they in the midst of? One detached from the real reality that the  American people face: conspiracy theories to help President Trump's  reelection, rightwing judges, many of whom have antipathy to the civil  rights we are talking about now. 

  The Republican Party in the Senate has moved so far into a corner,  the corner that Donald Trump is in, that they can't address two of the  most important and major issues that have affected this country in  decades. 

  The American people should be furious with the Republican Senate  majority, and the American people and historians will record with  sadness how this once great party, even though I didn't agree with it,  has declined so--no courage, no principle, but simply cowering for  President Trump and his crazy theories that even they know are crazy. 

  The American people, of course, should be furious with the President  as well. On Monday night, Americans watched Federal officers, under the  direction of the President and the Attorney General, use gas and rubber  bullets to disperse a crowd of peaceful protesters in a public park so  that the President could stage a photo op in front of a church, waving  the Holy Bible as a prop. 

  Last night, Americans saw an even more haunting image on the internet  and their televisions: rows of camouflage troops standing at attention  on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, like an occupying force defending  a critical position. 

  When you see the image of troops dressed for combat flanking the  Lincoln Memorial, an altar of freedom, you cannot help but think of  Tiananmen Square. This administration ordered Federal officers to gas  peaceful protesters and charge on horseback and defend our monuments  like battlefield positions. 

  What is President Trump doing to this grand democracy? What is he  doing? And why are our Republican colleagues just going along? 

  President Lincoln's second inaugural address is engraved in that  building where armed soldiers stood. During a moment of extreme  political division and civil strife, President Lincoln urged malice  toward none, charity toward all, and sought to bind up the Nation's  wounds. 

  There could be no greater contrast between Lincoln and this  President, this President who seems to have malice toward all and  charity for none, who seeks to deepen our Nation's wounds rather than  bind them up. Our Nation is crying out for leadership, for direction,  for some healing and some unity. Will this President even try to  provide it? 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT