Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, yesterday, the World Health  Organization officially declared COVID-19--known as the coronavirus--a  pandemic, saying that it was ``deeply concerned  both by the alarming . . . spread and severity, and . . . alarming  levels of inaction'' by the nations of the world. 

  Let me repeat that. They were ``deeply concerned both by the alarming  levels of spread and severity, and the alarming levels of inaction'' by  the nations of the world. 

  In my home State of New York, members of the National Guard arrived  in New Rochelle this morning to clean institutions and deliver food to  the more than 120 sick residents within the 3-mile containment area.  Here in the Capitol, public tours will be suspended, and by the end of  the week, the Capitol Complex will be restricted to official business  only. 

  Today the House of Representatives will take up and pass several  measures the Speaker and I called for earlier this week to alleviate  the economic pain felt by American workers and families who are  impacted by the coronavirus, including extension of paid sick leave,  food security insurance, and an expansion of unemployment insurance.  The legislation will also provide much needed help to States like New  York that are overburdened by Medicaid costs. By temporarily modifying  the FMAP formula, it gives the States the flexibility and money they  need to fight this problem. I have long fought for an increase in FMAP  funding, and this is welcome and needed for New York. I am glad it is  in the bill that Democrats in the House and Senate put together. 

  Many of the policies I have mentioned have been enacted by other  countries dealing with the coronavirus. The policies are targeted at  workers and families who are directly impacted by the virus, which is  exactly where the focus needs to be, not on bailing out oil and gas  companies or the cruise industry or to regulating banks--some of the  ideas under discussion at the White House, by all reports--but on  helping the American people cope with the crisis. That is job No. 1. 

  We can come back and pass additional targeted measures that deal with  other economic problems at a later date, but in the immediacy of today,  the policies the House will pass will provide much needed help to those  who need help; it will provide significant economic relief by pumping  money into the economy; and it will provide some flexibility to the  localities, the States, and to the American people. The Senate should  pass this bill immediately following the House, before the end of the  day. 

  I plead--I plead--with my Republican Senate colleagues to pass this  bill now. It has been carefully thought out. Its programs are directly  aimed at people. They are not ideological, and it is desperately needed  to show the American people we can do things that actually benefit the  people who are in trouble and actually help move the American  economy. To not pass this bill today would be a dereliction of duty,  and I plead with Senator McConnell: Put the bill on the floor; let  there be a vote. It will pass, in my judgment. Put the bill on the  floor. Do not let this legislation that the House passed at a time of  crisis be just another tombstone in your legislative graveyard.  

  Of course, the central problem remains--contending with the spread of  the coronavirus itself. Our testing regime has been completely  inadequate. We still lag far behind other countries in both the number  and percentage of the population we are testing for the virus. There  are still not enough kits distributed to hospitals and medical labs,  and the results of those tests are not processed fast enough. From one  end of the country to the other, those on the frontlines--whether they  be healthcare workers, mayors, county executives, Governors--are crying  out for more testing and more speed in bringing the results of the  tests back immediately. The President didn't mention it in his speech. 

  I heard from the mayor of New Rochelle, who is now overseeing a 3- mile containment area. I asked: What is the No. 1 thing you need? He  said testing. He told me that one of the reasons the State of New York  had to impose the containment area was that it couldn't be determined  who was safe to walk on the street and who wasn't because of the lack  of testing. If they had the test, they would know who had the virus.  Those people could quarantine at home, and others could go out and  about with their lives and shop in the stores, go down the streets, and  go through their normal activities. The lack of testing has forced many  in containment areas to quarantine themselves when they may not have  the virus at all. 

  The administration must expedite the approval of labs that are ready  to provide testing. It must support the use of automatic testing to  increase the speed and volume, and it must do a better job of  communicating to hospitals and localities about the number of testing  kits available. The administration needs to get a handle on this now. 

  It has been well over a month since the first case of coronavirus was  confirmed on our soil, and many places around the country were not able  to test for the coronavirus with the necessary capacity or speed. The  most glaring emission in this administration's long list of problems  has been the way they approach the coronavirus and the lack of testing.  We need it now. The failure of the administration to anticipate  problems with testing has put us weeks and weeks behind. 

  Last night, President Trump gave his national address about the  coronavirus, and testing wasn't included. It was amazing to me. The No.  1 problem was ignored. 

  I welcomed that the President stressed the need for hygiene. He  instructed Americans to stay home if they felt sick, something he  questioned in the past. I was glad he is no longer calling this a hoax  and, at least in his speech, not blaming the press or Democrats or  somebody else for the problem. Blame isn't going to solve anything. 

  Yet, sadly and regrettably, the President's speech fell far short of  what Americans needed to hear. The speech was almost robotic, lacking  any empathy. The President seemed to show little concern for Americans  impacted by the virus or for allies around the world fighting it. The  President did not say how his administration will address the lack of  coronavirus testing kits, nor did he call for a national emergency to  free up Federal resources to fight the virus. Calling for a national  emergency under the Stafford Act would free up lots of FEMA's resources  to help States and localities. Why he hasn't done it is a mystery. We  need him to do it, and do it now. 

  So many of the President's statements in his speech were inaccurate  and required no fewer than three corrections by the White House in the  hours after. The President was not clear or accurate in describing the  ban on travel from Europe to the United States--that it did not apply  to U.S. citizens or to cargo. The President's claim that health  insurers have agreed to ``waive all copayments for coronavirus  treatment'' was also, apparently, inaccurate. At a time of crisis, one  would think that the President could give a speech that at least had  the facts right, that there would be that care and focus. But,  unfortunately, it wasn't so. 

  I don't bring this up to play ``gotcha.'' It is very serious. There  are many Americans who watched the President but may not have seen the  White House correct his error-laden speech. As a result, many Americans  got bad and confusing information. This is very, very unfortunate. At  all times, but especially during a time of crisis, the President must  be clear and accurate about his policies and guidance. We need  leadership that is steady and, above all else, competent. These weren't  off-the-cuff remarks. This was a prepared speech. 

  In this moment, with lives in the balance, Americans must have  confidence that their President knows what he is doing and knows what  he is talking about. To his detriment and to the Nation's, sadly,  President Trump failed to inspire that confidence last night. 

  I had hoped the fact that the President delivered a national address  was a sign that the administration was finally beginning to treat the  coronavirus with the seriousness it needs. That is why it was so  discouraging that only a few hours later, the President was back to his  old tricks--attacking Democrats--when we all know that is not going to  solve the problem and we all know it is a time to bring us together. 

  Congress has already passed major emergency appropriations to ramp up  our response to the virus. The President's early number $2 billion was,  fortunately, increased significantly by  Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate to $8.3 billion.  Congress is now working quickly and competently on a second package. It  should get the same quick response from our Republican Senators and  pass.                         Nomination of James P. Danly  

  Madam President, today the Senate will vote on the nomination of  James Danly to serve on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Less  than a decade out of law school, Mr. Danly lacks the experience of past  nominees, and it seems his major qualification is deep ties to the  energy industry. The process behind his nomination has been extremely  partisan and unfair to the Senate minority. 

  I have tried to work with the Republican leader to pair Mr. Danly's  nomination with a Democratic nominee so that both would pass the  Senate. That is what we have always done until Leader McConnell started  his ways and President Trump became President. 

  By law, FERC has seats reserved for both Democrats and Republicans.  Democrats sent our recommendation for FERC to the White House over a  year ago, long before the administration selected Danly. Yet while the  White House sent Danly's name to the Senate for confirmation, they have  held the Democratic nominee and given no reason or explanation why.  Rather than work with my office and the White House to fix this  problem--as every other Republican leader has done--and maintain the  process of pairing nominees, which has always been the tradition  whether Democrats or Republicans were in the majority, Leader  McConnell, in his very partisan, pro-energy industry way, is moving  forward with only the Republican nominee. 

  Leader McConnell has been in the minority before. He knows that the  only way bipartisan boards and commissions across the Federal  Government are filled fairly with considerations for both parties is  through cooperation. If the shoe were on the other foot, I am sure the  Republican leader would be furious with the game the White House is  playing with our nominees. 

  Our preference would have been to clear Danly alongside our  Democratic nominee, but now, for the sake of fairness and parity, I  urge my colleagues to vote against his nomination. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT