Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, first I want to thank my friend and  colleague, the senior Senator from the State of Illinois. He is always  on the money, pushing this country to do what its better angels  recommend, and I hope America listens to his floor speech today and  every day because what he is doing would make America a better,  stronger, more unified, more humane, and more compassionate place. 

  As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to inflict our country, businesses  are suffering, families are struggling to pay the rent, millions of  Americans are filing for unemployment every single week, and tens of  thousands of Americans are dying. 

  Every aspect of American society has been changed by this crisis-- except, perhaps, the Republican Senate. Here it is business as usual. 

  Leader McConnell has spent 3 weeks of the Senate's time largely on  nominations, only one of whom is directly related to COVID-19. There is  not one bill on the floor of the Senate having to do with COVID in the  entire month of May. The leader has put none on the floor.  

  Democrats have had to relentlessly pressure our colleagues to hold  even the most routine and needed oversight hearings on the coronavirus.  Coronavirus is raging, and people are upset about how the  administration is implementing it. We don't have hearings until we  push, push, push for them, and then they happen few, far between, and  too late. 

  It would be one thing if the Republican majority were doing this  other business while negotiating with Democrats on the next phase of  emergency relief, but Republicans are not negotiating about the next  phase of emergency relief. Many of my colleagues on the other side have  said that more relief just isn't necessary. 

  The Republican leader rejected legislation from the House of  Representatives before the bill was even drafted--a knee-jerk partisan  response at a time when we should be working together to help our  suffering constituents. For the life of me, I don't know why it has  been so difficult to get our friends on the other side to focus on the  ongoing national crisis, and it appears that the lack of focus, the  lack of urgency, and the lack of compassion from the Republican  majority are about to get even worse. 

  Today, in the Homeland Security Committee, the Republican chairman  has convened a hearing that slanders the family of the President's  political opponent. Believe it or not, this powerful Senate committee,  with broad jurisdiction over so many aspects of the government's  response to the ongoing pandemic, is prioritizing yet another attempt  to smear Vice President Biden. The committee could be holding a hearing  today with the FEMA Administrator to discuss disaster assistance. But,  no, the highest priority of Senate Republicans lies in promoting  conspiracy theories that have already been discredited on numerous  occasions--conspiracy theories, which, by the way, are known to be part  of Russian disinformation campaigns. Our Republican majority is using  Russian propaganda to try to damage a political opponent. Is that a  disgrace? Is that a disgrace? 

  The Republican chairman is pressing forward, without Members even  receiving a briefing from the intelligence community. Even more  shameful, the company my colleague from Wisconsin wants to subpoena is  cooperating with the committee in providing documents. It appears this  subpoena is just for show--a way to create the false impression of  wrongdoing. It is like in a Third World dictatorship, a show trial with  no basis in fact, with no due process, and with no reality. 

  Not to be outdone, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee  has asked members of his committee to consider subpoenas related to yet  another conspiracy theory pushed by President Trump--a theory that  attempts to rewrite the history of Russian interference in the 2016  election to match the fiction in President Trump's head. It seems  Republicans want to dive into the deepest muck of rightwing conspiracy  to invent scapegoats for the President to use in his reelection  campaign. 

  The conspiracy caucus is back. It reared its ugly head in December  and has been on a simmer ever since. Now it is boiling over once again,  shamefully, in the middle of a public health crisis and an economic  disaster that require all of us to focus on the problems at hand. 

  Senate Republicans aren't drafting legislation to help the  unemployed. They are holding sham hearings about the family of the  President's political rival. Senate Republicans aren't debating  measures to increase testing. They are turning Senate committee rooms  into the studio of ``FOX & Friends.'' Senate Republicans are not just  ignoring the coronavirus. They are practically sprinting toward a  partisan election, making this Chamber part of a reelection campaign-- not what it was ever intended to be by the Founding Fathers or anyone  else, until this fever to bow down to President Trump's wild conspiracy  theories that has overtaken just about every Senate Republican. 

  Here is what Chairman Graham said about his ``investigation''  yesterday. Here is what he said:  

       I want to get all the information out there. I want to do       it before the election.  

  Well, there is a Republican intention right there--``do it before the  election.'' 

  Leader McConnell says that Republicans have not felt the urgency yet  to act on the coronavirus, but it sure sounds like there is some  urgency to get these phony investigations going before November. A  fever is raging in the conspiracy caucus. They are worried about the  outcome of the election. They are worried that President Trump--they  know--has done a very poor job in dealing with this crisis. So they  turn to wild conspiracy theories and turn the Senate, which should be  debating and discussing coronavirus relief, into sort of a partisan  sham Chamber. It is disgraceful. 

  Now, Leader McConnell gave a lengthy speech on the floor of the  Senate yesterday giving cover to many of the President's crackpot  theories about what transpired in 2016. I will just say this: Leader  McConnell reportedly watered down a bipartisan warning about Russian  interference in the fall of 2016. He stalled for years on election  security funding, and still, to this day, is blocking election security  funding. If Leader McConnell wants to look back at the history of  Russian interference in the 2016 election, he should look in the  mirror. He might not like the way his own role is viewed. 

  The American people should be just furious with Washington  Republicans, and so many are--more and more every day. Americans are  waiting in modern-day breadlines, jammed into municipal buildings, and  cars snaked around parking lots and city blocks. It is so sad to look  at these pictures. Doctors and nurses and other caregivers have been  working nonstop to save American lives, often without the proper  equipment. Millions of American workers are sitting at home, having  lost their jobs, through no fault of their own, dreading the day the  next rent payment comes due. Here in Washington, Senate Republicans  feel no urgency to help these Americans. They are too busy touting  conspiracy theories and electioneering for the President. 

  Speaking of the President, he was here yesterday on the Capitol to  have  lunch with Senate Republicans. They had a giant pep rally. They got all  fired up to do nothing. That was the conclusion. On the way out of the  Capitol, the President was asked about the fact that the United States  leads the world in confirmed cases of coronavirus, and here is what  President Trump said--amazingly. Listen to this. Asked about leading  the world in confirmed cases of coronavirus, the President said:  

       I don't look at that as a bad thing. I look at that in a       certain respect as being a good thing because it means our       testing is much better. . . . So I view it as a badge of       honor.  

  Really? First of all, our testing is not much better. States are  struggling to get people tested due to confusion and a lack of national  leadership. Many experts believe we are far short on what we need on  testing. None of these experts, who actually understands the testing  and this virus, would say the President deserves a badge of honor for  his work. But even more galling is the idea that lots of cases of  coronavirus is ``a good thing.'' That is what the President said:  Having lots of cases of coronavirus is ``a good thing.'' 

  A lot of cases is not ``a good thing,'' Mr. President. It means  people are sick and people are dying. A lot of cases means more  Americans are in the hospital, more Americans in ICU struggling to  breathe on ventilators. A lot of cases means Americans will die as a  result of the virus that has already claimed the lives of nearly  100,000. A lot of cases means a lot more Americans are seriously ill.  Mr. President, that is not ``a good thing.'' Even your mind, which  seems so warped at times, cannot really believe that. 

  There is no ``honor'' in leading the world in the number of people  infected with coronavirus. For the United States to have 1.5 million  cases is nothing to celebrate. It is something to be ashamed of.   

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT