Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, the coronavirus has already spread to  30 countries, including South Korea, Italy, Iran, and 53 confirmed  cases here in the United States. Officials at the World Health  Organization are now warning world governments to begin preparing for a  pandemic--a pandemic. 

  Here in the United States, the Trump administration has been caught  flatfooted. The administration has no plan to deal with the  coronavirus--no plan--and seemingly no urgency to develop one. Even  now, after the virus has already become a worldwide health crisis, with  rapidly growing economic risks, the Trump administration is scrambling  to respond. We have a crisis, and the Trump administration is trying to  build an airplane while already in midflight. The harsh fact of the  matter is, the Trump administration has shown towering and dangerous  incompetence when it comes to the coronavirus. 

  Coronavirus testing kits have not been widely distributed to our  hospitals and public health labs. Those without these kits must send  samples all the way to Atlanta rather than testing them on site,  wasting precious time as the virus spreads. 

  The administration has eliminated--eliminated--the global health  security teams. That is global health security, just what we need now.  They have eliminated the teams from both the National Security Council  and the Department of Homeland Security. And thanks to years of cuts to  the global health division at the Centers for Disease Control by the  Trump administration, the CDC has been forced to reduce the number of  countries it operates in from 49 to 10. 

  These are our frontlines. If we can deal with these diseases before  they get to the United States, we are a lot safer, and the  administration has mercilessly and thoughtlessly cut, cut, cut these  teams. And then, only a month ago, even as we began to hear about the  coronavirus in China, the administration sent us a budget that proposed  cutting the CDC budget by 16 percent. The CDC is the agency on the  frontlines that keeps us safe, keeps us healthy, and prevents American  lives from being lost. 

  Four words describe the administration's response to the coronavirus:  towering and dangerous incompetence. When officials at the CDC  recommended that infected passengers from a cruise ship not be flown to  the United States alongside the noninfected passengers, the State  Department overruled them. Shockingly, they put infected and  noninfected on the same plane. Was this because of politics? Did  somebody call President Trump or someone else? There are rumors to that  effect. We don't know if they are true. They should be checked out. 

  Typical of the administration, though, or certainly typical in so  many different instances, decisions were made based on politics and  optics rather than on the informed opinion of our scientists and  doctors. It is like the Soviet apparatchiks overruling the nuclear  scientists at Chernobyl to avoid embarrassment to the regime. 

  Federal agencies have been so hollowed out that one of the key  figures in responding to the coronavirus in our government is Ken  Cuccinelli, an immigration hard-liner ideologue with no public health  expertise. Yesterday, Mr. Cuccinelli posted a tweet actually asking for  information about the spread of the coronavirus. The one person the  administration can come up with to help deal with the issue then emails  and asks for information. This is, of course, because he has no  knowledge. He is not a scientist. He is not a disease preventer. This  is towering and dangerous incompetence. 

  President Trump, meanwhile, has said that the coronavirus might  ``miraculously'' fade once the weather gets warmer--towering and  dangerous incompetence. With no plan to deal with this potential health  crisis, the administration last night issued an emergency budget  request. It was too little and too late. It asked Congress to reprogram  funding dedicated to fighting Ebola--still considered an epidemic in  the Democratic Republic of the Congo--to deal with coronavirus. That is  robbing Peter to pay Paul. It is further evidence that the  administration is not taking the coronavirus as seriously as it should.  I said as much last night here on the floor. 

  The President seemed upset about my criticism of the budget proposal  this morning. I am glad he has noticed. Maybe he will start taking this  issue more seriously. Now that I have gotten the President's attention,  I want to lay out five things the Trump administration must do to get a  handle on the coronavirus. 

  The administration must, at a minimum, restore the cuts to the CDC  budget. Trump's cuts to the CDC budget have had dramatic effects,  shrinking the agency's footprint abroad to help combat pandemics. The  administration must commit now to reverse it. 

  The Trump administration must appoint a point person--a czar--to  implement a real plan to manage the coronavirus: an independent,  nonpartisan, global health expert with real expertise, not a political  appointee like Cuccinelli--somebody who is a scientist who knows these  issues and can coordinate the myriad Federal agencies to fight the  fight and prevent American lives from being lost. 

  The administration must increase its emergency budget request to at  least $3.1 billion with no cuts--no cuts--for Ebola funding, which is  still raging in Africa. The $3.1 billion is the amount our public  health organizations say is necessary. The funding must also include a  commitment to reimburse States and localities for all expenses related  to addressing the outbreak. 

  The Trump administration must expedite delivery of diagnostic testing  kits to all 50 States and public health laboratories so the tests don't  have to be sent--these samples don't have to be sent to Atlanta and  people wait, wait, and wait for a result as the disease spreads. 

  And finally, the administration must stop the proliferation of junk  insurance plans that do not even cover coronavirus tests and other  related healthcare services. This is typical of why we have opposed  these junk plans. They cover hardly anything. Now that we have this  crisis--the coronavirus--so many people who have these junk plans will  not get tested because they can't afford it and because their plans  don't cover it, a glaring example of why junk health plans--the  administration's solution, it seems, to the health crisis--are totally  inadequate and dangerous. 

  These are five basic steps that any competent administration would  have already taken in preparation for the pandemic. There may be others  as well, but this is what happens when you have an administration and a  President so skeptical of science, so contemptuous of expertise, so  practiced in obscuring inconvenient facts, and so disdainful of  organization and preparation. 

  Madam President, you need to get your act together now. This is a  crisis. We need you to act. We need this administration to finally do  the right thing after weeks of dithering and exhibiting towering and  dangerous incompetence.                              Women's Healthcare  

  Madam President, on another matter also related to healthcare, today  Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans have scheduled votes on two  divisive, anti-choice, anti-women, and anti-family bills. The Senate  has voted them down before; it will again. 

  After weeks of complaining that the impeachment trial of President  Trump was preventing the Senate from doing the people's business, this  is what the Senate Republicans have proposed: fake, dishonest, and  extreme legislation that has nothing to do with improving the lives of  ordinary Americans. I say ``fake'' because these bills pretend we don't  already have laws on the books that protect infants. Additional  legislation is completely unnecessary, irrational, a show with no  positive effect on the women of America who need healthcare.  Healthcare, Mr.  President. Healthcare, Republican Senators. Healthcare. That is what  women want, not these show bills that appeal to an extreme view. The  American people know it. The American women know it. 

  Additional legislation such as proposed today is at best unnecessary  and irrational. But it is dishonest because these bills are not  intended to fix real problems faced by real Americans; they are  intended to provoke fear and misunderstanding about a very difficult  issue so Republicans can score political points with their far-right  base. Any Senator who thinks this is going to appeal to the mainstream  of their constituents--women throughout their States--is missing the  point. 

  I say ``extreme'' because these bills would, in effect, criminalize  women's reproductive care and intimidate healthcare providers--another  example of the Senate Republicans' war on Roe v. Wade and a woman's  constitutionally protected right to make her own private healthcare  decisions and to not have politicians tell a woman what to do. 

  Putting these already defeated bills up for a show vote is not a  good-faith attempt to improve the lives of everyday Americans-- particularly everyday American women--as Republicans claim they want to  desperately do. Every single Senate Republican knows these bills cannot  and will not pass, but they are putting them on the floor anyway to  pander to the hard right and to cover up the fact that they will not  provide good healthcare for women, that they are voting day in and day  out to take away the right to healthcare of women throughout America  and letting the administration, led by President Trump, do just that. 

  If Republicans were serious about getting back to the people's  business, there is no shortage of bipartisan legislation we could  consider. Nearly 400 bills have passed the House, hundreds of them on a  bipartisan basis, and they have collected dust in this Chamber. They  have gone into Leader McConnell's legislative trash can. On healthcare  alone, we have legislation to protect Americans with preexisting  conditions, legislation that would eliminate junk insurance plans, and  legislation to reduce maternal and infant mortality rates, which my  colleague from Illinois will talk about, I believe, shortly. All of  these bills have languished in Leader McConnell's legislative junkyard. 

  When Leader McConnell or any Republican says ``Oh, impeachment  stopped us from doing things,'' look at what we are not doing today-- not only what we are doing, which is meaningless to women, but what we  are not doing--protecting their healthcare, protecting Roe v. Wade,  which two-thirds of American women want protected. 

  Any of the proposals that are in McConnell's legislative graveyard  would be better than this anti-choice, anti-women, and anti-family  legislation, but, typical of Leader McConnell, Republicans have chosen  once again to play politics on the Senate floor. 

  Leader McConnell should stop wasting the few votes he does schedule  with these shameless political stunts and instead bring legislation to  the floor that would actually improve the healthcare of the American  people and of American women in particular. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT