Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the Senate convenes a session this  evening during a trying time for our Nation. As we speak, millions of  our citizens are respecting stay-at-home orders and doing their part to  stop the spread of this pernicious disease. Millions upon millions are  now newly unemployed, dependent on the actions we take in Congress to  stave off financial disaster. More than 1 million Americans have tested  positive for COVID-19. More than 67,000 lives have been lost. 

  My home State of New York has been hit the hardest. The loss of so  many precious lives, the suffering of so many families unable to  comfort or even say goodbye to a loved one have been extremely painful,  enough to break your heart. 

  At the same time, while we are grieving, we are also inspired by the  bravery of our doctors and nurses, healthcare workers, first  responders, and other daily heroes--many of them immigrants--on the  frontlines of this crisis. To them we owe an extraordinary debt of  gratitude, an enormous thank-you that I hear out the windows of my  apartment and many in New York at 7 p.m. when we applaud them as they  change shifts every night--an act that brings isolated New Yorkers  together. 

  More than that, this Congress, this Senate, must deliver the people  of our country relief. We have come together on several occasions to  pass historic legislation in this time of crisis. They passed 96 to 0,  which shows that this body can come together in a time of crisis, which  should give Americans some hope and some solace. Let me be very clear.  Our work is far from over. 

  The Republican leader has called the Senate back into session despite  the fact that the District of Columbia appears to be reaching the peak  phase of this public health emergency, despite the risks we face by  gathering here in the Capitol, despite the risks faced by security  guards, cafeteria workers, janitors, and the staff who operate the  floor of the Senate. I want to take a moment to thank each and every  one of them--and all of those Capitol Hill workers--for being here  today, for doing their jobs so that we may do ours. 

  If we are going to be here, if we are going to make these fine people  come into work in these conditions, let the Senate at least conduct the  Nation's business and focus like a laser on COVID-19. At the moment,  the Republican leader has scheduled no significant COVID-related  business for the floor of the Senate. Tonight, we will vote on a  nomination to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Later this week, the  Republican majority on the Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing for  a manifestly unqualified, totally divisive, rightwing judicial nominee. 

  When the topic of COVID-related legislation has come up, Leader  McConnell has simply drawn partisan lines in the sand. First, he has  suggested that States and localities should go bankrupt--let them go  bankrupt. He has since realized his mistake and walked that back. But  then, only a few days later, the leader vowed to block any bill that  does not include legal immunity for big corporations that operate  unsafely and put workers in harm's way. 

  The Republican leader said that his redline in a future relief  package is not a national testing program; it is not more help for  small businesses or housing assistance for families; it is not rescuing  our healthcare system. Leader McConnell will not support new  legislation to fight this evil disease unless  it gives big corporations legal immunity. 

  Judicial nominees, legal immunity for big corporations--in all due  respect, Republican leader, these are not the Nation's most urgent  priorities right now. There are much more pressing issues that deserve  not only the Senate's focus and attention but should be the subject of  bipartisan negotiations for the next emergency relief package, known as  COVID 4. 

  Here are just a few. Our health system is under enormous strain. We  need more money to flow to hospitals, community health centers, and  nursing homes. Essential workers--many on low wages--work longer shifts  at great personal risk. They deserve hazard pay. Each first of the  month brings new rent payments to families suffering financial  hardship. Relief for renters and homeowners must be on the agenda.  State and local governments are stretched to the breaking point,  imperiling the jobs of teachers, firefighters, police officers, food  inspectors, and other public employees. State, local, and Tribal  governments deserve Federal support. 

  As we begin to contemplate a return to normal economic activity down  the road, one thing is certain: We are not testing nearly enough  Americans--not nearly enough--to know when the moment to safely reopen  our country has arrived. Despite the length of this crisis--now  measured in months--the administration has yet to develop an adequate  national strategy on testing. 

  These are urgent issues we should focus on. These are problems the  American people want us to come together--Democrat and Republican--to  solve. These are the topics--not redlines in the sand on ideological  wish lists--that we should be debating and negotiating for a future  bill. The Republican leader himself acknowledged that there isn't  enough testing on the frontlines, but he has reconvened the Senate to  do nothing to address the problem. 

  As we return to work under the cloud of crisis, Senate Republicans  should concentrate on helping us recover from COVID-19, not confirming  rightwing judges or protecting big businesses that threaten to put  workers at serious risk. 

  The administration has done a very poor job of implementing parts of  the CARES Act and the most recent supplemental emergency legislation.  So Democrats have urged our Republican colleagues to, at a minimum,  hold hearings on the implementation of COVID-related legislation passed  by Congress. It is a positive step that Senate Republicans are now  beginning to follow our request and considering scheduling some  oversight hearings in the coming weeks with key White House Coronavirus  Task Force officials. 

  These hearings are very important. Congress can make laws but only  the executive can implement them. But a time-honored responsibility of  Congress, given to us by the Founding Fathers, is oversight, to make  sure that the executive is executing the laws. So we need to hear from  Dr. Fauci, Dr. Birx, Secretary Mnuchin, Chairman Powell. We need to  know why so many small businesses are having trouble getting loans,  while larger and more well-connected businesses are not. We need to  know why unemployment insurance checks are failing to get to workers. 

  Maybe, above all, we need to know why we still don't have enough  tests. Months ago, in early March, here is what President Trump said:  ``Anybody who needs a test gets a test.'' 

  It was a lie then; it remains a lie now. Administration officials  promised 27 million test kits would be available by the end of March.  It is now May, and it still hasn't happened. 

  The President continues to pressure States and businesses to reopen,  but he refuses to take responsibility for the one thing that would  allow them to do it safely--testing. Do you know how the White House  knows it is safe to hold a press conference? They test all the  reporters before allowing them into the briefing room. What does the  White House do before the President holds a meeting with business  leaders? They take everyone's temperature and then administer a  coronavirus test. 

  Why on Earth is there not a plan for the rest of the country, the  whole country, not just the President and the White House? Many  experts--most experts--say that we need far more tests than we have. 

  If we had been on the same track as countries that use nationwide  testing to stop their outbreaks, like South Korea and Canada, we would  be testing 2 million people a day right now, and already tens of  millions would have been tested. Some experts say we should increase  capacity to 30 million tests per week later this year. Others are  calling on it to be even higher. Right now, we are testing only 230,000  people a day--a drop in the ocean compared to what is needed. 

  We need testing capacity now, but we will also need it later. Some  believe that COVID-19 will resurge later in the year--perhaps with a  vengeance. There were reports today that the CDC has projected a  growing number of deaths from coronavirus into the summer, and yet we  still don't have adequate testing or even an indication that the  administration is focused on the problem. If, God forbid, this virus  comes back in the summer or the fall, the best way to deal with it is  testing, short of a vaccine, which we will not have by then. Testing,  we don't have it. 

  The lack of a national testing strategy, the painfully slow buildup  of testing capacity, the gross exaggerations of success by the  administration has gone on for too long. This administration needs to  take on responsibility for a national testing regime and deliver on it  immediately. It is, in the eyes of most experts, the best way to deal  with the current crisis and certainly the best way to prevent a future  crisis from growing out of control. 

  So there can be no doubt that this will be one of the strangest  sessions of the U.S. Senate in modern history. Our offices will be  emptied, our staffs working from home. Senate Democrats will not hold  regular caucus meetings in person. We will do them by teleconference.  Anyone who comes to the well of the Senate to speak will wipe down  their microphone and desks with a disinfectant and refrain from the  usual practice of handing our speeches over to the Senate reporters. We  will wear masks in the hallways of this Capitol and on our way home. We  will vote in small groups, and we will not do what comes so naturally  to every public official--shake hands. 

  The American people are watching us right now. They expect us to do  our jobs. They expect us to come together to address the issues that  really matter. We cannot--cannot--and must not merely go back to  business as usual in the Senate. It is not business as usual out in our  country. Leader McConnell must hear this. 

  Right now, Leader McConnell and the Republican majority should shelve  the divisive judicial fights and the partisan, divisive redlines. Let's  focus on working together to heal the sick, employ the unemployed,  stabilize the economy, and making sure the administration properly  executes the laws we pass so that we can prepare our country for the  day when we will finally, God willing, return to normal. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT