Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, the Republican leader has called the  Senate back into session during a time when there are significant risks  to the health of the Members of this Chamber and the staff who make  this place function. 

  This is a time of national emergency. We should be working to provide  our country with the relief and support it so direly needs. But this is  only the second day of business since Leader McConnell called the  Senate back into session, and there will be no votes on the floor--not  one vote. And so far, there is no plan--no plan at all--to consider  COVID-related legislation on the floor in the near future. 

  If we are going to be here in session, with an elevated health risk,  why doesn't Leader McConnell have us work on issues that are directly  related to COVID-19? 

  Last night, we confirmed a noncontroversial nominee to the Nuclear  Regulatory Commission. The next nominee on the floor is for a  counterintelligence post--no doubt important but unrelated to COVID-- whose nomination has been delayed by a hold by a Republican Senator. So  when the Republican leader reasons that we must process nominees on the  floor this week because of a previous Democratic obstruction, he should  check his notes and his facts first. 

  We could be using our time here to address a number of urgent  priorities, whether it is rescuing our ailing health system, increasing  testing capacity, assisting small businesses, renters, and homeowners.  Providing vigorous oversight of legislation we have already passed  would have been a better use of the Senate's time. 

  Instead of coming together to work on these pressing matters, we are  talking about nominations and rightwing judges, including a former  protege of the Republican leader who was rated unqualified by the  American Bar Association, a man who argued against the  constitutionality of our healthcare law in the midst of a public health  crisis--someone who probably 80 percent or 90 percent of Americans  would reject if they knew his views. But he is a protege of the leader.  We are rushing him through. We are not paying attention to COVID. 

  The Senate Intelligence Committee is holding a virtual hearing on the  nomination of Representative Ratcliffe to serve as the next Director of  National Intelligence. This is an extremely important post that demands  a candidate with deep experience, credibility on both sides of the  aisle, and, above all, the ability to speak truth to power. 

  Representative Ratcliffe meets none of these criteria. He is a deeply  partisan cheerleader for the President, a yes-man in every sense of the  phrase--someone who doesn't speak truth to power to the President of  the United States. He tells the President what he wants to hear. 

  Doesn't this sound familiar? Right now, we are living with the  consequences of a President who doesn't want to hear the truth about  the coronavirus, who doesn't want to believe it is as bad as it truly  is, who wants to cling to quack medicines that will not work, and who  runs away from the fact that his administration bears responsibility  for the inadequacy of our national response--a President who still  doesn't have a testing plan when we desperately need tests to get this  country open again. 

  The President doesn't like hearing the truth. It is that simple. That  has hurt us dearly when it has come to the coronavirus. This crisis is  partly the  result of an administration that did not take COVID-19 seriously enough  early enough and refused to heed the warnings of public health  officials and scientists. 

  The same phenomenon of the President's not wanting to hear the truth  will hurt us dearly when it comes to national security as well. If the  Director of National Intelligence can't stand up and tell the President  what is really happening, even when the President doesn't want to hear  it, our country will be dramatically less safe--the same thing that has  happened during the coronavirus crisis. If we move Ratcliffe and pass  him, we will repeat the same mistake that the President has made on  COVID. Not hearing the truth, not acting on the truth, listening to  flattery and not much else, which we did on COVID, will be repeated on  national security. 

  Now, I think many of my Republican colleagues actually know this.  This is not the first time that President Trump has floated Ratcliffe's  name--it is the second--because, the first time, the Republicans  balked. Many Republicans whispered: He has no experience. Some  Republicans said to one another and to some of us: You don't need  someone in the DNI who is just a cheerleader for the President; you  need someone who knows intelligence and will speak the truth. 

  There is no new evidence that Mr. Ratcliffe will act with the  necessary independence. Nothing has changed about Ratcliffe's  qualifications since he was shot down by the Republican Senators in  their saying he was the wrong man for the job. Yet sometimes--all too  often in this Senate and to the detriment of this country--even when my  Republican colleagues know the President is wrong, they go blindly  along with him anyway. That happened with COVID and will now happen  with our intelligence agency. I hope it is not the case. I hope Mr.  Ratcliffe's nomination will be roundly rejected, as it should be.                          Nomination of Brian Miller  

  Madam President, the second hearing this morning is in the Senate  Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on Brian Miller to be  the Special Inspector General of the pandemic relief efforts. Having an  independent, experienced, and strong IG to oversee the administration's  use of taxpayer funds in this pandemic is critically important. Under  President Trump, who has been firing IGs left and right simply because  they tell the truth and who believes that he is accountable to no one,  selecting a truly independent watchdog is essential and urgent. 

  As someone who currently works directly for President Trump as a  member of his White House Counsel's Office, Mr. Miller's independence  from the President is very much in doubt. We need a strong, tough IG.  Billions of dollars are being spent. We don't want someone who has in  his mind: I have to please the President. Mr. Miller needs to explain  why the Senate should confirm him to a position that requires genuine  independence. In particular, he must answer specific questions from the  Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs about his role in the  White House Counsel's Office and what issues he has worked on. It is  not acceptable to hide behind vague assertions that he can't answer  those questions. It is too important. The burden on Miller is to  demonstrate that he can be a truly strong and independent inspector  general.                                 Coronavirus  

  Madam President, there are serious questions about the fitness of  both of these nominees--Mr. Ratcliffe and Mr. Miller. Yet, more  broadly, the Republican leader has made a mistake by choosing to  dedicate this session to nominations only instead of to urgent  legislative business--COVID-19. 

  We could and should be focused on issues like testing. The first  diagnosed case of COVID-19 was diagnosed here in the United States just  over 100 days ago. We still don't have a national testing strategy that  is adequate. In early March, President Trump said that anybody who  needs a test gets a test, which has entered the pantheon of  Presidential lies, alongside: ``I am not a crook,'' and ``Read my lips:  no new taxes.'' It was not true then, and it isn't true now. We still  don't have a situation in which everyone who needs a test and wants a  test gets one. 

  As nations around the world, like South Korea and Canada, flatten the  curve with rigorous national testing programs, the United States--this  great United States, usually the leader of the world--is lagging so far  behind. So, today, 42 Senate Democrats are sending a letter, demanding  that the Trump administration fulfill its responsibility to produce a  comprehensive, national strategic plan of action by May 24. Congress  provided $25 billion in the last round of COVID legislation to help  build up our testing capacity. The administration needs to take those  resources and produce results. We have given him the money and the  wherewithal. Where are they? The strategy they must come up with must  include a strategy for managing supply chains and for making sure  resources are equitably allocated and a strategy to use all available  tools, like the Defense Production Act, to make sure we reach the level  of testing that will manage this disease, save lives, and get our  economy moving again. 

  Until we have a vaccine, the most important tool we have at our  disposal for tracking the disease, limiting its spread, and  understanding where we can safely open is testing, testing, testing. We  await the President's response to our letter and want to work with the  administration to make sure we can end its embarrassment of inadequate  testing, which, frankly, is far more than an embarrassment--it is  crucial. It is life and death                     Small Business Lending Transparency  

  Madam President, finally, on small business lending transparency,  over the past several months, Congress has provided historic levels of  funding to help small businesses retain employees, meet payroll, and  stay afloat during these turbulent times. Because of the depth of this  crisis, we have dedicated trillions--not billions but trillions--to  this effort. We must absolutely make sure these relief programs are  implemented properly. With so much taxpayer money at stake, oversight,  transparency, and accountability are musts. 

  Issues with the small business lending programs cropped up almost as  soon as the administration began implementing them. Truly, small  businesses had a difficult time in securing loans while larger  businesses that had standing relationships with big banks had a much  easier time. Minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, and  other unbanked businesses--the proverbial small restaurant owner, the  butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker--have been left out to a  large degree. We tried to rectify some of these problems, particularly  in COVID 3.5, but more must be done. 

  As Justice Brandeis said: ``Sunlight is the best disinfectant.''  Transparency around these programs is the order of the day. So, this  afternoon, Senator Cardin and I will ask the Senate to pass legislation  that demands new disclosure requirements for the Paycheck Protection  Program and other disaster relief accounts. Our bill is very simple. It  would require the daily and weekly reporting of the PPP, the Economic  Injury Disaster Loan, and debt relief programs to be broken down, in  each case, by geography, demographics, and industry. The data would  need to be downloaded and would include the names of the entities and  the loans or grant amounts. It would need to detail whether the  programs are reaching underserved communities. 

  This is hardly a controversial idea. There is nothing partisan about  it. Our legislation would simply require the basic transparency we  expect from any Federal program--certainly, one of this size and  importance. It is my hope that my Republican colleagues will not block  our request simply because it comes from this side of the aisle. I  would hope, on a day when the Republican leader has scheduled literally  no business on the floor of the Senate, that we could come together to  pass this very simple bill to make sure we know how taxpayer dollars  are being spent. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT