Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, now, in the aftermath of the U.S.  military operation that took out Iranian General Soleimani, we need to  be asking the right questions and remain clear-eyed about what might  happen next. 

  I have grown increasingly concerned about the strike against  Soleimani and what it might mean for the safety of American troops in  the region and the future of America's involvement in the Middle East.  The President has promised that he would not drag the American people  into another endless war in the Middle East. The President's actions,  however, have seemingly increased the risk that we could be dragged  into exactly such a war. 

  Unfortunately, this contradiction is far too typical of how the  President has conducted foreign policy over the last 3 years. The  President's decision making has been erratic, and it has been  impulsive, without regard to the long-term consequences of America's  actions abroad. He prefers reality show diplomacy and photo ops with  foreign leaders to substantive progress. As a result, the President's  foreign policy has been dangerously incompetent. 

  When you look at nearly every hotspot around the globe, he has made  the situation worse, not better. North Korea--3 years after failed  ``negotiations,'' North Korea remains belligerent, defiant, and intent  on developing ICBMs. Syria--after years of sacrifice and struggle  against ISIS, one impulsive decision to withdraw our troops risks  undoing all our progress. Russia--every meeting the President holds  with Putin always seems to result in Putin's coming out ahead. We are  now at risk of the situation with Iran heading for a similar  deterioration. 

  The President's foreign policy actions so far in North Korea, in  Syria, in Russia, and just about everywhere else can be described in  two words: ``erratic'' and ``impulsive.'' I am worried that a few  months from now his Iran policy will be described in exactly the same  way. 

  As the President's circle of advisers has gotten smaller and more  insular and as nearly all of the dissident voices have been forced out  of the administration, there seems to be no one left to tell the  President no. At times like this, skeptical voices need to ask the  right questions, and Congress--Congress must provide a check on the  President and assert our constitutional role in matters of war and  peace. 

  In my view, President Trump does not--does not--have authority for a  war with Iran. There are several important pieces of legislation by  both Senators Kaine and Sanders to limit further escalation with Iran  and assert Congress's prerogative on these matters. Both should receive  votes in the Senate. 

  I plan to ask pointed questions of this administration at a briefing  for the Gang of 8 later this afternoon. We need answers to some crucial  questions, and there are many. Here are the two that are most on  Americans' minds: What are Iran's most probable responses to the strike  on Soleimani? Are we prepared for each of these responses, and how  effective will our counterresponses be? 

  There was some alarming confusion yesterday about the military's  position on the future of U.S. troops in Iraq. What, in truth, does the  Soleimani strike mean for the long-term stability of Iraq and our  presence there? How does the administration plan to prevent an  escalation of hostilities and the potential for large-scale  confrontation with Iran in the Middle East? These are just some of the  questions the administration has to answer. The safety and security of  our American troops and of the American people are at stake.                                 Impeachment  

  Madam President, on impeachment, this morning, I return to the most  pressing question facing my colleagues at this moment: Will the Senate  conduct a fair impeachment trial of the President of the United States  of America? 

  The Framers suspected that any impeachment would ignite the passions  of the public and naturally would create partisans who are either  sympathetic or inimical to the President's interests. That is why the  Framers gave the Senate the responsibility to try impeachment cases.  When it came to a matter as serious as the potential removal of a  President, they believed the Senate was the only body of government  with enough independence to rise above partisan considerations and act  with the necessary impartiality. Will we live up to that vision? 

  Right now, the Republican leader and I have very different ideas  about what it means to conduct a fair trial. Democrats believe a fair  trial considers all the relevant facts and allows for witnesses and  documents. We don't know what the evidence will say. It may exculpate  the President. It may further incriminate him. We only want a trial  that examines all the facts and lets the chips fall where they may. 

  The Republican leader, in contrast, apparently believes that a trial  should feature no witnesses, no relevant documents, and proceed  according to the desires of the White House, the defendant. The  Republican leader seems more concerned with being able to claim he went  through the constitutional motions than actually carrying out our  constitutional duty. 

  Because the Republican leader has been completely unwilling to help  get the facts for a Senate trial, the question will have to be decided  by the majority of Senators in this Chamber. That means four Republican  Senators at any point can compel the Senate to call the fact witnesses  and subpoena the relevant documents that we know will shed additional  light on the truth. 

  I have heard several arguments from the other side as to why we  shouldn't vote on witnesses and documents at the outset of the trial.  The Republican leader and several Republican Senators have suggested  that each side complete their arguments, and then we will decide on  witnesses. 

  This idea is as backward as it sounds. Trials should be informed by  witnesses and documents; they are not an afterthought. Their reasoning  and McConnell's reasoning has an ``Alice in Wonderland'' logic to it:  Let's have each side make their case, he says, and then vote on whether  the prosecutors and defense should have all the available evidence to  make those cases. 

  We know what is going on here. Our Republican colleagues, even Leader  McConnell, knows that the American people want witnesses and documents.  Sixty percent of Republicans do. They are afraid to say no, but they  don't want to vote on them because that might offend the defendant in  this trial, President Trump, so they are trying to kick the can down  the road. 

  It is a strange position for Republican colleagues to take. They are  willing to kick the can down the road, as I said, on questions of  witnesses and documents, but they are not willing to say when or if  they will ever support it. 

  Just yesterday, one of the four witnesses we have requested, former  National Security Advisor Bolton, said he is ready to testify and has  new information to share related to the case at hand. Republicans were  dodging and twisting themselves into pretzels trying to explain why  someone with direct knowledge of what the President did shouldn't  testify under oath immediately. 

  I believe that illustrates the fundamental weakness of the Republican  position. None of our Republican colleagues can advance an argument  about why this evidence shouldn't be part of a trial from the  beginning. 

  To put it another way, none of our Republicans have advanced an  argument about why it would make sense for the Senate to wait until the  end of the trial to obtain all the evidence. 

  Make no mistake, on the question of witnesses and documents,  Republicans may run, but they can't hide. There will be votes at the  beginning on whether to call the four witnesses we have proposed and  subpoena the documents we have identified. America and the eyes of  history will be watching what my Republican colleagues do. 

  Another argument I have heard from the other side is that it is not  the Senate's job to go outside of the record established by the House  impeachment probe. I would reply that it very much is the Senate's job.  The Constitution gives the Senate the sole power to try impeachment  cases, not review impeachment cases, not go over impeachment cases but  the sole power to try them. It is not the Senate's job to put the House  impeachment proceedings on a weeklong rerun on C-SPAN. Our job is to  try the case, to hold a real, fair, and honest trial. That means  examining the arguments. That means letting the prosecutors request  witnesses and documents to make their case. 

  This is not just my view. It has been the view of every Senate facing  impeachment trial in our history. Every single impeachment trial of a  President has featured witnesses. Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial  had 41 witnesses. Several of my Republican colleagues here today voted  for witnesses in the Clinton trial. Except for one solitary case, every  impeachment trial of any official, in the history of the Senate--and  there have been a bunch--had witnesses. 

  A trial isn't a trial without evidence. A trial without all the facts  is a farce. If the President is ultimately acquitted at the end of a  sham trial, his acquittal will be meaningless. That is why the  President himself should demand a full and fair trial. 

  President Trump, if you have nothing to hide, if you think the case  is as flimsy as you say, call your Chief of Staff. Tell him to release  the documents. Call Leader McConnell and tell him what you already told  the country; that you would ``love'' for your aides to testify in a  Senate trial. President Trump, if you believe you have done nothing  wrong, you have nothing to be afraid of from witnesses and documents.  To the  contrary, if you are afraid of witnesses and documents, most Americans  will believe you have something to hide and that you fear you have done  something very, very wrong. 

  If my Republican colleagues believe the President has done nothing  wrong, they should have nothing to fear from witnesses and documents.  In fact, they should welcome them. What better way to prove to the  American people that we are treating this matter with the gravity it  requires. What better way to prove to their constituents that they are  not just doing the President's bidding and not just making this a sham  trial because of obeisance to the President of the United States. 

  If every Senate Republican votes to prevent witnesses and documents  from coming before the Senate, if every Republican Senator votes for a  rigged trial that hides the truth, the American people will see that  the Republican Senate is part of a large and awful coverup. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT