Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last night, the Department of Defense  confirmed reports that Iran launched missiles at a number of our  installations in Iraq that housed U.S. and coalition forces. As details  continue to emerge, it appears that there have been no casualties. We  commend the professionalism and bravery of our servicemembers and other  personnel in harm's way. 

  While we are thankful that there were no casualties and we are  thankful for the safety of American forces and personnel in the region,  I condemn the attack by the Iranian Government and remain concerned  about the risk of further escalation of hostilities in the Middle East.  Now, more than ever, the  United States must be clear-headed and sure-footed about what comes  next. The American people do not want a war with Iran, and the  President does not have the authority to wage one. 

  Yesterday, we learned that the President had ordered the deployment  of at least as many as 4,500 soldiers to the region--potentially more.  Beyond Iraq, the U.S. military now has more than 70,000 troops in the  Middle East, from Kuwait to Qatar, to Afghanistan, to the UAE, to Saudi  Arabia, to Jordan, Oman, and Bahrain. 

  The President has promised to get the United States out of these  forever wars in the Middle East, but the arrow is headed in the wrong  direction. 

  Mr. President, how many more is it going to be? How long will they  remain abroad? What is their objective? How will we assure their  safety? Will more be deployed in the weeks and months ahead? 

  These are urgent questions. The administration must answer them. But  so far, there has been a profound lack of information provided to  Congress from the Department of Defense concerning what the Department  is doing in response to Iran. 

  So I join Senators Reed and Durbin in requesting regular briefings  and documents from the administration detailing the number of troops  the President has deployed and plans to deploy in support of  contingency plans with respect to Iran. We need to know if the  administration is committing additional troops to the region and for  how long. 

  Our letter urges the administration to clarify to the American people  and our military that international law prohibits the deliberate  targeting of cultural sites and that such an order would be unlawful  and should not be followed. 

  The American people, rightfully, have serious concerns about a war  with Iran and whether we are safer today because of this President's  foreign policy, which is so often impulsive and erratic. I am afraid  these impulsive and erratic actions throughout the world are making us  less safe.                                 Impeachment  

  Mr. President, now, on impeachment, yesterday, Leader McConnell  announced that he has the votes to pass a partisan resolution to set  the rules for the impeachment trial of President Trump. It was another  unfortunate confirmation that Leader McConnell has no intention of  working with the minority to establish rules of a fair and honest trial  that examines the evidence, hears from witnesses, and receives the  relevant documents. 

  I have asked Leader McConnell repeatedly to sit down and negotiate a  plan where we would have witnesses and documents, and he has refused.  Instead, Leader McConnell, by his own admission, took his cues from the  White House when it came to setting the parameters of a trial. Rather  than engaging in any serious negotiation with the Senate minority, he  only spent time trying to convince his caucus that we should punt the  questions of witnesses and documents to a later date. 

  I have explained why this proposal makes very little sense from the  perspective of having a fair trial. The evidence should inform  arguments in a trial. Evidence should not be an afterthought. Why would  it make sense for both sides to present their entire case and then  decide whether the Senate should request the evidence that we already  know is out there? 

  It is extremely telling that Leader McConnell and Senate Republicans  are not willing to take a forthright position on whether we should call  witnesses and request documents. They can only say that the issue  should be addressed later. Their only refuge--not much of one--is to  kick the can down the road. No one--no one--has advanced an argument as  to why the four eyewitnesses we have proposed should not testify. No  one has advanced an argument as to why the three specific sets of  documents related to the charges against the President should not be  provided. Republicans can only get behind kicking the can down the road  because they know we have the full weight of the argument on our side.  There is virtually no argument why we shouldn't have witnesses and why  we shouldn't have documents. 

  I want to make one thing very clear: There will be votes--repeated  votes--on the question of witnesses and documents at the trial. The  initial votes will not be the last votes on the matter. Republicans can  delay it, but they cannot avoid it. And when those votes come up,  Senate Republicans--not Leader McConnell, who has already cast his lot  completely with the defendant, the President--will have two crucial  things to worry about. 

  First, if the Senate runs a sham trial without witnesses, without  documents, and without all of facts, then the President's acquittal at  the end of the trial will be meaningless. A trial without all the facts  is a farce. The verdicts of kangaroo courts are empty. 

  Leader McConnell is fond of claiming that the House ran the ``most  rushed, least thorough, and most unfair impeachment inquiry in modern  history.'' I know that is his talking point, but, in truth, Leader  McConnell is plotting to run the most rushed, least thorough, and most  unfair impeachment trial in modern history. If the Senate rushes  through the President's impeachment, if we actually fail to try the  case, as the Constitution demands, then the true acquittal the  President craves will be unobtainable. 

  The American people will see right through a partisan trial and  understand that a rush to judgment renders that moot. They will  understand that, when you don't want witnesses and documents, you are  afraid of the truth and that you are covering something up, and that  the likelihood is strong that you did something very wrong. That is  common sense. That is what all the polling data shows most Americans  believe. 

  Second, when the Senate has votes on witnesses and documents, my  Republican colleagues will have to answer to not just the President.  The American people do not want a coverup. Whatever their view of the  President, the American people want the Senate to have a fair trial.  All the data shows that, with two more polls in the last few days.  Every Senator will be under massive public pressure to support a fair  trial that examines all the facts. 

  The American people understand the gravity of the charges against the  President. The House has impeached the President for using the powers  of his public office to benefit himself. The President was impeached  because the House believes he tried to shake down a foreign leader into  investigating his political opponent, pressuring a foreign power to  interfere in our elections. He was impeached because he undertook an  unprecedented campaign of obstruction to prevent Congress from  investigating his wrongdoing. 

  The Articles of Impeachment suggest the President committed a grave  injury to our democracy. The conduct they describe is exactly what the  Founders most feared when they forged the impeachment powers of  Congress. 

  If the Senate fails to hold a fair hearing of those charges, if one  party--the President's party--decides to rush through a trial without  hearing all the facts, witnesses, and documents, it will not just be  the verdict of history that falls heavy on their shoulders. The  American people, in the here and now, will pass a harsh judgment on  Senators who participate in a coverup for the President. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT