Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, one unfortunate side effect of the  COVID-19 pandemic is that we have become accustomed to the recitation  of grim statistics. 

  The United States now leads the world in the number of confirmed  cases of the coronavirus with more than 1.5 million. Another 2.4  million workers filed jobless claims this week, joining the more than  38 million Americans who have applied for unemployment assistance since  the crisis began. 

  Very soon, our country will reach another grim milestone. We are fast  approaching the day when more than 100,000 American lives will be lost  to COVID-19--the size of a small city erased from the map. 

  Speaker Pelosi and I sent a letter to President Trump this morning,  requesting that the American flag be flown at half-mast on all public  buildings on the day the toll reaches 100,000. As families all across  this great country mourn the loss of friends, colleagues, and loved  ones, flying the flag  at half-mast would be a national expression of grief. 

  Of course, this weekend is also Memorial Day, when we commemorate the  so many Americans who, through the centuries, have lost their lives for  our country, and we never forget them. We never forget them. I hope, on  Memorial Day, every American will take a minute amidst this crisis to  remember our veterans who have served and made great sacrifice and to  remember their families as well. 

  Now, in a flash, this disease has washed over our country like a  flood, changing nearly every aspect of American society except,  perhaps, the Republican Senate. If you looked at our activity in the  last 3 weeks, you would hardly know that there was a COVID crisis. 

  Leader McConnell called the Senate back into session 3 weeks ago. In  that time, the Republican leadership has not put one bill on the floor  of the Senate related to COVID-19--not one vote on legislation having  to do with COVID-19 in the entire month of May. 

  The House has not been in regular session, but it has voted on many  more COVID-related bills this month than the Republican Senate. For  Leader McConnell to say that the Senate is working and the House is  derelict is the opposite of what happened. 

  The House has passed a major bill dealing with COVID. We have done  nothing on this floor to vote on anything about COVID. 

  For Leader McConnell to think we are doing our job by voting for some  rightwing judges, by engaging in some sort of show trials to go to  pursue conspiracy theories from the far right and even from Russia to  besmirch political opponents past and present--that is not what we  should be doing. 

  When Americans look at what the House has done over the last 3 weeks  and what the Senate has done over the last 3 weeks, they will see that  the House has done far more on COVID than the Senate because Leader  McConnell is not allowing the Senate to focus on the issues we should  be focusing on. 

  What little business we have done related to the crisis--oversight  hearings in a few committees--required weeks of pressure from Senate  Democrats. We had to push and push and push our colleagues to even  fulfill their most basic responsibilities to do a hearing, to do  oversight as to whether the money that we passed weeks ago is being  spent properly. 

  In the interest of making incremental progress--just incremental  progress--Democrats have asked this Chamber to consent to smaller  measures related to our relief efforts. We asked our colleagues to  increase transparency in the small business lending program. We asked  to release the unedited CDC guidance to help families, States,  businesses, and schools reopen safely. Senate Republicans blocked those  ideas. 

  The inaction by Senate Republicans has gotten so bad that even one of  my colleagues on the other side doesn't want to adjourn today because  his party has done nothing on the coronavirus for an entire month. 

  Leader McConnell has long presided over a legislative graveyard, but  in this time of national crisis, when Americans all across the country  are desperate for relief, the inaction of Senate Republicans is  staggering. 

  Making matters worse, Republicans aren't just ignoring the  coronavirus; they are practically sprinting toward focusing on a  partisan election instead of our coming together and trying to solve  this problem. 

  Instead of debating COVID-related legislation on the floor, Leader  McConnell has asked the Senate to confirm some rightwing judges. In the  Homeland Security Committee, the Republican chairman convened a hearing  that slanders the family of the President's political opponent with  conspiracy theories invented by none other than the Kremlin. The  Homeland Security Committee should be holding hearings with the FEMA  Administrator about the alarming shortage of PPE. But, instead, the  Republican majority is busy following breadcrumbs left by Putin and his  intelligence services. What a disgrace, what a sham, and what a  dereliction of duties.  

  The House--again, they are doing their job. They passed a major bill.  Senator McConnell says: Let's wait. Let's pause. He doesn't see  immediate urgency. Well, Americans do. 

  In the Judiciary Committee now, the Republican chairman wants to  issue a bonanza of subpoenas about yet another conspiracy theory  related to the 2016 elections in the hopes of diving down as many  rabbit holes as can be found. 

  And today, in the Foreign Relations Committee, the Republican  chairman is holding an audio-only hearing to advance President Trump's  handpicked nominee for the Voice of America, a nominee who is currently  under investigation by the attorney general of Washington, DC. That is  right. The Republican majority of the Foreign Relations Committee is  turning the cameras off so that the press and the public can't see what  they are doing--giving a promotion to Steve Bannon's business partner  in the middle of a health crisis. This is such a gross misuse of power  by the majority. 

  While unemployment reaches astronomic levels, the Senate Republican  caucus is off on a wild goose chase. The conspiracy caucus is back with  a vengeance. That is the name of this Republican Senate majority: the  ``conspiracy caucus.'' That is where their zeal is; that is where their  focus is--not on eradicating COVID, not on helping people get back to  work, not on feeding hungry families but on pursuing conspiracy  theories. Wow. 

  The Memorial Day weekend in a State work period is usually a time for  Senators to meet with their constituents and hear their concerns. In  these strange times, we will not be able to do that in person, but we  will find ways to hear from the people in our States, and I expect my  Republican colleagues will get an earful. 

  The American people should be furious about what Washington  Republicans are doing in Congress and, more to the point, what they are  failing to do. 

  As we approach a day of reckoning, more than 100,000 deaths from the  coronavirus, I cannot imagine the American people are happy that Senate  Republicans can't focus on coronavirus because they are too busy doing  opposition research for the President's reelection campaign.                       Nomination of John L. Ratcliffe  

  On another matter, later today, the Senate will vote on whether to  confirm Representative   John Ratcliffe to serve as the Director of  National Intelligence, which oversees the 17 different intelligence  agencies. It is one of the most important posts that this Chamber is  asked to fill. It requires someone with unimpeachable integrity, deep  experience, and the independence and backbone to speak truth to power.  That is what DNIs, including the previous one, Dan Coats, did. 

  Unfortunately, Mr. Ratcliffe doesn't even come close to meeting that  high bar. Earlier this week, I had the opportunity to speak with  Congressman Ratcliffe over the phone. I expressed my concerns that his  history as a vocal defender of the President casts doubt on his  qualifications and credibility 

  I asked him to simply confirm the unequivocal conclusion of our 17  intelligence agencies that Putin interfered in the 2016 elections to  help President Trump. He could not confirm it. 

  I asked him if he would commit to basic, specific steps to improve  transparency and communications between DNI and Congress--for instance,  that every 2 weeks the staffs of the Gang of 8 be briefed by the DNI on  what is happening in terms of election interference, that immediately  Congress be notified if Russia or another foreign country attempts to  interfere in our election. I asked him to do that within 72 hours. In  neither case would he commit. That is not the kind of DNI we need. 

  So Congressman Ratcliffe did little to address my concerns about his  nomination, and I will vehemently oppose his nomination today. More  than ever, we need the right person to serve as DNI. Over the past few  months we have watched President Trump try to short circuit nearly  every measure of independence and accountability within the executive  branch. 

  By baselessly firing one inspector general after another, President  Trump has shown he will not tolerate anyone  standing up to his personal political interests, right or wrong. This  is a dangerous pattern that should send a shiver down the spine of  anyone who believes in democracy and is particularly relevant to the  intelligence community, which must be able to inform the President of  difficult truths. 

  Mr. Ratcliffe, unfortunately, has not demonstrated the qualities nor  the independence that we should expect of the next leader of the  intelligence community. I will vote no and encourage my colleagues on  both sides of the aisle, for the sake of the independence and strength  of our intelligence community, which has served us so well for decades,  to join me in voting no. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT