For the People Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, H.R. 1--this past Sunday marked one  year since the House passed H.R. 1, the For the People Act. This bill  takes urgent and long overdue steps to renew our democracy. It will  reverse the corrupting effects of Citizens United. It will restore  protections for voting. And it will take aim at Washington's culture of  corruption, which has run rampant under this administration. 

  It could not come at a better time. Every election, we see the  sweeping power of big money. State legislatures have found new ways to  deny Americans, often minorities, access to the ballot. Our  adversaries--including the Russians--work day and night to influence  our elections and sow confusion in the public sphere. H.R. 1 would  forcefully and directly address each of these issues. But, like every  other bill passed by the House over the past 2 years, it has been  buried in Leader McConnell's legislative graveyard. We must move it.  This bill is about making our democracy work and giving American  citizens some faith in the future. 

  Republicans, rather than working with Democrats to strengthen our  democracy, have stood in the way. They have blocked election security  legislation and sanctions to deter foreign adversaries from trying to  interfere in our democracy. They have enabled President Trump's assault  on the separation of powers through their silence on the President's  many abuses of power. Even today, the Republicans are putting forward a  nominee for the Federal Election Commission who expressed doubts  regarding the benefits of even the most reasonable restrictions on  campaign spending, including disclosure. 

  When H.R. 1 first passed the House, Leader McConnell called this bill  to restore voting rights and get money out of politics a ``terrible  proposal'' and a ``power grab.'' If Leader McConnell thinks that  getting big money out of politics is a terrible idea, if he truly  believes making it easier for Americans to vote is a power grab by  Democrats, then God help the Republican Party and God help this  country. 

  Democrats will not stop fighting for this bill, nor will we ever stop  fighting to restore the democratic values that have guided our Nation  for 2\1/2\ centuries. In the United States, each person's vote should  have the same weight as everyone else's. That is a hallmark of our  democracy. A fair and free election is the wellspring of our democracy.  It is what Americans have died for in the battlefields around the  world, what civil rights activists have marched for across the bridges  and the generations. And though the Republican leader has been adamant  in his opposition to this legislation, the American people, thank God,  will have a chance this November to elect a new Senate that will move  this country in a dramatically different direction. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT