Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, today is a momentous, historic, and  solemn day in the history of the U.S. Senate and in the history of our  Republic. The House of Representatives will send Articles of  Impeachment against President Trump to the Senate, and the Speaker will  appoint the House managers of the impeachment case. 

  Two articles will be delivered. The first charges the President with  abuse of power--of coercing a foreign leader into interfering in our  elections and of using the powers of the Presidency, the most powerful  public office in the Nation, to benefit himself. The second charges the  President with obstruction of Congress for an unprecedented blockade of  the legislature's authority to oversee and investigate the executive  branch. 

  Let's put it a different way. 

  The House of Representatives has accused the President of trying to  shake down a foreign leader for personal gain to help him in his  campaign, and he has done everything possible to cover it up. This  administration is unprecedented in its not being open, in its desire  for secrecy, in its desire to prevent the public from knowing what it  is doing, and it is worst of all when it comes in an impeachment trial. 

  The two offenses are the types of offenses the Founders had in mind  when they designed the impeachment powers of Congress. Americans and  the Founding Fathers, in particular, from the very founding day of the  Republic, have feared the ability of a foreign power to interfere in  our elections. Americans have never wanted a foreign power to have sway  over our elections, but that is what President Trump is accused of  doing--of soliciting--in these articles. 

  I would ask my colleagues, and I would ask the American people: Do we  want a foreign power determining who our President is or do we want the  American voters to determine it? It is that serious. That is the  central question: Who should determine who our President and our other  elected officials are? 

  From the early days of the Republic, foreigners have tried to  interfere, and from the early days of the Republic, we have resisted.  Yet, according to these articles and other things he has done,  President Trump seems to aid and abet it. His view is, if it is good  for him, then, that is good enough. That is not America. We are a  nation of laws--of the rule of law, not of the rule of one man. 

  So now the Senate's job is to try the case--to conduct a fair trial  on these very severe charges of letting, aiding, abetting, and  encouraging a foreign power to interfere in our elections and of  threatening them with the cutoff of aid--and to determine if the  President's offenses merit, if they are proven, the most severe  punishment our Constitution imagines. 

  The House has made a very strong case, but, clearly, the Senators  have to see that case and watch it firsthand. A fair trial means the  prosecutors who make the case and the President's counsel who provide  the defense have all of the evidence available. It means that Senators  have all of the facts to make an informed decision. That means relevant  witnesses, and that means relevant documents. We all know that. We all  know--every Member of this body, Democrat or Republican--that you can't  have a fair, open trial, particularly on something as weighty as  impeachment, when we don't have the evidence and the facts.  

  The precedents of the Senate are clear. Leader McConnell is  constantly citing precedent. Here is one: The Senate has always heard  from witnesses in impeachment trials. There have been 15 completed  impeachment trials in the history of this country. In every single one  of them, the Senate has heard from witnesses. Let me repeat that for  Leader McConnell's benefit since he is always citing the precedent of  1999. There have been 15 completed impeachment trials, including the  one in 1999. In the history of this country, in every single one of  them, the Senate has heard from witnesses. It would be unprecedented  not to. President Johnson's impeachment trial had witnesses--41 of  them. President Clinton's  trial had witnesses. Several of my colleagues, including the Republican  leader, voted for them. Conducting an impeachment trial of the  President of the United States and having no witnesses would be without  precedent and, frankly, a new low for the majority in this body that  history will not look kindly on. 

  Each day that goes by, the case for witnesses and documents gains  force and gains momentum. Last night, a new cache of documents,  including dozens of pages of notes, text messages, and other records,  shed light on the activities of the President's associates in Ukraine.  The documents paint a sordid picture of the efforts by the President's  personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, and his associate, Lev Parnas, to  remove a sitting U.S. Ambassador and to pressure Ukraine President  Zelensky to announce an investigation of one of the President's  political rivals. Part of the plot to remove Ambassador Yovanovitch  involved hiring a cheap Republican operative to follow her around and  monitor her movements. How low can they go? 

  Just when you think that President Trump and his network couldn't  possibly get any more into the muck, reports suggest they are even  dirtier than you could imagine. I saw a novelist on TV this morning. He  said: If I had brought this plot to my publisher, he would have  rejected it. He would have said it was absurd, that it could never  happen, and that people will not believe it. 

  Well, here it is, led by President Trump, who, again, cares not for  the morals, ethics, and honor of this country as much as he cares about  himself. 

  To allegedly have some cut-rate political operative stalk an American  Ambassador at the direction of the President's lawyer, potentially with  the President's ``knowledge and consent''--that is what one of the  emails read--I mean, how much more can America take in the decline of  our morals, our values, and our standing in the world? 

  I don't care who you are--Democrat, Republican, liberal,  conservative. Doesn't this kind of thing bother you if anyone does it,  let alone the President of the United States? 

  I don't know how any Member of this body could pick up the newspaper  this morning, read this new revelation, and not conclude that the  Senate needs access to relevant documents like these in the trial of  President Trump. The release of this new information dramatically  underscores the need for witnesses and for documents. 

  The Republican leader has, so far, opposed Democratic requests to  call for factfinding witnesses and to subpoena three specific sets of  relevant documents. Despite their having no argument against them, the  Republicans' position at the moment is to punt the question of  witnesses and documents until after both sides finish their  presentations. Then, they say they will consider documents and  witnesses with an open mind. 

  The Democrats have requested four fact witnesses. They are the  President's top advisers, like Mr. Mulvaney. They are not the  Democrats' men. They are the President's men. They are not Democratic  witnesses. They are not our witnesses. They are just witnesses, plain  and simple. Each of them has firsthand information about the charges  against the President. 

  So, as the House prepares to send the articles to the Senate today,  it is time for us--all of us--to turn to the serious job of conducting  a fair trial, one that the American people will accept as fair, not as  a coverup and not as something that has hidden the evidence. The focus  of Senators on both sides must fall on the question of witnesses and  documents.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT