Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the Articles of Impeachment before us  charged President Donald John Trump with offenses against the  Constitution and the American people. 

  The first Article of Impeachment charges that President Trump abused  the Office of the Presidency by soliciting the interference of a  foreign power, Ukraine, to benefit himself in the 2020 election. The  President asked a foreign leader to ``do us a favor''--``us'' meaning  him--and investigate his political opponents. 

  In order to elicit these political investigations, President Trump  withheld a White House meeting and hundreds of millions of dollars in  military assistance from an ally at war with Russia. There is extensive  documentation in the record proving this quid pro quo and the corrupt  motive behind it. The facts are not seriously in dispute. In fact,  several Republican Senators admitted they believe the President  committed this offense with varying degrees of ``inappropriate,''  ``wrong,'' ``shameful.'' Almost all Republicans will argue, however,  that this reprehensible conduct does not rise to the level of an  impeachable offense. 

  The Founders could not have been clearer. William Davie, a delegate  to the Constitutional Convention, deemed impeachment ``an essential  security,'' lest the President ``spare no efforts or means whatever to  get himself reelected.'' 

  James Madison offered a specific list of impeachable offenses during  a debate in Independence Hall: 

  A President ``might lose his capacity'' or embezzle public funds. 

  ``A despicable soul might even succumb to bribes while in office.'' 

  Madison then arrived at what he believed was the worst conduct a  President could engage in: the President could ``betray his trust to  foreign powers,'' which would be ``fatal to the Republic.'' Those are  Madison's words. 

  When I studied the Constitution and the Federalist Papers in high  school, admittedly, I was skeptical of George Washington's warning that  ``foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican  government.'' It seemed so far-fetched. Who would dare? But the  foresight and wisdom of the Founders endure. Madison was right.  Washington was right. 

  There is no greater subversion of our democracy than for powers  outside of our borders to determine elections within them. If Americans  believe that they don't determine their Senator, their Governor, their  President, but, rather, some foreign potentate does, that is the  beginning of the end of democracy. 

  For a foreign country to attempt such a thing on its own is  contemptible. For an American President to deliberately solicit such a  thing--to blackmail a foreign country into helping him win an  election--is unforgivable. 

  Does this rise to the level of an impeachable offense? Of course it  does. Of course it does. The term ``high crimes'' derives from English  law. ``Crimes'' were committed between subjects of the monarchy. ``High  crimes'' were committed against the Crown itself. The Framers did not  design a monarchy; they designed a democracy, a nation where the people  were King. High crimes are those committed against the entire people of  the United States. 

  The President sought to cheat the people out of a free and fair  election. How could such an offense not be deemed a high crime--a crime  against the people? As one constitutional scholar in the House  Judiciary hearings testified: ``If this is not impeachable, nothing  is.'' I agree. 

  I judge that President Trump is guilty of the first Article of  Impeachment. 

  The second Article of Impeachment is equally straightforward. Once  the President realized he got caught, he tried to cover it up. The  President asserted blanket immunity. He categorically defied  congressional subpoenas, ordered his aides not to testify, and withheld  the production of relevant documents. 

  Even President Nixon, author of the most infamous Presidential  coverup in history, permitted his aides to testify in Congress in the  Watergate investigation. The idea that the Trump administration was  properly invoking the various rights and privileges of the Presidency  is nonsense. At each stage of the House inquiry, the administration  conjured up a different bad-faith justification for evading  accountability. There is no circumstance under which the administration  would have complied.  

  When I asked the President's counsel twice to name one document or  one witness the President provided to Congress, they could not answer.  It cannot be that the President, by dint of legal shamelessness, can  escape scrutiny entirely. 

  Once again, the facts are not in dispute, but some have sought to  portray the second Article of Impeachment as somehow less important  than the first. It is not. The second Article of Impeachment is  necessary if Congress is to ever hold a President accountable--again,  Democratic or Republican. The consequences of sanctioning such  categorical obstruction of Congress will be far-reaching, and they will  be irreparable. 

  I judge that President Trump is guilty of the second Article of  Impeachment. 

  The Senate should convict President Trump, remove him from the  Presidency, and disqualify him from holding future office. The guilt of  the President on these charges is so obvious that here, again, several  Republican Senators admit that the House has proved its case. 

  So instead of maintaining the President's innocence, the President's  counsel ultimately told the Senate that even if the President did what  he was accused of, it is not impeachable. This has taken the form of an  escalating series of Dershowitzian arguments, including ``Abuse of  power is not an impeachable offense''; ``The President  can't be impeached for noncriminal conduct, but he also can't be  indicted for criminal conduct''; ``If a President believes his own  reelection is essential to the Nation, then a quid pro quo is not  corrupt.'' These are the excuses of a child caught in a lie. 

  Each explanation is more outlandish and desperate than the last. It  would be laughable if not for the fact that the cumulative effect of  these arguments would render not just this President but all Presidents  immune from impeachment and therefore above the law. 

  Several Members of this Chamber said that even if the President is  guilty and even if it is impeachable, the Senate still shouldn't  convict the President because there is an election coming up--as if the  Framers forgot about elections when they wrote the impeachment clause.  If the Founders believed that even when a President is guilty of an  impeachable offense, the next election should decide his fate, they  never would have included an impeachment clause in the Constitution.  That much is obvious. 

  Alone, each of the defenses advanced by the President's counsel comes  close to being preposterous. Together, they are as dangerous to the  Republic as this President--a fig leaf so large as to excuse any  Presidential misconduct. Unable to defend the President, arguments were  found to make him a King. 

  Let future generations know that only a fraction of the Senate  swallowed these fantasies. The rest of us condemn them to the ash heap  of history and the derision of first-year law students everywhere. 

  We are only the third Senate in history to sit as a Court of  Impeachment for the President. The task we were given was not easy, but  the Framers gave the Senate this responsibility because they could not  imagine any other body capable of it. They considered others, but they  entrusted it to us, and the Senate failed. The Republican caucus  trained its outrage not on the conduct of the President but on the  impeachment process in the House, deriding--falsely--an alleged lack of  fairness and thoroughness. 

  The conjured outrage was so blinding that the Republican majority  ended up guilty of the very sins it falsely accused the House of  committing. It conducted the least fair, least thorough, most rushed  impeachment trial in the history of this country. 

  A simple majority of Senators denied the Senate's right to examine  relevant evidence, to call witnesses, to review documents, and to  properly try the impeachment of the President, making this the first  impeachment trial in history that heard from no witnesses. A simple  majority of Senators, in deference to and most likely in fear of the  President of their party, perpetrated a great miscarriage of justice in  the trial of President Trump. As a result, the verdict of this kangaroo  court will be meaningless. 

  By refusing the facts, by refusing witnesses and documents, the  Republican majority has placed a giant asterisk--the asterisk of a sham  trial--next to the acquittal of President Trump, written in permanent  ink. Acquittal and an unfair trial with this giant asterisk--the  asterisk of a sham trial--are worth nothing at all to President Trump  or to anybody else. 

  No doubt, the President will boast he received total exoneration, but  we know better. We know this wasn't a trial by any stretch of the  definition. And the American people know it, too. 

  We have heard a lot about the Framers over the past several weeks,  about the impeachment clause they forged, the separation of powers they  wrought, the conduct they most feared in our chief magistrate. But  there is something the Founders considered even more fundamental to our  Republic: truth. The Founders had seen and studied societies governed  by the iron fist of tyrants and the divine right of Kings, but none by  argument, rational thinking, facts, and debate. 

  Hamilton said the American people would determine ``whether societies  of men are really capable or not of establishing good government from  reflection and choice, or . . . forever destined to depend on accident  and force.'' And what an astonishing thing the Founders did. They  placed a bet with long odds. They believed that ``reflection and  choice'' would make us capable of self-government; that we wouldn't  agree on everything, but at least we could agree on a common baseline  of fact and of truth. They wrote a Constitution with the remarkable  idea that even the most powerful person in our country was not above  the law and could be put on trial. A trial--a place where you seek  truth. The faith our Founders placed in us makes the failure of this  Senate even more damning.  

  Our Nation was founded on the idea of truth, but there was no truth  here. The Republican majority couldn't let truth into this trial. The  Republican majority refused to get the evidence because they were  afraid of what it might show. 

  Our Nation was founded on the idea of truth, but in order to  countenance this President, you have to ignore the truth. The  Republicans walk through the halls with their heads down. They didn't  see the tweet. They can't respond to everything he says. They hope he  learned his lesson this time. Yes, maybe, this time, he learned his  lesson. 

  Our Nation was founded on truth, but in order to excuse this  President, you have to willfully ignore the truth and indulge in the  President's conspiracy theories: Millions of people voted illegally.  The deep state is out to get him. Ukraine interfered in our elections.  You must attempt to normalize his behavior. Obama did it, too, they  falsely claim. The Democrats are just as bad. 

  Our Nation was founded on the idea of truth, but this President is  such a menace--so contemptuous of every virtue, so dishonorable, so  dishonest--that you must ignore--indeed, sacrifice--the truth to  maintain his favor. 

  The trial of this President--its failure--reflects the central  challenge of this Presidency and, maybe, the central challenge of this  time in our democracy. You cannot be on the side of this President and  be on the side of truth, and if we are to survive as a nation, we must  choose truth because, if the truth doesn't matter, if the news you  don't like is fake, if cheating in an election is acceptable, if  everyone is as wicked as the wickedest among us, then hope for the  future is lost. 

  The eyes of the Nation are upon this Senate, and what they see will  strike doubt in the heart of even the most ardent patriot. 

  The House managers established that the President abused the great  power of his office to try to cheat in an election, and the Senate  majority is poised to look the other way. 

  So I direct my final message not to the House managers, not even to  my fellow Senators, but to the American people. My message is simple:  Don't lose hope. There is justice in this world and truth and right. I  believe that. I wouldn't be in this government if I didn't. Somehow, in  ways we can't predict, with God's mysterious hand guiding us, truth and  right will prevail. 

  There have been dark periods in our history, but we always overcome.  The Senate's opening prayer yesterday was Amos 5:24: Let justice roll  down like water, righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. 

  The long arc of the moral universe, my fellow Americans, does bend  toward justice. America does change for the better but not on its own.  It took millions of Americans hundreds of years to make this country  what it is today--Americans of every age and color and creed who  marched and protested, who stood up and sat in; Americans who died  while defending this democracy, this beautiful democracy, in its  darkest hours. 

  On Memorial Day in 1884, Oliver Wendell Holmes told his war-weary  audience: ``[W]hether [one] accepts from Fortune her spade, and will  look downward and dig, or from Aspiration her axe and cord, and will  scale the ice, the one and only success which it is [yours] to command  is to bring to [your] work a mighty heart.'' 

  I have confidence that Americans of a different generation--our  generation--will bring to our work a mighty heart to fight for what is  right, to fight for the truth, and never, never lose faith. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT