Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the Senate begins this new session of  Congress preparing to do something that has happened only twice before  in American history: serving as a court of impeachment in a trial of  the President of the United States. 

  President Donald Trump stands accused by the House of Representatives  of committing one of the offenses the Founding Fathers most feared when  it came to the stability of the Republic: abusing the powers of his  office for personal gain and soliciting the interference of a foreign  power in our elections to benefit himself. The House has also charged  the President with obstructing Congress in the investigation into those  matters, the consequence of an unprecedented blockade of relevant  witnesses and documents--flatly denying the legislative branch's  constitutional authority to provide oversight of the Executive. 

  As all eyes turn to the Senate, the question before us is, Will we  fulfill our duty to conduct a fair impeachment trial of the President  of the United States or will we not? That is the most pressing question  facing the Senate at the outset of this second session of the 116th  Congress. Will we conduct a fair trial that examines all the facts or  not? 

  The country just saw Senator McConnell's answer to that question. His  answer is no. Instead of trying to find the truth, he is still using  the same feeble talking points he was using last December. The country  just saw how the Republican leader views his responsibility at this  pivotal moment in our Nation's history. The Republican leader prefers  finger-pointing and name-calling to avoid answering the looming  question: Why shouldn't the Senate call witnesses? The Republican  leader hasn't given one good reason why there shouldn't be relevant  witnesses or relevant documents. We did not hear one from Leader  McConnell today or any day.  

  Once again, Leader McConnell tried to bury his audience under an  avalanche of partisan recriminations and misleading references to  precedents. There is only one precedent that matters here: that never,  never in the history of our country has there been an impeachment trial  of the President in which the Senate was denied the ability to hear  from witnesses. Let me repeat that. That is the salient fact here.  There is only one precedent that matters: There has never, never in the  history of our country been an impeachment trial of the President in  which the Senate was denied the ability to hear from witnesses. Yet the  Republican leader seems intent on violating that precedent and denying  critical evidence to this body and to the American people. 

  Leader McConnell has been clear and vocal that he has no intention to  be impartial in this process. Leader McConnell reminds us today and  previous days that rather than acting like a judge and a juror, he  intends to act as the executioner of a fair trial. Thankfully, the  rules of the impeachment trial will be determined by the majority of  Senators in this Chamber, not by the Republican leader alone. 

  The crux of the issue still is whether the Senate will hear testimony  from witnesses and receive documentary evidence directly relevant to  the charges against the President. Since Congress recessed for the  holidays, there have been several events that have significantly  bolstered my argument for four specific witnesses and specific  categories of documents. Nothing--nothing--in that time has bolstered  Leader McConnell's argument that there shouldn't be relevant witnesses  or documents. 

  On December 21, the Center for Public Integrity obtained emails  through a Freedom of Information Act request that showed that Michael  Duffey, a top OMB official and one of the four witnesses I have  requested, asked the Defense Department to ``hold off'' on sending  military aid to Ukraine 91 minutes after President Trump's July phone  call with Ukrainian President Zelensky. 

  On December 29, the New York Times' report included several  revelations about the extent of Chief of Staff Mulvaney's involvement  in the delayed military assistance; about the efforts by lawyers at  OMB, Justice, and the White House to create legal justifications for  the delay in assistance; and about the depth of opposition to and  indeed alarm about the delay in military assistance from parts of the  administration, particularly the Pentagon. 

  Then, just yesterday, there was a new report about a trove of newly  unredacted emails that further exposed the serious concerns raised by  Trump administration officials about the propriety and legality of the  President's decision to delay military assistance to Ukraine. One of  those emails released yesterday was from Michael Duffey--one of the  witnesses we have requested--to the Pentagon comptroller, and it reads:  ``Clear direction from POTUS [the President] to continue the hold.''  Clear direction from the President to continue the hold is what Duffey  wrote. What constituted ``clear direction''? Did Michael Duffey get an  order from the President, or did someone like Mr. Mulvaney get an order  from the President that was passed on to Mr. Duffey? Were there  discussions by administration officials about covering up the reasons  for the President directing the delay in military assistance? These are  questions that can only be answered by examination of the documentary  evidence and by the testimony of key Trump administration officials,  under oath, in a Senate trial. 

  These developments are a devastating blow to Leader McConnell's push  to have a trial without the documents and witnesses we have requested.  Each new revelation mounts additional pressure on the Members of this  Chamber to seek the whole truth. With these new emails, we are getting  certain portions of the truth. We need the whole truth. 

  For example, much of the evidence that was obtained by the recent  FOIA requests has been heavily redacted. 

  Here is an email chain between officials at the Pentagon regarding  the Politico article that first revealed that the Trump administration  was delaying military assistance to Ukraine. It is completely redacted.  Every word crossed out. Not available. Can't be seen. 

  Here is another email, with the subject line ``apportionment,''  between officials at OMB and the Pentagon, completely redacted. None of  the words can be seen at all. We know now that some of these redactions  were covered up--but only some of them. 

  Why did they redact the sections they redacted? Who ordered the  redactions? Why are they covering it up? What are they hiding? 

  These questions must be asked. When you are accused of something, you  don't suppress evidence that will exonerate you. The fact that the  administration is going to such lengths to prevent such emails from  coming out is extraordinarily telling. It seems like they themselves  feel they are guilty. 

  Getting the full documentary record would undoubtedly shed light on  the issues at hand. These were senior Trump officials discussing the  delay in military assistance to Ukraine, who ordered it, why it was  ordered, whether or not it was legal, and how it was connected to the  effort to pressure Ukraine into announcing investigations regarding a  political rival of the President. And these emails represent just a  sliver of the documentary evidence that exists in this case. 

  There was an exceedingly strong case to call witnesses and request  documents before the Senate went out of session for the Christmas  break. In the short time since, that case has gotten stronger and  remarkably so. 

  We are not asking for critics of the President to serve as witnesses  in the trial. We are asking only that the President's men, his top  advisers, tell their side of the story, and Leader McConnell, once  again, has been unable to make one argument--one single argument--as to  why these witnesses and these documents should not be part of a trial. 

  I want to respond to one suggestion by Leader McConnell, that we  follow the 1999 example of beginning the impeachment first and then  deciding on witnesses and documents at a later date. 

  First, to hear Leader McConnell say ``no witnesses now but maybe some  later'' is just another indication that he has no argument against  witnesses and documents on the merits. Will Leader McConnell commit to  witnesses and documents now and discuss timing later? 

  Second, Leader McConnell's comparisons to 1999 are hopelessly flawed  and inaccurate. There were witnesses in 1999, Leader McConnell. You  want the precedent of 1999. There were witnesses, as there were in  every single impeachment trial of the President in history. It would be  a break in precedent for there not to be witnesses. 

  Third, there was even a greater rationale for witnesses in the  Clinton trial. In 1999, the witnesses in question had already testified  under oath extensively, and there were also bipartisan concerns about  the suitability of the subject matter for the floor of the Senate.  There is no analogy to today's situation. The witnesses we have  requested never testified under oath, and the documents we have  requested have not been produced. 

  Fourth, we have a tradition in America of a fair and speedy trial.  That is why we requested only the relevant information, up front, so  that the trial can truly be speedy and fair. It makes no sense and, in  fact, it is a ruse to suggest that the Senate wait until the end of the  trial to settle the hardest question, when it might take time for  witnesses to prepare testimony and for the Senate to review new  documentary evidence. We can and should begin that process now and  ensure that the trial is informed by the facts and does not suffer  unnecessary delays. 

  Fifth and, finally, when Leader McConnell suggests that we have both  sides present their arguments and then deal with witnesses, he is  essentially proposing to conduct a whole trial and, then, once the  trial is basically over, consider the question of evidence. That makes  no sense. That is ``Alice in Wonderland'' logic. The trial must be  informed by the evidence, not the other way around. The House managers  should be allowed to present all of the evidence to make their case,  not make their case and, then, afterward, ask for evidence we know is  out there.  

  If we don't get a commitment up front that the House managers will be  able to call witnesses as part of their case, the Senate will act as  little more than a nationally televised meeting of the mock trial club. 

  If we leave the witness question and documents until after all of the  presentations are complete, Leader McConnell will argue that the Senate  has heard enough and we shouldn't prolong the trial any longer. At that  point, you can be sure he will label anyone who wants to subpoena  evidence as a partisan who wants to drag the whole affair out. 

  I know this because he has already told us what his position will be.  This is not a mystery. ``After we've heard the arguments,'' Leader  McConnell said on FOX News, ``we ought to vote and move on.'' Does that  sound like someone who, in good faith, intends to have the Senate  reasonably consider witnesses at a later date? No, it does not. 

  Leader McConnell's proposal to vote on witnesses and documents later  is nothing more than a poorly disguised trap. ``After we've heard the  arguments,'' Leader McConnell said, ``we ought to vote and move on.'' 

  All of my fellow Senators--Democrat and Republican--should take stock  of the Leader's words and remember the commitment he made on national  television to take his cues from the White House. 

  I say to the Chair, it may feel like we are no closer to establishing  the rules for a Senate trial than when we last met, but the question-- the vital question--of whether or not we have a fair trial ultimately  rests with a majority of the Senators in this Chamber. 

  The President faces gravely serious charges--abuse of power, abuse of  his public trust, soliciting the interference of a foreign power in our  elections, unprecedented obstruction of Congress--and, if convicted,  the President faces the most severe punishment our Constitution  imagines. The Framers gave us--this Chamber, the U.S. Senate--the sole  power to discharge this most difficult and somber duty. Will the Senate  rise to the occasion? 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT