Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, this is a serious, solemn, and historic  day. The events that will take place this afternoon have happened only  twice before in our grand Nation's 250-year history. The Chief Justice  will swear in every U.S. Senator to participate as a court of  impeachment in a trial of the President of the United States. 

  Yesterday, the Senate received notice that the House of  Representatives has two Articles of Impeachment to present. The House  managers will exhibit those two articles today at noon. The first  article charges the President with abuse of power: coercing a foreign  leader into interfering in our elections, thereby using the powers of  the Presidency, the most powerful public office in the Nation, to  benefit himself rather than the public interest. The second charges the  President with obstruction of Congress for an unprecedented blockade of  the legislature's ability to investigate those very matters. Let me  talk about each one. 

  The first is so serious. Some of our Republican colleagues have  said--some of the President's own men have said: Yeah, he did it, but  it doesn't matter; it is not impeachable. Some of them even failed to  say--many of my Republican colleagues, amazingly--it is wrong. 

  Let me ask the American people: Do we want foreign leaders helping  determine who is our President, our Senators, our Congressmen, our  Governors, our legislators? That is what President Trump's argument  will be: that it is OK to do that, that there is nothing wrong with it,  that it is perfect. 

  Hardly anything is more serious than powers outside the borders of  the United States determining, influencing elections inside the United  States. It is bad enough to do it but even worse to blackmail a country  of aid that was legally allocated to get them to do it. It is low. It  is not what America has been all about. 

  The second charge as well. The President says he wants the truth, but  he blocks every attempt to get the facts. All the witnesses we are  asking for--he could have allowed them to testify in the House. They  wanted them. The President is blocking. 

  Again, the American people--just about all of them--are asking the  question: What is the President hiding? What is he afraid of? If he did  nothing wrong, why didn't he let the witnesses and the documents come  forward in the House of Representatives? 

  Put another way, the House of Representatives has accused the  President of trying to shake down a foreign leader for personal gain,  deliberately soliciting foreign interference in our elections-- something the Founding Fathers greatly feared--and then doing  everything he could to cover it up. 

  The gravity of these charges is self-evident to anyone who is not  self-interested. If proved, they are not petty crimes or politics as  usual but a deep, wounding injury to democracy itself, precisely the  conduct most feared by the Founders of our Constitution. 

  We as Senators, Democrats and Republicans, must rise to the occasion,  realizing the seriousness of the charges and the solemnity of an  impeachment proceeding. The beginning of the impeachment trial today  will be largely ceremonial, but soon our duty will be constitutional.  The constitutional duty is to conduct a fair trial, and then, as our  oaths this afternoon command, Senators must ``do impartial justice.''  Senators must ``do impartial justice.'' The weight of that oath will  fall on our shoulders. Our ability to honor it will be preserved in  history. 

  Yesterday evening, I was gratified to hear the Republican leader, at  least in part of his speech, ask the Senate to rise to the occasion. I  was glad to hear him say so. For somebody who has been partisan-- deeply, strongly, and almost unrelentingly partisan--for 2 months, he  said something that could bring us together: The Senate should rise to  the occasion. 

  Far more important than saying it is doing it. What does ``doing it''  mean? The best way for the Senate to rise to the occasion would be to  retire partisan considerations and to have everyone agree on the  parameters of a fair trial. The best way for the Senate to rise to the  occasion would be for Democrats and Republicans to agree on relevant  witnesses and relevant documents, not run the trial with votes of a  slim majority, not jam procedures through, not define ``rising to the  occasion'' as ``doing things my way,'' which is what the majority  leader has done thus far, but, rather, a real and honest and bipartisan  agreement on a point we all know must be confronted: that we must--we  must--have witnesses and documents in order to have a fair trial. 

  A trial without witnesses is not a trial. A trial without documents  is not a trial. That is why every completed impeachment trial in our  Nation's history--every single one that has gone to completion--15,  have all included witnesses. The majority leader claims to believe in  precedent. That is the precedent: witnesses. There is no deviation. Let  us hope we don't have one this time. 

  Over the centuries, Senators have stood where we stand today,  confronted with the responsibility of judging the removal of the  President. They rightly concluded they were obligated to seek the  truth. They were under a solemn obligation to hear the facts before  rendering a final judgment. 

  The leader--incorrectly, in my judgment--complained the House was  doing short-termism and rush. The leader is trying to do the exact same  thing in the Senate. The very things he condemns the House Democrats  for, he seems bent on doing. Condemning short-termism? Are we going to  have a full trial? Condemning the rush? Are we going to allow the time  for witnesses and documents or is the leader going to try to rush it  through? At the very same time, out of the other side of his mouth, he  condemns the House--incorrectly, in my judgment--for doing it. 

  Another thing about the importance of witnesses and documents, the  leader has still not given a good argument about why we shouldn't have  witnesses and documents. He complains about process and pens and  signing ceremonies but still does not address the charges against the  President and why we shouldn't have witnesses and documents. 

  We are waiting. Rise to the occasion. Remember the history. That is  what the leader said he would do last night, and I was glad to hear it,  but he must act, not talk about rising to the occasion and then doing  the very same things he condemns the House for. 

  If my colleagues have any doubts about the case for witnesses and  documents in a Senate trial, the stunning revelations this week should  put those to rest. We have new information about a plot by the  President's attorney and his associates to oust an American ambassador  and potentially with the ``knowledge and consent'' of the President,  pressure Ukrainian President Zelensky to announce an investigation of  one of the President's political rivals. The effort to remove  Ambassador Yovanovitch by Lev Parnas and Mr. Giuliani is now the  subject of an official probe by the Government of Ukraine. 

  My friends, this information is not extraneous; it is central to the  charges against the President. We have a responsibility to call  witnesses and subpoena documents that will shed light on the truth  here. God forbid we rush through this trial and only afterward the  truth comes out. 

  How will my colleagues on the other side of the aisle feel if they  rushed it through and then even more evidence comes out? We have seen  lots come out. There has barely been a week where significant new  evidence, further making the House case, hasn't come out as strong as  the House case was to begin with. 

  Here is what Alexander Hamilton warned of in the Federalist 65. He  said: ``The greatest danger is that the decision [in an impeachment  trial] will be regulated more by the comparative strength of parties  than by the real demonstration of innocence or guilt.'' 

  Alexander Hamilton, even before the day political parties were as  strong as they are today, wanted us to come together. The leader wants  to do things on his own, without any Democratic input, but,  fortunately, we have the right to demand votes and to work as hard as  we can for a fair trial, a full trial, a trial with witnesses, a trial  with documents.  

  The Founders anticipated that impeachment trials would always be  buffeted by the winds of politics, but they gave the power to the  Senate anyway because they believed the Chamber was the only place  where impartial justice of the President could truly be sought. 

  In the coming days, these eventful and important coming days, each of  us--each of us will face a choice about whether to begin this trial in  search of the truth or in the service of the President's desire to  cover up and rush things through. The Senate can either rise to the  occasion or demonstrate that the faith of our Founders was misplaced in  what they considered a grand institution. As each of us swears an oath  this afternoon, let every Senator--every Senator reflect on these  questions. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT