Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last night, the United States conducted a  military operation designed to kill Major General Qasem Soleimani, a  notorious terrorist. No one should shed a tear over his death. The  operation against Soleimani in Iraq was conducted, however, without  specific authorization and any advance notification or consultation  with Congress. 

  I am a member of the Gang of 8, which is typically briefed in advance  of operations of this level of significance. We were not. The need for  advance consultation and transparency with Congress was put in the  Constitution for a reason--because the lack of advance consultation and  transparency with Congress can lead to hasty and ill-considered  decisions. When the security of the Nation is at stake, decisions must  not be made in a vacuum. The Framers of the Constitution gave war  powers to the legislature and made the executive the Commander in Chief  for the precise reason of forcing the two branches of government to  consult with one another when it came to matters of war and peace. 

  It is paramount for an administration to get an outside view to  prevent groupthink and rash action and to be asked probing questions,  not from your inner and often insulated circle but from others-- particularly Congress--which forces an administration, before it acts,  to answer very serious questions. The administration did not consult in  this case, and I fear that those very serious questions have not been  answered and may not be fully considered. 

  Among those questions: What was the legal basis for conducting this  operation? How far does that legal basis extend? Iran has many  dangerous surrogates in the region and a whole range of possible  responses. Which responses do we expect? Which are most likely? Do we  have plans to counter all of the possible responses? How effective will  our counters be? What does this action mean for the long-term stability  of Iraq and the trillions of dollars and thousands of American lives  sacrificed there? How does the administration plan to manage an  escalation of hostilities? How does the administration plan to avoid  larger and potentially endless conflagration in the Middle East? These  are questions that must be answered. 

  It is my view that the President does not have the authority for a  war with Iran. If he plans a large increase in troops and potential  hostility over a longer time, the administration will require  congressional approval and the approval of the American people. 

  The President's decision may add to an already dangerous and  difficult situation in the Middle East. The risk of a much longer  military engagement in the Middle East is acute and immediate. This  action may well have brought our Nation closer to another endless war-- exactly the kind of endless war the President promised he would not  drag us into. 

  As our citizens and those of our allies evacuate Iraq and troops  prepare for retaliatory action, Congress needs answers to these  questions and others from the administration immediately, and the  American people need answers as well.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT