Justice in Policing Act and Heroes Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, as protests over the death of George  Floyd continue, House and Senate Democrats came together yesterday to  unveil sweeping reforms to our Nation's police departments. 

  The Justice in Policing Act was not only a response to the recent  protests but a reflection of years of failed efforts to root out  injustice and racial bias in our law enforcement. The bill would ban  the use of choke holds and other tactics that have left Black Americans  dead. It would limit the transfer of military weaponry and equipment to  police departments. It would change the legal standard to make it  easier to hold police accountable for misconduct when they use  deadly force on American citizens, and through increased data and  transparency, as well as important modifications to training and  practices, it would help prevent police misconduct in the first place. 

  This is a very strong bill, and rightly so. I give tremendous credit  to Senators Booker, Harris, and so many others who contributed, as well  as the Black Caucus, led by Karen Bass and Chairman Nadler of the  Judiciary. They put together a very strong bill. The reason is simple.  The moment does not call for half measures. 

  Hundreds of thousands of American protesters are not asking us to  chip away around the edges. They want bold reform and meaningful  changes to assist them in something that all too often delivers unequal  justice for too many Black Americans, and that has existed that way for  too, too long. Well, that kind of bold reform and meaningful change is  what the Justice in Policing Act will deliver--meaningful change.  Democrats are going to fight very, very hard to make this proposal a  reality. 

  Now, of course, in the Senate, it is ultimately up to Leader  McConnell to decide what proposals, if any, come to the Senate floor.  That is his prerogative as majority leader. But for 2 weeks, Leader  McConnell has refused to respond to my requests for the Senate to  consider a police reform bill before July 4, the end of the current  work period. I have heard the Republican leader speak to the  frustrations that have swept the Nation. I trust he is aware of the  many abuses that have been allowed to persist unchecked in our police  departments. Where is Leader McConnell on actually doing something  about it? 

  Of course, there is another crisis at the moment, the COVID pandemic.  According to reports in the press, Leader McConnell has told the  Republican caucus not to expect another relief bill until late July at  the earliest. This is happening even as some States begin loosening  restrictions on business and travel. But even as that happens, our  economy is hampered by severe Depression-level unemployment. While the  number of new cases is falling on the east coast, the number of cases  remains steady in much of the country and is increasing in a good  number of States. 

  We are coming to a whole lot of cliffs. States are preparing their  budgets in advance of the new fiscal year in July. If they don't get  help soon, they may be forced to make severe cuts to public service,  and thousands, hundreds of thousands, and even millions will be laid  off--hard-working State and local officials whom our communities depend  on. 

  There are other cliffs as well. The 3-month moratorium on eviction  expires. Unemployment expires July 31. There are so many cliffs here,  and make no mistake about it, COVID is related to racial justice as  well. In the HEROES bill, for instance, hazard workers and frontline  workers get extra pay--hazard pay. More than 40 percent of them are  minorities. These are the people on our frontlines. Rental assistance  for people who might be evicted, a large percentage of minority folks  cannot afford to own a home or rent, so we must act on that as well. 

  So the kind of racial justice we are talking about, the kind of  inequality that exists--some of it--a good chunk of it would be  relieved if we passed the HEROES Act, COVID 4 bill. Both of these are  important to do. Racial justice, civil rights, a global pandemic, and  economic disaster--these are not merely issues of the month but of this  moment in American history. It is truly a time of historic challenge,  and Leader McConnell and the Republican Senate are missing in action.  There is no commitment to consider police reform and no urgency to  provide our country relief, despite the upcoming cliffs that are going  to be soon upon us. 

  Now there is a full 4 weeks remaining before July 4. I say to Leader  McConnell: commit to a police reform bill on the Senate floor. Work  with us on another emergency package that can come to the floor as well  before July 4. We have waited too long already. 

  For weeks, we Democrats have had to relentlessly pressure our  Republican colleagues to even hold the most routine oversight hearings.  The Republican majority on the Homeland Security Committee, in  particular, has wasted time these past few weeks trying to smear the  family of the President's political opponent instead. Here we have a  major crisis--a major crisis on the health front, on the economic  front, on the racial justice front, and what are so many of our  Republican friends doing? Raising back already discredited conspiracy  theories to go after the President's political opponent at a time when  Americans are calling for unity and coming together and doing something  about our problems. It is a shame. 

  The Homeland Security Committee will finally, today, conduct a  hearing with the FEMA Administrator for the first time in so long. This  crisis has been raging for months. More than 8 weeks ago, we passed a  $3 trillion bill. Why is it taking so long to have any oversight at  all? Finally, members of the committee will have the opportunity to  press administration officials as to why, in the early days of the  pandemic, the distribution of PPE and other critical medical supplies  was marked by so much confusion, secrecy, incompetence, and delays. In  fact, Senators Warren, Blumenthal, and I formally requested an  investigation into Project Airbridge, the name of the Trump  administration's opaque medical supply chain management project, which,  by most reports, was a failure. Why aren't we looking into why that  went wrong, what went wrong, and how we can correct it? 

  The harsh fact of the matter is this: We have lost too many  Americans, frontline workers, and hospital emergency personnel to this  horrible COVID-19 disease. We will never know how many we lost because  we weren't better prepared with the necessary protective equipment. The  Trump administration's failure should be thoroughly investigated so it  does not make the same mistake again if there is a resurgence of the  disease. 

  Meanwhile, America is still waiting for the President to even  acknowledge the issues of police violence and racial justice that are  driving protests across the country, including across the street from  the White House. 

  The President appears too preoccupied trying to emulate Richard  Nixon, of all Presidents, and he doesn't offer even a scintilla of  leadership. The President seems too preoccupied with his political  precariousness to even try to bring the country together. 

  As former Defense Secretary Mattis wrote, ``Donald Trump is the first  president in my lifetime who does not try to unite the American  people--does not even pretend to try. Instead, he tries to divide us.  We are witnessing the consequences of three years of this deliberate  effort. We are witnessing the consequences of three years without  mature leadership. We can unite without him . . . '' 

  And do that, we must, as Americans. Those words were not written by  some liberal Democrat whom they will call names, cast aspersions on,  never discussing the argument. It was written by one of our great  military leaders, former Defense Secretary General Mattis 

  Every day provides fresh evidence that this country will have to  unite in spite of the President, not because of him. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT