Letter to the Hon. Chad Wolf, Acting Secretary of the Dept. of Homeland Security - Schumer, Higgins Reveal: Customs and Border Protecting officers, including those working in WNY Working on the frontlines of the coronavirus fight, are not receiving hazard pay; Reps demand DHS Secretary immediately implement payscale meant for officials working in hazardous conditions


Dear Acting Secretary Wolf,

We write to urge that all Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers that are currently working during the continued pandemic be treated as the front-line professionals that they are and be designated as employees working under hazard. Such a designation would allow these employees to receive hazard pay and further financially insulate themselves in the event that they or their families are exposed to infection as a result of their service to the United States of America.

Congress has determined that hazard pay may be awarded at the discretion of the agency if :

(1) The actual circumstances of the specific hazard or physical hardship have changed from that taken into account and described in the position description; and

(2) Using the knowledge, skills, and abilities that are described in the position description, the employee cannot control the hazard or physical hardship; thus, the risk is not reduced to a less than significant level (5 CFR ยง 550.904). We believe this current crisis meets both criteria.

The presence of Covid-19 and the increased risk of infection to CBP personnel should, at the very least, entitle them to an increase in pay until the crisis has abated. While facilitating trade and travel, there is risk inherent in constantly interacting with the public. However, the nature of this pandemic creates conditions that could not have been accounted for. Although the recent announcement of the mutual agreement between the United States and Canada to close the northern border to all non-essential travel is a step in the right direction, the resulting cross-border traffic still poses a risk. It is commercial traffic which has traveled extensively, essential medical and first-aid personnel, and traveling Americans seeking to re-enter through Canada. Additionally, the closeness required to screen individuals crossing the border to ensure fulfillment of their mission further exposes the men and women charged with America's safety.

We ask that you take any and all steps necessary to ensure that hazard pay is granted to Customs and Border Protection officers as soon as possible and for the duration of the crisis. Please do not hesitate to reach out to us or our respective staffs if there is anything Congress can do to make this necessary step a reality.