Letter to the Hon. David Pekoske, Admin. of the Transportation Security Administration - Schumer reveals: TSA is still using "TikTok' app on social media; senator says risks to American & Fed security via the platform remain; Pentagon & PHS have banned it, TSA should too


Dear Administrator Pekoske:

I write to express my concern about the use of China-owned social media platforms, such as TikTok, by your agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).

Recently, both the U.S. military and the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the TSA, detailed social media policies and guidelines as it relates to use of the China-owned app TikTok due to security and privacy concerns. Despite these restrictions, including at TSA's parent DHS, your agency continues to utilize TikTok to communicate with the American public in an official capacity. While I recognize that the TSA must adapt its outreach techniques in order to communicate with a variety of Americans, I urge you to assess the potential national security risks posed by China-owned technology companies before choosing to utilize certain platforms.

On October 23, 2019, I sent a letter to the Acting Director of National Intelligence requesting that the Intelligence Community conduct an assessment of the national security risks posed by TikTok and other China-owned content platforms operating in the United States. National security experts have raised concerns about TikTok's collection and handling of user data, including user content and communications, IP addresses, location-related data, metadata, and other sensitive personal information, particularly when viewed in light of laws that compel Chinese companies to support and cooperate with intelligence work controlled by the Chinese Communist Party. Further, due to a lack of transparency and without an independent judiciary to review requests made by the Chinese government for user data or other actions, there is no legal mechanism for Chinese companies to appeal if they disagree with a request.

Consequently, I respectfully ask that you provide answers to the following questions as soon as possible:

1. Has the TSA consulted with the Intelligence Community and the Department of Homeland Security with regard to TikTok and other China-owned social media platforms, and whether they pose security risks as platforms for engaging the flying public? If not, does the TSA have future plans for such consultations?  

2. Has the TSA been given an exemption from the Department of Homeland Security's own ban of TikTok?

3. Are TSA officials using government issued devices as part of their official TikTok usage?

Thank you for your consideration of this request.