Letter to Bill Byrne, Global Director of Aer Lingus - Schumer calls on Aer Lingus to consider Stewart International Airport for new flights, specifically to Ireland and Great Britain; senator says new routes from Stewart would help boost economic development, tourism economy in the Hudson Valley


Dear Mr. Byrne:

I write regarding the efforts of New York Stewart International Airport (SWF) to expand its service, particularly international service. I ask that Aer Lingus seriously consider the many benefits Stewart Airport features as a location to expand your direct international service, especially to Ireland and Britain.

As you may know, between 2017 and 2019, Norwegian Airlines flew up to two popular daytime routes between SWF and Dublin, advertising SWF as a low-cost alternative to the downstate airports for fliers. In August of last year, Norwegian made the decision to cease service at Stewart, citing the grounding of the 737 Max. This gap in service opens up new opportunities for airlines like Aer Lingus to meet a demand for international flight options that was made evident by Norwegian's experience.

Stewart Airport's location presents an opportunity to expand operations and capture more passengers in the Hudson Valley, the many millions in nearby New York metropolitan area and upstate New York. The Norwegian flights to Dublin weren't just attracting travelers from the 5-boroughs of New York City. The flights also grew the Hudson Valley and Capital Region markets by 34%, not to mention nearby New Jersey, and even parts of Pennsylvania. While the interest for Americans to travel to Ireland is strong, conversely, the Hudson Valley offers plenty of destinations that incoming European fliers are taking advantage of, such as Woodbury Commons Premium Outlets, as well as its proximity to New York City. In addition, a major new attraction, Legoland, is opening next summer and will have a 15-minute shuttle service to and from the airport, and the development of New York International Plaza at Stewart Airport will greatly expand business, medical and retail offerings.

My staff has been in touch with your staff regarding this matter, and I ask that that your operations team seriously consider the opportunity presented by SWF. As the US Executive Vice President of Aer Lingus, you understand your operations best, but I believe Stewart International Airport offers a mutually beneficial opportunity for the Hudson Valley and for Aer Lingus. Our office is pleased to be a resource for Aer Lingus as you look at new routes.

Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to hearing from you. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to follow-up with me or my staff.