Letter to the Hon. Stephen Hahn, Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration - Standing with two "Miss Staten Island' winners, Schumer reveals: Despite Fed warning "Dollar' stores across island are still stocking cheap, dangerous China-made over-the-counter drugs & products that could make you sick--or worse; senator demands Feds hone in on SI stores & urges 11 local stores to check the shelves & toss what's bad


Dear Commissioner Stephen Hahn:

I write to express serious concerns regarding reports of a possible influx of unsafe over-the-counter (OTC) drugs into the United States and the New York-area from China and other countries. As one of the lead federal agencies responsible for intercepting many questionable Chinese-made products, I ask that Customs and Border Patrol (CBP), in partnership with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), take immediate action to more aggressively inspect, detect, and prevent these questionable drugs from entering the U.S. in the first place.

For years, it has been understood that a variety of Chinese-made products, particularly drugs, are manufactured in low-quality, unregulated, even dangerous conditions. Heeding these longstanding concerns, your agency has worked hard, alongside the FDA, to inspect and detect questionable shipments from China to prevent them from hitting store shelves. However, the recent warning issued by the FDA to Dollar Tree and other related subsidiaries heightens concerns and sheds new light on an unsolved problem with Chinese-made OTC drugs.

Many New Yorkers have long found it convenient to shop at bargain stores for a less expensive OTC drug. Many consumers, however, remain largely in the dark about the potential dangers posed by these products. They should not have to worry about the safety of what they purchase at the register.

Therefore, to prevent an influx of questionable and potentially unsafe OTC drugs from being stocked on New York bargain store shelves, I ask CBP and the FDA to begin a targeted crackdown on Chinese-made OTC drugs. CBP and FDA should double their efforts to work hand-in-glove to ensure these products are turned away and American companies who might receive them are held accountable.

In addition, to better understand the challenges posed by OTC drugs from China, I ask that you respond to the following questions:

1. How does CBP work with the FDA to inspect, detect, and prevent foreign and Chinese-made OTC drugs from entering the U.S.?

2. Has the CBP conducted specialized training or used advanced screening technology to improve the identification of questionable OTC drugs to the U.S.?

3. What more, if anything, might CBP or the FDA require from the legislative branch to address the problem of unsafe OTC drugs arriving to the U.S so we can curtail these shipments, especially from China?

4. Can your agencies provide any updated statistic to help Congress understand the scope of the problem and has CBD, the FDA, or any other federal agency raised these issues with the Chinese government?

Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter.