Letter to Rickey Dale James, Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works - Engel, Schumer, Gillibrand Call for Construction to Begin to Alleviate Flooding in Mamaroneck


Dear Mr. James:

We strongly urge you to select the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake River Flood Risk Management Project (the Project) as a new start construction project in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) FY 2020 Work Plan. We worked tirelessly along with our colleagues in Congress to secure new start funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) in H.R.1865, the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2020. Given that floods in the Mamaroneck-Sheldrake River watershed have resulted in loss of life, and repetitive and profound property, business, home and infrastructure damage, we ask that you consider this important flood risk management project for a new start designation this year.

Beginning construction on the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake River Flood Risk Management Project is vitally important to address major flooding and protect the lives of residents in the project's study area. In April 2007, a Nor'easter storm produced a one percent chance flood event for the Village of Mamaroneck. The 2007 event caused over $50 million in damages and impacted over 50 percent of total structures within the study area.

The storm resulted in floodwaters peaking on the Mamaroneck River in approximately four hours and in approximately six hours on the Sheldrake River. As such, the evacuation time for approximately 19,000 residents in the Village of Mamaroneck was severely restricted and created a high-risk situation. Over 40% of Mamaroneck residents required evacuation assistance, including a large population of children that attended a school located within the epicenter of the severe flooding. However, this was not the only flood event in the basin. Additionally, two deaths have occurred as a result of flooding in the project area in the last 25 years, most recently in 2007.

As you know, the Project was authorized for construction in the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 and is now ready for a new start designation. We write today to urge you to assign the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake River Flood Risk Management Project as a new start project for construction so that the work to project thousands of residents and save lives from future storm events can begin.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. Should you have any additional questions, please do not hesitate to contact us or our staff.