Middle Class Health Benefits Tax Repeal Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I will speak for a little bit, briefly. 

  The legislation now before us is historic because it is meant to  match a historic crisis. Our healthcare system is not prepared to care  for the sick. Our workers are without work. Our businesses cannot do  business. Our factories lie idle. The gears of the American economy  have ground to a halt. Our country has faced immense challenges before  but rarely so many at the same time. 

  Over the past few days, the Senate has stepped into the breach. We  packed weeks or perhaps months of legislative process into 5 days.  Representatives from both sides of the aisle and both ends of  Pennsylvania Avenue have forged the bipartisan agreement in highly  partisan times with very little time to spare. It has been a long, hard  road with a remarkable number of twists and turns, but for the sake of  millions of Americans, it will be worth it. 

  It will be worth it to save millions of small businesses and tens of  millions of jobs. 

  It will be worth it to see that Americans who have lost their jobs  through no fault of their own will be able to pay their rent and  mortgages and put food on the table because we passed the greatest  expansion of insurance to the unemployed in decades. 

  It will be worth it to send gloves and masks to our nurses and to our  doctors. 

  It will be worth it to send ventilators and beds to our hospitals and  begin rebuilding the public health infrastructure in America--a  Marshall Plan in this new century for our medical system. 

  It will be worth it to save industries from the brink of collapse in  order to save the jobs of hundreds of thousands of Americans in those  industries. 

  It will be worth it to put workers first. 

  It was a long, hard road. Neither side can be completely happy with  the final product, but it will be worth it. 

  I am damn proud of the work we did over the past few days because we  put in the work. Because we tested the limits of exhaustion, because we  didn't immediately accept the bill drafted by only one party, the  legislation before us tonight is better--better for our healthcare  system and 65,000 Americans now afflicted with COVID-19, better for our  workers, better for our small businesses, better for our Indian Tribes,  better for our economy, and better for the American people. 

  So I must thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle--especially  the chairs and ranking members and their staffs. The past few days have  been filled with drama. The past few hours were no exception. I know a  few of my Republican friends still harbor reservations about voting for  this legislation, but when there is a crisis of this magnitude, the  private sector cannot solve it. Individuals, even with bravery and  valor, are not powerful enough to beat it back. Government is the only  force large enough to staunch the bleeding and begin the healing. 

  This is a time when the American people need their government. This  is what we were elected for. The oath we swear to the Constitution  means we must protect the general welfare of the people. So let us  marshal this government into action. 

  There are millions of Americans watching us right now at home on  their televisions, separated from friends and family, fearful for their  children and their livelihoods, unsure of when the time will come when  all of our lives may return to normal. Let us tell them tonight that  help is on the way; that they are not truly alone; that this country,  that this Senate, that this government is here for them in a time of  dire need. This is a strange and evil disease. There is much we still  don't know about it, and it is keeping us apart. When we pass this  bill, instead of hugging each other, we will wave from a distance. 

  None of us can know when this plague will pass. The only thing we  know for sure is that we must summon the same spirit that saw previous  generations through America's darkest hours. Fellowship, sacrifice,  fortitude, resilience--that is what it means to be an American. With  that spirit, this Nation faced down war and depression and fear itself.  I have no doubt that once again America will ultimately prevail. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT