Paycheck Protection Program


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, well, in the month since I last addressed  this Chamber, life for nearly every American has been upended. Stay-at- home orders have swept across the country. The monthly toll of new  unemployment claims are measured in the millions. Our health system has  been strained to the breaking point. American workers and businesses  are suffering financial hardship not seen since the Great Recession.  Almost 800,000 of our fellow citizens have tested positive for COVID- 19. And most heartbreakingly, America has lost more than 37,000  precious lives to this coronavirus--many, many of them New Yorkers. 

  Over the past 2 months, the Senate has come together on three  occasions to pass legislation in response to this multifaceted crisis,  to rescue our ailing healthcare system, to cushion the blow to American  workers and businesses, and to prepare our country for a more  prosperous future on the other side of this pandemic. 

  Our last legislative effort, the CARES Act, was unprecedented in size  and in scope--the largest stimulus in American history. Remarkably, on  such a large and complex bill, the Senate came together 96-0 to pass  this crucial emergency relief, getting ayes from Senator Sanders to  Senator Cruz and everyone in between. It shows that, even with the  partisanship here, as tough and harsh as it can be, we can come  together unanimously in a time of great crisis. 

  Still, the depth of the crisis we now face meant that funding for  certain programs in this bill had already been depleted, and a number  of required fixes had to be made to make sure these programs worked as  intended. An interim bill, COVID 3.5, is necessary. 

  Now, my friend, the Republican leader, tried to bypass negotiations  on such an interim measure. He tried to jam through a bill that would  have increased funding for one small business lending program but not  others, when they were all running out of funding. His proposal did not  attempt to fix the dire lack of lending to small businesses that are  truly small, underbanked, underserved, minority, or women-owned. His  proposal included nothing at all for our healthcare system, nothing to  address the national shortage in testing, nothing to help State, local,  or Tribal governments who are breaking their budgets to fight this  disease. 

  All of us want to help our small businesses--all of us--but this  emergency demands we take action on many fronts. So we have spent the  last week negotiating with the administration--Treasury Secretary  Mnuchin, Chief of Staff Meadows, as well as Speaker Pelosi and House  Democrats with us, the Senate Democrats, to improve the legislation. We  reached a final agreement earlier today. 

  Now, there are plenty of disagreements between our parties these  days, but once again, we are coming together to pass this legislation  by unanimous consent--not a single Senator objected. 

  I want to thank Secretary Mnuchin. I spent hours and hours with him  at all hours of the day. I want to thank someone I didn't know very  well, Chief of Staff Meadows, who is very good at making sure an  agreement can come to fruition, even in the wee hours of the morning.  Of course, I want to thank my dear friend and partner, Speaker Pelosi.  I want to thank Leaders McConnell and McCarthy who, at the end of the  day, did not let partisan disagreement stand in the way of doing what  is right for this country. 

  Again, just like the CARES Act, the hard work of bipartisan  negotiation paid off. The fact that Democrats said, You need to talk to  us, not try to steamroll us, once again, made a huge and positive  difference. This legislation is significantly better and broader than  the initial proposal offered by the Republican leader. 

  Republicans asked us to funnel more money into a program that wasn't  working the way it should. We negotiated a bill that not only provided  support but made it more effective, more inclusive, and addressed other  urgent national priorities as well. The legislation before us contains  220 billion more dollars, including funding for small businesses  through community financial institutions, new funding for our hospitals  and healthcare systems, and a substantial downpayment on a national  testing regime so desperately needed and asked for by one and all. 

  Let me repeat that: The legislation now includes an additional $220  billion, $120 billion for small businesses, $100 billion for our  healthcare system, divided among healthcare providers and a need for  testing and contact tracing. 

  The new money includes $50 billion in additional emergency small  business loans and $10 billion in additional business grants. That  includes $60 billion in new funding set aside for small lenders. If you  don't know a banker, if you are not a relatively large-sized company,  you were left out. Two out of three loans in New York were ignored. The  mom-and-pops, the small businesses, the restaurants, and the barber  shops, the hardware stores, the butchers, and small startups, both  service and manufacturing, they couldn't get in. Now, they will be  because of our work. 

  Our bill will help rural small businesses, minority small businesses,  women-owned small businesses get the money they need. I believe every  Member of our Caucus heard from businesses in their States who couldn't  access Federal lending because they didn't have a prior relationship  with a big bank. 

  So what we have done is set aside lending for smaller, community- based lenders and dedicated half of that funding--$30 billion--to  Community Development Financial Institutions and Minority Depository  Institutions. We insisted that this money be separate from the  competition with the bigger companies, so that moms-and-pops,  restaurants and nail salons, startups, and minority businesses can get  some access. 

  Unlike Leader McConnell's proposal, this bill also includes $100  billion in money to fight the coronavirus itself. We are not going to  cure the economic problem unless we cure the health problem. We can  give loans to small businesses, but if there are no customers walking  the streets to go into their stores, what good is that? 

  So we insisted that $75 billion go to our hospitals. Our hospitals  are going underwater--certainly, the big ones in cities like mine that  have an epicenter of corona, but smaller hospitals in rural areas. Talk  to our rural representatives, and they are telling you their hospitals  might go under. And medium-sized hospitals in New York State--St.  Joseph's in Syracuse and St. Peter's in Albany--each laid off 700  people this week. They are going to get help because of what we did. 

  The experts are clear. To fight this disease and reopen the economy  safely, we need to dramatically--dramatically--expand testing capacity  and frequency. We don't have enough tests; that cry rings from one end  of America to the other. It is urban, suburban, rural, north, east,  south, and west; we don't have enough tests. 

  Well, now, help is on the way because Democrats stood and fought for  it--$25 billion, $11 billion to go to the States to help them test and  do the contact tracing they need, money to help create a manufacturing  and supply chain that will have adequate tests and adequate supplies  for those tests so we can finally get them going. We need them  desperately. 

  One of the last provisions secured in these negotiations at midnight  last night was a requirement that the administration report on a  national strategic testing plan on how it plans to increase domestic  testing capacity, testing supplies, and the disparities in all  communities. Thus far, unfortunately,  the administration has refused to accept responsibility for the sorry  state of testing in our country. Under this agreement, the Trump  administration will now, at last, be required to report on what its  national testing plan actually looks like. Congress provided the  startup funds for the testing program. It is now up to the  administration to prepare a national testing strategy and implement  those funds to proper effect before it is too late. 

  Of course, this bill is not perfect. We are sorely disappointed  Republicans refused to work with us to strengthen food assistance. I am  sorely disappointed that Republicans turned a deaf ear to Governors,  mayors, Tribal leaders, county and local officials, Democratic and  Republican, all 50 Governors who have been pleading with the Federal  Government for more help. And it is not about abstract government. I  know we don't like government on the other side of the aisle. It is  about policemen, firefighters, bus drivers, hospital workers. They are  being laid off because the local governments and the State governments  are starving and not getting their revenues. We fought and fought, but  unfortunately, on the other side of the aisle, they resisted. I hope  they won't resist in COVID 4. We are going to need a large, large  amount of money to help our localities so those policemen,  firefighters, and bus drivers are not laid off. Republicans need to  come to the table and work with us to give our States the help they  need. They should be eager to do it. 

  Secretary Mnuchin committed--and the President tweeted today--that  they will support State and local funding in the next round of  legislation, as well--and this is very important--as a provision  providing flexibility to use all past and future relief dollars to  offset lost revenue. The President signaled his support for this  concept as well in a tweet this morning. We should have passed support  for State and local governments. Democrats will see to it that it gets  done in the next package. 

  Now, finally, I would remind my colleagues that this is an interim  measure. There are plenty of hard-won provisions that we Democrats are  pleased with, but it is, ultimately, a building block. 

  In the weeks ahead, Congress must prepare another major bill, similar  in size and ambition to the CARES Act. The next bill must be big and  bold and suited to the needs of a beleaguered country. State localities  and Tribal governments need support, so does the Postal Service.  Working Americans need rental assistance. Frontline workers deserve  hazard pay, and it is not just doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other  medical workers, but truck drivers, grocery store clerks, police  officers, firefighters, and more. 

  We must make sure that our elections this fall are conducted fairly,  that States have enough money to run them properly, and that every  American can exercise his or her constitutional franchise safely and  confidently. This is a COVID-related issue. 

  So those issues and more will be priorities for the Senate Democratic  Caucus in the next bill. Yes, it has been a long few months for the  American people, but even now, there are signs that the sacrifices  Americans have made are beginning to slow the spread of the disease. We  are a long way from the end, but this, too, shall pass. 

  Until the day when we can begin to return to normal, it is up to  Congress and the entire Federal Government to deliver the leadership  and resources that only we can provide. The private sector will not  provide the aid our Nation requires. The efforts of individual States  or even individual citizens, heroic as they are, will not be enough. We  dare not abandon them in these dark and difficult times. 

  The American people need their government. They need their government  to act strongly, boldly, wisely. Let us do what we were elected to do  and pass this bill today. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT