Paycheck Protection Program


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this is a very good day because very much  needed improvements to the PPP program will now pass the Senate as they  passed the House, 417 to 1. The PPP program is desperately needed by  small business, and it was not in the original proposal of our  Republican friends or of the President. We worked very hard and pushed  hard to get this done, and I want to salute Senators Cardin and Shaheen  for their efforts.  

  The program was not at all perfect. When it first rolled out, too  many of the big shots got money and not enough of the small  businesses--the mom and pops, the butcher, baker, and candlestick  maker. And nonprofits were not entitled. I pushed very hard to get  nonprofits, including church-related nonprofits, religious-related  nonprofits, in the bill. They can now benefit from the bill just like  the small businesses can. 

  We Democrats said, there has to be some money set aside--not just to  give more money in COVID 3.5--to the existing businesses that had  connections with bankers but to the smaller businesses, and $125  billion was set aside. That was a very good thing. Now it has changed  from a program that has gone mainly to those that had good connections  to bankers that were well connected to many smaller businesses as well. 

  In the second round, States that really needed the help got a greater  percentage of the help, like my State of New York. So this program has  been one that Democrats have been, initially, very positive about and  helped propose and write but constantly worked on improving to make it  better, better, and better. That improvement continues today. The House  Democrats put together a bill that would deal with the kinds of  problems we continue to see. 

  Eight weeks is running out soon. Yet small businesses may not get all  the money--may not be able to use the money when the program runs out,  and extending it to 24 weeks is vital. In many States, like mine in New  York, only 25 percent of the money could go to OTPS expenses, other  than personnel expenses. That wasn't enough. A lot of businesses didn't  want to apply. 

  This bill moves it up to 40. Our Republican friends had resisted  that. I am glad now they have seen the light. 

  You will have the loan--if you go to convert your loans and get them  forgiven, it will be 5 years that you have to pay back, not 2. Lots of  small businesses said they couldn't dare be able to pay them back in 2.  These are among the most important changes in the bill, as well as some  others. 

  I am glad our Republican friends have relented and passed the bill  here as we are about to close session for this week. It passed the  House. We Democrats have been pushing to get it done. For the last 3  days, there were some problems on the other side, and I am glad they  have been worked out. I want to thank Senator Johnson. He had problems,  but we talked on the phone repeatedly and worked those problems out  with the help of Senator Cardin. And this is an improvement that is  much needed and comes at the last minute but not too late. So many  businesses--8 weeks--will expire so soon, and now it is extended to 24  weeks. 

  So I am glad this bill passes. I am glad we can do it by unanimous  consent. We Democrats are fully in support of this, every Democrat. We  have no problems moving it forward. I know it will help a lot of small  businesses. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT