Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I just finished watching Joe Biden's  speech to the Nation. President Trump, watch Joe Biden's speech. That  is what real leadership looks like. 

  Now, it is difficult to express the moment we find ourselves in. Our  country has been hit by a strange and contagious disease infecting  millions and killing over 100,000 of our people. Our economy was put on  ice for several months, shuttering scores of businesses, casting 40  million Americans on the unemployment rolls, and, according to  government estimates, taking  $16 trillion out of our economy over the long term. 

  Then this Nation suffered another trauma--a deeply personal and  wrenching pain of another African American senselessly killed in police  custody. It is another reminder of the racism that can infect not only  our law enforcement and our criminal justice system but our entire  society. 

  George Floyd's killing spurred justified, overwhelmingly peaceful  protests from Minneapolis to New York, from Atlanta to right here in  the Nation's Capital. Americans are frustrated. Americans are angry.  Americans are upset at the country they see, and they want to change  it. Can you blame them? It is a good thing that people protest and want  to make our country better, especially when it comes to the scourge of  racism, the poison that has been in American bones for far too long. 

  The millions of Americans of all races and backgrounds who have taken  to the streets in peaceful protest are doing something noble: reminding  the powers that the decades-long failure to reform police departments  is unacceptable and that systemic racism is a knee pressing on the  necks of tens of millions of African Americans. They are reminding the  country that Black lives matter by holding their arms up in silence for  2 minutes and 53 seconds, which is the length of time that George Floyd  was unresponsive while the police officer continued to press him into  the hard pavement of that Minneapolis street. 

  The small minority who have exploited the protests to wreak havoc and  violence are wrong. They are not taking part in the grand American  tradition of First Amendment protests, and they are not peacefully  assembling. They are breaking laws and destroying businesses already  struggling to recover and putting their fellow citizens in danger. They  do a great disservice to themselves, their country, and the righteous  cause that so many Americans are now engaged in. 

  While over 4,000 protesters have been arrested over the past week,  only 1 of the 4 police officers involved in George Floyd's death has  been arrested. It does not excuse the violence in any way, but it  explains, in part, why so many Americans are angry. There is  accountability for everyday citizens and protesters when they violate  the law, but there isn't always accountability for law enforcement when  it does the same. Violence, wherever it occurs, is wrong, but not  prosecuting law enforcement when they break the law with the same  intensity, as protesters when they break the law, is wrong as well. 

  The first year of this new decade has brought plague and economic  disaster and a vivid reminder of racial injustice, testing--testing-- the capacity of our country to endure what only a few months ago would  have been considered an unimaginable series of challenges. 

  We need leaders who will pull us together and help us heal and turn  the righteous anger in the land into action and progress. Senate  Democrats are not going to wait to take action on law enforcement  reform. We are going to confront and address these issues right now. 

  Several of my colleagues are working on legislation, including  Senators Booker, Harris, Cardin, Duckworth, Schatz, and many others. As  a caucus, we are going to listen to experts on racial justice, like  Bryan Stevenson, and hear from our constituents who suffer racial  discrimination and bias on a daily basis. We are going to propose and  push for bold action. 

  What matters is that we respond to the national wave of unrest with  action. I am repeating my call to Leader McConnell. Leader McConnell,  commit to putting law enforcement reform legislation on the floor  before July 4. A divided nation cannot wait for healing or for  solutions. 

  At the same time, our Nation needs calm and steady leadership, a sure  hand and a big heart--qualities that President Trump has never  displayed in office. 

  I repeat my request to President Trump: President Trump, watch Joe  Biden's speech that he gave this morning. That is what leadership is,  not what you are doing. 

  We are living through a tale of two crises--COVID and racial  justice--and President Trump has been a miserable failure at handling  both of them. 

  Last night, the scene in Washington, DC, may have provided the  enduring portrait of the Trump Presidency. While peaceful, law-abiding  citizens were exercising their constitutional right to protest in a  public park across from the White House, President Trump ordered  Federal troops to clear those peaceful crowds with tear gas and rubber  bullets so that he could trudge a few blocks from the White House to  stand in front of a church, not to go inside but for a photo op. The  President's relentless need to make a weak man feel strong led him to  order Federal law enforcement officers to gas peacefully assembled  Americans so he could sneak his way to a church photo op. It led him to  order Federal officers to gas peacefully assembled Americans so that he  could sneak his way to a church for a photo op. 

  After the gas came the horses, a modern-day cavalry for clearing the  battlefield. The purpose? So President Trump could wave a Bible--not  read a Bible, not even his Bible--as a prop. It was appalling. It was  an abuse of Presidential power. It may well have been illegal, and it  was blatantly unconstitutional. The President of the United States  ordered troops to attack peaceful American citizens exercising their  constitutional rights by tear-gassing them in a public park while  military helicopters flew overhead. 

  The President must immediately cease this behavior. Secretary Esper  and General Milley should not allow the U.S. military to come within a  country mile of these ugly stunts. 

  Let me say that again. The President must cease this behavior  immediately. Secretary Esper and General Milley should not allow the  U.S. military to come within a country mile of these ugly stunts. 

  The administration is using the military as a tool to intimidate  American citizens. The Department of Defense IG must immediately launch  an investigation into how the U.S. military was used and whether it was  consistent with the laws of our Nation. 

  Republicans on both sides of the Capitol should be as outraged as we  are. The last time we had a President who wantonly disobeyed the laws,  there were Republicans in Congress who stood up to him--not so much  this time, not so much this President. 

  Leader McConnell just spoke here on the floor, and we didn't hear a  word from him about the President's disgraceful use of force on  nonviolent protestors last night. Senate Republicans who remain silent  about the President's abuses are, once again, betraying the rule of law  and the constitutional basis of this country. And the reason? Fear of a  vindictive President who demands they never criticize him. 

  After the President's reality show ended last night, while the Nation  nervously watched the chaos that engulfs us, President Trump probably  laid in bed pleased with himself for descending another rung on the  dictatorial ladder. He probably wore out his remote control watching  the clips of General Barr's victory over the unarmed in the Battle of  Lafayette Square. Then he reveled in the sounds of Blackhawks flying  overhead and joyously retweeted scores of preening sycophants. It is  all so sad, so pathetic, and so weak. 

  The President could have led during the COVID crisis, which still  looms over us. He could have led in economic recovery, providing  realistic hopes to people. Even now, he could be spending his time  decrying the absence of justice for George Floyd, calling for the  investigation or prosecution of the other three officers who were  involved or for Breonna Taylor or for countless other African Americans  who have been killed, extrajudicially, because of the color of their  skin. 

  Our Nation is desperate--desperate--for real leadership, but there is  no one home at the White House, and the lights are off. I fear for the  future of our country--that in this time of immense difficulty, our  President is only capable of contributing more division, more fear, and  more chaos. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT