Schumer, Gillibrand, Tonko announce over $42.7 million in emergency funding for Albany, Schenectady, Rensselaer, & Saratoga as part of emergency package


As part of the Schumer-negotiated CARES Act, which included relief for upstate transit systems, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and U.S. Congressman Paul D. Tonko today announced $42,782,597 in federal funding allocated by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for the Capital District Transportation Authority (CDTA).

"As upstate communities like the Capitol Region battle the coronavirus pandemic, it's imperative that they get all the federal tools they need to react and respond," said Senator Schumer. "This federal funding will offset the devastating financial impacts of COVID-19 on transit operations throughout the region and allow Capital District Transportation Authority to recover. I'm proud to have fought for this imperative funding to be included in the CARES Act and will continue to fight to make sure the Capitol Region has every dollar they need to make it through this crisis."

"This funding will provide necessary relief for Capitol Region communities burdened by economic strain caused by the coronavirus pandemic," said Senator Gillibrand. "Our transit systems and infrastructure keep our communities moving and provide an essential lifeline to many of our residents, so it's critical that these systems recover from this unprecedented crisis. I will continue to fight for critical public transit funding so Capital District Transportation Authority has the resources needed to continue serving New Yorkers."

"Our businesses, families and workers across our state and nation are in dire need of an immediate and holistic response to address the incredible economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic," Congressman Tonko said. "My colleagues in the House and I fought hard to make certain that our communities were responded to in our emergency spending package. I am proud that CDTA will receive this critical funding, which will enable them to continue serving Capital Region residents and protect their workers and riders alike. I will continue working to ensure that our region is provided the resources required to overcome this crisis."