Schumer: L3Harris technologies in Rochester wins $95 million order to produce innovative Manpack radios for U.S. Army


U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer today announced that L3Harris Technologies in Rochester has been awarded a $95 million order to manufacture AN/PRC-158 Manpack radios for the U.S. Army. This is the third order of radios that L3Harris will produce under the Army's $12.7 billion Indefinite-Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) HMS Manpack radio contract. Schumer announced L3Harris as a winner of the Army's HMS Manpack radio contract in 2016, meaning that the Rochester company is one of three vendors that will provide up to $12.7 billion worth of these multi-channel radios to fulfill the Army's needs.

"L3Harris Technologies has always produced durable, dependable, and innovative technology for the U.S. Army, ensuring that our armed forces have the most modern and effective radios at their disposal," said Senator Schumer. "I have fought relentlessly over the years to level the playing field in order to give companies like L3Harris a chance to compete for military contracts because New York's companies are more than capable of competing to deliver products that our military needs to succeed.  This order is a win-win-win for our troops, L3Harris, and the Rochester-Finger Lakes Economy."

The announcement comes after Senator Schumer's prolonged pushes on behalf of L3Harris Technologies, previously Harris Corporation. Last year, Schumer announced that L3Harris had been awarded $60 million to manufacture Manpack radios, and between 2013 and 2015, the Senator urged a full and fair Army procurement process for the Manpack radio to ensure that companies like L3Harris would have an even playing field to compete.

The AN/PRC-158 Manpack radio is a versatile, two-channel, handheld radio that has the ability to transmit a wide variety of signals and communications by integrating two-channels within one device. Additionally, the radios will be outfitted with Mobile User Objective System (MUOS) capable software, which will serve numerous benefits including meeting the Army's increasing demand for more capable satellite communications and enhanced voice and data communication.