Schumer, Gillibrand announce over $53.7 million in emergency transportation funding for Westchester County as part of emergency package


As part of the Schumer-negotiated CARES Act, which included relief for airports, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer and U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand today announced $23,607,111 in federal funding apportioned by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the Westchester County Airport in White Plains, New York, and $30,180,206 apportioned by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for the Bee-Line, which is Westchester County's bus system.

"As one of the first communities in the U.S. to have been impacted by the virus, Westchester has been struck hard by the effects of COVID-19," said Senator Schumer. "This federal funding will offset the devastating financial impacts that the pandemic has had on the Westchester County Airport and the Bee-Line, equipping them with the tools needed to properly rebuild and recover after the crisis is over. I'm proud to have fought for the funding to be included in the CARES Act, which will boost the Westchester County and the New York economy."

"The COVID-19 crisis has had major implications on New York's transportation systems. Now more than ever, we must secure reliable transit for first responders, health care workers, and citizens who depend on it," said Senator Gillibrand. "This funding will be used to offset major revenue losses for Westchester's busing system and for the Westchester County Airport. I am proud to have fought for this funding in the CARES Act and I will continue to fight for the resources New York communities need to reopen, rebuild, and return to normal."

"The continued support of Westchester County's transportation hubs is crucial, as our residents and businesses are facing unprecedented challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic," said County Executive George Latimer. "I would like to thank Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand for working tirelessly to secure these critical transportation funds in the CARES Act, that will provide much-needed financial stability for our County airport and Bee-line bus system as we look towards rebuilding the local economy."

Westchester County Airport was built in 1942 as an Air National Guard station to protect New York City during WWII. The airport served over 1.5 million passengers in 2019 and was expected to exceed that number in 2020 before the COVID-19 pandemic severely impacted the airline industry. The funding from the FAA will be used to ensure employee retention and make improvements to ensure the airport operates safely and follows public health requirements for distancing and cleaning.

The Bee-Line bus system serves over 27 million passengers annually, and with 65% of all Westchester County residents within walking distance to a Bee-Line route, the service plays an essential role in the Westchester County economy. The funding from the FTA can be used to cover operating expenses, such as driver salaries, fuel, and personal protective equipment and supplies.