Schumer, Gillibrand, Brindisi announce $28 million in emergency funding for Central New York Regional Transportation Authority


As part of the Schumer-negotiated CARES Act, which included relief for upstate transit systems, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer, U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and U.S. Congressman Anthony Brindisi today announced $28 million in federal funding allocated by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for the Central New York Regional Transportation Authority (CENTRO), which serves Syracuse, Oswego, Auburn, and Utica. The grant is 100% federal funds and no local match is required.

"As upstate communities in the Central New York and the Mohawk Valley battle the coronavirus pandemic, it's imperative that they get all the federal tools they need to respond and recover," said Senator Schumer. "This federal funding will offset the devastating financial impacts of COVID-19 on transit operations throughout the region and allow CENTRO to recover and continue critical services. I'm proud to have fought for this imperative funding to be included in the CARES Act and will continue to fight to make sure Central New York has every dollar they need to make it through this crisis."

"The CENTRO transportation system continues to be an essential lifeline for many people in Central New York and the Mohawk Valley," said Senator Gillibrand. "While ridership and revenues continue to drop for transportation systems across New York due to the COVID-19 outbreak, this federal funding will help keep services open as Central New York begins the first phase of reopening. I am proud to have fought for this critical funding and will continue to fight for the resources New Yorkers and essential workers need to keep us safe during this unprecedented crisis."

"I am fighting to deliver resources for our region as we fight back against COVID-19," said Congressman Brindisi. "Our transportation workers and departments have kept us moving throughout the pandemic and will be a crucial part of our comeback. I worked with Democrats and Republicans to secure these dollar for our communities and will continue to work with both parties to get us the dollars and equipment we need."

CENTRO has been serving the cities of Syracuse and Oswego since 1972, the city of Auburn since 1973, and the city of Utica since 2005 and sees approximately 11 million passengers in a normal year. In 2006, CENTRO won the American Public Transportation Association's "Outstanding Public Transportation System Achievement Award" for transit systems serving 4 million to 30 million riders a year.