Schumer announces L3Harris to hire 125 new manufacturing and engineering jobs now, approximately 300 total this year


A longtime supporter of Rochester-based L3Harris Technologies, U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer today announced that L3Harris is planning to hire more than 300 new employees in the Rochester area in 2020. Of the 300 employees, 175 have already been hired, 80 of which are recent college graduates, leaving 125 spots still available.

Schumer explained that the jobs L3Harris is hoping to fill are in both manufacturing and engineering and that the extra hiring will help to employ and support the Rochester workforce during the ongoing global coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and subsequent economic hardship.

"Our world-class Rochester workforce is eager to get to work, including our new graduates who are celebrating a huge milestone in the midst of a global pandemic," said Senator Schumer. "I have fought relentlessly over the years to level the playing field and make companies like L3Harris competitive for government contracts that create new jobs and fuel the Rochester-Finger Lakes economy. This new hiring announced by L3Harris is a win-win for Rochester's job seekers, L3Harris' continued success, and the entire Rochester-Finger Lakes Economy."

Schumer's announcement that L3Harris is hiring more of the Rochester workforce comes after New York saw its largest recorded monthly increase in the unemployment rate since 1976 in April. As a result, New York State recorded its largest drop in private sector jobs since 2009. As parts of Upstate New York begin the reopening process, Schumer says that companies like L3Harris that are actively hiring will be critical to the recovery process of New York's workforce.

Schumer has carried out prolonged pushes on behalf of L3Harris, previously Harris Corporation. Three weeks ago, Schumer announced that L3Harris had been awarded $95 million, in addition to the $50 million he announced last year, to manufacture Manpack radios for the U.S. Army, and between 2013 and 2015, the Senator urged a full and fair Army procurement process for the Manpack radio to ensure that companies like L3Harris would have an even playing field to compete.

Additionally, Schumer fought for a revolutionary bipartisan omnibus spending package that included $510.7 million for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to help continue building the agency's next flagship telescope, the Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST), that is being constructed in part by L3Harris in Rochester, with the company building key components like the Telescope and two Aft Optics Assemblies. In November of 2018, Schumer visited Rochester to advocate for this crucial funding for WFIRST, and one month later announced that Harris Corp., now L3Harris, had been awarded a $195.9 million contract from NASA to continue the project. Schumer explained that once complete, the WFIRST Telescope will explore an area of space 100 times bigger than the Hubble Telescope, and thus significantly enhance the precision and clarity of NASA's view into outer space.