State of the Union Address


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I will speak later this afternoon, at  about 3:30--prior to the vote on the Articles of Impeachment--about  impeachment, but this morning, I would like to briefly respond to  President Trump's third State of the Union Address. It was a sad moment  for democracy. 

  The President's speech last night was much more like a Trump rally  than a speech a true leader would give. It was demagogic, undignified,  highly partisan, and, in too many places, just untruthful. Instead of a  dignified President, we had some combination of a pep rally leader, a  reality show host, and a carnival barker. That is not what Presidents  are. 

  President Trump took credit for inheriting an economy that has been  growing at about the same pace over the last 10 years. The bottom line  is, during the last 3 years of the Obama administration, more jobs were  created than under these 3 years of the Trump administration. Yet he  can't resist digging at the past President even though the past  President's economic number was better than his. 

  He boasted about how many manufacturing jobs he has created.  Manufacturing jobs have gone down, in part, because of the President's  trade policies for 5 months late last year. There was a 5-month-long  recession last year. Farmers are struggling mightily. Farm income is  way down. Bankruptcies are the highest they have been in 8 years. Crop  prices are dwindling, and markets may never recover from the damage of  the President's trade war as so many contracts for soybeans and other  goods have gone to Argentina and Brazil. These are not 1-year  contracts; these are long-term contracts. 

  The President talked at length about healthcare and claimed-- amazingly at one point--he will fight to protect patients with  preexisting conditions. This President just lies--just lies. He is in  court right now, trying to undo the protections for preexisting  conditions. At the same time, he says he wants to do it, and all the  Republicans get up  and cheer. His administration is working as hard as it can to take down  the law that guarantees protections for preexisting conditions. The  claim is not partly true; it is not half true; it is not misleading. It  is flatly, objectively, unequivocally false. It reads on my notes  "false.'' Let's call it for what it is--it is a lie. 

  In 3 years, President Trump has done everything imaginable to  undermine Americans' healthcare. He is even hoping to drag out the  resolution of the lawsuit past the next election. If President Trump  were truly interested in shoring up protections for people with  preexisting conditions, he would drop this lawsuit now. Then he would  be doing something, not just talking and having his actions totally  contradict his words. Until the President drops his lawsuit, when he  says he cares about Americans' healthcare, he is talking out of both  sides of his mouth. 

  When he talks about being the blue-collar President, he doesn't  understand blue-collar families. It is true that wages went up 3  percent. If you are making $50,000 a year, that is a good salary. By my  calculation, that is about $30 a week. When you get a medical bill of  $4,000 and your deductible is $5,000, when your car has an accident and  it is going to cost you $3,000 or $4,000 to fix it and you don't have  that money, the $30 a week doesn't mean much. 

  When asked, "Is it easier for you to pay your bills today or the day  Trump became President?'' they say it is harder to pay their bills  today. That is what working families care about, getting their costs  down--their college costs, their education costs, their healthcare  costs, their automobile and infrastructure costs--not these vaunted  Wall Street statistics that the financial leaders look at and think:  Oh, we are great. 

  They are great. Their 3-percent increase in income--and it has been  greater--puts a lot of money in their pockets. Working people don't  feel any better--they feel worse--because Donald Trump always sides  with the special interests when it comes to things that affect working  families, like health care, like drug costs, like college. 

  In so many other areas, the President's claims were just not true. He  claimed he has gotten tough on China. He sold out to China a month ago.  Everyone knows that. Because he has hurt the farmers so badly, the bulk  of what happened in the Chinese agreement was for them to purchase some  soybeans. We don't even know if that will happen, but it didn't get at  the real ways China hurts us. 

  He spoke about the desire for a bipartisan infrastructure bill. We  Senate Democrats put together a $1 trillion bill 3 years ago, and the  President hasn't shown any interest in discussing it. In fact, when  Speaker Pelosi and I went to visit him about infrastructure, he walked  out. 

  This is typical of Donald Trump. In his speech, he bragged about all  of these things he wants to do or is doing, but his actions belie his  words. Maybe the best metaphor was his claim to bring democracy to  Venezuela. There was a big policy there. It flopped. If the policy were  working, Juan Guaido wouldn't have been in the balcony here. He would  have been in Venezuela. He would have been sitting in the President's  palace or at least have been waging a fight to win. He was here--and  the President brags about his Venezuela policy? Give us a break. 

  He hasn't brought an end to the Maduro regime. The Maduro regime is  more powerful today and more entrenched today than it was when the  President began his anti-Maduro fight--the same thing with North Korea,  the same thing with China, the same thing with Russia, the same thing  with Syria. 

  The fact is, when President Trump gets over an hour to speak, the  number of mistruths, mischaracterizations, exaggerations, and  contradictions is breathtaking. No other President comes close. The old  expression says: "Watch what I do, not what I say.'' 

  What the President does will be revealed on Monday in his budget.  That is what he wants to do. If past is prologue, almost everything in  that budget will contradict what he will have said in his speech. In  the past, he has cut money for healthcare, cut money for medical  research, cut money for infrastructure, cut money for education, cut  money to help kids with college--every one of those things. 

  Ladies and gentlemen, I have faith in the American people. They will  not be fooled. They are used to it. They can tell a little show here--a  nonreality show--when they see one. They know it is a show. It is done  for their amusement, for their titillation, but it doesn't improve  America. Working people are not happy. The middle class is struggling  to stay in the middle class, and those struggling to get to the middle  class find it harder to get there. Their path is steeper. 

  Far more than the President's speech, the President's budget is what  truly reveals his priorities. The budget will be the truth serum, and  in a few days, the American people will see how many of the President's  words here are reality. I expect very few will be. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT