Trial of Donald J. Trump, President of the United States


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. Chief Justice, I join the Republican leader in  thanking the personnel who aided the Senate over the past several  weeks. The Capitol Police do an outstanding job, day in and day out, to  protect the Members of this Chamber, their staffs, the press, and  everyone who works in and visits this Capitol. 

  They were asked to work extra shifts and in greater numbers provide  additional security over the past 3 weeks. Thank you to every one of  them. 

  I, too, would like to thank those wonderful pages. I so much enjoyed  you with your serious faces walking down right here and giving the  Chief Justice our questions. As the leader noted, the new class of  pages started midway in this impeachment trial. When you take a new  job, you are usually given a few days to take stock of things and get  up to speed. 

  This class was given no such leeway, but they stepped right in and  didn't miss a beat. Carrying hundreds of questions from U.S. Senators  to the Chief Justice on national television is not how most of us spend  our first week at work, but they did it with aplomb. 

  I would also like to extend my personal thank you to David Hauck,  Director of the Office of Accessibility Services; Tyler Pumphrey,  supervisor; and Grace Ridgeway, wonderful Director of Capitol  Facilities. 

  Everyone on Grace's team worked so hard to make sure we were ready  for impeachment: Gary Richardson, known affectionately to us as  "Tiny,'' the chief Chamber attendant; Jim Hoover and the cabinet shop  who built new cabinets to deprive us of the use of our electronics and  flip phones during the trial; Brenda Byrd and her team who did a  spectacular job of keeping the Capitol clean; and Lynden Webb and his  team, who moved the furniture, and then moved it again and again and  again. 

  Grace, we appreciate all your hard work. Please convey our sincerest  thanks to your staff. Thank you all, the whole staff, for your diligent  work through many long days and late nights during this very trying  time in our Nation's history.   Statement Of The Chief Justice Of The United States On The Senate Floor  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT