Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, over the past few months, both parties  have worked together to provide historic levels of funding to help  small businesses retain employees, meet payroll, and stay afloat during  the COVID-19 pandemic. The Paycheck Protection Program--the main  instrument to help small businesses--received $349 billion under the  CARES Act and another $310 billion in supplemental legislation. 

  The public has a right to know how this money is being spent.  Oversight, transparency, and accountability are crucial because from  the moment the administration began implementing these funds, it became  clear that much of it wasn't going to those who needed it most. 

  Today, we are not taking any other action on the floor dealing with  COVID. We thought we would take this opportunity to ask unanimous  consent to get something real done that should have bipartisan support  on both sides of the aisle. Who can be against transparency? Who can be  against accountability? Who cannot want to know where close to $700  billion of the taxpayers' money is going? Is it going to the right  places? 

  Unfortunately, today at least 200 publicly traded companies have  managed to secure PPP loans, and most of those are not very small,  including some companies whose owners are large contributors to  President Trump. Truly small businesses, however--the  hundreds of thousands of mom-and-pop shops with less than 20 employees,  the proverbial restaurant owner or the butcher, the baker, and the  candlestick maker--have been mostly shut out because they didn't have a  standing relationship with a big bank. 

  There have been great disparities when it comes to minority-owned  businesses. According to the Center for Responsible Lending, over 90  percent of African-American-owned and Latino-owned businesses were  likely shut out of PPP funding. Women-owned businesses have also been  neglected. We have tried to fix some of these problems in COVID 3.5,  working closely with the Senators from Maryland and New Hampshire and  the Senator from Florida, but much more needs to be done. We need data  to help further inform who is being left out so we can continue to make  the necessary fixes to see that all small businesses are helped. 

  My friends Senators Cardin and Shaheen have a bill they worked on to  do just that. I want to thank them. They will talk more about this bill  in a moment, but I want to make one point here. This is a very simple  piece of legislation. It requires the kind of transparency expected  from any Federal program of this size and importance: regular public  reporting of how and where taxpayer dollars are spent. 

  This is something my Republican colleagues have always believed in.  I hope they will not object just because it  comes from this side of the aisle. It is a good idea. There is no  reason to object to this very unobjectionable idea and get this body  focused on COVID, not on extraneous matters, which we seem to be doing  now, when COVID is the most important issue we face. 

  We are doing quite literally nothing else on the floor of the Senate  today. There is no other business before us, no votes whatsoever. We  are here to force some action, force some progress, and force some  focus on COVID-related legislation. I prefer to do this in a completely  bipartisan way. But from the get-go, Democrats have had to force the  issue on many COVID response programs. The leader lays down a bill, it  has no Democratic input, and then, of course, we have to work toward  that goal, and we have. The fact that the first bill passed 96 to 0 is  a tribute to this body that we can come together when there is real  need. 

  We should be doing it the same way today. We should be working  together in support of our healthcare system, for testing so  desperately needed, unemployment insurance, and crucial improvements to  small business lending, all of which Democrats said we needed--our  Republican friends first resisted and then came along, led by the  Republican leader--and all of which passed with unanimous support. 

  The same thing should happen today. We should pass this.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. I want to thank my colleagues not only for their  eloquent remarks but their hard work. We know that Senator Rubio has a  2:30 appointment so Senator Blumenthal has graciously agreed to speak  after we ask our unanimous consent request. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. I want to thank my colleague from Florida. I believe he  is sincere and has the best of intentions to want to make this program  work. 

  I want to make two quick points. The first point is, the more data we  have and the sooner we have it, the better we can make the program. It  will not slow it down. It will improve it and make it better--the  sooner the better. 

  Second, about demographic information, I understand the problem, but  there are a lot of ways to skin that cat. If we looked at ZIP Codes, we  might very easily be able to tell demographic information. 

  I thank my colleague. I regret that we cannot move this legislation-- the only COVID legislation that will be talked about on the floor thus  far, even though we were asked by the majority leader to come back  during the crisis, and I hope we can move forward quickly in the future  to get the kind of information we need. 

   I yield to the Senator from Connecticut. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT