Unanimous Consent Request--Schumer Bill


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in a moment, Democrats will ask the  Senate's consent to take up and pass several measures that would  immediately help American workers and American families cope with the  impacts of coronavirus, including paid sick leave for workers,  emergency unemployment insurance, and much needed assistance to States  overburdened by Medicaid costs, known as FMAP. 

  These provisions are all included in legislation that will soon be  passed by the House. Many of these policies have already been enacted  by other countries dealing more successfully with the coronavirus than  our country is. 

  These policies are targeted directly at the workers and families  impacted by its spread. They are not going to the big, wealthy  corporations or powerful people or wealthy people. They are going right  at the workers and families--average working people who need the help. 

  Now, the Republican leader this morning called these provisions ``an  ideological wish list.'' President Trump referred to them as  ``goodies.'' 

  If helping a construction worker who is laid off as a result of the  virus is part of an ideological wish list, then God help those who  believe that. If giving infected workers paid sick leave is a goody,  then God help those who think that. If making sure our States,  localities, hospitals, and first responders are compensated for their  efforts is ideological, is a goody, those who believe those things have  lost touch with the needs and aspirations of the American people, and  they need to talk to some real people who have been impacted by the  coronavirus, instead of sitting in their ideological towers. 

  With the comments made by the President and the Republican leader,  they have revealed their own ideology--that even in a time of public  crisis and need, the President and the Republican leader are more  willing to entertain corporate tax cuts and bailing out industries than  helping American workers and families. 

  The Senate should pass these bills today. The Republican leader  should not be sending the Senate home for the weekend without taking  action to help people who are or will soon be really hurting. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT