100th Anniversary of Hebrew University of Jerusalem


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I am thrilled to recognize the centennial  of Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The American Friends of Hebrew  University, AFHU, is helping to celebrate 100 years of accomplishment  and toast the next generation of visionaries who will carry forward  this tradition to the next century and beyond.

Hebrew University is home to over 23,000 students and 1,400  researchers across six campuses. Faculty and alumni have received 9  Nobel Prizes and registered more than 11,000 patents. Its impact has  shaped not just Israel but the whole world, including in Virginia  through the Mid-Atlantic Branch of AFHU. Benefactors of HU and this  celebration include so many whose legacy can be seen across Virginia  and the Mid-Atlantic region: the family and descendants of Charles E.  Smith, the Theodore and Annette Lerner Family Foundation, Sheryl and  Bradley Schwartz, Susie and Michael Gelman, and many more.

I would be especially remiss not to recognize my friends Bill and  Bobbie Kilberg. Bill is president of the mid-Atlantic region of the  AFHU and a member of the board of governors, among many other stops in  his legal and business career. Bobbie is president and CEO emerita of  the Northern Virginia Technology Council, an entity that has done so  much to shape the Virginia economy of today.

As I reflect on the interweaving strands of academic excellence  embodied by Hebrew University and the economic and technological  innovation for which Israel is renowned, I see a story that has played  out in Virginia and elsewhere. Virginia's technology economy has  blossomed in just a few short decades, largely due to its first-rate  higher education sector, careful attention to cultivating a strong  workforce, and the efforts of organizations like NVTC and people like  Bill and Bobbie to cultivate those resources.  Today, it is home to innovative companies, large and small, and exports  its goods and services to the world through an international airport  and international seaport. We are economically stronger when we invest  in our people. Our people are stronger when we invest in education and  workforce.

The change that Hebrew University has seen over the past century is  profound, in some ways miraculous. Your steadfast support has produced  this positive change, and that change continues today. You have my  fondest wishes for the celebration of the century, and I look forward  to what the next century will bring.