Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, like my colleague from Missouri, I also  rise to address the Nation's response to the COVID-19 virus. In  particular, I want to discuss the next steps we need to take at the  Federal level to deal with this health emergency and the severe  economic dislocation resulting from it. 

  Before I offer my comments, I want to offer some thanks. I want to  thank the Senate staff and all those in the Capitol who are working  here under tough circumstances. 

  I notice that the pages are not here, and that is because the Senate  has wisely decided that, while we ought to be here doing the people's  business, even at some risk to ourselves, the young people who would  normally be here should be home with their families. 

  I want to thank healthcare workers all across the United States. They  are doing very difficult work right now, and they are doing it under  very stressful circumstances. So many people who work at our healthcare  facilities are there trying to protect patients. They have kids in  schools that have been closed, and they are grappling with where their  own children are during the day and whether they can find childcare  during what would normally be the school day. I particularly want to  thank them. 

  Finally, I want to thank the American public. I will return to this  point at the end of my comments. 

  We are not an authoritarian nation. There are steps that other  nations are taking with respect to this virus, where they can sort of  order or quarantine in ways that we can't here. What we do here depends  upon the consent of the governed, and the guidelines about social  distancing, for example, require some significant sacrifice.  Overwhelmingly, I see Americans taking steps to make that sacrifice,  and I want to thank them. 

  I applaud the bipartisan work that Congress has done with the White  House in the past 2 weeks to pass two important laws. We passed the  supplemental appropriations bill, providing more than $8 billion to  invest in our public health response with resources for States,  territories, and Tribes, investments in vaccine development and  testing, and other key health priorities. 

  Just yesterday, the Senate passed the second piece of legislation to  provide emergency relief for workers and their families: paid sick  leave, extended unemployment insurance, and other measures. But we  still have so much more to do, and I am going to be very candid about  this. 

  I offer these thoughts as a former mayor and Governor who has  overseen significant emergency response efforts in my city and in my  State: hurricanes, floods, mass shootings, the H1N1 epidemic, and the  economic collapse of 2008 and 2009. While those give me a perspective  on what must be done, I have to acknowledge that the current challenge  is a massive one, arguably bigger than any I have seen in my life.  Because it is so big, it will require unusual degrees of innovation and  cooperation, and the need for that innovation and cooperation is  urgent. 

  I got off a phone call this morning--and I am sure all 100 of my  colleagues are making calls like this. I got on the phone with my  fellow Virginia Senator, Mr. Warner, to talk to Virginia's hospitals.  Now, Virginia is a State that, economically, is pretty well off. It  generally tends to have top-quarter per-capita income for a significant  metropolitan area, but the stories from my hospitals were just,  frankly, shocking. 

  They can't get tests to test patients who are presenting with  symptoms of COVID-19. If they have tests, they don't have the swabs to  administer the test or they don't have some of the chemical components  needed so that once a swab is taken, they can run the test to determine  whether somebody has the virus or not. 

  They don't have masks. Hospitals were telling me that masks, which  they would normally buy for about $1 apiece, are now being charged at  $9 apiece with severely limited quantities.  

  Major hospitals in a major metropolitan area like Northern Virginia,  on the testing front--one of my hospitals said they got enough tests  from their main supplier to test 40 people. That lasted for about 2  days. And when they said ``We need more tests,'' the supplier said  ``Well, look, we only have so much that we can distribute. That is all  you get.'' 

  When I heard this story, one after the next--and I know I live in a  nation with not only the best healthcare providers but the best  healthcare institutions in the world--I had to ask myself: Where am I?  Is this the United States of America, where a hospital treating people  on a global pandemic cannot get a mask, cannot get a swab, cannot get a  test? Why are nations like South Korea and Australia and the United  Kingdom so much more able to do things this country should be able to  do? 

  I don't think we should become normalized or just accept that. I  think this is so profound a question about why this Nation, with the  best healthcare providers and the best healthcare institutions in the  world, is so far behind other nations. So let me offer these  recommendations--blunt recommendations--for the road ahead. 

  First, in the words of the Hippocratic Oath, do no harm. The  administration lost 6 to 8 weeks in responding to this crisis--critical  time that was used productively by other nations--because the President  continually downplayed the threat of COVID-19. 

  No American has a louder microphone than he does, and again and again  he downplayed the threat, suggested it was contained, suggested  everyone would be tested, suggested it was a hoax, and suggested the  Democrats or the Chinese or the media were blowing it out of  proportion. Whether his comments were due to ignorance or a political  desire to hide bad news is irrelevant. 

  I was shocked that the President submitted a budget to Congress on  February 10, when the virus's global spread was clear to all, that  dramatically cut funding for key public health agencies--the NIH, CDC,  HHS--and our investments in global partnerships like the World Health  Organization. The White House foolishly eliminated the global health  security team at the National Security Council that was set up after  the Ebola crisis to practically deal with pandemics like COVID-19. 

  I remain stunned--stunned--that the President's lawyers are still in  court all over this country attempting to repeal the Affordable Care  Act to take healthcare away from millions of Americans. There is never  a good time--never--to take an ax to the public health infrastructure  and scheme to take away people's health insurance, but there is surely  no worse time to do it--to take an ax to the public health  infrastructure and take away people's health insurance--than during a  global pandemic. 

  So my recommendations here are pretty simple. Quit lying and  downplaying the threat. Let the trusted scientists and public health  leaders in your administration take center stage. 

  In recent days, the President seems to have adopted this approach,  thank goodness, and it is long overdue. Congress should ignore the  President's budget that urged foolish cuts to our public health  infrastructure, and the  administration should cease efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care  Act. 

  One more thing: Quit the inflammatory China-bashing. Did this virus  originate in China? Yes. But, Mr. President, that does not excuse your  weeks and weeks of tweeting lies and misinformation about the virus,  while the leaders of other nations were taking steps to make sure their  populations could be safe. 

  The fact that the virus originated in China does not excuse the  massive missteps that have led to the United States being so far behind  other nations in the world in the ability to provide testing--basic  testing--to citizens, including citizens who have serious signs of  illness. The President's decision to call this the China virus or Wuhan  virus or other epithets that he and members of his team have used are a  crass effort to deflect blame away from the acceptance of  responsibility that a President should have. 

  The buck stops with you, Mr. President. You cannot blame this on  anyone else. You have to own responsibility. You should stop  inflammatory China-bashing that is exposing Asian Americans in this  country to prejudice. 

  The second thing we need to do is continue to focus, first and  foremost, on managing the public health crisis presented by COVID-19.  The economic dislocation is significant. We are working on a package  with respect to that now. I am going to talk about it in a minute, but  no economic intervention will work if the American public continues to  lack confidence in our public health response. And a strong public  health response that will effectively manage the spread of this virus  and coordinate medical care for those affected will be the single best  strategy for enabling the economy to get back on track.  

  To accomplish this public health goal, we need to have strong policy  at the Federal level to make--continue to make--science-based  recommendations on the extent and timing of social distancing  guidelines. 

  We need to overcome the shockingly poor start to testing Americans  for the virus. Testing helps us flatten the curve of the infection so  that our health system is not overwhelmed, and it also helps reduce  anxiety by giving people information about their status so they know  what to do. 

  Americans are used to being tested. If we feel ill, we go to a  doctor. We get a test to see if we have a flu. We get a test to see if  we have pneumonia. We get our children tested to see if they have strep  throat. We are used to this, and when we see it happening around the  globe, and when we hear the President and Vice President say that  everybody will get tested, but when people call their healthcare  providers and are told that there are no tests or see drive-thru  testing sites, such as ones we had in Hampton Roads, shut down after a  day and a half because they ran out of tests, it tremendously raises  their anxiety. 

  We need to continue the good work that is already being done to  accelerate the development of a safe and effective vaccine. We need to  make sure that our hospitals and healthcare providers have the  resources they need to treat sick people and protect their frontline  health workers. 

  Finally, this is looking down the road a bit, but I think it is  important that we think about it now. Policymakers should try to  develop the science-based criteria that will enable them to confidently  tell Americans when it is time to return to normal social and economic  activity. I remember President Bush doing that at some point after 9/ 11. He said: It is now safe. It is time for Americans to go back to  normal, everyday activity. A strong signal of that type, when it is  warranted by science, will be critical--critical--to our recovery. That  day may be weeks or months away, but developing the criteria that we  can agree on that should be the signal for a return to relevant  normalcy is something we should all be working on right now. 

  Third, we should make full use of State and local governments.  Polling shows that Americans are skeptical about what they hear about  this virus from President Trump and, indeed, Washington. But the same  poll shows that they do have trust in how State and local officials are  handling this crisis. Use the network of State and local officials to  communicate clear messages. Continuously seek their input on how their  schools, hospitals, nursing homes, and local economies are affected.  That is what I am doing every day, and I suspect every Member of the  Senate is doing the same thing--conference calls with leaders around my  State to make sure that we are doing the things that are most helpful.  And we should reality test any legislation, especially an economic  package, with these leaders to make sure it is responsive to the real  needs they are seeing on the ground. 

  Fourth, Congress needs to move promptly to pass this strong economic  package, backstopping the American economy from being ravaged by COVID- 19. 

  In 2008, structural issues like the accumulation of debt, bad public  policy leaving huge swaths of economic transactions unregulated, and  predatory mortgage practices helped bring down not only the American  but the global financial system. 

  Today, the American economy has been performing relatively well, and  it now labors under a severe healthcare shock. There is reason to  believe that, once we get the healthcare strategy right, we will be  poised for the economy to resume its upward trajectory. But we must  provide protection and support in the meantime. 

  I believe that the focus of an economic package should be workers and  small businesses. They are the most vulnerable to the current challenge  and most in need of intervention. 

  This is the message that I am hearing again and again as I talk to  Virginia residents and business leaders. I had a wonderful conversation  with the president of my statewide chamber of commerce the other day,  and he said candidly: Look, more of our members are actually medium and  large businesses, but the most important thing you can do is focus on  the needs of small businesses and their employees. 

  I appreciated that he was advocating even for a business sector that  isn't the core of his membership, but this is what he was hearing and  what I think most of us are hearing. 

  I support direct cash payments to low- and middle-income Americans  and their dependents to help them through this crisis, and it is nice  to hear there may be some agreement on that. I support strategies to  provide grants and loans to small businesses, particularly if they use  those resources to keep employees on the payroll. I hope direct support  to individuals and small businesses will be the heart of the economic  package that the Senate, the White House, and the House put together. 

  Now, for the larger businesses and industry sectors who need Federal  help, we have to stand ready to assist, but if we are to invest in  these businesses yet again, a few years after providing them with  massive and--in my view--unnecessary tax breaks, we must not simply  rescue them but demand that they reform, and our investments must be  designed to keep workers on payrolls to the maximum extent possible. 

  The Business Roundtable, an influential voice for the business  community, said last year that businesses need to expand their  priorities beyond shareholder concerns and invest in employees by  compensating them fairly, providing important benefits, and supporting  communities they work in. I couldn't agree more. These businesses  employ many Americans and deliver us important goods and services, but  if American taxpayers are stepping in to cover their losses, I think it  is fair to expect and, indeed, require that these businesses channel  the benefits toward people who are on their payroll, who work for wages  and salaries, not those who live off investment income. 

  I will do all I can in the coming days to help shape our economic  package to make it responsive to these goals. 

  Fifth--and in this I echo some of the comments made by my colleague  from Missouri--the crisis does raise long-term questions that must be  addressed going forward. We have to have real discussions about the  virtues and disadvantages of global interconnectedness. Better travel  leads to economic growth and a better understanding of the world, and  it also facilitates the spread of viruses. Instantaneous global  communication networks are an economic plus but increase vulnerability  to cyber attack. 

  How do we increase American resilience to these threats without  inhibiting our economic prospects? There  are elements of our supply chains--pharmaceuticals and medical products  and supplies in particular--that must be viewed through a national  security lens and progressively brought back to this country to enhance  safety and an adequate supply of supplies in times like this. 

  A second long-term question that has been raised for years by my  Virginia colleague Senator Warner deals with the new reality of how  Americans work. Many of the people most affected by this shock would be  part-time and gig workers. The safety-net mechanisms that our policies  provide for full-time workers who get a W-2 every year are not as  available to the increasing percentage of the American workforce who  are in multiple part-time jobs without benefits or who work as  independent contractors or are otherwise self-employed. 

  In addition to making sure that the economic relief package provides  assistance to this large group of Americans, we have to examine our  workforce policies so that these workers also have a social safety net  to fall back on during times of crisis. 

  Finally, every American needs to do their part to confront this  crisis. The best way to slow the spread of COVID-19 and minimize its  impact to individuals, to our healthcare system, and to our economy is  to adhere to science-based social distancing and personal hygiene  recommendations in our everyday lives. 

  Because America is not an authoritarian nation, there are some  options used by other nations that will not likely be used here. Our  public health measures will depend upon the cooperation and adherence  of every single person. Sacrifice is hard, but a modest sacrifice in  the near term can help save the lives of people we love. 

  So I implore every Virginian and every American to follow the  recommendations we get from our public health officials and find ways  to safely reach out and connect with friends and family during this  challenging time. 

  To my colleagues: We must rise to meet this challenge. This is one of  the moments for which we were destined to be in the Senate. The people  we serve are relying on us to calmly and promptly address a grave  health crisis with the tools needed to keep families safe and protect  the American economy. It is a serious responsibility. May we all live  up to it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT