Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE.  Res. 68. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE.  be equally divided between the two leaders or their  designees. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I now rise to speak to the body in favor  of the bipartisan War Powers Resolution, S.J. Res. 68, which is now  pending before the Senate. 

  Before I address the resolution, I want to acknowledge the combat  deaths of SFC Javier Gutierrez and SFC Antonio Rodriguez. Both of these  Army sergeants, sergeants first class, were 28-year-olds who were  killed last week in Afghanistan. While the incident is still under  investigation, it appears that they were killed by a member of the  Afghan security forces or somebody posing as a member of the Afghan  security forces. As we know well, this is a security force that the  United States has armed, equipped, and trained for 19 years. 

  Sergeant Gutierrez leaves behind a wife, Gabby, and four children,  ages 2 through 7. His grandfather was a POW during World War II, and  his father was a marine. He had previously deployed both to Iraq and  Afghanistan. 

  Sergeant Rodriguez leaves behind a wife, Ronaleen. He had previously  deployed to Afghanistan 10 times. I thought that was a misprint when I  read it--a 28-year-old who had previously deployed to Afghanistan 10  times before he was killed. 

  We honor their memories and send our condolences to their families as  well. 

  The resolution before the body today is about Congress reclaiming its  rightful role in decisions about war. The resolution is pretty simple:  We should not be at war with Iran unless Congress votes to authorize  such a war. 

  While the President does and must always have the ability to defend  the United States from imminent attack, the Executive power to initiate  war stops there. An offensive war requires a congressional debate and  vote. 

  This should not be a controversial proposition. It is clearly stated  in the Constitution we pledge to support and defend. The principle is  established there for a most important reason. If we are to order our  men and women, like Sergeants Rodriguez and Gutierrez, to risk their  lives and health in war, it should be on the basis of careful  deliberation by the people's elected legislature and not on the say-so  of any one person. 

  Congressional deliberation educates the American public about what  are the stakes, what are the stakes involved in any proposed war. 

  Congressional deliberation allows Members of Congress to ask tough  questions about the need for war, about the path to victory, and about  how a victory can be sustained. And if following that public  deliberation, there is a vote of Congress for war, it represents a  clear statement that a war is in the national interest and that the  efforts of our troops are supported by a clear political consensus. We  should not allow this important process to be short-circuited. 

  Our Framers believed that the congressional deliberation would be the  best antidote to unnecessary escalation. 

  I have spoken often about this topic on the floor during the 7 years  I have been in the Senate, and I don't want to repeat arguments that I  have made dozens and dozens of times here, but I do want to address at  least three objections that I have made to this resolution. 

  First, there is an objection that says the bipartisan resolution is  ``an effort to restrain President Trump's powers.'' This is not a  resolution about the President. The resolution does not say anything  about President Trump or any President. It is a resolution about  Congress. 

  I want a President that will fully inhabit the article II powers of  Commander in Chief, but as a Member of the Article I branch, I want an  article I branch that would fully inhabit the article I powers,  including the sole power to declare war. This is not an effort to  restrain President Trump or some other President. This is not an effort  by a Democrat to point a finger or to restrain Republicans. No. In the  history of this country, even in recent history, I believe we have  often gotten it wrong with respect to the initiation of war, whether  the President was a Democrat or Republican or whether the majority in  Congress was Democratic or Republican. 

  The legislative branch, article I, has allowed too much power to  devolve to the Executive in this fundamental question of whether the  Nation should be at war. This is not directed toward President Trump.  It would apply equally to any President. It is fundamentally about  Congress owning up to and taking responsibility for the most  significant decisions that we should ever have to make. 

  A second argument against the bill that I have heard made on the  floor in recent days is that it would send a message of weakness to  Iran or to other adversaries. I have to admit, I am more interested in  the message that we send to the American public and to our troops and  to our families. That is the message I am most interested in. 

  As a father of a marine and as a Senator from a State that is just  chock-full of Active-Duty Guard and Reserve veterans, DOD civilian and  DOD contractor military families, this bill sends a very strong and  powerful message to our public and to our troops and their families  that before we get into a war, there will be a careful deliberation  about whether it is necessary. 

  That is a message of comfort. That is a message that can give our own  public  and our troops confidence, but to the extent that we want to consider  the message this might send to Iran and adversaries, I do not think  that America sends a message of weakness when we proudly hold ourselves  up as a nation of laws, and we pledge to follow the law when it comes  to the monumental question about whether or not we should be at war. 

  In fact, I believe we are most effective in countering our  adversaries--and, face it, most of our adversaries are authoritarian  states which do not honor the rule of war--when we send a clear message  that, in this country, we will stand for democratic principles, such as  the rule of law, and we will follow those principles when we are making  momentous decisions, such as whether or not we should be at war. 

  A third objection I have heard is this: It sends a message that  America is not likely to use military force, a message that, thereby,  might embolden bad actors. I find this argument bewildering. 

  I don't think anyone in the world questions whether America will use  military force. We have been engaged in a war against nonstate  terrorism now for 19 years. The pages in this body have known nothing  but war. These two 28-year-olds who were just killed last year, they  virtually knew nothing other than war during their whole lives. 

  Is America willing to use military action? We have been in a war for  19 years. We are losing troops on the battlefield--like Sergeants  Rodriguez and Gutierrez--to this very day. We have tens and thousands  of troops deployed around the world to fight a war against terrorism,  and the current President is increasing the total footprint of those  troops in the Middle East to prosecute this fight. 

  In Afghanistan alone, where these two sergeants were killed, we are  spending $45 billion a year. It is 19 years later, and we are still  spending $45 billion a year to prosecute this fight. No one can  question whether the United States will protect itself or our allies,  but the choice of when to fight wars and when to use other available  tools is always a question of such importance that the most careful  deliberation is warranted. 

  As I conclude, I just want to say this. I went and visited the  Hampton veterans hospital last Friday as part of just, sort of, a  regular visit maybe once a year just to check in with the Hampton VA,  which is one of three VAs in Virginia, to see what they are doing. I  know every Member of the Senate does the same thing, visiting VA  hospitals in their States and elsewhere--going to see our veterans at  Walter Reed, for example, or going to see wounded warriors who are at  the hospital at Fort Belvoir in Virginia. Any visit of that kind  produces a million emotions: pride in service providers, pride in  resilience of our veterans as they are grappling with challenging  illnesses and disabilities in their lives, often long after they have  served. The one impression that is always vivid when you visit a  veterans hospital is this: the enduring consequences of war. 

  As I visited the Hampton VA, I spent time in, sort of, two particular  units. One is a women's clinic. We have so many more women veterans,  and a number of VAs that were not set up very well to deal with women  are now having to really build out the capacity to deal with the  growing number of women veterans and the issues that they are bringing  to the table. I applaud what I saw in Hampton at the women's clinic. 

  I also spent time in the mental health unit that is trying to pioneer  new technologies, magnetic imaging, to help people deal with some of  the signature wounds of the Iraq and Afghanistan war: traumatic brain  injury and PTSD. 

  We make a promise to these veterans that we will be there for them,  even when we don't fully know the consequences of the promise we make  because they don't know the consequences of what they will experience  and suffer. 

  A signature aspect of the Iraq and Afghan wars that really doesn't  have an earlier precedent is the 10-deployments phenomena. In what  earlier war that this country fought do we have 28-year-old sergeants  who are serving their 11th deployment in a theater of war? Those  repeated deployments have a long consequence in the life of a person  and in the life of those close to that person.  

  Madam President knows this from her own service: When you go to the  VA and you grapple with the long consequences of war, it has to make an  impression upon those of us in this body charged with the sole  responsibility for declaring war that, if and when we do so, we owe it  the most careful deliberation that we bring to any question that would  ever result in the loss of lives. That is not too much to ask for us to  deliberate carefully when what is at risk for those who serve, who  depend upon us to make the best possible decision, are consequences  that will last their own lifetimes and affect the lives of so many  others. 

  That is what this resolution is about. I don't believe it should be  controversial. It is certainly bipartisan, and I hope we will stand up  for this important proposition that the careful deliberation of the  Senate is the most necessary thing we can do and what we owe to our  troops and their families. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT