En Bloc Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695967/en-bloc-nominations


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to talk about the reality of the  shutdown that we are in and the efforts underway to find a path out,  which I am optimistic we can, particularly after discussions among so  many colleagues of both parties today on the floor of the Senate.

This is the third time during my nearly 13 years in the Senate that I  have been involved in a shutdown. The first occurred in the fall of  2013. I had been in the Senate for less than a year. Senator Cruz sort  of forced us into a shutdown mode over the Affordable Care Act.  Interestingly enough, many years later, that Affordable Care Act is  still central to this discussion. In late 2018 and 2019, President  Trump forced us into a shutdown of part of the government--the part of  government dealing with the Department of Justice and other justice- related Agencies--over border wall funding.

The first shutdown lasted for about 2 weeks. The second shutdown-- again, of part of government, not all of government--lasted for about a  month. And they are horrible. The consequences for those affected,  whether they be Federal workers or the citizens who need services, are  horrible.

No one relishes that in this body, and I am completely confident that  all 100 Senators feel the same way in that this is not a good thing and  that there needs to be a path forward. In Virginia, we feel it pretty  strongly. We have the second-most Federal employees of any State in the  country, and we have an awful lot of Federal contractors whose  livelihoods are affected as well.

We have also seen in the first nearly 9 months of this calendar year  other actions taken, whether it is the cancelation of research grants  or the backtracking on economic development proposals or the withdrawal  of $400 million from the Virginia Department of Health that was  critical to our agency's ability to do contact tracing and help stop  the spread of infectious disease.

So we have seen since the beginning of January a whole series of  actions that have already affected Virginians pretty significantly. We  had an unemployment rate that was low by national standards but went up  every month for 6, 7 months in a row, largely because of these Federal  layoffs. As we reach this moment, it is not a clean break or something  new from what was seen earlier in the year; it is sort of a  continuation of something that has been a pretty painful chapter in  Virginia.

So what are we hoping for or, rather, maybe, not to put words in  anybody's mouth, what am I hoping for out of this?

The House prepared a short-term continuing resolution under  instructions from the President: Do not deal with Democrats. And the  House, with a simple Republican majority, was able to do that and pass  a bill that then came to the Senate.

Once we saw that instruction--do not deal with Democrats--Senate  Democrats, under the leadership of Senator Murray, the lead Democratic  appropriator, said: Well, let's prepare an alternative, not a  nonnegotiable demand but an alternative.

We put that alternative on the table on September 18. We didn't wait  until the 29th of September or the 30th. We felt like, to be fair to  the public, to be fair to our colleagues, let's put an alternative on  the table with enough time for us to kick the tires on it and have a  negotiation before the deadline that we reached at midnight last night.

What is the Democratic alternative compared to the Republican  alternative? Actually, much of it is the same. But I would say the two  elements in the Democratic alternative that are different are two: One,  protecting people's healthcare; and, second, protecting the simple  notion that everybody understands that a deal is a deal.

Let me explain both of these.

On the healthcare side, the reconciliation bill that was passed in  June, together with some other actions of the administration-- particularly unilateral actions of Secretary Kennedy and the President  in withdrawing healthcare funds from Virginia and unilateral actions  thrusting uncertainty into areas like vaccines--they have created a  huge healthcare challenge for Virginians and for Americans.

Again, not to speak for anybody other than Virginians, but I did a  lot of travel around the State in April as some of these proposals were  on the table. I did a lot of travel in July, a lot of travel in August,  and I just did a good bit of travel last week around Virginia. And on  the healthcare side, here is what my constituents are saying to me  about what is now happening:

The effect of the reconciliation bill in Virginia is estimated to  cause about 330,000 Virginians to lose their health insurance. Our  population is about 8.8 million; 330,000 people losing health insurance  is not a small number. This is a big--big--deal. That number of people  who lose their health insurance is essentially what I call the top  layer of a five-layer cake of consequences to these healthcare bills.  That is consequence one, people lose insurance.

Consequence two is people who have insurance see their premiums go up  dramatically. Premium notices are coming out from insurance companies  in Virginia, and they are suggesting that premiums this year in  Virginia will go up by at least 20 percent.

Why does that happen? There are two reasons: The reconciliation bill  that was passed by the Republicans in June phased out premium support  for low- and middle-income people buying health insurance on the  exchanges. The Republican bill extended tax cuts for the wealthiest but  phased out premium support for low- and middle-income people buying  health insurance. So that causes premiums to go up.

The second thing that causes premiums to go up is when you increase  the number of people with no insurance, they go to the emergency room,  and they are not able to pay. So providers provide treatment, but then  they have to charge that off to somebody, and it tends to get charged  off to people who have health insurance.

So the combined effect of ACA premium support going away and a whole  lot of free care that has to be paid for by somebody causes insurance  rates to increase. This is happening in Virginia, and it is happening  around the country.

That is the second layer of the five-layer cake of consequences of  what happens when the reconciliation bill passes.

The third layer is this, and this is a really, really troubling one:  Providers close down. Hospitals and clinics close down when Medicaid is  affected; particularly hospitals, for whom Medicaid is a huge portion  of the revenue stream coming into the hospital, find that they can't  make it work.

A national organization that looks at hospital fiscal soundness has  put about 300 hospitals in the United States on a list of hospitals  that are in danger because of the Medicaid cuts. Six of those hospitals  are in Virginia, and they are all in rural Virginia. Rural Virginia  tends to be a little bit older than the rest of Virginia and tends to  have a little bit higher Medicaid population than the rest of Virginia.  So the hospitals that are in danger by the reconciliation bill are  rural hospitals.

It is not just hospitals that are on the list of potential closure.  Within the last month, a prominent health provider in the Shenandoah  Valley of Virginia--a rural part of our State--announced that they were  closing three primary care clinics in small Virginia communities  because of the reconciliation bill. The cuts made to Medicaid in the  reconciliation bill made them realize that they could no longer keep  these clinics open.

So the third consequence of this reconciliation bill is, we have got  people losing insurance; we have got premiums going up; and now we have  providers closing.

The fourth consequence is pretty obvious: When providers close,  people get fired, so people lose their jobs. Frontline healthcare  workers who are doing good work in the communities and having people  rely on them, they lose their jobs. That is consequence four.

Then, consequence five is one that I know well as a former mayor and  Governor. I kind of call it the loss of your future. It is one thing to  lose your health insurance; it is one thing to pay more; it is one  thing to lose your provider; it is one thing to lose your job, but if  you are a mayor or a chairman of a county board of supervisors or a  Governor, for that matter, and you are trying to encourage economic  development, a new business to move into a part of the State or a  business that is in a part of the State to expand, a question you are  going to get asked is: Tell me about the healthcare network in this  community. I may be moving executives here. I may be trying to hire  people here.

And if you have to look them in the eye and say: We used to have a  hospital, but we don't now or we had primary clinics that have closed  down and now you have to drive farther to get primary medical care, I  can tell you, I have been in economic development discussions with  businesses over the course of my 31 years in public life and seen the  lights just go out in their eyes: You know, you have just told me  something that has convinced me I may not know where I am going, but I  know where I am not going.

One the quickest things you can do to turn that light off is to make  a prospect worried about whether the employees and executives and their  families will have access to good healthcare.

So on the healthcare piece of this, what Democrats are asking for by  way of an alternative--not a nonnegotiable but by way of an  alternative--is let's go into the changes that were made in the  reconciliation bill and fix them.

I have Republican colleagues who say: We don't want to completely  reverse them because there are some things about the ACA premium tax  subsidy we don't like. We would like to design them differently. We  would like to negotiate.

I am completely open to that, but I do think we ought to try to fix  them.

I am heartened that a number of Republican colleagues have said: You  are right. We should do that.

I have said to my Republican colleagues: Coming up with a fix, even  if both sides want a fix, I know this is not going to be a snap  decision. There are details. You have to dot the i's. You have to cross  the t's. You have to analyze what the downstream consequences of any  changes in the fix are. I know that that is a substantive discussion  where the details matter. I am not expecting that we would all reach an  agreement immediately.

So on the first point, where the Democratic proposal is different  than the Republican proposal, I fully expect that this would be a  negotiation that would take some time. We needn't wait to open the  government until that negotiation is completely done. We should commit  to the negotiation and get in the middle of it and sit around the table  and figure it out. But we needn't wait, in my view--again, this is me,  not the caucus, not anybody else. This is me. We needn't solve the  entire problem in order to reach a position where we fund the  government and reopen it. We can do it over the course of a time period  that I think is being discussed in this body.

The second feature of the Democratic proposal that is important to  reach an accord on, I believe, is a simple notion that a deal is a  deal. A deal is a deal. If we reach a funding agreement--and some have  characterized the Republican proposal as a clean CR, but I would  actually say it is not a clean CR unless you are guaranteed that the  parties will honor it.

Whatever we do--if we do something for 30 days or if we do something  for 45 days--I think it is only fair to ask that a deal be a deal; that  Congress fully live up to it but the White House fully live up to it as  well.

We have seen, throughout this year already, congressional deals  undone by the President unilaterally: tens of thousands of people  fired, economic development projects that had been announced and  celebrated canceled, funds to public health Agencies taken back. Again  and again and again, we have seen, in Virginia, unilateral actions  taken by the President that, in our view, undo what Congress and the  White House had agreed to in previous budget resolutions. So it is not  unreasonable for us to say: Well, if we are going to do a short-term CR  to try to find the path for a full-year appropriations bill, we would  just want an agreement during that 30 or 45 days--whatever it is--that  a deal is a deal; that we not write it, agree to it, celebrate  reopening the government, and then have President Trump on day two  start to fire a whole lot of people or claw back more money from the  Virginia Department of Health or cancel more economic development  projects in Virginia. Let's just say a deal is a deal. Congress will  live by our piece of it, and the White House would live by its piece of  it.

Virginians get this. I was traveling around this weekend, and  Virginians do not want the government to be closed. They want it open.  They said to me: Keep the government open.

I said: We want to get that deal just like you do. We want to get a  deal.

But if I said to Virginians: And on that deal, Congress should live  up to it, right?

Right.

And on that deal, the President should live up to it, right?

Right.

People get that a deal is a deal. It is not a complicated theory of  government or an argument about democracy; it is just basic fairness  that when parties reach an agreement and shake hands, that both parties  have to honor it.

So what I am looking for very significantly in these discussions is  an agreement from the White House that whatever the short-term period  is, they will not take punitive actions against my State, against the  State of Indiana, against the city of New York, or against anyone, or  against any particular program that is part of a congressional  appropriations bill that is already in process; that they will not  selectively pick out programs to attack or individuals to fire during  the course of that agreement.

I think we have to have that longer discussion about an alternate  yearlong appropriations bill, about a deal is a deal, but all I am  looking for here and all Virginians are looking for here is that we  would reach that agreement during the pendency of some short-term CR as  we try to negotiate a full-year agreement.

We can do this. We can do this. We ought to do it.

For a reason of fiscal conservatism, during the last shutdown in  2018-2019, I was able to sort of strategically put a bill on the floor  on a day much like today, a Thursday during the shutdown, and get  colleagues to unanimously agree with the principle that in the event of  any shutdown, Federal employees would get backpay.

It used to be, in the old days, if there was a shutdown, you had to  fight about backpay after, but now there is a backpay guarantee. When  there is a shutdown, people are guaranteed backpay. So that makes  shutdowns really foolish, like, you are going to shut down; you are  going to lock people out of their office; you are going to tell them  they can't do the work; and then you are going to write them a paycheck  anyway.

The fiscally conservative answer, when there is a backpay guarantee,  is to end this quickly so people can go back in their office and serve  their fellow Americans.

The fact that we, I believe, have narrowed the point of division down  to can we find a path forward to negotiate healthcare fixes, even if we  don't agree on all the details right now, and can we reach an agreement  that a deal is a deal, which is a reasonable request--I believe those  are the two issues that are on the table. And they are issues that we  are eminently capable of solving and solving very soon. And I am going  to do everything I can with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  make sure we do.