Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I ask permission to speak for up to the  full 10 minutes. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. I rise to discuss the next steps the Senate should take in  dealing with the COVID-19 global pandemic. 

  I applaud the bipartisan result Congress has shown in passing four  important pieces of legislation to provide trillions of dollars of aid  to Americans in the midst of this catastrophe. 

  My heart goes out to people who are suffering. When we were last here  voting sort of near midnight on March 25 or early in the morning on  March 26, 675 Americans had then died of coronavirus. Now, more than  72,000 have. In the few weeks we have been away, the number of deaths  has increased by more than 70,000. Millions have been diagnosed. Those  numbers are rising every day. 

  The crisis has been the most severe economic shock our Nation has  experienced in decades, even more severe than the economic collapse of  2008-2009. 

  Madam President, just a personal privilege. I know four people who  have died of coronavirus. 

  Jeanette Galliano, my brother Steve's mother-in-law, died in a senior  facility in New Orleans in the last few weeks. 

  Lois Shaver. Lois is the mother of one of our closest friends, the  godmother of our middle son. Lois died in a nursing home in Fairfax  County in Northern Virginia in the last few weeks. 

  Gerald Glenn was a minister, a bishop, and pillar of the Richmond  faith community. He was somebody I appointed to boards when I was  Governor. Senator Warner did the same. Bishop Glenn passed away of  coronavirus right after Easter. 

  Dolson Anderson was a longtime friend. His wife Linda was one of my  agency heads when I was Governor. As Dolson was providing care for  Linda after knee surgery, he contracted coronavirus, and after 16 days  on a ventilator, he died. 

  There are two other names. My next door neighbor, Dean DeForest. My  wife Anne and I have lived next to Dean and Mary Ruth for 28 years.  Dean died after 2 weeks, after a long battle with lung cancer, not  coronavirus. But what coronavirus meant for Dean and so many like him  was he couldn't have family with him in the normal way. He couldn't  have a funeral or a memorial service or family gathered to grieve in  the normal way because of people's worry about infection. 

  Then there is Lorna Breen. Lorna was a Charlottesville native who was  working as an emergency room physician in New York Presbyterian and was  so stressed out by what she saw. She developed coronavirus. She went  back to the hospital to work as soon as she could, and it was too much  for her. She went home to be with her family in Charlottesville, and  about 10 days ago, she died by suicide after facing the tremendous  burden of being a first responder. 

  I want to mention all of them. All of us--everyone in this Chamber,  everyone who works here--have direct personal connections. The  suffering is massive, and it is likely to continue. Because it is,  Congress should do more. The American public expects us to, and we  shouldn't let them down. 

  What should be our next priorities? One way to look at the  legislation we already passed is that Congress has provided aid to five  basic pillars: aid to individuals and families; grants to small  businesses and nonprofit organizations; loans to medium and large size  businesses; aid to local and State governments; and aid to hospitals,  healthcare providers, and the healthcare system. 

  The three bills we passed in March made major investments in each of  these five pillars. By April, we realized that the depth of the crisis  was so great, we needed to do more. While we realized that our action  was going to be partial rather than comprehensive, we did step up to do  more to provide support for two of those five pillars--small  businesses, hospitals and healthcare providers. 

  After providing $350 billion in forgivable loans for small businesses  under the CARES Act, we added another $370 billion in April for small  businesses through additional loans, through the PPP program, SBA's  EIDL grant-loan program, and a new set-aside directing resources to  small businesses through smaller financial institutions. 

  And, recognizing that this is fundamentally a public health  emergency, we also added $100 billion in new health funds--$75 billion  for healthcare providers and $25 billion to enable the United States to  finally support development of a competent and comprehensive testing  program. 

  We did not hesitate to act in providing more resources to two key  pillars--small businesses and our health system--and that tells me what  our next step should be. We should show the same willingness to direct  more resources to individuals and families, as well as State and local  governments. 

  Individuals and families are hurting. Thirty million Americans have  filed for unemployment. People have lost jobs. Some have businesses  that may never reopen, and they have seen other unplanned expenses for  healthcare or childcare, as local schools have closed. Rent and  mortgage payments, car payments, utility bills, food and medicine-- these expenses continue, and the pressure on working Americans is  intense. 

  When we passed the CARES Act in March, I was struck by the fact that  the PPP program for small businesses was $350 billion, but the total  direct payments for families was only $295 billion--about 85 percent of  the business grant program. 

  Given that we just added another $370 billion in aid for small  businesses, I think we should add an equal amount for individuals and  families. Whether this is a second round of direct payments or a  combination of direct payments and other supports--childcare, rent and  mortgage assistance--we should show the public that we value the needs  of families and individuals as much as we value small businesses. 

  And the second thing we should do is to provide more assistance and  flexibility to State and local governments. The CARES Act provided $150  billion in block grant funding to States and localities, but this $150  billion was limited for use to only deal with unanticipated costs  connected with COVID-19. 

  Here is an odd thing. The funds for businesses were specifically  designed to help them deal with revenue losses so that they could  remain in operation and avoid layoffs. The hospital and healthcare  provider funding was designed to help deal with revenue losses  experienced as we postponed elective surgeries and clinical visits. The  funds were designed to avoid layoffs. The aid to individuals was  designed to help families cope with lost wages and lost salary. 

  But the CARES bill would not allow State or local governments to use  funds to backstop lost revenue, and that is having serious  consequences. 

  I was a mayor and a Governor. I know that 46 States have a fiscal  year that starts on July 1, and that means that most States and local  governments are working on their budgets right now. They have to  project income and expenses for the next year and write their budgets  accordingly. 

  So what are State and local governments seeing? Massive declines in  tax revenue. Sales taxes are declining. Meals taxes, lodging taxes,  income taxes--all are declining. Jurisdictions are trying to figure out  the extent of the likely decline, and though it is hard to know with  certainty, the revenue drops are sizeable. 

  In Virginia, the town of Abingdon is predicting a revenue loss of  about 15 percent; Fredericksburg, more than 10 percent; Blacksburg,  nearly 18 percent. The list goes on and on. The Commonwealth of  Virginia is predicting revenue losses of $2 to $3 billion over the next  2 fiscal years. 

  If cities, towns, counties, and States lose revenue, what are their  options? Since most government costs are personnel, here is what they  will be forced to cut--teachers, police officers, firefighters, EMTs.  That is already happening in Virginia and all over the country. 

  Staunton is proposing furlough days for all city employees, including  first responders. Prince William County has removed 31 police, fire,  and sheriff positions from their budget. Abingdon is laying off 13  full-time and 64 part-time employees. 

  Every State, city, county, and town in this country is making the  same decisions right now, and it shouldn't be this way. We provided  funds to businesses to backstop revenue losses so they could avoid  layoffs. We provided funds to hospitals to backstop revenue losses so  they could avoid layoffs. We need to allow our State and local  governments to backstop revenue losses so they can avoid layoffs. 

  It is never a good time to lay off teachers, firefighters, police,  sheriffs, EMTs--never. But I can tell you that the worst time to do it  is a national health emergency. The overwhelming majority of our first  responders work for State and local governments. Why would we want to  lay them off? 

  President Trump has said he doesn't want to bail out States and local  governments, and he has criticized them. He didn't name-call businesses  that wanted help. He didn't say: We will not bail you out. Instead, he  wanted to extend the helping hand. His attacks on State and local  governments are particularly insulting since the American public is  much more satisfied with how their State and local leaders are handling  this crisis than how the administration is. 

  Senator McConnell advanced the idea that States and local governments  should consider bankruptcy. He didn't say that about businesses that  wanted aid. Promoting bankruptcy, which would mean layoffs and broken  promises to pensioners, is heartless. 

  America needs its teachers and its first responders. This isn't a  Democrat or Republican thing. There are as many Republican Governors as  there are Democrats. There are as many cities and counties managed with  Republican leadership as there are Democrats. 

  The CARES Act had $150 billion for general State and local government  relief, but we have now done over $1.2 trillion in relief for  businesses. I am glad we are helping our businesses get through this,  but don't the communities where we live and work, send our  kids to school, pray and play deserve help to get through this crisis  too? Does anyone really believe that we will be better off as a nation  in fighting this emergency if teachers, firefighters, police, sheriffs,  and EMTs are laid off all over this country? 

  So I will close in just saying to my colleagues: We stepped up big to  refill the tank for small businesses and hospitals. It is now time to  step up for State and local governments and individuals and families. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT