Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700456/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise today, I believe, as the penultimate  speaker before we have a vote on the War Powers Resolution, a  bipartisan resolution I filed with Senators Paul, Schiff, and Schumer.

I rise today in support of our troops, who don't deserve to be sent  into war unless this Congress votes that there should be such a war.

I pray for the families who are learning that their loved ones will  not come home. I pray for the families whose children or spouses are  deployed overseas, unable to sleep with worry about them.

Mr. President, I have paid attention over the course of the last 13  months as this President has again and again and again used our troops  to carry out military action without coming to Congress. I have paid  attention to the reasons that my colleagues are giving who want to give  the President an E-ZPass around the Constitution.

When we had a vote last summer about the attack on Iran at the end of  the Israeli 12-day war, by the time the vote had been called up, that  bombing mission was in the rearview mirror, and so my colleague from  Idaho said: There are no hostilities. The hostilities are over, so you  should vote against the resolution on that ground.

When we called up an effort to constrain the President from illegally  striking boats in international waters, the legal rationale asserted by  my colleagues and the White House to vote down a War Powers Resolution  and end-run the Constitution was: These are pinprick strikes that don't  rise to the level of war. Only if it is war must the White House come  to Congress.

When I brought forward a resolution a month or so ago to say no war  in Venezuela without a vote of Congress,  again my colleague from Idaho said: This isn't war. It is over. It was  one and done. There are no troops left in Venezuela.

There has been one reason after the next to give the President an E- ZPass lane around the Constitution.

Well, today, we are dealing with something different. You can't stand  up and say this is a pinprick that doesn't lead to the level that would  be characterized as war. You can't stand up and say this is one and  done and no troops are engaged in hostilities against Iran.

Members of the Senate, this is war. The President of the United  States has called it a war against Iran. The head of the Joint Chiefs  of Staff, General Caine, has called it a war against Iran. Secretary  Rubio, our Secretary of State, has called it a war against Iran.

All of the excuses that you have advanced to give the President an E- ZPass around the Constitution and suggest he needn't come to Congress  all evaporate because this is a war. It is a war.

Many of my colleagues know that during the classified briefing  yesterday--I can't reveal information given to me, but I can say what I  said. I challenged the body, including the administration witnesses:  Your escalating pattern of military action without seeking approval  convinces me that you believe you never need to come to Congress to  wage war against anyone anywhere.

I hoped that someone might refute my point and tell me I am wrong and  they would come to Congress, but no one did.

So here we are in a war that has cost American lives, that is leading  to chaos throughout the region, that threatens to grow bigger and  bigger and bigger. And I am asking the Senate to do what the Framers of  the Constitution said we should do--debate and vote about matters of  war.

What are the arguments now that the other side has made to suggest we  should vote down this resolution?

First, they say that Iran are bad actors. On that, we would agree. If  you put in a resolution ``Iran has carried out a lot of bad actions,''  you would get a 100-to-zip vote in this body on that resolution. But  being a bad actor is not an E-ZPass around the Constitution. It does  not allow us to take our sons and daughters into war and risk their  lives without a debate and vote. That is not a sufficient rationale.

The other rationale--and you just heard my colleague make it--was  that the effort to bring a War Powers Resolution, a bipartisan  resolution, before this body is somehow partisan; it is this side  trying to come to the aid of the regime.

There is nothing partisan about the Constitution. There is nothing  partisan about caring for our kids and wanting to have a debate before  they get sent into harm's way to risk their lives.

This is not a partisan issue on our side. We are basically asking a  question of the entire Senate--indeed, of the entire Nation: Have we  learned nothing from 25 years of war in the Middle East?

Mr. President, 14,000 American troops and contractors were killed in  Iran and Afghanistan. More than 65,000 American troops and contractors  were injured in these wars. These nearly 80,000 people were from every  walk of life, every State and territory, every race, every age, every  rank, every religion, every gender. They only have two things in  common: A, they had a patriotic desire to serve their country, and B,  their futures were dramatically affected--in some instances,  eliminated--because of 25 years of war in the Middle East.

Someone suggested yesterday that this resolution was our effort to  gum up the work of the--what is the work of the Senate? What is the  work of the Senate if it is not to discuss the circumstances under  which we should send our kids into war?

In addition to the lives lost of American troops and contractors and  those injured, hundreds of thousands of innocent civilian deaths in  Iraq and Afghanistan, more than $8 trillion was spent that could have  been spent on American healthcare, on American housing, on American  education--spent on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and what did we  get for it? What did we get for it? If people think 25 years of war in  the Middle East was a good thing or produced something, I hope they  would come to the floor and tell us what we gained from it.

This effort to force a vote is not about partisanship; it is about  the Constitution. But even more importantly, it is about the lives of  our troops and the question of what, in fact, we got from 25 years of  war in the Middle East and whether we should continue that ``forever  war.'' The President tweeted out the phrase ``forever war'' today when  he talked about the munitions that we have.

We don't need illegal wars. We don't need forever wars. We don't need  more wars in the Middle East.

Let me say this and conclude and yield to our Democratic leader. I  have said this to my colleagues before. I came to this body in 2013  with the experience of being a Governor and watched my Virginians  repeatedly deployed, time after time after time--Active Duty, Guard,  Reserve, DOD civilians, Virginia National Guard--into the wars in Iraq  and Afghanistan. And I went to the deployments, and I went to the  homecomings, and I went to the wakes, and I went to the funerals, and I  signed the condolence letters that all Governors sign when they get the  bad news that one of their own has lost their lives in war.

And when I came to this body in 2013, I said that I would do anything  I could in my power to stop any President--Democrat or Republican--from  waging war without coming to Congress and that I would especially do  anything I could to stop an unwise, unnecessary war that puts our  troops' lives at risk for no legitimate reason. Colleagues who have  been with me since 2013 know that I have upheld that standard against  Presidents of both parties. When President Obama wanted to use military  action in Syria to punish the Syrian regime for using chemical weapons  against its own citizens, even though I was his friend, I stood up and  said: You cannot do that without a vote of Congress.

Presidents can defend against incoming attack, protect against  Houthis firing at our ships in the Red Sea. Presidents can act when  there is a preexisting congressional authorization to go after  terrorists who Congress voted the President should be able to act  against. But in this instance, there is no congressional authorization  on the books that would authorize this military action. And as my  colleagues have amply demonstrated, the administration and their  shifting set of rationales, and even in a classified setting, could  produce no evidence--none--that the United States was under an imminent  threat of attack from Iran.

It is easy to try to dismiss this by saying: Oh, it is about  partisanship. And those who would say that say it so they don't have to  grapple, I believe, with their own sense of unease about what we are  starting on right now.

Perhaps this war will be over in a few weeks or a few months. We pray  that it will be, but that is what we thought about the war in Iraq when  we claimed that the mission was accomplished, when we claimed that we  were met as liberators. And yet, years and years and years later,  troops from all of our States were still coming home deeply wounded and  affected, both physically and in their mental health, from those wars,  from seeing what happened to them and their friends. Some never came  home.

If there is one thing we do that we have to get right, it is this. It  is this. We can't afford to hide under a desk and let any President-- Democrat or Republican--send our best and brightest, our own kids, into  war to risk their lives unless we have debated it, we have determined  it is in the national interest, we have voted and thereby put our  signature and our thumbprint on the notion that it is worth sending our  best and brightest to risk their lives.

I urge my colleagues: As this is escalating from pinprick strikes and  one-off operations now into full war, even called war by the President  and his chief advisers, let's stand up and do what the Constitution  requires us to do.

I urge a ``yes'' vote on my resolution.