Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693124/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. KAINE. Madam President, pursuant to section 601(b) of the  International Security Assistance and Arms Control Expert Act, I move  to discharge the Committee on Foreign Relations from further  consideration of S.J. Res. 59, to direct the removal of U.S. Armed  Forces from hostilities against the Islamic Republic of Iran that have  not been authorized by Congress.

Mr. KAINE. Madam President, we will begin a couple of hours of debate  on this resolution prior to a vote that I understand is scheduled  around 6 or maybe a little bit thereafter.

I rise to talk about the resolution for the second time in the last  week, and I need to repeat all the points I made when I spoke about it  last week. I will just begin with this: I came to the Senate in January  of 2013, and I tell people that I came with 100 interests and 10  passions and 1 obsession. The obsession that I brought with me to this  body was an obsession that I will do everything possible I can to stop  the United States from getting into an unnecessary war.

Why did I bring that obsession with me in 2013? I brought it with me  because of the experience in Virginia during two wars over the course  of 20 years, from 2001 to 2021. I was Governor of Virginia from 2006 to  2010. I was Lieutenant Governor of Virginia before that. Like every  State in this country, Virginia was deeply, deeply affected by the  global War on Terror.

When I was Governor of Virginia, I had the honor and responsibility-- but it was also a burden--of being the commander in chief of the  Virginia National Guard. That meant that I was with our Guard men and  women when they deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan and when they came  home. I went to funerals. I went to wakes. These were very, very moving  experiences.

I visited, as Governor, our troops, our Guard men and women, in both  Iraq and Afghanistan during that period where the war was at a huge  upsurge. Thousands of Virginia Guard men and women were deployed during  those 4 years. Of course, because of who Virginia is, it wasn't just  our Guard men and women; it was also our Active-Duty, our DOD  civilians, civilians from other parts of the Federal family,  reservists, military contractors, DOD civilians and their families. The  cost of that 20 years of war on Virginia was very heavy.

I came with the obsession not only because of what I had seen in  terms of the effect of these wars on my Commonwealth and my country-- the deaths, the injuries, the longstanding mental health needs, the  tremendous expenditure of public treasure, the lack of clear and  positive results from that 20 years--but I also came with an obsession  on this topic because of watching the way the war started, particularly  the war in Iraq.

The United States was basically--the public and this body were  basically lied to about the extent of the Iraqi program of weapons of  mass destruction, and then an administration forced a vote on the floor  of this body right before a midterm election. The debate and vote  occurred in October of 2022.

I remember--at the time, I was Lieutenant Governor, and I was paying  attention to this, and I thought, what is the urgency about this debate  in October of 2022 right before a midterm election?

You might remember that the United States didn't even invade Iraq  until March of 2023. There was no urgency. There was none. But it was  determined to be politically expedient to force a debate before a  midterm election to try to give one party an edge in those midterms.  Yes, there was a vote, but it was timed and structured for political  rather than military reasons, and thousands of Americans, both soldiers  and contractors, lost their lives as a result.

So I came to this body fully believing that, yes, I am only 1 of 100,  but I am going to do everything I can to make sure that the United  States doesn't get into an unnecessary war and that if the issue ever  arises, Congress needs to fully debate any military mission before we  send our sons and daughters into war.

Now, I say this as a Senator from--I am going to argue this, and the  President will challenge me on this, but I am going to say Virginia is  the most pro-military State in the United States. Our military bases,  our veteran population, our reservists, our Guard, our military  families, our DOD civilians--our map is a map of American military  history: Yorktown, Appomattox, the Wilderness, Fredericksburg, the 9/11  attack on the Pentagon. Everything about Virginia is connected to our  Nation's military mission.

I know the President would make the same claim about Florida's  connection to our military. This would be a virtuous competition as we  would all talk about how pro-military our States are. But I believe  this deeply about Virginia.

My dad was an Army officer. One of my kids is a Marine officer. I  mean, this is family. And I am connected deeply as a member of the  Armed Services Committee to all of our military community.

I am not a pacifist. Every year, I work on the Armed Services  Committee to help write a defense bill and try to get it passed. I whip  votes on the floor for military aid packages to allies. There are bad  folks in the world. The United States needs to defend itself, and it  needs to work with allies to help them defend themselves. But our  troops, our sons and daughters, deserve to have wise civilian  leadership that only makes the decision to send them into war on the  basis of careful consideration and a debate before the entire public.

The other night when I spoke on the floor, I pointed out the history  of the way the Framers of our Constitution grappled with this question  in 1787. To just make it simple, they decided--contrary to the history  of the world and the way virtually every other country did it, they  decided that war was too big a decision for one person. I mean, they  were making this decision at the time that George Washington was  President. He was very respected and admired. He was a wartime general.  Deeply respected. But as much as they respected leaders like George  Washington, they said that war is too big a decision for one person.

So they wrote a Constitution and said that the United States should  not be at war without a vote of Congress. Defense against an attack or  an imminent attack? Yes, the President, as Commander in Chief, has the  power to do that. But to go on offense against another nation or an  entity, like a terrorist group--and there were terrorist groups back in  the days, like the Barbary Coast pirates. From the very beginning, we  have confronted threats not just by nation states but by others.

But the decision was that it was too big a decision for any one  person; we should only go to war after a debate--not only in Congress,  where we put our thumbprint on ``This is a national mission we are  risking our sons and daughters' lives for,'' we have a debate in front  of the entire public so they can understand the stakes.

War is too big for any one person.

I think the events of this week have demonstrated that war is too big  to be consigned to the decisions of any one person.

Our current Commander in Chief, on his social media account a day or  two after the attack in Iran, put up a music video with lyrics that  were matched to a Beach Boys song, ``Barbara Ann,'' but the music video  contained these lyrics: ``Bomb bomb Iran; bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb Iran  . . . ; went to a mosque, gonna throw some rocks . . . ; time to turn  Iran into a parking lot.''

We shouldn't premise a decision to send our sons and daughters into  war on the judgment of a single person.

The President patted himself on the back, and he compared the attack  to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. That was a most unusual--most unusual-- comparison.

I haven't put all the lyrics of the song up on my chart, but one of  the other lyrics was about sending the Ayatollah home in a box. I mean,  is this some kind of a joke? Is this the way we treat war now? We run a  victory lap, overstate it, and we turn it into a funny music video, or  we use a Hiroshima and Nagasaki comparison as if that is like a good  thing?

War is too big to leave the decision to send our sons and daughters  and risk their lives on the say-so of one person.

We had some turmoil this week in the Senate. We were going to have a  briefing on Tuesday from the national security officials in the  administration. They had to postpone it until Thursday because they  were fighting with themselves and they were fighting with reporters  about intelligence that had come out that the President wasn't happy  about.

In the immediate aftermath of the attack, he said that the Iranian  nuclear program had been completely obliterated. All sources--Iranian  sources, Israeli sources, the IAEA, the United States--have said  ``severe damage,'' but because the President sort of went overboard  with the Hiroshima and Nagasaki claims, reporters started to dig into  it. Then the President got mad, and then his Secretary of Defense  started to name-call reporters who were asking basic questions.

War is too big an issue to leave to the moods and the whims and the  daily vibes of any one person. That is why the Founders said that  unless it is imminent defense--and in this case, it wasn't. The Israeli  Foreign Minister had said before the U.S. attack that their attacks had  already set the Iranian program back at least 2 or 3 years. That is a  direct quote from the Israelis who follow this very closely. If the  program had been set back at least 2 or 3 years, what was the urgency  that suggested we needed to take this action without a debate in  Congress?

It was not only done without congressional authorization, it was also  done without congressional consultation, and it was done without  congressional notification of Democratic leaders. Republican leaders  were given a briefing, but for the first time during my time here, no  Democrat in a leadership position on the key committees was given an  advance notice of this. Is war now to be a partisan thing where the  White House just notifies those of the same party?

I have tried to be consistent about this. When I came to the Senate  in 2013 with this passion that I am going to do anything I can to stop  an unnecessary war, within a few months of arriving here, President  Obama, who is a personal friend, was contemplating military action in  Syria. I looked my friend in the eye, and I said: You do not have  congressional authority to do that. You need to bring this to Congress.

Hey, I thought you were my supporter. I thought you were my friend  and you would support this.

I do support you, and I think you have good judgment, and I think you  are likely to make a careful decision, but war is too big an issue to  leave in the hands of even a completely careful and deliberative of  individual.

The Framers didn't want to leave war in the hands of George  Washington, for God's sake. They thought Congress should be involved in  it.

I said to President Obama: You need to bring this to Congress.

And guess what. A lot of Members of this body said the same thing.

Seven Members of the Senate right now were in the House in 2013. I  have a letter that many of them wrote. Six Members who are currently  Republican Members of the Senate signed this.

August 28, 2013:

Dear Mr. President, we strongly urge you to consult and       receive authorization from Congress before ordering the use       of U.S. military force in Syria. Your responsibility to do       so is prescribed in the Constitution and the War Powers       Resolution of 1973.

We were in a recess then--it was August--but they said:

If you deem that military action . . . is necessary,       Congress can reconvene at your request. We stand ready to       come back into session, consider the facts before us, and       share the burden of decisions regarding U.S. involvement in       the quickly escalading Syrian conflict.

Six Republican Members of this body signed that letter in 2013, but  based on their public statements, they seem to have a different  standard for President Trump than they did for President Obama, a  different standard for war against Iran than they did for war against  Syria.

There is one Member who signed this letter who is consistent:  Congressman Peter Welch, who is now in the Senate. He signed this  letter to the President of his own party, saying you can't do this  without a vote of Congress, come to Congress. And he is taking the same  position on the floor today, consistent with what he did then.

I am going to conclude and just say this: I know everybody in this  body is praying that the cease-fire that is in place now, for a couple  of days, works and that it holds.

I know everybody is praying that when the administration now says  they are interested in a diplomatic resolution to this program, that  they will have learned that they shouldn't tear up diplomatic deals  that they did in 2018 but instead should prefer diplomacy and step back  from war against Iran.

I pray that that holds and that we won't need to be back here doing  this again, but I do note that the President, even today, said he would  certainly bomb Iran again.

I am hoping--I am realistic--but I am hoping that Members of this  body will stand up for the Constitution, will stand up for the  proposition that war is too big to be decided by one person, will stand  up for the principles that they articulated pretty clearly when it came  to President Obama thinking about taking war into Syria.

At that moment, when we urged President Obama to do that, he didn't  use military force. He did bring it to Congress. We had a debate in the  Foreign Relations Committee. We passed an authorization, and in that  debate, Syria stepped forward and said they would give up their  chemical weapons program. Diplomacy achieved a result, just as  diplomacy achieved a more effective control of the Iranian nuclear  program--even than the bombs that we dropped last Saturday--until it  was torn up.

I pray the cease-fire continues, but I fear we are going to be back  here on this floor. And I hope when we are on this floor again, Members  of this body will stand for the proposition that has been part of our  history that war is too big an issue to allow one person to make the  decision that sends our sons and daughters into harm's way.

Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, the remaining two speakers and Senator  Schumer have yielded their time to me. I will be the last speaker  before the vote.

My colleague from Idaho says this is driven by hate and vitriol  toward President Trump. He well knows that from my first months in the  Senate, I have taken this position, now, against four Presidents,  Democratic and Republicans.

The principles that have been stated on this floor about the  Constitution and War Powers Resolution are very,  very clear. Congress declares war. Once declared, the President is the  Commander in Chief. There is no war without a declaration of Congress.

The President, as Commander in Chief, can defend the United States  against imminent attack, but there was no such imminent threat posed by  the Iranian nuclear program, as the President's own National Security  Advisor testified to Congress shortly before this strike.

And as the Israeli Foreign Minister announced before the U.S. strike,  that the Israeli actions had set the nuclear program back 2 or 3 years.  No imminent attack on the United States, no imminent threat, that means  Congress gets to declare war.

This is not about hatred for any President; it is about standing up  and doing what we took an oath to do. My colleague from South Carolina  says we have only declared war five times, ending with World War II.  That is not accurate.

Congress has had the guts to at least vote on authorizing war up  through 2002. But in 2002 something happened in this body; the Senate  and the House got lied into a war with bogus intelligence about the  weapons program of the nation of Iraq. We should be haunted by that. We  should be haunted by that.

The claims that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction led us into a  war where thousands of troops and thousands of U.S. contractors were  killed. And so what should have been the learning that came out of that  is that we should do a good job kicking the tires, as Congress, before  we go into a war and not get lied into a war. Instead, what I fear,  since there has been no willingness of Congress to vote on any war  since 2002, is what Members of this body have decided is, Wow, we got  it wrong. We were lied into a war. We voted in a way that we regretted  so let's not vote at all. Let's not vote at all. Let's overturn the  congressional and constitutional history that says we only go to war  with Congress and try to hide in the grass.

Many of my colleagues have said things about Iran and how bad Iran  is. None of them have ever introduced an authorization for war against  Iran. If Iran is so bad, do that.

People in this body would rather not vote so they can't be held  accountable. I get that. That is a human impulse. It is just a human  impulse that so disrespects the service of our men and women in  uniform. If we are going to send troops into harm's way, our sons and  daughters, whether they are flying bombing missions or ground troops or  covert operations, we ought to have the guts in this body to cast a  vote saying that that war is necessary, not just act as cheerleaders  and hide from culpability, hide from accountability, hide from  responsibility.

If you vote against S.J. Res. 59, what you are saying is this  President should be able to wage war without coming to Congress. If you  think the President should have to come to Congress, whether you are  for or against the war in Iran, you will support S.J. Res. 59. You will  support the Constitution that has stood the test of time. You will  support your oath.

I urge a positive vote on the resolution.

Vote on Motion