Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Proposed Foreign Military Sale to the Government of Israel of Certain Defense Articles


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701811/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-proposed-foreign-military-sale-to-the-government-of-israel-of-certain-defense-articles


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise in support of Senator Sanders'  resolutions. I will be voting for both of them.

On February 21, 2024, I wrote a public letter to President Biden, and  I said: The Hamas attack on Israel is devastating and Israel faces  threats from other adversaries in the region and we should help Israel  defend its civilians, but we should do so only by providing defensive  weapons to Israel and not offensive weapons.

Why defensive weapons?

We have long been a security partner of Israel. Those who follow the  relationship understand there are threats to Israeli civilians that are  very present because of actors in the region like Hezbollah, Hamas, and  the Houthis; and Iran and Iranian-backed militias and Israeli civilians  do face threats that warrant the United States providing defensive  support.

But I took the public position more than 2 years ago now that it  would be wrong to send offensive weapons to Israel, and that position  was based on exactly the same reason, to protect civilians--protect  Palestinian civilians, protect Lebanese civilians--to protect  civilians. Offensive weapons delivered to Israel in the way they are  using them, particularly bombs, are guaranteed to cause mass civilian  suffering. That is what has happened in Gaza, and that is what is  happening in Lebanon.

Anyone who has paid attention to this region just has to answer this  question: Is more civilian death going to get us to the right place?

This is a region that has been replete with the deaths of civilians,  and the U.S. taxpayer and this body should not be pouring gasoline or  adding tinder to a fire where more and more civilians are in jeopardy.

So, since that public letter to President Biden, I have supported  Senator Sanders and other resolutions before. If weapons are offensive  in nature, the United States shouldn't be transferring them, and I will  support the resolutions for that matter. We need to protect civilians.  We don't need to pour gasoline on a fire in the region and accelerate  more deaths of civilians.

I have received some outreach about this particular vote from some  who say this is a vote to deny all military aid to Israel. That is not  what this vote is about. This is about denying particular weapons that  are offensive in nature.

Just to give you an order of magnitude, during this term of Congress,  the President has noticed 27 different arms transfers to Israel; and  with these two joint resolutions of disapproval, we have challenged 6-- 6 of those 27 arms transfers--as being offensive in nature. We have not  challenged 21 of the arms transfers that are primarily defensive in  nature. There has not been a single Senator who has brought up a  challenge to the defensive arms sales because we want to protect  civilian lives; but when weapons like this that are offensive in nature  are guaranteed to lead to the deaths of civilians, I think it is  appropriate to challenge them, and that is why I am going to support  these resolutions.

I have also had some say that, if these resolutions succeed, the  United States is reducing its support for Israeli defense. That is also  not true. The support for Israeli defense is the result of a 10-year  memorandum of understanding that has an annual allocation for Israeli  defense that has been supplemented by a supplemental bill that was  passed by this body in April of 2024. That amount of money, which is an  annual allocation, gets drawn down by these transfers.

I would urge my colleagues to support the cessation of offensive  weapons transfers. If this bill succeeds, it doesn't reduce support for  Israeli defense by a single penny. It just means that Israel should  request and the United States should consider transferring defensive  weapons to enable Israel to defend its own civilians but not to carry  out military action that would harm other civilians.

The principle of ``let's just stop the damage to civilians in the  region'' seems to me to be overwhelming. If the deaths of civilians  were accomplishing anything, we would have seen that accomplishment  long before now. So stopping the transfer of offensive weapons seems to  me to be the right thing to do not just for the United States security  interests and the safety of our servicemembers in the region, but it is  also the right thing to do to promote regional stability and the  security of Israel.

For that reason, I will vote for the resolutions, and I appreciate my  colleague for introducing them.