Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I am glad to join my colleagues to talk  about the upcoming vote on S.J. Res. 84, the use of the Congressional  Review Act to strike down a recent regulatory attack on the Affordable  Care Act launched by the Trump administration.

I think my colleagues have done a pretty good job of explaining what  is at stake. Even the Trump administration's own experts at CMS, the  Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, say that implementation of  this rule could lead up to 1.8 million people to lose health insurance  just this year, 2026. That would be devastating.

On top of the premium increases that people have seen because the  Affordable Care Act extended tax credits were not extended when tax  cuts for the wealthiest were extended, this additional burden on this  1.8 million-person population is unacceptable, and the vote we will  cast today gives us all an opportunity to sort of shore up the  healthcare network for those nearly 2 million people.

I wanted to focus, in particular, on the kind of person who is really  going to be affected by the Trump rule if we do not affirmatively  embrace this Congressional Review Act resolution, and that is self- employed entrepreneurs and gig workers.

You know, one of the challenges about the American healthcare system  before the Affordable Care Act was it was very, very difficult to buy  health insurance if you were an individual entrepreneur, if you had a  very small business.

Without exchanges and the offering of policies on the exchanges with  premium support for those who were lower or middle income, you had a  lot of people who were self-employed entrepreneurs who couldn't buy  insurance at all, and then you also had a huge group of people working  with companies that had insurance that had this great American dream of  an idea to start their own business, but they couldn't do it because if  they were to leave their large employer to go off and follow their  dream, they couldn't get health insurance.

And one of the very salutary effects of the ACA, through the creation  of exchanges with premium support, has been to enable people to pursue  their dream and become innovators or entrepreneurs or gig workers and  work in the way and in the flexible circumstance they choose. And I  speak from experience because two of my three kids fit into this  category.

The rule that has been put in place by the Trump administration isn't  going to make it particularly hard for large group plans to just re-up  insurance, but it will make it very hard for those individuals that  don't have an HR department fighting for them, that have to figure it  out all on their own. It will make it very hard for them to negotiate  the marketplace and buy insurance.

And, sometimes, their income is up, and, sometimes, their income is  down. And, sometimes, they want to enroll, and, at other times, they  don't. It is precisely this kind of person that is going to be hit the  hardest by the Trump rule and why I am so strongly in support of my  colleagues' efforts to repeal it.

You know, we often say--and I will conclude--that small businesses  and startups are the backbones of the American economy, and they are. I  grew up in a house with a dad who worked for a huge company, and it was  his dream to start his own business. And he bought a little iron  working shop that, at the time that he bought it, had like four  employees. And during the entire growing-up period when I worked in my  Dad's shop, in a good year, it would be seven employees, and in a bad  year, it would be four, plus my mom and my two brothers and me.

So many American businesses are just like this. They are one or two  employees. They are somebody who even has another gig, maybe as an  artist, and they are moonlighting in some area where they can make just  enough to afford to buy health insurance on the exchange, if we don't  crush them with high premiums and if we don't make the paperwork  burdens so substantial.

The CRA that my colleagues are offering will be directly responsive  to the needs of this very, very important group of American innovators  and entrepreneurs. And that is why I so strongly support it and urge my  colleagues to do the same.