Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President. Physicians at the Department of Veterans  Affairs depend on Therapeutic Medical Physicists to help plan and  deliver critical radiation treatment to patients. Inadequate support  from these medical professionals can place veterans at risk for  radiation injury or inappropriate treatment. As radiation therapy has  become more sophisticated and more common over the past fifteen years,  the Department has struggled to recruit and retain Therapeutic Medical  Physicists. The average salary in the private sector for a PhD board  certified Therapeutic Medical Physicists with ten to fourteen years of  work experience is approximately $190,000, but current law limits  salaries for these employees at the Department to $166,500, inhibiting  the Department's ability to recruit qualified individuals to fill these  positions. 

  When faced with Therapeutic Medical Physicist shortages, the  Department outsources this work to expensive contractors. Consequently,  the Department substantially overspends on these services, which could  be done more reliably in-house and at a much lower cost. Furthermore,  contracts for TMP services are awarded for a short period, which  results in frequent turnover that can be potentially dangerous from the  perspective of quality care and patient safety. 

  Today, I am pleased to introduce the Department of Veterans Affairs  Therapeutic Medical Physicist Pay Cap Relief Act with my colleague  Senator Murkowski. This legislation would improve the recruitment and  retention of Therapeutic Medical Physicists by allowing the Department  to pay these professionals at rates competitive with the private  sector. This bill would also improve the quality of care for veterans  by reducing the turnover of Therapeutic Medical Physicists, and lead to  lower total costs for the Department by eliminating the use of  expensive contractors. With these savings, the Department could raise  salaries and hire more Therapeutic Medical Physicists. 

  This commonsense, bipartisan legislation is an opportunity to invest  in professionals who treat those who have sacrificed for our nation,  and improve the standard of care we provide to our veterans. I look  forward to working with my colleagues to swiftly implementing the  provisions of the Department of Veterans Affairs Therapeutic Medical  Physicist Pay Cap Relief Act. 

  Thank you, Mr. President.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT