Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, approximately 80 percent of jobs in today's  workforce require some form of postsecondary education or training  beyond the high school level. While the number of students pursing  postsecondary education is growing, the supply of middle-skilled  workers, whose work requires more than a high school diploma but not a  four-year degree, falls short of industry demand. According to the  National Skills Coalition, 53 percent of all jobs in today's labor  market are middle skill, but only 43 percent of U.S. workers are  trained at this level. Education is failing to meet the needs of  critical industries, including manufacturing, construction, energy,  health care, information technology, transportation, and business  management and administration. 

  For many people seeking a job, attending a community college is the  most affordable and accessible pathway to higher paying employment  opportunities. In Virginia, we have 23 community colleges that serve an  estimated 400,000 people across the State, providing them opportunities  to earn an associate's degree, certifications or licensures in some of  the most cutting-edge and in-demand fields in our workforce. The impact  of community colleges nationwide is even greater, and our rapidly  changing economy demands increased investment in the pathways these  institutions provide to keep up with changing skill demands. 

  Today, I am proud to introduce the Assisting Community Colleges in  Educating Skilled Students (ACCESS) to Careers Act with Senator Young.  Inspired by the success of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community  College and Career Training grant program, this bill provides grants to  states and community colleges to scale evidence-based strategies that  will help prepare our students with the skills necessary to succeed in  our in-demand industry sectors and occupations. These grants can be  used to expand dual enrollment, work-based learning opportunities,  apprenticeships, and other pathways to best meet the skill needs of  students and employers in our evolving workforce. The bill also  emphasizes the importance of student services to ensure that students  have the support they need to complete their programs. 

  The bill also allows grants to be used for developing partnerships  between community colleges and other private and public sector  entities, creating innovative career pathways directly between two-year  institutions and employers. In Virginia, we've already started to see  the success of these community college partnerships as part of a  strategy to address the growing workforce shortages in rural areas and  in-demand industries. 

  When we invest in our community colleges, they become hubs of  innovation, finding pathways to train our next generation in the skills  our rapidly evolving workforce needs. The ACCESS to Careers Act  represents a necessary step to take the evidence-based innovations  we've seen on the local level to scale in order to fill jobs in high- needs industries. I strongly encourage my colleagues in the Senate to  consider this commonsense, bipartisan legislation as we move towards  reauthorizing the Higher Education Act.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT