Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696447/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to thank my colleague from Minnesota  Senator Klobuchar for her hard work on this effort and her work over  many years in leading the U.S.-Canada interparliamentary dialogue. That  is a dialogue that we have with some nations, nations that are  longstanding allies of the United States, and I maintain that the U.S.- Canada relationship is really the model for what a relationship between  two neighboring nations should be.

I spoke yesterday with respect to the Brazil tariffs, and I talked  about the wrecking ball that Donald Trump is  taking to the American economy. There have been three academic studies  of the Virginia economy in recent months, and they were recently  summarized by a publication called Cardinal News in Virginia earlier  this month. The takeaway line about how Virginia is faring under Donald  Trump's economic mismanagement is this: fewer jobs, higher prices,  slower growth.

The firing of Federal employees, the cancellation of celebrated  economic development projects, the imposition of tariffs in a chaotic  on-again, off-again, pause-again, give-you-an-exception, we-will- renegotiate regime--all of these things are deeply hurting the Virginia  economy, and I know my colleagues around the country are experiencing  the same thing.

That economic wrecking ball composes many elements beyond the  tariffs, but the tariffs are really the central item that is causing  damage to our economy right now.

The tariffs that have been imposed by President Trump on Canada, like  the Brazil tariffs we discussed yesterday or the ``Liberation Day''  tariffs we will talk about tomorrow, are proposed under the statute  IEEPA.

Yesterday on the floor, as I talked about the Brazilian tariffs, I  told everyone what IEEPA was meant to do. It was meant to give the  President power to take action in the event of an international  emergency.

An international emergency is defined in a pretty significant way so  as to not be used in minor instances. The definition under IEEPA says  that a President may take certain actions when there is an  extraordinary and unusual threat to the national security, foreign  policy, or economy of the United States--an extraordinary and unusual  threat.

Before President Trump, what kind of emergencies have been triggered  under IEEPA by Democratic and Republican Presidents? The existence and  activities of transnational criminal organizations, malicious cyber- enabled activities that target the United States, human rights  violations that affect the United States, corruption that affects the  United States, pervasive strategies by foreign nations to evade  sanctions imposed by the United States, foreign interference in U.S.  elections.

These are the kinds of unusual and extraordinary actions originating  in whole or substantially in part outside the United States that have  been labeled by Presidents an ``international emergency'' under IEEPA  to enable a President to take certain action. President Trump has  stretched this notion of emergency far beyond the language of the  statute and far beyond what anyone contemplated when this statute was  written.

You have heard me talk about the President declaring an energy  emergency when the United States is producing more energy than at any  time in our history. You have heard us talk about the President  declaring the prosecution of a friend of his in Brazil a national  security emergency. If President Trump can define anything as an  emergency, then so can any President henceforth. That is why my  colleagues should be pretty careful in striking down overuse of  emergency power.

So what is the emergency with respect to Canada that has inspired the  President to impose these tariffs on Canada and then add to the tariffs  because he saw a television advertisement he didn't like? The emergency  the President has cited is the challenge of fentanyl.

Now, fentanyl is an emergency. I am not standing here on the floor of  the Senate to deny that it is so. The President has used the fentanyl  emergency to impose tariffs on Canada and Mexico, and I haven't  challenged those uses of emergency power. I have questions about  whether tariffs are the right solution to the declared emergency. But I  would not stand here on the floor of the Senate and claim that fentanyl  is not an emergency that had significant origin in China and Mexico.  But fentanyl is not an emergency from Canada.

In the most recent year that we had statistics, the United States  seized nearly 40,000 pounds of fentanyl on the southern border of the  United States coming from Mexico. That is an emergency. How much  fentanyl was seized on or near the Canadian border during the same  year? The answer is 21 pounds--21 pounds.

Much of that fentanyl was not necessarily seized at the border; it  was seized near the border. It may have been coming from Canada, but in  all likelihood, it was actually on its way to Canada because more  fentanyl goes from the United States into Canada than vice versa.

So this claim that Canada is responsible for a fentanyl emergency and  thus we need to punish both Canada but more especially American  consumers is completely without factual basis, and it is completely  illogical.

What is the emergency? The emergency apparently got augmented in the  past weekend. The President saw an advertisement, as my colleague said,  with a direct quote from President Ronald Reagan about why tariffs are  bad, and he said: We caught the Canadians redhanded, and so we are  going to add another 10-percent tariff on top of what I have already  done, and we are going to stop any trade negotiations with Canada  because I have such thin skin that an ad on television quoting Ronald  Reagan hurts my feelings.

How about that as a rationale for trade policy? How about that? There  is no emergency in this situation, and that is the reason this  resolution should be supported.

But while there is no emergency, there are consequences. There are  consequences to what President Trump has done with Canada.

In the economic space, my colleague talked about visitation.  ``Canadian Visitors To U.S. Plummet 33% In June--Sixth Straight Month  Of Steep Declines.''

Canadian visitors are the most common foreign visitors to the  Commonwealth of Virginia. They tend to love Virginia Beach, and we love  Canadians coming to Virginia Beach. But we have seen Canadian  visitation drop. All States in the country have seen Canadian  visitation drop.

There are so many other stories that I hear out on the road. I was  with a baker in Virginia who has three pie shops--Mom's Apple Pie. We  were talking about this back in the spring after the tariffs had been  announced but before they had really bit.

She had seen tariffs in Trump's first term, and she said to me on  behalf of Mom's Apple Pie--I mean, this is almost too good a story to  be true--Mom's Apple Pie, for gosh sake.

She said: Senator Kaine, you have got to do something about these  tariffs.

I said: Tariffs? You have three bakeries--one in Occoquan, one in  Purcellville, one in Leesburg. How do tariffs affect you?

Pie tins. Pie tins. All pie tins are made of aluminum, and they all  come from Canada. If you jack up the cost of aluminum with aluminum  tariffs by 25 percent, apple pie gets more expensive. Nobody has to buy  apple pie. If it gets more expensive, people will choose not to buy  apple pie, and I got to lay people off. I saw it in Trump term 1. I am  going to see in Trump term 2.

Farmers. Farmers have seen commodities be pretty darn flat. Commodity  prices have not been going up. They have been getting a lot more for  agricultural commodities, but the inputs aren't stable. They are  getting more expensive.

One of the most significant inputs for any farmer of an agricultural  vegetable or grain product is fertilizer. One of the key ingredients in  fertilizer is potash, and about 80 percent of potash that goes into  fertilizer used by American farmers comes from Canada.

So the initial effect of these tariffs is to raise the cost of these  inputs--building supplies, food, fertilizer, pie tins. The input costs  go up. And then there is never a one-way trade war, so a nation will  say: Well, then, we are going to retaliate against you. We are not  going to take this sitting down.

So Canada doesn't want to, but after Trump imposed the tariff, Canada  retaliates on products in the ag sector, and suddenly it becomes harder  for American businesses to sell products in Canada.

One of the products that is an important one in Southern States like  mine is whiskey. ``The U.S. Alcohol Industry Is Reeling From Canada's  Booze Boycott. Trade fight prompts pullback in purchases by the biggest  export market for U.S.-made wines, costing American brands tens of  millions in sales.''

Virginia is one of the top 10 States in the country in the volume of  wine production. We also produce a lot of whiskey and other spirits.  And Canadians like to buy American products. But the retaliation and  the anger at the United States has caused many to decide to pull all  American products off their shelves--all American products off their  shelves. And I speak with a number of businesses in Virginia who would  face this.

So the consequences are very real. My colleague from Minnesota talked  about estimates that this could be already costing American families on  average between $1,800 and $2,000 a year.

But it has consequences bigger than that. Canada is an ally. We are  trying to convince Canada to increase their NATO expenditure up to 2  percent of GDP and related expenditures on infrastructure up to 5  percent of GDP. The new Prime Minister, Mark Carney, has gone to the  Parliament and gotten their commitment to do so.

We are asking Canada to participate with us in one of President  Trump's most significant military priorities, called Golden Dome. In  Canada, they call it Continental Shield. They have a different name for  it, but it is the same thing; it is missile defense for North America.  And we are trying to get Canada to heavily invest, as they should, to  try to provide missile defense in North America. It is much harder to  convince an ally to spend hundreds of millions, if not billions of  dollars on a joint defense platform when you are punishing their  economy and when we are punishing our own citizens.

So that is why we need to vote for this resolution.

There is a right way to resolve this, and my colleague mentioned it:  the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement. It was one of the highlights, the  stellar achievements of Donald Trump's first term. NAFTA was 20 years  old; it needed to be renegotiated.

Donald Trump said: We are going to renegotiate it and make it a lot  better.

Guess what. He did. He and his team did make it better.

So when it came to the Senate, my recollection is it came to the  Senate, and it passed by about 89 to 10. We can't get that vote on a  Mother's Day resolution here. Donald Trump should be proud of USMCA.

USMCA had a provision that, in 2026, we would look at the first 5  years of its history and then make it better. Those discussions had  just started when I was in Ontario about a month and a half ago. The  Canadian Government felt really good about sitting around the table  with the United States and Mexico and making this deal better. Donald  Trump has stopped the discussions because a TV ad hurt his feelings.

The right answer to the U.S.-Canada relationship on trade is to go  back to the table on USMCA, find anything that hasn't worked, anything  that can be made better, negotiate it, and make it better.

Tariffs are hurting our economy, hurting our citizens, hurting our  businesses. Let's terminate this bogus emergency and let our households  and businesses save some money.