Venezuela


Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I have spoken before; so I am going to be  very brief. And then I am going to call up the business of the Senate,  this War Powers Resolution.

Two points. In the aftermath of the briefing yesterday, I have had  good conversations with colleagues, and many of them have asked me  about the distinction between the execution of a valid arrest warrant  and a larger military operation.

I want to state very clearly that I do not challenge, nor does this  resolution  challenge, the execution of a valid arrest warrant against Nicolas  Maduro. That valid arrest warrant bringing him to justice in the United  States will be good for America and good for Venezuela. We do not  challenge that.

In fact, under the War Powers Resolution, I am not even sure that the  execution of an arrest warrant, even if accompanied by a military  escort, would rise to the level of hostilities that would allow such a  challenge, and I certainly wouldn't be calling it up for a vote on the  floor.

But this is obviously bigger than the initiation of an arrest  warrant.

From the beginning, on September 2, the striking of Venezuelan boats  in open waters, the amassing of naval assets around Venezuela, the  President's authorization of covert activities, the seizure of ships,  the coordinated attack of 150 aircraft that not only extracted  President Maduro and his wife but also bombed sites around the  country--this is bigger than an arrest warrant.

More than 200 enemies have been killed. U.S. troops have been  injured. Two are still hospitalized. And now we understand, after the  hearing yesterday and what has been made public, that this will go on  for a long period of time. The seizure of oil, the dictation of terms  about elections and the politics of Venezuela will go on for years.

This is not an attack on the arrest warrant, but it is merely a  statement that, going forward, U.S. troops should not be used in  hostilities in Venezuela without a vote of Congress, as the  Constitution requires.

The second point I will make is this: We are all humans in this  place, and one of the things we try to do is minimize votes that we  might regret. It is impossible to eliminate those.

We are humans, and we cast thousands of votes even in a single term  in the Senate. There will be some we might look back on and feel like:  Oh, maybe we should have done this differently.

The most likely vote where regret would be most painful is a vote on  matters of war.

And I just want to assure my colleagues: Here is something I can  guarantee you. No one has ever regretted--no one has ever regretted--a  vote that just says: Mr. President, before you send our sons and  daughters to war, come to Congress. That is a vote that no one has ever  regretted, and no one will ever regret.