War Powers Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise today to discuss the War Powers  Resolution that I filed on Friday, January 3, with Senator Durbin. 

  I spoke yesterday at some length about the painful history of  relations between Iran and the United States and the escalating  tensions in the last 3 years that have brought us to the brink of war.  As we stand at the brink, with military actions by Iran and the United  States causing battlefield casualties on the other side, I believe that  it is imperative for Congress to reassert itself and make plain that no  President should have the ability to take the Nation to war on his or  her own. 

  Let me talk about the Constitution and about the value judgment  underlying the allocation of war powers in the Constitution and then  the resolution that is now pending, having been filed in the Senate. 

  First, on the Constitution, the Constitution as drafted in 1787 has a  series of provisions. Some are somewhat vague. In the Bill of Rights,  what is an unreasonable search? Some are extremely precise. You have to  be 35 years old to be President. If you look at the Constitution, you  can see a variety of provisions, some more specific and some a little  more open-ended. 

  Actually, the war powers part of the Constitution--though not  completely without ambiguity--is one of the clearest parts of the  Constitution. In article I, the power to declare war is given to  Congress, not to the President and not to the Judiciary--to Congress. 

  In article II, the President is declared to be the Commander in Chief  of the military. If you read the constitutional debates at the time,  what emerges is a fairly clear understanding by those who were at the  Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia that was both clear but also  quite unusual. The understanding was that for a war to start, Congress  should vote for it to be initiated, but then, once started, the last  thing you would need is 535 commanders in chief. So once Congress had  voted to start a war, at that point the prosecution of the war becomes  for the President and the military command, not to be micromanaged by  535 Members of Congress. 

  This was fairly clear, and it was very unusual. It was very unusual  because at that point in history, in 1787, war and the declaration of  war was not primarily legislative. It was for the executive. It was for  the King, for the Monarch, for the Pope, for the Emperor, or for the  Sultan. War had been, throughout history, an executive function, not a  legislative function. But the Framers of the Constitution and the  constitutional debates made plain that they were really trying to  change human history, at least in so far as the United States went.  Then, in this country, the initiation of war would be done by Congress. 

  Why was it done that way? Well, we have the virtue of a Virginian who  was not only one of the drafters of the Constitution but who kept notes  of the Constitutional Convention and then wrote letters about what they  intended. Ten years after the Constitution was written in 1787, James  Madison wrote a letter to Thomas Jefferson and directly addressed why  it is that the power to declare war is something for Congress. He said  this: ``The Constitution supposes, what the History of all Governments  demonstrates, that the Executive is the branch of power most interested  in war, and most prone to it.'' For this reason, we have ``with studied  care, vested the question of war in the Legislature.'' 

  They recognized that Executives were prone to war, and they wanted  the legislature to have to sign off on the initiation of war. It was  unusual then, and it is unusual now that the initiation of war is to be  left to the legislature. Why is that provision in the Constitution? Why  would we want to leave the question about whether war should be started  to Congress rather than let the President do it as would be the case in  other nations? It is about a value judgment. 

  As important as the constitutional provision is, I would argue that  what is more important is the value judgment that underlies this  requirement of congressional authorization, and the value judgment is  about the men and women who serve in our military. Any war runs the  risk that the young men and women who serve in our military could lose  their lives or could be injured or could see their friends lose their  lives or be injured. When we send troops into war, they may suffer an  injury--traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder--that  will affect the entire remainder of their lives in dramatic ways. If we  affect their lives in that way, we affect the lives of their families  and friends. 

  The value judgment that sort of served as the pillar behind the  provision that says Congress has to authorize war is this: If we are  going to force young men and women to risk their lives, it should be  based on a considered and open debate and a vote in full view of the  American public. Then, there should be a vote about whether we are at  war. If at the end of that debate--with the questions that get asked  and the trading of perspectives--before the people's elected  legislative branch, the legislature says that this is in the national  interest and we should be at war, then, for those men and women who  serve--yes, they are going to serve and risk their lives and risk their  health and risk what might happen to them for the rest of their life-- we will only ask them to do that if there is a considered judgment that  war is in the national interest. 

  That is the value judgment that underlies the most unusual part of  the Constitution, that war can't be started except by Congress. If we  have that debate and vote, then, it is a fair request to ask that of  people--like my boy in the Marines or the 1 million-plus people who  serve in the military. It is a fair request to deploy them and have  them risk their lives. 

  But how dare we order troops into harm's way, where they could risk  their lives or health possibly for the rest of their life, if we in  Congress are unwilling to have a debate and have a vote. Sadly,  throughout the history of this country--and this is a completely  nonpartisan statement--with Whigs and Federalists, Democrats and  Republicans, and with different parties in control of the legislative  bodies and different parties represented in the White House, Congress  has managed to figure out a way to avoid debate and avoid voting if  they can. 

  War votes are tough. I have had to cast two during the time I have  been in the Senate as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee. I  have cast thousands of votes in my life as a city council member and as  a Senator. I will tell you that a war vote is categorically different  than any other vote you will ever cast. They are hard. They can be  unpopular. There are going to be bad consequences of a war vote. There  may be an understandable human tradition in Congress to try to avoid  it, but it is a responsibility that cannot be avoided. How can we order  people to risk their lives when we are unwilling to risk the political  challenges of a vote on war? That is the constitutional history. That  is why the article I branch--the first among equals--is charged with  the responsibility of initiating war, and that is the value judgment  that underlies that constitutional provision. 

  What does our resolution do? Our resolution is filed pursuant to the  War Powers Act. The War Powers Act was passed at the tail end of the  Vietnam war. Senator Durbin did a good job yesterday of sort of going  into the history of the passage of the War Powers Act. The War Powers  Act was trying to do two things. In the aftermath of the Vietnam war,  they were analyzing what had gone wrong during it. There were a number  of points along the way where the President did not keep Congress  informed. There was a bombing campaign that started in Laos, for  example, during the Vietnam war, about which Congress wasn't informed,  and there were activities in Cambodia about which Congress wasn't  informed. 

  Then, the second thing we were trying to do was not just to require  Presidents to inform Congress but also to give Congress the ability to  have a debate and have a vote on the floor in case the President  started hostilities without coming to Congress. The President should  keep Congress informed and not hide the ball from Congress, and  Congress needs a procedure to stop a war that is initiated by a  President who doesn't come to Congress. 

  Here is the procedure under which we have filed our resolution. If a  President  puts U.S. troops into hostilities without a congressional  authorization--even if the President claims a legal right to do so-- self-defense, article II power--but if the President puts U.S. troops  into hostilities without a congressional authorization, any Member of  Congress can file a resolution to remove the U.S. troops from  hostilities and force a vote on that resolution within a prompt period  of time. That is the resolution Senator Durbin and I filed last Friday. 

  President Trump has engaged the United States in hostilities with  Iran. People have different points of view about whether that is a good  thing or bad thing, but now that there are battlefield casualties on  both the U.S. and Iranian sides, it is clear that this provision of the  statute has been met. We are engaged in hostilities with Iran. Not only  are the United States and Iran engaged in hostilities that have  inflicted casualties on the other side, but the President is  essentially acknowledging that we are in hostilities because he is  sending War Powers notices to Congress--one in November and one last  Saturday--reporting on his actions and saying that the reports are  consistent with the War Powers Act. He recognizes that hostilities are  underway. 

  The current hostilities are not pursuant to a previously passed  congressional authorization. The 2001 authorization for use of military  force authorized military action against the perpetrators of the 9/11  attack. Iran was not a perpetrator of the 9/11 attack, and there is no  argument that they are covered by that authorization. There was a  separate authorization passed by Congress in 2002. That is the most  recent one that has been passed. It authorized action to topple the  Iraqi Government of Saddam Hussein. That government is long gone, and  that authorization does not permit attacks on Iran or on the current  Iraqi leadership, such as the individuals who were killed in the two  sets of U.S. strikes. With these two threshold questions met,  hostilities are underway as defined by the War Powers Act, and they are  not subject to a previous congressional authorization. 

  We have now filed a resolution to get Congress to reassert its  constitutional role. The resolution demands that U.S. forces be  withdrawn from hostilities against Iran unless Congress affirmatively  passes a declaration of war or authorization, or the United States  needs to defend itself from an imminent attack. 

  If my resolution passes, Congress would still have the ability to  pass an authorization, if it chose to, and the United States would  still be able to defend itself against imminent attack, but the  President could not act on his own to start a war with Iran except in  those circumstances. 

  The resolution does not require that U.S. troops withdraw from the  region. We are doing many things in the region. Thousands of Americans  are there partaking in missions that increase the security of the  United States and our allies. There is no requirement that we withdraw  from the region. These missions include security cooperation with  partner forces, fighting against elements of al-Qaida, ISIS, and the  Taliban, and ensuring the safe passage of commercial vehicles through  freedom of navigation operations. All those activities that are being  conducted by the United States in the region can continue. 

  The resolution does not hold those forces into question or question  their mission. 

  The only thing the resolution would accomplish, if passed, is to back  the U.S. troops away from engagement and hostilities with Iran unless  for imminent defense or pursuant to a separate authorization. 

  I would hope to have the support of all my colleagues on this  resolution. Its passage would preserve the option of U.S. military  action for self-defense. It would preserve the ability of Congress to  declare war or pass a war authorization. It would only prohibit this  President or any President from taking us to war on his own. 

  I heard one colleague say: ``The last thing America needs is 535  Commanders in Chief.'' I completely agree. Once Congress authorizes a  war, it should be up to the Commander and the military leadership to  wage that war and make the tactical decisions about how to fight it,  but the question of whether we should be at war at all is one that is  specifically left to Congress. 

  Let me finish by again focusing on our troops. So many members of the  military were home for the holidays, enjoying time with their families,  and then received surprise notices that they must redeploy to the  Middle East yet again. 

  Imagine the cost of two decades of war on these troops and their  families. Some of these folks have deployed over and over and over  again. Imagine being at home at Christmas and receiving the notice you  have to deploy yet again to the Middle East. 

  We are living in a challenging time. Many Americans know nothing but  permanent war. We have been at war since 2001. There are Americans,  including Americans in the military, that that has been their whole  life. That is all they know. Yet, at the same time, many Americans know  nothing about war. Because we have an all-volunteer service, many  American families are completely untouched by the war. Only 1 percent  of our adult population serves in the military. 

  We have an interesting dynamic that may be sort of unique to our  history, whether we have been at war for 20 years and some only know  permanent war, while many other American families know nothing about  war because members of their families don't serve in the military. 

  We put war on a footing where it can go on forever, sort of like on  ``Executive autopilot'' by Presidential order, and Congress, in my  view--and, again, this is bipartisan--has hidden from its  responsibilities. 

  At this moment of very grave danger, where both Americans and  Iranians are losing their lives in hostilities, it is time for Congress  to shoulder the burden of making the most important decision we will  ever face. That is why I intend to bring this resolution to the floor  of the Senate and ask my colleagues to debate and vote on it in the  coming weeks. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT