Future Uses of Technology Upholding Reliable and Enhanced Networks Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690227/future-uses-of-technology-upholding-reliable-and-enhanced-networks-act


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Dingell for yielding  me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the FUTURE Networks Act, and  I thank Representatives Allen and Walberg for our joint effort in  making this a very bipartisan bill.

I introduced this bill to ensure America continues our leadership and  standard setting in the global technology race.

Mr. Speaker, 6G is going to be a global evolution in the way we  communicate. If we lead the race for next-generation wireless, then  this global technology will be based on our values, democracy, open  markets, and transparency.

If we fall behind, our foreign adversaries will have a new way to  expand their reach. That means less openness, less security, and more  top-down control.

This risk is real. Already, China is leading in the 6G patent race,  filing about 35 percent of patents globally.

To stay the global leader, America must invest in innovation and  convene our best and brightest to map the road ahead.

This is increasingly true as artificial intelligence redefines our  society and drives rapid change, including in our communications  infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, 6G networks will leverage AI to meet the connectivity  demand of American consumers and businesses. Mr. Speaker, 6G also can  support smart cities and supercharge augmented reality applications for  education, healthcare, and manufacturing.

Given such transformative potential, we must be proactive and make  sure America sets the gold standard for this next-generation  technology. That is why I am so glad to see this bipartisan bill moving  forward today.

The FUTURE Networks Act ensures our brightest minds in industry,  government, and academia are collaborating on the strategically vital  development of 6G. The race to 6G is not just about faster phones; it  is about national security, the economy, and America's standing on the  world stage.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of suspending the  rules and passing this important legislation.