National Telecommunications and Information Administration Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690255/national-telecommunications-and-information-administration-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Dingell for yielding  me time, and I thank the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Latta), my friend,  for his bipartisan partnership on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the NTIA Reauthorization Act.  We introduced this bill to ensure America continues to stand as a  global leader in communications and technology.

The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or  NTIA, plays a vital role in ensuring the United States' strong  technological leadership.

This Federal agency is integral for getting people connected,  ensuring we can communicate in emergencies, and bolstering our  cybersecurity infrastructure. Yet, Congress has not reauthorized NTIA  in over 30 years.

The pace of innovation and demand for connectivity has increased  dramatically over the last few years. We need strong leadership and  expertise to help us meet this demand.

NTIA advises on the rapid deployment of artificial intelligence and  manages the efficient uses of our airways. NTIA is also charged with  carrying out the bipartisan infrastructure law's historic $65 billion  investment to expand affordable and reliable high-speed internet access  to communities across America, communities like the Sacramento region  where, just 20 minutes outside the city, rural areas still suffer major  gaps in broadband coverage.

Progress to close the digital divide, however, is currently at a  standstill. This critical broadband funding must not be delayed. We  cannot risk changes that waste taxpayer dollars and strand Americans  with less affordable and more expensive internet.

We need NTIA to get back to helping our communities access Federal  funding. This includes giving our States the flexibility to move ahead  with their plans to expand affordable internet to the tens of millions  of Americans who still lack access.

While I am glad and very happy to co-lead this bipartisan bill to  modernize NTIA's mission in areas like Federal spectrum management and  international negotiations, I know there is a lot of work ahead.

Today, we must pass this legislation to empower NTIA to keep the  United States as the leader of global tech.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this  legislation.