Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in opposition to H.J.  Res. 88.

It shouldn't be controversial to say that air pollution is dangerous.  Every year, particulate-matter pollution kills more than 50,000  Americans. Study after study has linked air pollution to higher rates  of cancer, heart disease,  diabetes, cognitive decline, and, of course, respiratory conditions.  The evidence is overwhelming that clean air saves lives.

If my colleagues are like me and grew up in California, then Members  know the impacts of air pollution. I remember what it felt like to  breathe smog and particulate pollution before we had the strong  pollution standards that we have today.

In California, we have been dealing with the impacts of air pollution  for a long time. California's unique geography, with its valleys,  coastal basins, and surrounding mountain ranges, creates natural  barriers that trap pollutants and contribute to unique air pollution  challenges. As a State, we have long recognized the dangers of air  pollution, and we have been a pioneer in addressing the root causes.

In fact, California's efforts to control air pollution predate  Federal efforts in 1967. In 1967, California was the first State to  establish a State air pollution control agency. The country soon  followed with the Clean Air Act of 1970, which created the EPA and  established the First national air pollution standards.

In light of California's unique air pollution challenges and our  State's early leadership in tackling air pollution, the Clean Air Act  grants California the authority to set its own stronger vehicle  emission standards. Over the last 50 years, California has used this  authority more than 100 times to update and strengthen our pollution  standards, and these actions have actually saved countless lives across  California.

Yet, this resolution would strip California's rights to manage deadly  air pollutants within our own State, stripping away our right to  protect ourselves. Why? Why are Republicans trying to degrade  California's air quality? It is my constituents, my neighbors, and my  fellow Sacramentans who will suffer if Republicans succeed in killing  California's emission standards.

Mr. Speaker, I ask again: Why are Republicans willing to put the  health and safety of our communities at risk? I think the real answer  is that California's leadership helps to support automotive innovation.  The catalytic converter and electric car are thanks to California's  visionary leadership and re-imagining a future without air pollution.

Mr. Speaker, the oil industry is afraid of electric vehicles. Once  again, Republicans are doing the bidding of oil lobbyists. Once again,  the majority is on the wrong side of history, fighting to hold back the  future for as long as they can. It is shameful and indefensible.

Mr. Speaker, for this reason, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on  H.J. Res. 88.