Recognizing Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District's 25th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698078/recognizing-sacramento-metropolitan-fire-districts-25th-anniversary


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 25th  anniversary of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District and their  unwavering commitment to the safety and wellbeing of the Greater  Sacramento Area.

Founded in 2000, the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District ``Metro  Fire'' is a testament to the power of unity and a shared passion for  public safety. This robust California Special District was forged from  the strategic unification of 16 smaller, independent departments,  culminating in the final merger of the American River Fire Department  and Sacramento County Fire Protection District.

Today, Metro Fire is a vital safeguard for the lives of over 720,000  Sacramentans across a 359-square-mile area. From humble beginnings, it  has evolved into one of the largest and most responsive fire agencies  in California, operating 41 state of the art fire stations  strategically positioned across the region. Sacramentans can rest  assured knowing Metro Fire's highly trained professionals are prepared  to handle a diverse range of emergency situations.

Beyond emergency response, the Metro Fire district excels in building  public trust and ensuring transparency. Their commitment to providing  timely and relevant data empowers the public, community leaders, and  decision makers to make informed, data driven choices.

My mission as your congresswoman has always been to ensure our  region's first responders are equipped with the absolute best tools and  technology the federal government can help provide. Our partnership has  expanded training for ``front line'' firefighters and advanced rescue  capabilities through the acquisition of cutting-edge thermal imaging  technologies to better locate victims in low-visibility environments.  As we look ahead, I remain committed to working with Metro Fire to keep  them on the frontline of emergency and disaster response, with the  resources necessary for any situation they may face.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in commending the  dedicated men and women of the Sacramento Metropolitan Fire District  for 25 years of exceptional service and their enduring promise to the  community.