Recognizing International Plasma Awareness Week 2025


Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate International  Plasma Awareness Week, an annual campaign dedicated to raising  awareness about the importance of source plasma collection, recognizing  the valued contributions of donors, and increasing understanding about  plasma protein therapies and the rare diseases they treat.

As co-chair of the Congressional Rare Disease Caucus and a member of  the Congressional Plasma Caucus, this annual event, celebrated from  October 6 to 10 this year, is close to my heart.

For many people with rare diseases, plasma-derived therapies mean the  difference between life and death, or between a life of diminished  health and physical limitations and one filled with hope and  possibility.

For example, Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare but serious  neurological disorder that can lead to rapid muscle weakness and, in  severe cases, paralysis. A related condition, Chronic Inflammatory  Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP), is characterized by ongoing nerve  inflammation that can significantly impair mobility and quality of  life. For both these conditions, immunoglobulins reduce inflammation,  regulate the immune system, and help patients regain function. Most  patients with CIDP require life-long treatment to manage their  symptoms.

In the case of primary immunodeficiencies, hemophilia, alpha-1  antitrypsin deficiency, and other conditions, the body does not make  important proteins, or those proteins are functionally damaged. These  patients also rely on plasma-derived medicine to replace their programs  and restore their health. In most cases, plasma-derived therapies are  the only available treatment for these conditions. That is why it's so  important that we raise awareness of the importance of plasma-derived  therapies this week, and work to improve access to these unique  biologic products.

I'm committed to working to ensure that every individual, regardless  of how rare their disease may be, has access to the therapies they need  to lead healthier, fuller lives.