End Cruel Immigration Enforcement Against Kids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701415/end-cruel-immigration-enforcement-against-kids


Mr. VARGAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration's immigration crackdown has  unleashed a cruelty that really knows no limits.

Trump's ICE agents have beaten, tear-gassed, and murdered innocent  people. They have wrongfully detained and deported U.S. citizens, but  nothing demonstrates the cruelty of this administration more than the  way that they have treated children, children, as we have heard today.

There has been a sixfold increase in the daily number of children in  ICE detention under Trump. these are children like Liam Conejo Ramos,  the little boy in the blue hat who was detained on his walk home from  school and sent to the Dilley Family Detention center, or children like  Susej, a 9-year-old detained at Dilley, who, in a letter released by  ProPublica, wrote: ``I miss my school and my friends. . . . I have been  here too long.'' She is a 9-year-old girl.

My wife and I have two daughters, and the Psalmist tells us in Psalm  127 that children are a blessing. They are not a burden. They are a  blessing. I can tell you for a fact that our children  have been a blessing. I remember my girls putting on little hats. I  remember how much they loved those little hats. Those memories are  etched in my heart.

I think every parent, when they saw that little boy with the blue  hat, remembered their child and said: How can we be doing this in our  own country? What an immorality and what an injustice this is. Yet, we  do it, and we do it every day.

These children have been held captive in detention and are missing  their friends. They are falling behind at school and facing deplorable  conditions, as we have heard today. Their health and wellness are  deteriorating.

It is just not detention. Kids across the country are struggling  under the constant threat of ICE. Children are being wrongfully  deported. They deserve better.

We will never forget the nightmare this administration has inflicted  on children across our country. It is going to leave an indelible mark,  an evil mark. We must hold this administration and ICE accountable. We  cannot accept anything less. Remember our own children.

Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you that I have many friends on the other  side, and I cherish their friendship. I pray with them on Thursdays. I  know they love children. I know they love their own children. Yet, to  allow this to happen is immoral, it is a crime, and we have to do  something about this together.