Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696774/raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Ms. BALINT. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my colleague,  Congressman Chuy Garcia, who is my seatmate on the Judiciary Committee.

Chuy is someone who is always looking out for the working people of  this country. Chuy is always the one in committee who is thinking: How  is this going to affect the people back home in my neighborhood.

For 45 years, this man has worked relentlessly for the communities  that he serves. His steadfast dedication to community has been on full  display this year in the midst of the barbaric assaults that they have  endured in Chicago. As Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino has  indiscriminately launched chemical agents in residential neighborhoods  and kidnapped people off the streets, the people of Illinois' Fourth  District have had a strong champion in Chuy Garcia, standing alongside  them every step of the way to demand justice.

That is how he fights for not just everyone in his district but for  people across this country. He is a man of principle and a man of  morals, and it is so disheartening to see his name dragged through the  mud today.

When Federal agents kidnapped staffers of a local elected official  off the streets, Chuy and his team were there demanding their release.  He goes where he needs to go to stand up for his people. Isn't that  what we all want from our elected officials?

Now, I acknowledge that yes, indeed, our democracy is corrupted and  rigged against working people, but it is not because of Chuy Garcia.

Chuy has fought for working people his entire life, and he has been  fearless in voting to stand up to mega corporations that are screwing  us over and the big banks that don't give a damn about us.

I urge my colleagues to keep all of these things in mind.

Ms. BALINT. I want my colleagues to think about the totality of this  man's life and what he has done in service not just to Illinois but to  the people of this country. I urge my colleagues to keep this in mind.

This is not a game. It is a man's life. Please consider that as we  think about this resolution.