Commending James and Wendy Falkner on the Purchase of Kilwins in Traverse City, Michigan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700791/commending-james-and-wendy-falkner-on-the-purchase-of-kilwins-in-traverse-city-michigan


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate James and Wendy  Falkner for their many years of dedication to Kilwins Chocolates,  Fudge, and Ice Cream, and to commend them on their recent purchase of  the Kilwins store in Traverse City, Michigan.

James and Wendy's story is one that is rooted in hard work,  perseverance, and a deep appreciation for their community. James began  working for Kilwins in 1994 as a summer employee at the Mackinaw City  store while pursuing a degree at Michigan Technological University. A  year later, Wendy began working at the Mackinac Island Kilwins store as  a summer employee while pursuing her studies at Kuyper College in Grand  Rapids. What began as a summer job would later turn into a lifelong  calling.

After completing their college education, James and Wendy initially  went to work in their respective fields of study. However, their  passion for selling ice cream, making fudge, and spreading joy  throughout their community quickly brought them back to Kilwins in  Holland, Michigan, as part time employees. Another opportunity soon  followed when they took full-time positions managing the Kilwins of  Frankenmuth. Later, they co-operated a Kilwins in Charleston, South  Carolina, where they honed their skills in leadership and business.

In 2015, James and Wendy took the next step with the Kilwins  franchise by purchasing their very own store in Mackinaw City, and a  few years later, they proudly restored Kilwins presence on Mackinac  Island. Recently, they have expanded their business ventures with the  purchase of the Kilwins in Traverse City. Under their leadership,  Kilwins stores have become gathering places for celebrations of all  kinds, such as wedding anniversaries, family vacations, academic  achievements, and victories after a baseball or softball game. In an  era defined by technology and automation, James and Wendy have managed  to preserve something fleeting: genuine human connection.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in congratulating James and Wendy  Falkner for their outstanding service and continued commitment to  communities across the great State of Michigan.