Recognizing Mr. Thomas L. Pelissero for Authoring Bring One Home


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699253/recognizing-mr-thomas-l-pelissero-for-authoring-bring-one-home


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Mr. Thomas L.  Pelissero for his heartfelt tribute to his hometown of Bessemer,  Michigan in his new book: Bring One Home: A Memoir of Boyhood,  Basketball, and Hometown Spirit. His memoir serves as a salute to the  town of Bessemer and speaks to the character of communities across  Michigan's Upper Peninsula when facing profound economic hardship from  the decline of iron and copper mining industries throughout the 1960s.

On January 21, 1966, the Bessemer Speedboys basketball team ended a  42-game losing streak, at that time, the longest ever recorded in Upper  Peninsula high school basketball history. Even in the face of such an  arduous stretch, A.D. Johnston gymnasium remained packed on Friday  nights as the people of Bessemer cheered on their beloved high school  basketball team. Their loyalty and perseverance serve as a true  testament to the never-give-up spirit of this U.P. town. Mr.  Pelissero's story reminds us of how hard work, determination, and  dedication can shape a community.

Much like the sense of community shown by the people of Bessemer  during the days of the Speedboys losing streak, Mr. Pelissero's book  was released in front of a standing room only crowd at the Bessemer  City Hall, helping raise over $5,000 dollars for the Bessemer Public  Library to support literacy in the community. Even 60 years after the  Speedboys triumphant victory, the spirit of fellowship is still vibrant  throughout Bessemer and communities across the Upper Peninsula.

Since the release of his book on November 1, 2025, Bring One Home has  received positive reviews from New York Times Best Sellers authors such  as Seth Wickersham, been added to the Library of Congress, and recently  won the North American Book Awards Bronze Medal for 2025. Despite such  success, it has been the overwhelming support from the people of  Bessemer that Mr. Pelissero finds most meaningful.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Mr. Thomas L. Pelissero for  authoring Bring One Home, which captures the outstanding character of  his hometown of Bessemer, Michigan, its people, its high school team,  and their unwavering dedication to one another.