Recognizing Donald Maki on His Induction Into the Upper Peninsula Labor Hall of Fame


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696858/recognizing-donald-maki-on-his-induction-into-the-upper-peninsula-labor-hall-of-fame


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Donald Maki for  being inducted into the Upper Peninsula Labor Hall of Fame. This  prestigious honor reflects Mr. Maki's remarkable impact and  contributions to worker dignity and workplace fairness.

Throughout his life Mr. Maki has embodied integrity, diligence, and a  steadfast commitment to fairness. Growing up on his family farm, he  worked diligently for hours on end to ensure the success of his  family's business. It was those early mornings and hours spent bailing  hay that he said contributed to the strong work ethic he carries with  him today.

After graduating from Hancock Public Schools in 1975, Mr. Maki earned  an associate's degree in criminal justice from Suomi College, followed  by a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from Northern Michigan  University. While at NMU he worked multiple jobs as a student building  supervisor, apartment manager, and at Public Service Garage to help  finance his studies. Upon graduating from NMU in 1979, he began a  dedicated career as a full-time police officer with the Norway City  Police Department. He was elected chapter chair of Norway City  Employees, a chapter of Local Union No. 1176, a testament to his deep- rooted commitment to workplace fairness and worker dignity.

Following his service in law enforcement, Mr. Maki began working with  AFSCME, where he mentored countless workers, negotiated contracts, and  strengthened the voice of public employees. At the turn of the 21st  century, he continued his service working as a Federal Mediator and  Conciliation Services Commissioner. He helped labor and management find  common ground through respect, communication, and collaboration. His  mediation and training efforts supported fair labor relations,  preserved vital jobs, and fostered long-term economic stability across  the Great Lakes region.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Donald Maki for being  inducted into the Upper Peninsula Labor Hall of Fame. I thank him for  his dedication, compassion, and selflessness on behalf of Michigan's  1st Congressional District.