Recognizing Valerie Prehoda on Her Induction Into the Michigan Tech President Council of Alumnae


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696846/recognizing-valerie-prehoda-on-her-induction-into-the-michigan-tech-president-council-of-alumnae


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Valerie Prehoda  for being inducted into the Michigan Tech Presidential Council of  Alumnae. This well-deserved honor reflects her steadfast dedication to  her fellow Servicemembers, the communities throughout the Upper  Peninsula, and our Nation.

Ms. Prehoda graduated from Michigan Tech in 1983 with a Bachelor of  Science in Social Sciences, concentrating on archaeology. To help pay  her way through school, she worked at the university's copper mine  while remaining engaged in many extracurricular activities. She was a  member of the soccer, gymnastics, and women's hockey teams while also  participating in MTU Aquanauts and assisting in SCUBA instruction.

Following her graduation in 1983, Ms. Prehoda was accepted into the  United States Marine Corps as an officer. After 10 years of active  duty, she was transferred to the reserves, where she served as museum  director and Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act  coordinator for the Cocopah tribe in Arizona. In 2001, Ms. Prehoda was  redeployed following the invasion of Iraq. There she completed two  combat tours, surviving a missile attack in northern Kuwait in March  2003, and retired at the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in 2016 after 30  years of civil and military service.

Throughout her distinguished career, Ms. Prehoda received a plethora  of awards and commendations, including, but not limited to, a Joint  Service Achievement Medal, a Navy Unit Commendation with a bronze star,  a Meritorious Unit Commendation, a Global War on Terrorism Service  Medal, and a Presidential Unit Citation for OIF combat support. Upon  retiring, Ms. Prehoda continues to serve her country through  memberships in various Veteran organizations such as the American  Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Marine Corps League, and many  more.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in recognizing Valerie Prehoda for  receiving the prestigious honor of being inducted into the Michigan  Tech Presidential Council of Alumnae. I thank her for her enduring  commitment to Veterans, her community, and our great country.