Recognizing the 80th Birthday of the Veterans of Foreign Wars Ottawa Post 3134


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696860/recognizing-the-80th-birthday-of-the-veterans-of-foreign-wars-ottawa-post-3134


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize the Veterans of  Foreign Wars Ottawa Post 3134 for their 80 years of dedicated service  to the Veteran community of the Iron River area.

The Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), established in 1899, is an  organization of United States Veterans who fought in wars on foreign  land, water, or airspace. For over a century, the organization has  steadfastly supported the needs of our Nation's disabled and  impoverished Veterans, as well as widows of Veterans and the dependents  of former Servicemembers.

This historic organization was born from the unification of several  communities following the Spanish-American War. Small groups of  Veterans returning from campaigns in Cuba and the Philippine Islands  formed local communities composed of those who shared the dangers faced  while in combat. Eventually, these small, localized societies found  each other, culminating in the creation of the American Veterans of  Foreign Service (the predecessor to the VFW) founded by James C.  Putnam, a Veteran of the Spanish-American War.

On October 17, 1945, the petition charter was granted to form VFW  Ottawa Post 3134 to support Veterans returning from World War II. Since  then, they have provided a wide range of services, including assistance  with VA benefits, community outreach, financial support for Veterans in  need, and programs to honor the sacrifices of those who served. Today,  Post 3134 continues to serve the needs of Veterans from its surrounding  communities under the leadership of its Commander, Jesse Casari.

Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize VFW Ottawa Post 3134 for  their 80 years of service to the Veteran community of the Iron River  area. I thank them for their dedication, compassion, and selflessness  on behalf of our Upper Peninsula Veterans.