Recognizing Master Sergeant Gerald Timmins for His Service with the U.S. Marine Corps As A Member of the Medevac Crews During the Vietnam War


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692874/recognizing-master-sergeant-gerald-timmins-for-his-service-with-the-us-marine-corps-as-a-member-of-the-medevac-crews-during-the-vietnam-war


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Master Sergeant  (MSgt) Gerald Timmins for his valiant service with the U.S. Marine  Corps as a member of the Medevac crews during the Vietnam War. This  recognition is presented in correspondence with the Medevac crews of  the Vietnam War Congressional Gold Medal Act, which honors the selfless  and heroic individuals who served in these lifesaving missions.

MSgt Timmins' service exemplifies the unwavering dedication  demonstrated by members of these Medevac crews to both their fellow  servicemembers and their country. These crews--which include a pilot,  crew chief, and medic--courageously operated helicopter air ambulances  and are credited with saving more than 900,000 lives throughout the  Vietnam War.

Serving at the Marble Mountain Air Facility with Marine Aircraft  Group 16 (MAG-16) aboard CH-34 helicopters, MSgt Timmins participated  in numerous recovery missions, often under intense enemy fire. His role  in rescuing wounded soldiers from active combat zones required  extraordinary courage and was vital to saving countless lives. His  service reflects the bravery and sacrifice of the many Medevac crew  members who risked everything to bring others to safety.

In his military service, MSgt Timmins was recognized with two  citations for his courage and devotion to duty under hazardous  conditions--an enduring testament to his exceptional service.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in recognizing MSgt Gerald Timmins for  his extraordinary courage as a member of the Medevac crews during the  Vietnam War, and thank him for his steadfast commitment to his fellow  servicemembers, community, and country.