Recognizing the Retirement of Sergeant Christine Bettis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688435/recognizing-the-retirement-of-sergeant-christine-bettis


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to congratulate Sergeant  Christine Bettis on her retirement after twenty-seven years of  dedicated service to the Michigan State Police. I thank Sergeant Bettis  for her tireless work to keep the citizens of Northern Michigan safe.

After graduating from the Michigan State Police 117th Recruit School  in 1998, Sergeant Bettis began her distinguished career in law  enforcement with her first assignment at Reed City Post 62. Setting a  standard of commitment and excellence, Sergeant Bettis's service  extended to a variety of assignments, including time with Governor Rick  Snyder's Detail in 2011, Houghton Lake Post 72, West Branch Post 32,  and Tri-City Post 31. Eventually, Sergeant Bettis returned to West  Branch Post 32, where she served her final assignment.

Throughout her career, Sgt. Bettis was often recognized for her  professionalism, excellence, kindness, and fairness. Her approach to  policing was always rooted in integrity and understanding, qualities  that were exemplified in her interactions with the public and her  peers. Fellow officers remember fondly her compassion for animals which  extended into the line of duty.

Beyond her law enforcement duties, Sgt. Bettis has been a consistent  mentor and friend to her colleagues. Known as ``Mom'' at West Branch  Post 32, she provided unwavering support to her peers, always ready  with a smile and her characteristic wit. Her presence brought warmth  and camaraderie to the department, leaving a lasting impact on those  who had the privilege of working alongside her.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in congratulating Sergeant Christine  Bettis for a remarkable career with the Michigan State Police. I wish  her great happiness in retirement and thank her once more for keeping  Michigan's First Congressional District safe.