Recognizing the Menominee Maroons: 2025 Division 7 Michigan State Football Champions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698002/recognizing-the-menominee-maroons-2025-division-7-michigan-state-football-champions


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and recognize the  Menominee High School football team on winning the Division 7 Michigan  State Championship. This remarkable and well-deserved accomplishment  reflects these young men's commitment to excellence, their dedication  to teamwork, and the steadfast support of their community.

When the Maroons took the field for the MSHAA football Division 7  title game, they carried with them the hopes of bringing a state  championship back to Michigan's Upper Peninsula for the first time  since 2015. In an impressive display of discipline and determination,  the Maroons prevailed with a commanding 34-6 win over Schoolcraft,  earning the program its fourth ever state championship while helping to  restore ``U.P. Power'' by bringing a title home to the Upper Peninsula.  Under the leadership of head coach, Chad Brandt, the Maroons dominated  opponents  throughout the fall, with only one game being decided by less than ten  points, capping off an undefeated season.

What makes this accomplishment even more remarkable is the  extraordinary effort from the surrounding communities to help the  Maroons make the trip down to Ford Field in Detroit for the game. Those  of us from the Upper Peninsula know that a sudden trip downstate is no  easy feat. The Maroons needed funds for a three-day trip, including  money for charter buses, two nights of lodging, and three meals per  day. The Menominee community rallied around the team and raised nearly  $30,000 in two days. Such generosity and determination speak to the  spirit, resilience, and pride that define the people of the Upper  Peninsula.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in recognizing the Menominee High School  football team for winning the Division 7 Michigan State Championship. I  want to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the players, coaches,  and all those who supported them.