Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695145/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Chair, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Madam Chair, I rise in support today of the National Defense  Authorization Act. This bill is painstakingly thorough with over 900  amendments considered, over 13 hours of markup deliberations, and a  final passage vote in committee of 55-2.

I am proud to offer my voice in support of the National Defense  Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026.

In the Readiness Subcommittee, this bill addresses some of the  largest readiness challenges in the Department, including a specific  focus on the Joint Strike Fighter and amphibious ship readiness  concerns.

This bill reestablishes safety as a culture and seeks to partially  correct the mistakes that led up to the Black Hawk collision with a  commercial airliner here at DCA earlier this year.

This bill seeks to foundationally reform the military construction  process.

Finally, this bill remains focused on our servicemembers and their  families during training, combat, and even periods of transition.

Madam Chair, this is a strong mark that sends a forceful signal of  change. It places our military on a secure footing and, if necessary,  enables it to win decisively in conflict.

I also thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Smith for their  steadfast support in passing this bill, and I especially thank Ranking  Member Garamendi for his continued bipartisan support of the Readiness  Subcommittee.

Madam Chair, I urge all Members to vote ``yes'' on this important  legislation.

Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Chair, I urge strong support for this amendment to increase  penalties  for unauthorized access to DOD facilities.

In 2023, five Chinese nationals were caught in my district at Camp  Grayling, Michigan, photographing military vehicles during allied  exercises and attempting to conceal the evidence that they did take  those photographs. This was not innocent trespassing. It was a  deliberate act threatening servicemember safety and national security.

This was also not an isolated incident. Chinese nationals have also  been caught near U.S. military installations in California and South  Korea in recent years. Current law lacks deterrence. State trespass  laws aren't sufficient for protecting Federal military sites.

The amendment creates clear Federal authority and escalating  penalties to counter repeated or hostile intrusions. A slap on the  wrist is not enough when foreign actors surveil U.S. military bases.  Protecting our installations equals protecting readiness, our troops,  and national security.

I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense measure to send a  clear message: Trespassing on U.S. military property will not be  tolerated.