Cuts to Forest Service Endanger Millions


Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my frustration and  outrage with the Trump administration's reckless cuts to our Forest  Service.

The workforce that takes care of our forests, harvests timber, and  makes them resilient to wildfires is treasured in my State of  Washington and, I would say, in the entire Western United States. Cuts  to this workforce endanger my constituents, endanger millions of  Americans, and put our forests at high risk of catastrophic wildfires.

Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I would like to echo some of those comments  because I am also in the West, in Washington State, and we are seeing  the risk of catastrophic wildfires increasing every year.

Because all of this is being done under the guise of DOGE, the  Department of Government Efficiency, let me be clear that we all want  our tax dollars to be spent wisely.

Let me also be clear that the people in the Eighth District of  Washington State think it is a super wise investment to invest in our  Forest Service that will thin the forest, prevent catastrophic  wildfires, and then fight catastrophic wildfires when they occur.

I would say, and my constituents would also say because we all choke  on smoke every summer, that this is not a time to cut the Forest  Service. In fact, it is a time to hire up at the Forest Service because  we need them more than ever right now.

We need them for fighting fires as I discussed, for maintaining our  forests, but also for supporting recreation, maintaining roads and  trails, and producing timber that we all need for affordable housing,  and for water restoration, watershed restoration, and more.

We have heard from the administration that firefighters were exempt  from the cuts, but here is the thing: About 75 percent of the people  who were cut had firefighting training. In fact, they may have had  different titles, but they had something called red cards, which meant  they were ready, firefighting trained, and they leapt into action  whenever wildland firefighters needed their help to work side by side  with them. They are really indispensable employees.

I also want to say that the people who we are losing, many of them  have had years of experience. They choose to work for the Forest  Service, for the Federal Government, because of their passion for  taking care of our public lands. They are talented. They are critical.  They are experienced. They  choose to do this, frankly, for lower salaries simply because they want  to serve. These are civil servants.

We are losing these really talented and critical staff through  layoffs. Now, with the uncertainty, we are seeing early retirements.  Frankly, given the disrespect and uncertainty, and now the impossible  workload, can you imagine taking on all of the workload of your  colleagues? Why would they stay? This is a very tough time to work for  the Federal Government, especially in these dangerous jobs.

I am so fortunate to represent Washington's Eighth Congressional  District. We have some of the most stunning nature in the country. In  fact, we have the North Cascades National Park, Mount Rainier National  Park, and two national forests stretching over 2 million acres. That is  a fifth of the national forest, approximately 10 million acres in  Washington State.

The U.S. Forest Service manages these public lands. We also have  agreements and rely on relationships between Federal, State, and Tribal  organizations and governments to manage our public land. When you cut  Federal staffing, it really has ripple effects and leaves State,  Tribal, and local governments lacking.

I want to express gratitude to U.S. Forest Service staff because they  are also keeping our cherished public lands accessible for outdoor  recreation.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know if you have ever been to Washington State.  If you have, you will know that outdoor recreation is our pride and joy  and is what sustains us. Those beautiful springs and summers, that is  what sustains us when we have the rainy fall and winter.

We have already seen some of these outdoor trail accesses closed. In  fact, there is one called the Denny Creek Trailhead that has  experienced closures due to these staffing shortages, and that is only  going to be worse as we head into outdoor recreation season.

Again, I have mentioned already the role that the Forest Service  plays in wildfire mitigation; that is, thinning the forest, doing  prescribed burns, doing the work that will prevent catastrophic  wildfires.

In my district, Fire Chief David Walker says the Forest Service is  the primary firefighting force for something called the Lake Wenatchee  area. It is a favorite vacation spot for Washington families.

When you gut the Forest Service's fire response operation, that means  you are taking away public safety. You are taking away safety from the  people who are camping in the Lake Wenatchee area.

Mitigating risk in our forest has become ever more important with the  increasing intensity of wildfires and the longer and longer wildfire  season throughout the West.

In our State, we used to see wildfires mostly in the dry part of the  State, east of the Cascade Mountains. Now, we see it in the entire  State.

We have seen devastating fires in recent years. In fact, six of the  highest risk fire sheds in the entire country are in my district.

Now is the time to strengthen our wildfire mitigation efforts, not  kneecap the agency that is responsible for maintaining forest health.  Firing support staff involved in wildfire response or mitigation does  just as much harm as firing those that we think of as being on the  front lines. They work together.

I also want to mention, imagine if you were a firefighter depending  on that support staff to tell you when the weather conditions change,  when the winds are shifting, because that matters for your own survival  as you are fighting these fires. The support staff is every bit as  important.

We are anticipating there to be further staffing cuts right before  wildfire season kicks into gear, and these reduction-in-force plans are  being made with little forethought and no agency engagement. We are  seeing the arbitrary firing of probationary employees in every agency  and then struggling to rehire them because they have cut HR.

This administration is not getting the message that every carpenter  in my district knows: Measure twice, cut once. Figure out where it  makes sense to make cuts before making those cuts. This is not  efficiency. This is actually the opposite.

There are many roles that the Forest Service plays in research. They  research how to fight pestilence that weakens our trees. They research  which varieties of trees will survive best in fire. They also do  research into which of these fire-prone areas is the most at risk so  that they can treat those areas first.

I want to emphasize how important these Forest Service employees are  to our district, the entire West, and, frankly, the entire country.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to talk a little bit in a moment about our  Forest Service employees, some that I have spoken with since they were  let go. First, I yield to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Carson) to  speak about Forest Service cuts.

Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I will tell you something about the town of  Roslyn in my district. It is a small town, completely surrounded by  forest, and this forest is at high risk for catastrophic wildfire. In  fact, it was incredibly important to the residents of the town not only  to firewise their own homes but to treat the forest around the city to  protect it.

I actually got to go out with nonprofits and Forest Service  employees, use that drip torch myself and participate in prescribed  fires in order to work to make sure that this area would not go up in  flames and threaten the entire city. It is this sort of work that some  of the employees in my district who were fired were doing. They were  protecting homes and protecting lives. Then, after years in the  Service, they were let go.

I even have constituents, a husband and wife who both worked for the  U.S. Forest Service. They were both let go. They both did that work and  trail maintenance. They also protected people during snow season in  snow parks. These are year-round, family-sustaining jobs, and these are  people without whom we all suffer.

There is another worker from my district who was fired who was  actually working on harvesting timber. That timber is then sold and  actually makes money for the Federal Government, but those workers were  let go.

I mean, that is not efficiency. It is definitely not saving taxpayer  money. It is really beyond foolish, and it is emblematic of what this  administration and Elon Musk have been doing. This is not government  efficiency. It actually hampers the ability for the Forest Service to  be efficient and to fulfill its mission.

Taking a hatchet to these Federal agencies across the board, labeling  probationary employees as if they are in  trouble for some reason, when really it just means they have been there  devoting themselves to civil service for less than a year, only causes  harm and disparages them. That is why I was so proud to lead a letter  with my Washington colleagues calling for Forest Service terminations  to be rescinded and for the administration to halt any further cuts.

This has disproportionately hit Washington State. I will continue  fighting for the employees in my district, for the people in my  district, for Washington State to protect our forests, to fight these  cuts, and to protect the U.S. Forest Service employees who have  dedicated their lives to public service.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Min).

Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, we have all talked about thinning forests,  making them more resilient. We talked about the risk of catastrophic  wildfire.

We passed a big infrastructure bill a couple years ago, and part of  that was not just protecting roads and bridges. It was also protecting  our natural infrastructure because of its connection with our urban  areas and the wildland-urban interface and more. That involved more  management of our forests, more thinning of our forests. It required  more hiring up of Forest Service staff, which really emphasizes the  point my colleagues have made about how this is doing the exact  opposite.

I wanted to connect a couple other dots for you, just to really bring  home this point. President Trump promised all along the campaign trail  that he was going to bring down costs for the American people. These  are costs at the grocery store, costs everywhere really.

We could talk about tariffs, but what I really want to focus on,  which is a big issue in my district and my State, is the cost of  housing. Young people today cannot afford to buy a house. That means  they are going to struggle to build their nest egg for retirement.

One of the ways to bring down the cost of housing is to use that 8- inch diameter or smaller timber that the Forest Service brings out of  those national forests, mill those, turn it into cross-laminated  timber, mass produce walls, roofs, and the building materials you need  to build houses quickly and cheaply.

You can do rezoning, permitting for land to use for housing, and then  you can build houses quickly, starter houses, houses to just help young  people get their piece of America, their safeguard for their  retirement.

However, this is doing the opposite. If we are not bringing the wood  out of our forests, like the Forest Service employee I just told you  about who lost her job, then we don't have that cross-laminated timber.

What is happening now, we are going to rely on Canada for timber at,  what, a 25 percent surcharge because of these tariffs? This is doing  the opposite. It is not bringing costs down for American families. It  is driving costs up to the tune of close to $4,000 per family across  this country. This is damaging. Then you add on what is happening in  the Forest Service, and it just drives up the cost of housing.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I first just extend my gratitude to the  people who step up to serve our country, who work for the U.S. Forest  Service, who protect our forests, protect our homes, protect us from  choking on smoke all summer long, and now stretching into other  seasons. I emphasize that it is important to use tax dollars wisely and  to have an efficient government, but sometimes that means hiring up  instead of firing. Certainly, indiscriminate firing is crazy,  wrongheaded, and reckless. I once again object to these indiscriminate  cuts, and I yield back the balance of my time.