Hydropower Licensing Transparency Act


Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone and Chairman  Latta for their leadership.

I am from Washington State, and in the Pacific Northwest, hydropower  makes up the majority of our energy mix. That is why I am very proud to  lead this effort to enhance transparency and really help streamline the  non-Federal hydropower licensing process with my colleague from Idaho,  Representative Fulcher.

This bill will support the proper permitting of clean, abundant, and  affordable energy by allowing Congress, Tribes, resource agencies, and  ratepayers to better track the status of the relicensing process for  new and existing hydropower license applications.

Every 30 to 50 years, hydropower dams must relicense their dams with  the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in order to continue operating  a facility. Hydropower dams in my district are critical to keeping the  lights on and keeping the power flowing, and several, including the  Rock Island Dam at Chelan County PUD, are due for relicensing at the  end of 2028.

The relicensing process is typically very lengthy, in part for good  reason. The public comment period needs to be robust for all parties to  weigh in. Without that input, we risk potentially devastating  environmental consequences on regional ecosystems.

With relicensing activity set to double in the coming decade and the  process typically taking 7 to 10 years to complete, there are crucial  reforms that are needed to cut red tape without compromising careful  consideration. Otherwise, we could risk not having the affordable power  we need when we need it.

The bill also includes annual reporting to track progress on new  hydropower licenses, which are the most sensitive to licensing costs  and delays. Existing projects have a revenue stream to pull from that  allows the licensee to fund these processes, but new projects are  completely sourced by the developers.

This commonsense, bipartisan bill takes the first step by enhancing  transparency and tracking progress on any given licensing process for  all parties involved.

I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on  comprehensive, bipartisan hydropower licensing reform, and I urge my  colleagues to support this bill.