Assisting Small Businesses Not Fraudsters Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 825) to prohibit individuals convicted of  defrauding the Government from receiving any assistance from the Small  Business Administration, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 825

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Assisting Small Businesses       Not Fraudsters Act''.       SEC. 2. ASSISTANCE PROHIBITED AFTER FRAUD CONVICTION.

(a) In General.--Section 16 of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 645) is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(h) Financial Assistance Prohibition.--

``(1) In general.--An associate of a small business concern       who is finally convicted of any crime involving or relating       to financial misconduct or a false statement with respect to       a covered loan or grant shall be ineligible to receive any       financial assistance from the Administrator, other than       financial assistance under section 7(b).

``(2) Business concerns.--A small business concern that has       as an associate an individual subject to paragraph (1) shall       be ineligible to receive any financial assistance from the       Administrator, other than financial assistance under section       7(b).

``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection:

``(A) Associate.--The term `associate' means, with respect       to a small business concern--

``(i) an officer, director, or owner of more than 20       percent of the equity of, or a key employee of, such small       business concern;

``(ii) any entity not less than 20 percent owned or       controlled by one or more individuals referred to in clause       (i); and

``(iii) any other individual or entity in control of or       controlled by such small business concern, except for a       licensed small business investment company (as defined in       section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958       (15 U.S.C. 662(3))).

``(B) Covered loan or grant.--The term `covered loan or       grant' means--

``(i) a loan made under--

``(I) paragraph (36) or (37) of subsection (a) of section       7; or

``(II) subsection (b) of such section in response to the       COVID-19 pandemic; or

``(ii) a grant made under--

``(I) section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021       (15 U.S.C. 9009c); or

``(II) section 324 of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small       Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a).

``(C) Finally convicted.--The term `finally convicted'       means, with respect to a person, that such person has been       convicted of an offense and such conviction--

``(i) has not been appealed and is no longer appealable       because the time for taking an appeal has expired; or

``(ii) has been appealed and the appeals process for such       conviction is completed.''.

(b) Applicability.--Subsection (h) of section 16 of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 645), as added by subsection       (a) of this Act, shall not apply to any contract or other       agreement entered into by the Government prior to the date of       the enactment of this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 825, the Assisting Small  Businesses Not Fraudsters Act.

Mr. Speaker, SBA financial assistance programs are critical to  entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, fraudsters infiltrated pandemic-era loans  at an alarming rate. An estimated $200 billion was stolen from honest,  hardworking small businesses who needed help when they were forced to  close their doors during the COVID-19 pandemic. The harm these  fraudsters caused small businesses is devastating to see.

My bill creates accountability and ensures fraudsters are banned from  receiving SBA resources for the rest of their lives. As chairman of the  House Committee on Small Business, it is my duty to support America's  small businesses, not fraudsters.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, this important legislation will  hold these fraudsters accountable, and I urge my colleagues to support  it.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  am prepared to close.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.