China Financial Threat Mitigation Act of 2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1549) to require the Secretary of the Treasury to  conduct a study and report on the exposure of the United States to the  financial sector of the People's Republic of China, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1549

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``China Financial Threat       Mitigation Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. CHINA FINANCIAL THREAT MITIGATION.

(a) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in       consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of       the Federal Reserve System, the Chairman of the Securities       and Exchange Commission, the Chairman of the Commodity       Futures Trading Commission, and the Secretary of State, shall       conduct a study and issue a report on the exposure of the       United States to the financial sector of the People's       Republic of China that includes--

(1) an assessment of the effects of significant risks in       the financial sector of the People's Republic of China on the       United States and global financial systems;

(2) a description of the policies the United States       Government is adopting to protect the financial stability of       the United States and the global economy from any risks       described under paragraph (1);

(3) a description and evaluation of the transparency,       completeness, and reliability of Chinese economic data; and

(4) recommendations for additional actions the United       States Government, including United States representatives at       relevant international organizations, should take to       strengthen international cooperation to monitor and mitigate       such financial stability risks and protect United States       interests.

(b) Transmission of Report.--The Secretary of the Treasury       shall transmit the report required under subsection (a) to       the Committees on Financial Services and Foreign Affairs of       the House of Representatives, the Committees on Banking,       Housing, and Urban Affairs and Foreign Relations of the       Senate, and to the United States representatives at relevant       international organizations, as appropriate.

(c) Classification of Report.--The report required under       subsection (a) shall be unclassified, but may contain a       classified annex.

(d) Publication of Report.--The Secretary of the Treasury       shall publish the report required under subsection (a) (other       than any classified annex) on the website of the Department       of the Treasury not later than one year after the date of       enactment of this Act.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1549, the China  Financial Threat Mitigation Act.

The Chinese Communist Party's track record of interference and  aggression toward the American financial system is a serious and  growing threat. The CCP has a well-documented history of abusing  international financial norms, jeopardizing both our national and  economic security in the process.

From manipulating currency and distorting markets to propping up  state-owned industries and weaponizing finance for geopolitical gain,  the CCP's actions are not just unfair but are also downright dangerous.  These predatory practices harm American businesses, erode trust in  global markets, and risk empowering China to pressure developing  nations and destabilize debt markets for its own benefit.

We cannot afford to sit back and take our eyes off the ball. We must  be prepared. That is why I introduced the China Financial Threat  Mitigation Act. This bill is a proactive measure that requires the  Department of the Treasury to identify financial risks posed by the  Chinese economy and offer recommendations for strengthening  international cooperation to monitor and counter these threats.

Our top priorities should always be to defend Western values, promote  American interests, and hold bad actors accountable. This legislation  is a critical step in confronting the CCP's abuse of the financial  system head-on.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer)  for co-leading this important effort with me, and I urge my colleagues  to support H.R. 1549.

In God We Trust.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO  estimate for this bill.  H.R. 1549, CHINA FINANCIAL THREAT MITIGATION ACT OF 2025, AS REPORTED BY

THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES ON MARCH 21, 2025 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                             By fiscal year, millions of                                                      dollars--                                          -------------------------------                                             2025    2025-2030  2025-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...............        0          0          0 Revenues................................        *          *          * Increase or Decrease (-) in the Deficit.        *          *          * Spending Subject to Appropriation               *          1         **  (Outlays).............................. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between -$500,000 and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? No.

H.R. 1549 would require the Secretary of the Treasury,       within one year of enactment, to study and report on the       financial exposure of the United States and the global       economy to China. The bill also would direct the Secretary to       consult with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve       System, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity       Futures Trading Commission, and the Department of State for       the study.

Using information about the cost of similar requirements,       CBO estimates that implementing H.R. 1549 would cost federal       agencies $1 million over the 2025-2030 period. Any spending       by those agencies would be subject to the availability of       appropriated funds.

Costs incurred by the Federal Reserve reduce remittances to       the Treasury, which are recorded in the budget as revenues.       CBO estimates that the reduction in remittances attributable       to implementing H.R. 1549 would not be significant over the       2025-2035 period.

The CBO staff contacts for this estimate are Matthew       Pickford (for federal agencies) and Nathaniel Frentz (for the       Federal Reserve). The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel       Papenfuss, Deputy Director of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of  my time.

Madam Speaker, for the reasons I explained earlier, I urge my  colleagues to support this bill. I thank Congressman Gottheimer and my  good friend, Ms. Waters, for their support.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.