Condemning the Rise in Ideologically Motivated Attacks on Jewish Individuals in the United States, Including the Recent Violent Assault in Boulder, Colorado, and Reaffirming the House of Representatives Commitment to Combating Antisemitism and Politically Motivated Violence


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.  Res. 481, which condemns the disturbing rise in anti-Semitic attacks  across the United States.

On October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists murdered and took hostage  innocent Israelis in an unprovoked attack. Since then, anti-Semitic  incidents have reached unprecedented levels across this great country.

The attack in Boulder, Colorado, is the most recent incident  following the murder of two Israeli Embassy staff members in  Washington, D.C., and the attack on Pennsylvania Governor Josh Shapiro  and his family, as we previously heard.

This growing trend of politically and religiously motivated violence  directed at Jewish individuals and institutions across the United  States is totally unacceptable. Every American has the right to  assemble peacefully and practice their faith without fear of violence.  Acts of anti-Semitism, whether expressed through threats, vandalism, or  violence, are fundamentally incompatible with the values of this  Nation.

Today, remember those who we have lost and stood with the Jewish  community. There is no place for hate or violence in the United States  of America. Congress must fully condemn these attacks and stand against  anti-Semitism in all forms.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote in support of this  important resolution.

In God We Trust.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York. Mr. Speaker, I will just add in response to  my friend that this is a majority proposal for the appropriations bill.  If the majority does not like other spending measures, it can propose  to cut them, but Jews and Jewish institutions should not suffer because  of other priorities of the Republican majority and their appropriations  bill.