Connecting Small Businesses with Career and Technical Education Graduates Act of 2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 1642) to amend the Small Business Act to include  requirements relating to graduates of career and technical education  programs for small business development centers and women`s business  centers, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1642

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Connecting Small Businesses       with Career and Technical Education Graduates Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION.

(a) Definition.--Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 632) is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(gg) Career and Technical Education.--The term `career       and technical education' has the meaning given the term in       section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical       Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302).''.

(b) Small Business Development Centers.--Section 21(c)(3)       of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(1)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (T), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in clause (v) of the first subparagraph (U) (relating       to succession planning), by striking the period at the end       and inserting a semicolon;

(3) in second subparagraph (U) (relating to training on       domestic and international intellectual property       protections)--

(A) in clause (ii)(II), by striking the period at the end       and inserting a semicolon; and

(B) by redesignating such subparagraph as subparagraph (V);       and

(4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:

``(W) providing educational information to small businesses       on--

``(i) hiring graduates from career and technical education       programs; and

``(ii) career and technical education programs relevant to       such businesses, including how to use such programs to       satisfy hiring needs of such businesses;

``(X) providing information to career and technical       education programs about how students and graduates of such       programs can access resources and services of small business       development centers to start and expand a small business       concern; and

``(Y) as appropriate, connecting small businesses with       career and technical education programs to assist students       and graduates of such programs with identifying career       opportunities.''.

(c) Women's Business Centers.--Section 29(b) of the Small       Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(b)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and       inserting a semicolon; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

``(4) providing educational information to small business       concerns owned and controlled by women on--

``(A) hiring graduates from career and technical education       programs; and

``(B) career and technical education programs relevant to       such concerns, including how to use such programs to satisfy       hiring needs of such concerns;

``(5) providing information to career and technical       education programs about how students and graduates of such       programs can access resources and services of women's       business centers to start and expand a small business       concern; and

``(6) as appropriate, connecting small business concerns       owned and controlled by women with career and technical       education programs to assist students and graduates of such       programs with identifying career opportunities.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill, H.R. 1642,  the Connecting Small Businesses with Career and Technical Education  Graduates Act of 2025. Earlier this year, I introduced this bill  alongside the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Olszewski), my friend.

Across America, the skilled labor shortage, particularly in trades,  is a growing concern. Industries like construction, healthcare, and  manufacturing are struggling to find qualified workers. At the same  time, thousands of career and technical education graduates are  entering the workforce with the hands-on skills employers desperately  need.

This bipartisan legislation offers a commonsense solution. H.R. 1642  requires the Small Business Administration's resource partners to  provide small businesses with vital information on how to hire  graduates of career and technical education programs.

In addition, it ensures that students and graduates of these programs  know about the business counseling resources available through SBA  resource partners to help them start and grow their own small  businesses.

Solving the skilled workforce shortage will take an all-hands-on-deck  approach, and I am proud to lead this important step forward. I thank  Representative Olszewski for joining me in introducing this bipartisan  bill. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1642.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  H.R. 1642 to bring necessary solutions to all small businesses, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.