Investing in Main Street Act of 2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 754) to amend the Small Business Investment Act of  1958 to increase the amount that may be invested in small business  investment companies.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 754

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Investing in Main Street Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INVESTMENT IN SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES.

Section 302(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958       (15 U.S.C. 682(b)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``5 percent'' and       inserting ``15 percent''; and

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``5 percent'' and       inserting ``15 percent''.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 754, the Investing in  Main Street Act of 2025, led by my colleagues, Representatives Chu,  Finstad, McIver, and Garbarino.

As chairman of the Small Business Committee, one of my top priorities  is expanding access to capital for small businesses. The Small Business  Investment Company, or the SBIC, program plays a crucial role in this  effort by attracting private equity investments to help small  businesses grow, create jobs, and strengthen our economy.

SBIC has been an invaluable tool for investing in small businesses  that build critical technologies and support American national  security.

H.R. 754 builds on this success by increasing the maximum allowable  investments by SBICs from 5 percent to 15 percent of their excess  capital. This change will allow more significant private equity dollars  to go toward small businesses.

As we continue working to improve programs that support small  businesses, this change will immediately impact our Nation's job  creators. I thank my colleague from California for introducing this  bipartisan solution to expand successful programs that empower the  private sector to invest in small businesses.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.