Rural Small Business Resilience Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 804) to require the Administrator of the Small  Business Administration to improve access to disaster assistance for  individuals located in rural areas, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 804

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Rural Small Business       Resilience Act''.       SEC. 2. ACCESS TO DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS LOCATED                     IN RURAL AREAS.

Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business       Administration shall ensure that the Associate Administrator       of the Office of Disaster Recovery and Resilience of the       Administration takes such actions as necessary to ensure that       individuals located in rural areas (as defined in paragraph       (16) of section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(b)(16))) for which a disaster declaration has been made       under such section 7(b) have full access to assistance       provided under such section, including by providing targeted       outreach and marketing materials to such individuals.       SEC. 3. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.

The second paragraph (16) (relating to statute of       limitations) of section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 636(b)) is redesignated as paragraph (17).

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 804, the Rural Small  Business Resilience Act, led by my colleagues, Representatives  Morrison, Downing, Pappas, and Bean.

As we look ahead to the summer months, many Americans are eager for  the warm weather and sunshine, but with that comes the reality that  hurricane season is approaching. Many communities, particularly in  rural America, are still working to recover from the devastating storms  of last season, even as we prepare for the next.

Too often, small businesses and disaster survivors in rural  communities are unaware of the critical assistance the SBA provides  after disasters. That assistance can be the difference between staying  open or shutting down for good.

Rural small businesses face unique challenges. Disaster recovery  efforts must be tailored to meet the needs of rural America to ensure  they have access to the full range of resources and support. The Rural  Small Business Resilience Act is critical to ensuring SBA disaster  assistance is tailored to the needs of rural America.

As someone who spent a lifetime in business, I know that getting the  correct information to the right people at the right time is key. This  bill will ensure disaster survivors in rural communities are not left  in the dark when they need help the most.

I urge all my colleagues to vote for H.R. 804, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  am prepared to close.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.