Small Business Procurement and Utilization Reform Act of 2025


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 818) to amend the Small Business Act to include  requirements relating to new small business entrants in the scorecard  program, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 818

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Procurement       and Utilization Reform Act of 2025'' or the ``SPUR Act''.       SEC. 2. MODIFICATIONS TO SCORECARD REQUIREMENTS.

Section 15(y) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(y))       is amended--

(1) in paragraph (2)--

(A) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F);       and

(B) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new       subparagraph:

``(E) The number of new small business entrants, including       new small business entrants that are small business concerns       owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified       HUBZone small business concerns, small business concerns       owned and controlled by socially and economically       disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned       and controlled by women awarded prime contracts in each North       American Industry Classification System code during the       fiscal year, and a comparison to the number awarded prime       contracts during the prior fiscal year, if available.'';

(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``subparagraphs (B)       through (E) of paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs       (B) through (F) of paragraph (2)''; and

(3) by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:

``(6) Definitions.--In this subsection:

``(A) New small business entrant.--The term `new small       business entrant' means a small business concern that--

``(i) has been awarded a prime contract by a Federal       agency; and

``(ii) has not previously been awarded a prime contract by       any Federal agency.

``(B) Scorecard.--The term `scorecard' means any summary       using a rating system to evaluate the efforts of a Federal       agency to meet goals established under subsection (g)(1)(B)       that--

``(i) includes the measures described in paragraph (2); and

``(ii) assigns a score to each Federal agency evaluated.''.       SEC. 3. COMPLIANCE WITH CUTGO.

No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to       carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in full support of H.R. 818, the SPUR Act, led by  my colleagues Representatives Stauber, Cisneros, and Perez.

The SPUR Act is crucial in assessing the Federal Government's  progress in bringing in new companies and expanding the industrial  base.

Understanding the number of new small businesses engaged in  government contracting will highlight the concerning decline in  industrial base participation and track agencies' progress on  rebuilding it.

Small businesses are an essential component of the United States  industrial base. Despite their importance, over the last few decades,  small businesses have been squeezed out of the industrial base at an  alarming rate, with nearly half of the businesses leaving over the past  10 years. This threatens America's economic interests and strategic  readiness, which must be remedied.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote for H.R. 818, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  am prepared to close.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.