Successful Entrepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 828) to require the Administrator of the Small  Business Administration to report on the veterans interagency task  force, to require the Comptroller General of the United States to  report on access to credit for small business concerns owned and  controlled by covered individuals, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 828

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Successful Entrepreneurship       for Reservists and Veterans Act'' or the ``SERV Act''.       SEC. 2. REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR VETERANS INTERAGENCY TASK                     FORCE.

Section 32(c) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657b(c))       is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(4) Report.--Along with the budget justification       documents for the Small Business Administration submitted to       Congress in connection with the budget for a fiscal year       submitted under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code,       the Administrator shall submit a report--

``(A) discussing the appointments made to and activities of       the task force; and

``(B) identifying and outlining a plan for outreach and       promotion of the programs and services for veterans,       including Veteran Business Outreach Centers, Boots to       Business, Boots to Business Reboot, Service-Disabled       Entrepreneurship Development Training Program, Veteran       Institute for Procurement, Women Veteran Entrepreneurship       Training Program, and Veteran Women Igniting the Spirit of       Entrepreneurship.''.       SEC. 3. GAO REPORT ON ACCESS TO CREDIT.

(a) Report on Access to Credit.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the       United States shall submit a report on the ability of small       business concerns owned and controlled by covered individuals       to access credit to--

(A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on       Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on       Small Business of the House of Representatives.

(2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1)       shall include, to the extent practicable, an analysis of--

(A) the sources of credit used by small business concerns       owned and controlled by covered individuals and the average       percentage of the credit obtained from each source by such       concerns;

(B) the default rate for small business concerns owned and       controlled by covered individuals, disaggregated by each       source of credit described in subparagraph (A), as compared       to the default rate for the source of credit for small       business concerns generally;

(C) the Federal lending programs available to provide       credit to small business concerns owned and controlled by       covered individuals;

(D) gaps, if any, in the availability of credit for small       business concerns owned and controlled by covered individuals       that are not being filled by the Federal Government or       private sources;

(E) obstacles faced by covered individuals in trying to       access credit;

(F) the extent to which deployment and other military       responsibilities affect the credit history of veterans and       Reservists; and

(G) the extent to which covered individuals are aware of       Federal programs targeted towards helping covered individuals       access credit.

(b) Definitions.--In this Act:

(1) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual''       means--

(A) a veteran;

(B) a service-disabled veteran;

(C) a Reservist;

(D) the spouse of an individual described in subparagraph       (A), (B), or (C); or

(E) the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces.

(2) Reservist.--The term ``Reservist'' means a member of a       reserve component of the Armed Forces, as described in       section 10101 of title 10, United States Code.

(3) Small business act definitions.--The terms ``service-      disabled veteran'', ``small business concern'', and       ``veteran'' have the meanings given those terms,       respectively, under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 632).       SEC. 4. COMPLIANCE WITH CUTGO.

No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to       carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 828, the SERV  Act, led by my colleagues Representatives Davids, Alford, and Conaway.

It is an honor to reflect on the tremendous contributions of our  veterans who have defended our freedoms and continue serving our  country once they transition back to civilian life, often on Main  Street America.

Our Nation's heroes are uniquely positioned to become successful  businessowners because of the skills  they gained in the military, which have made them natural and effective  leaders. Unfortunately, veterans often face barriers when starting or  growing their businesses. Chief among them are access to capital and  general awareness of available resources.

The SERV Act seeks to reduce those barriers by directing the  Interagency Task Force on Veterans Small Business Development to create  an action plan to improve outreach to veterans and inform them of  available resources that directly apply to their unique needs.

We must work together to ensure that our veterans have access to the  tools necessary to start or grow their businesses. I urge my colleagues  to support our veterans and pass the SERV Act.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  am prepared to close.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.