Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act


Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 789) to require the Administrator of the Small  Business Administration to issue rules for cancelled covered  solicitations, to amend the Small Business Act to provide assistance to  small business concerns relating to certain cancelled solicitations,  and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 789

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Transparency and       Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act''.       SEC. 2. SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION RULES FOR CANCELLED                     COVERED SOLICITATIONS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small       Business Administration shall issue rules as follows:

(1) Requiring disclosure of information about a covered       solicitation that was issued and cancelled that includes the       following:

(A) A justification for the cancellation of such covered       solicitation.

(B) Available information about any plans to reissue such       covered solicitation and any associated timeframes for such       reissuance.

(C) Available information about any plans to include the       requirements of such covered solicitation in another contract       or task order of the Federal agency.

(2) With respect to a cancelled covered solicitation which       the Federal agency does not intend to reissue, establishing       procedures for the referral of a small business concern (as       defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       632)) that prepared a bid for such covered solicitation to       the Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization       (as defined in section 15(k) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)))       of the Federal agency for assistance in identifying similar       contracting opportunities.

(b) Publication.--The information required under subsection       (a) shall be made publicly accessible on the single,       Government-wide point of entry described under section 1708       of title 41, United States Code.

(c) Covered Solicitation Defined.--In this section, the       term ``covered solicitation'' means a solicitation of a       Federal agency for a procurement for which two or more small       business concerns were eligible to submit a bid.       SEC. 3. DUTIES FOR DIRECTORS OF OFFICES OF SMALL AND                     DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS UTILIZATION RELATING TO                     CERTAIN CANCELLED SOLICITATIONS.

Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k))       is amended--

(1) in paragraph (21), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; and''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(22) shall, when notified by a small business concern       that a Federal agency cancelled a solicitation for which such       concern prepared a bid and such Federal agency does not       intend to reissue such solicitation, assist such concern with       identifying similar contracting opportunities.''.       SEC. 4. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

No additional funds are authorized to carry out the       requirements of this Act and the amendments made by this Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in full support of H.R. 789, the  Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act,  introduced by Representatives Latimer, Alford, and Mfume.

H.R. 789 seeks to bring clarity to small business owners when  solicitations for contracts are canceled. Often, small businesses  devote a considerable amount of time and resources in preparing these  proposals for solicitations.

Unfortunately, these solicitations are often canceled by agencies  with no explanation provided to the businesses that have already  submitted proposals.

H.R. 789 will require agencies to share with the SBA information as  to why the solicitation was canceled. Moreover, this bill requires  agencies to assist small businesses impacted by the canceled  solicitation by identifying similar contracts to bid on.

Small businesses deserve to have a full understanding of what  opportunities are available to them and to know how agencies will  fulfill their buying needs.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 789, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support  this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.