American Water Stewardship Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701216/american-water-stewardship-act


Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, my legislation, the American Water  Stewardship Act, is a comprehensive package that brings together six  standalone bills to reauthorize and strengthen key EPA water quality  and ecosystem restoration programs.

The package includes the BEACH Act, introduced by Representatives    David Joyce, Frank Pallone,   David Rouzer, and Emilia Sykes, which  supports coastal water monitoring and helps local communities to  protect public health.

It also reauthorizes the National Estuary Program, championed by  Representatives Figures and Mast, that protects and restores the water  quality of estuaries of national significance.

The package also reauthorizes several geographic programs with strong  track records, including the Long Island Sound program, led by  Representative LaLota, and the Columbia River Basin Restoration  Program, led by Representative Hoyle.

Most important to me, however, is that this bill reauthorizes the  Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The Great Lakes Restoration  Initiative has long been championed by Representative   David Joyce of  Ohio, as well as many other Members of the Great Lakes region.

I have always appreciated working with such a strong bipartisan group  of Members to ensure that this important program is recognized,  reauthorized, and well funded.

The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, or the GLRI, represents the  largest Federal investment in the Great Lakes, which are vitally  important to my home State of Minnesota.

The GLRI is the largest and, arguably, the most successful EPA  geographic program. Its work focuses on cleaning up the Great Lakes,  reducing pollution, addressing invasive species, and restoring critical  habitat for local species.

To date, more than 8,000 projects have been completed through the  GLRI, generating over $3 in economic activity for every $1 in Federal  investment. This is an incredible rate of return for a Federal program,  and it is just one of the reasons why I have strongly advocated for the  GLRI during my time here in Congress.

I would be remiss if I did not extend my gratitude to Congressman    David Joyce and all the other Great Lakes champions for their work on  this effort. I am happy we have found a legislative vehicle to move  this important program forward.

At its core, this package reflects a commonsense approach to water  stewardship, supporting community-led efforts, encouraging  collaboration, and demonstrating that responsible environmental  protection goes hand in hand with economic growth and fiscal  responsibility.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this package.