Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692860/condemning-the-attacks-on-minnesota-lawmakers-in-brooklyn-park-and-champlin-minnesota-and-calling-for-unity-and-the-rejection-of-political-violence-in-minnesota-and-across-the-united-states


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to strongly  condemn the recent attacks on Minnesota lawmakers and their families  and denounce all forms of political violence.

Earlier this month, a deranged gunman shocked the State of Minnesota  and this entire Nation by murdering Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman and  her husband, Mark, and attempting to kill State Senator John Hoffman  and his wife, Yvette.

I am absolutely devastated by this terrifying act of violence. While  I didn't know Melissa Hortman personally, her reputation was that of a  very dedicated public servant who cared deeply about our shared State  and its peaceful people. I heard equally wonderful things about Mark  Hortman, especially his deep devotion to his family.

My heart aches for the Hortmans' two children, now left without  parents, and all their loved ones. At the same time, I continue to hold  Senator Hoffman and his wife, Yvette, in my prayers as they begin the  long and difficult  road toward healing. Their survival is nothing short of a miracle, and  I thank God they remain with us today.

I am also thankful to all of our brave law enforcement officers in  Minnesota, along with our Federal partners who were able to locate and  capture the killer, ending his brief reign of terror on our State.  Without their quick response, there may have been many more victims.  Thanks to their dedication and professionalism, justice will now be  delivered.

Make no mistake. This was not just an attack on the Hortman and  Hoffman families. This was an attack on the State of Minnesota and our  shared ideals as Americans.

Political violence such as this threatens the very fabric of our  constitutional republic and can never be ignored or met without  condemnation. I am personally alarmed by the growing number of threats  and attacks on public officials across the political spectrum in recent  years. While we may have our differences, it is incumbent upon us all  to make sure that disagreement never descends into violence.

Now, more than ever, we must remember that we are all Americans, and  what unites us is far more powerful than anything that might divide us.

I am deeply grateful to Melissa Hortman, John Hoffman, and both of  their families for everything they have contributed to our great State  of Minnesota. I think one of the most powerful ways we can honor them  is by standing united as Americans against this senseless attack and  against all forms of political violence.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to do so by supporting H. Res. 519.