Critical Mineral Dominance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699694/critical-mineral-dominance-act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bipartisan  bill, H.R. 4090, the Critical Mineral Dominance Act.

This bill will help strengthen our Nation's critical mineral security  and enable our critical mineral dominance by codifying several of the  policies that President Trump put forth in his hardrock mining  executive orders earlier this year.

This bill does three things, Mr. Speaker. First, it mandates a new  study on the cost of U.S. mineral import reliance, including from  adversarial nations like China. This will help give the United States a  much clearer picture into our critical mineral security, including what  kind of vulnerabilities we face by failing to mine here and continuing  to depend on other nations.

Next, it requires the administration to expedite priority mining  projects on Federal lands and identify Federal lands that have the  potential for new mineral production, as well as increase geological  mapping to give us a much clearer picture of our incredible mineral  wealth right here in the United States.

Lastly, this bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to revise or  rescind any agency actions that are a barrier to domestic mining, as  well as make recommendations to Congress as to how current law can be  changed to streamline mineral development. It will also conduct a  broader review of State and local laws that are also holding us back  from our true mineral potential.

I think each and every one of my colleagues in this body, from both  sides of the aisle, Mr. Speaker, understands and realizes the important  role that critical minerals play in our 21st century economy. This will  only increase as time goes on.

We have tremendous mineral wealth in our country, not only in my  district in northern Minnesota, which is home to the largest untapped  copper-nickel deposit in the world, but in States all across this great  Nation.

There is no reason for the United States to be dependent on other  countries, including foreign adversarial nations, for our critical  mineral future. Nobody does it better than the United States.

I implore my colleagues: Where is the world currently mining for  critical minerals that have better labor standards or environmental  standards than us?

Mr. Speaker, nothing in this bill green-lights any mining project  without necessary scrutiny. Nothing in this bill allows for a project  to bypass NEPA, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, or the  Endangered Species Act, nothing.

This bill is a strong signal from Congress to the executive branch  that we need to get serious about our critical mineral strategy and  take necessary steps to win once again.

Before I yield back, I would note a number of the outside groups that  are supporting this legislation. They include labor unions like the  North America's Building Trades Unions and the Laborers' International  Union of North America, LIUNA.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a statement in support from  Albert Gore, executive director of Zero Emission Transportation  Association, representing the views of the domestic electric vehicle  industry; a letter of support from a group of 17 organizations  representing different areas of the domestic mining sector; a letter of  support from the Essential Minerals Association; and a November 2025  op-ed published by RealClearEnergy, expressing support for this  legislation.                                                   January 16, 2025.

Zero Emission Transportation Association (ZETA) is an       industry coalition representing approximately 50 companies       spanning the electric vehicle (EV) supply chain end-to-end,       including critical mineral and material producers, cell and       battery manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers, charging       companies and electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE)       providers, utility companies, and battery recyclers.

The United States is blessed to have vast mineral       resources, but a holistic government approach is needed to       fully unlock them. Critical minerals and materials are       necessary for EVs, battery manufacturing, defense, and nearly       every other advanced technology industry. Enabling the United       States to truly compete in these sectors is necessary to       maintain our edge in the global marketplace and create jobs       here at home.

H.R. 4090 (Stauber), the Critical Mineral Dominance Act,       helps us achieve this goal by supporting the secure and       reliable sourcing of minerals for domestic manufacturing.       Among other provisions, the bill directs the Secretary of the       Interior to determine the economic impact of each mineral       commodity for which the U.S. is import reliant, continue       mapping federal lands suitable for mineral development,       analyze regulations that may handicap the development of       domestic projects, and provide Congressional committees of       jurisdiction recommended policy changes to reduce regulatory       burdens for project development.

We were glad to see this legislation move through the       Committee on Natural Resources, and encourage Members of       Congress to support this bill when it comes to the House       Floor for consideration.            Sincerely,                                                       Albert Gore,      Executive Director.                                   ____                                                   February 3, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: As the       House of Representatives continues efforts to strengthen       America's mineral supply chains and restore U.S.       competitiveness, we write in strong support of H.R. 4090, the       Critical Mineral Dominance Act.

For decades, domestic mineral producers have operated in a       regulatory environment marked by uncertainty, as permitting       priorities and interpretations have changed between       administrations. This lack of consistency disincentivizes       long-term capital investment and discourages development       opportunities in the U.S.

H.R. 4090 will provide greater stability and predictability       for mine developers and promote job creation by codifying key       provisions of President Trump's executive orders related to       domestic hardrock mining. This legislation represents an       important step toward a more efficient, predictable and       durable federal permitting framework. By improving permitting       efficiency, expanding responsible access to our nation's       mineral endowment on federal lands and reducing unnecessary       regulatory burdens, H.R. 4090 will help reposition the U.S.       to compete in the minerals age.

Developing domestic mining and onshoring mineral supply       chains are foundational to advancing U.S. economic and       national security priorities. By reducing our reliance on       mineral imports, especially those from geopolitical       adversaries, this bill improves supply chain resilience,       protects military readiness and ensures the U.S. can meet       current and future needs while maintaining world-leading       environmental, labor and safety standards.

H.R. 4090 enhances U.S. economic competitiveness and takes       direct aim at our strategic vulnerabilities. This bill is a       critically important step forward to ensure America can       responsibly and efficiently develop its vast domestic mineral       resources. We urge your support for H.R. 4090.            Sincerely,

Alabama Mining Association, Alaska Miners Association,       American Exploration & Mining Association, Arizona Mining       Association, Colorado Mining Association, Georgia Mining       Association, Idaho Mining Association, MiningMinnesota,       Montana Mining Association, National Mining Association,       Nevada Mining Association, New Mexico Mining Association,       Tennessee Mining Association, Texas Mining and Reclamation       Association, Utah Mining Association, Women's Mining       Coalition, Wyoming Mining Association.                                   ____                                                   January 16, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, House Committee on Natural Resources, Washington,           DC.      Hon. Jared Huffman,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Natural Resources,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Westerman and Ranking Member Huffman: The       Essential Minerals Association (EMA) writes to express our       strong support for H.R. 4090, the Critical Mineral Dominance       Act.

EMA is the representative voice of approximately 100       companies that extract,       process, and support a vital and beneficial group of metal/      nonmetal minerals that are the essential ingredients for a       strong national defense and economy as well as many of the       products used in everyday life. Our members' minerals are       essential building blocks for the agriculture, defense,       energy, infrastructure, manufacturing, and technology       sectors, to name just a few.

Securing and strengthening our domestic mineral supply       chains is vital to securing our national defense and economy,       both now and into the future. Recent years have shown us the       danger of relying on hostile foreign nations such as China       for essential mineral resources which can be cut off at any       time due to geopolitical or economic tensions. Maximizing       domestic production and processing of mineral resources is       the optimal strategy for addressing this dynamic and will       also create many well-paying jobs for American workers.

To that end, Congress must act decisively to ensure that       domestic mineral mining in the U.S. can thrive. To that end,       Congress must act decisively to properly understand the       impacts of mineral import reliance, find and map federal       lands that are well-suited to domestic mineral production,       ensure identification and prompt approval of high priority       mineral projects, and remove unnecessary barriers to opening       a mine in the United States. The Critical Mineral Dominance       Act represents a step in the right direction and EMA urges       Congress to pass it as soon as possible.

H.R. 4090 will direct the Department of the Interior (DOI)       to revise or rescind agency actions that hinder mining       projects, recommend reforms of current mining laws to       Congress, and conduct a nationwide review of state and local       laws impeding mineral exploration and development. The bill       will also require DOI to identify and approve mining projects       which can be expeditiously permitted and made operational as       well as continue prioritization of accurate national mapping       of hardrock mineral resources.

The provisions of H.R. 4090 all represent necessary actions       to securing domestic mineral supply chains. Congress and the       administration need to identify lands with strong mineral       potential and rapidly approve projects which can reduce our       reliance on imported mineral resources, and H.R. 4090 would       further those objectives. Further, the bill's requirement to       remove regulatory regimes which present unnecessary barriers       or delays to opening a mine is key to ensuring that projects       can be approved expeditiously and become operational as       quickly as possible while still maintaining appropriate       protections for the environment and worker health and safety.       The sooner such projects can come online, the sooner the U.S.       can reduce its dependence on foreign hostile nations like       China for important mineral resources. The Critical Mineral       Dominance Act represents a series of steps in the right       direction toward securing our domestic mineral supply chains       and securing American mineral independence. EMA supports this       bill and encourages Congress to pass it as soon as possible.

Securing and fortifying our domestic mineral supply chains       must remain a top priority for Congress and the       administration in order to protect U.S. national and economic       security. H.R. 4090 will further this goal and enable the       U.S. to reduce our dependence on hostile foreign nations like       China for essential mineral resources while creating jobs       across the country for American workers. EMA urges Congress       to pass the Critical Mineral Dominance Act and send it to       President Trump for signature as soon as possible.            Sincerely,                                                   Chris Greissing,                         President, Essential Minerals Association.                              [Nov. 11, 2025]

President Trump Needs Better Rare Earths Negotiating Tools                  (By Debra Struhsacker, Sarah Montalbano)

President Trump secured a one-year reprieve from Beijing's       threat to shut down global rare-earths exports, which would       have interrupted manufacturing of semiconductor chips and       magnets essential in military and technology applications.       The President quipped that ``there's no roadblock at all''       and rare earths ``will hopefully disappear from our       vocabulary for a little while.''

But the President's brinkmanship has not diminished the       vulnerability of the world's rare earths supply chains. To       strengthen its position in future negotiations with Beijing,       Washington can't eliminate rare earths and critical minerals       from its vocabulary. The U.S. must win the rare earths and       critical minerals race with China to support our economy and       guarantee our national security.

With the Pentagon manufacturing weapons systems using over       80,000 parts subject to Chinese critical minerals export       controls, the U.S. can no longer treat critical minerals as       commodities that can be managed like consumer products. We       cannot continue to rely on other countries--including our       allies--for these materials. This will require dramatically       increasing domestic mining and mineral processing and       stockpiling.

The U.S. must start producing critical minerals from       domestic mines and refineries as soon as possible, which will       require long-term policies to encourage domestic minerals       investments. Mining companies require policy certainty to       justify investing hundreds of millions of dollars to explore       for minerals and billions more to develop new mines and       mineral processing facilities. Without this certainty, they       will continue to explore and build in countries that have       stable and supportive mining policies.

It's going to take time to rebuild the U.S. mining       industry, which has atrophied due to decades of hostile       federal policies. Deals like the recent U.S.-Australia       critical minerals and rare earths framework make sense to       secure supplies in the near term. But relying on minerals       from Australia and other allies could be risky if an       adversary strategically interferes with international       shipping.

The U.S. suffers from a lack of investment in mining and       mineral processing research and development. The U.S. Bureau       of Mines used to conduct research and provide minerals       expertise until Congress' short-sighted decision in 1996 to       stop funding this Bureau. Thirty years later, the U.S. is       woefully behind China in our understanding of the best ways       to process minerals, including rare earths. Today, China has       superior technology to separate the individual rare earth       elements needed to manufacture products like magnets from       rare earth feedstocks.

China is also light years ahead of the U.S. in training       mining engineers, metallurgists. and other mining       professionals. China's numerous mining schools graduate       thousands of students annually to support its strategy to       secure global minerals dominance. U.S. mining schools have       dwindled to 14 institutions--down from 25 in 1982--and       graduate fewer than 200 mining engineers each year.

To solve the current minerals emergency, Congress must       amend the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to codify       the Supreme Court's ruling in Seven County Coalition v. Eagle       County, CO, a unanimous judgement establishing that NEPA       ``does not mandate particular results, but simply prescribes       the necessary process for an agency's environmental review of       a project.'' NEPA has added years of permitting and       litigation that delay most infrastructure projects, not just       new mines.

A bipartisan bill, H.R. 4776, that Chairman Bruce Westerman       (R., AR) and Rep. Jared Golden (D., ME) recently introduced,       would codify key elements of the Supreme Court's Seven County       Coalition ruling and enact judicial reforms to reduce NEPA       litigation, which, according to the Supreme Court, has       ``transformed NEPA from a modest procedural requirement into       a blunt and haphazard tool employed by project opponents.''

Congress should also enact Rep. Pete Stauber's (R., MN),       H.R. 4090, to codify some of the minerals directives in       President Trump's executive orders, and the bipartisan and       bicameral Mining Regulatory Clarity Act (S-544 and H.R. 1366)       to reduce the uncertainties about whether federal lands can       be used for mining support facilities stemming from       litigation seeking to curtail mining on western federal       lands,

Although President Trump staved off the rare earths       emergency for a year, he needs better future negotiating       tools. The rare earths truce with China buys the U.S. some       time to remove regulatory barriers and start ramping up       domestic mining and mineral processing. Reducing our reliance       on China for rare earths and other critical minerals is the       best way to increase the President's negotiating leverage.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in  supporting this bipartisan piece of legislation, H.R. 4090.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, my good friends on the other side of the  aisle will promote, again, anywhere but America and any worker but the  American worker when it comes to mining. Anywhere but America, and any  worker but the American worker.

They are exporting their environmental guilt. They are okay with  getting these critical minerals mined by child slave labor.

Mr. Speaker, 30 percent of the cobalt comes from child slave labor.  Both the Trump and the Biden administration agree with that.

Mr. Speaker, there is nothing in this legislation that removes NEPA.  Nothing in this legislation removes the clean water. Nothing in this  legislation removes the clean air in the decisionmaking, and nothing in  this legislation removes any of the endangered species protections.

Mr. Speaker, we took a bipartisan trip last year up to Alaska. Greens  Creek Mine is in a national monument. There is exceptional mining of  the nickel in the national monument. We can do it here, Mr. Speaker,  better than anywhere. We have the mineral wealth. We have the workers.  We can do both. We can have a clean environment and clean water and  domestically mine.

My friends across the aisle consistently say: Yes, we need critical  minerals. Yes, we need if for strategic national security. Yes, we need  it for medical instrument technology. Yes, we need it for our everyday  lives. They refuse to allow it to happen. They put up roadblock after  roadblock. They say that they want it, but they never support it, or  very rarely support it.

That is the mindset and the philosophy, Mr. Speaker, that has brought  American critical mineral mining to its knees and allowed China to take  over.

China's global mineral dominance is not a threat. It is a reality.  This is what is happening right now because of that philosophy of not  in my backyard, not in our backyard.

There is a philosophy that it is better in our backyard. We do it  better than anybody. Look at the unions that are supporting this piece  of legislation. It came out of committee in a bipartisan fashion. This  is what the American people want, bipartisan work. Here it is.

I look forward to this bipartisan piece of legislation that  strengthens our national security moving forward this afternoon.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I want to paraphrase in my own mind what  was said moments ago across the aisle, real simple: anywhere but  America, any worker but the American worker. I am paraphrasing from my  own mind what I heard. The excuses, the excuses, the excuses, the  excuses. We have to mine here. We can't mine here.

In fact, Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman who just spoke in her beautiful  State, she has allowed oil and gas development. In her beautiful State,  she has allowed mining. Why not in my State? Why can't my union workers  make the $135,000-a-year jobs, but in her State it is okay? This bill  is for the entire country.

Mr. Speaker, my constituents need good-paying jobs, too. It is good  for our economy and good for our communities. The technology we use is  second to none.

I want to answer my friend from New Mexico who just spoke. She asked:  Why aren't we processing and refining here? I have good news for her.  Very shortly, there is going to be legislation to allow that, to permit  the mining and processing here in the United States of America. I am  going to go directly to my good friend and colleague from New Mexico to  help sponsor that with me because she is right. Let's do it here. Let's  mine here, Mr. Speaker. I am going to give her and my friends across  the aisle that opportunity very shortly.

The fact of the matter is, we have the opportunity. We have to remove  the political science--the truth and the facts--to allow this mining to  move forward.

This is our backyard. My good friend across the aisle, who is  managing the debate, talked about the economic value or the lack  thereof. I share with my good friend and colleague that in my State of  Minnesota, just one mine proposed, just one, will bring between $1.4  and $1.8 billion of Federal revenue, $800 million for the taxpayers of  Minnesota. Every single school district in the great State of Minnesota  benefits from mining.

You want to know why I am passionate? These are my constituents that  will be mining these critical minerals with the best labor standards  and the best environmental standards in the world. We have been mining  in Minnesota for 145 years. We have mined the iron ore that makes over  80 percent of this Nation's steel.

The cleanest water in the State of Minnesota, Mr. Speaker, is in the  heart of mining country in Buhl, Minnesota. We know how to do it.

Let's stop exporting our environmental guilt. Let's stop exporting  our environmental guilt and do it here with our labor standards, our  technology, and our workers.

I am happy that New Mexico has oil and gas development and mining  development. I am happy for those workers. We need that. Let Minnesota  mine.