Critical Mineral Consistency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700398/critical-mineral-consistency-act-of-2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 755, the  Critical Mineral Consistency Act, introduced by my good friend from  Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani). The Energy Act of 2020 took a significant  first step, recognizing the importance of critical minerals and  critical materials to the American economy and our strategic national  security.

While the respective lists developed by the U.S. Geological Survey  and the Department of Energy have been helpful in ensuring we have  policies in place that increase and stabilize our access to these  critical minerals and materials, they are not hitting the mark and  require further direction from Congress.

The two agencies use different criteria and do not take into  consideration the same parameters, sometimes leading to different  lists. Notably, the USGS list does not account for forward-looking data  and analysis, such as international demand and growth trajectories,  which the DOE list does. Currently, DOE automatically adopts any  minerals USGS deems critical for their own critical materials list, but  it doesn't work the other way around.

H.R. 755 fixes this and amends the Energy Act of 2020 to  automatically place DOE's deemed materials on the USGS list.

Under this legislation, each agency would still be responsible for  reviewing elements under their unique purview based on their own  technical expertise. It would simply streamline interagency  coordination and ensure USGS is taking into account the full picture  and the best, most complete information when developing its critical  minerals list.

This legislation is a small yet important step in ensuring we have  access to the critical minerals and materials that are necessary for  our national security, along with our ability to compete and win in  this 21st century. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  bill.