Dhs Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690826/dhs-restrictions-on-confucius-institutes-and-chinese-entities-of-concern-act


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule on the  DHS Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of  Concern Act.

Mr. Speaker, over the past decade, Communist China has persecuted the  Uyghur population for their religious and cultural practices. Xinjiang  authorities have detained Uyghurs in internment camps without formal  charges, forced them into slave labor, and have committed numerous  other human rights abuses against the Uyghur people.

This includes severe physical abuse, as well as the forced collection  of biometric data like DNA and fingerprint samples.

While the Chinese Communist Party refuses to admit it, researchers  believe these abuses are a part of China's ``second-generation ethnic  policy.'' This policy advocates the forced assimilation of minorities  to create a ``state race.'' One of the founding fathers of Communist  China's second-generation ethnic policy is Hu Angang, who leads the  Institute for Contemporary China Studies at Tsinghua University.

Unfortunately, American universities such as Yale, Harvard, and the  University of Pennsylvania have engaged in partnerships with Tsinghua  University. There is no reason why our universities should be  complacent in religious persecutions in the 21st century.

Last Congress, the House adopted my amendment to address the  persecution of Uyghur Muslims in the previous iteration of this  legislation. I am grateful that the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Pfluger)  has included the language in this year's bill text. We should all agree  that higher education's willingness to look the other way is always  unacceptable.

For these reasons, I encourage my colleagues to support this rule,  which is the first step in ending our universities' appeasement of  China's crimes against the Uyghur people and countering China's malign  influence and espionage at our academic institutions.