Entrepreneurs with Disabilities Reporting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691757/entrepreneurs-with-disabilities-reporting-act-of-2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in favor of the  Entrepreneurs with Disabilities Reporting Act of 2025.

I will start by thanking my friend and colleague from Kentucky (Mr.  McGarvey) for introducing this bill and for his hard work in getting  this bill to this point.

Every day, people with disabilities across our great country  demonstrate resilience, innovation, and an entrepreneurial spirit. Yet,  many roadblocks make entrepreneurship unnecessarily difficult.

These individuals don't lack talent, but they lack access. That is  access to capital, access to resources, and the support needed to turn  their ideas into successful businesses.

The Entrepreneurs with Disabilities Reporting Act ensures that we  take a hard look at the obstacles standing in the way of aspiring  entrepreneurs with disabilities. It directs the Small  Business Administration to assess whether current programs are  effectively serving these individuals and to identify where  improvements are needed.

If we are serious about fostering economic growth and opportunity, we  cannot leave behind the millions of great Americans with disabilities  who want to contribute, who want to innovate, and want to build  something of their own.

Removing these obstacles isn't just the right thing to do, but it is  a smart investment in economic growth. Entrepreneurs with disabilities  bring creativity, and they bring drive. We should be clearing the path  and not blocking it.

Mr. Speaker, today is a fly-in day for the House of Representatives.  This conversation between Chairman Williams, Mr. McGarvey, and the  leadership of Ranking Member Velazquez won't get the headlines because  this apparently doesn't sell to the news media.

We in this country, as Democrats and Republicans, have more in common  than we do differences, and we are letting the American people know  that today.

Chairman Williams has done a tremendous job in the Committee on Small  Business of allowing Members to bring ideas and legislation that is  bipartisan. I thank the chairman for his hard work and for allowing us  to do that.

I thank Ranking Member Velazquez for allowing us to do that, as well.

I thank Mr. McGarvey for managing the floor today.

Mr. Speaker, this is who we are, and I point out that Mr. McGarvey  said this is the way the Founding Fathers would want it. I totally  agree with that. One of the gentleman's constituents brought the  concern, and it took us a little while to get there, but we got there.

Mr. Speaker, we are working in a bipartisan fashion to remove  obstacles in the way of the growth for our disability community.

Mr. Speaker, I know your background. The Speaker was chosen, just  like me and millions of other parents, to raise a special child who God  gave us. It is up to us now as a country and as legislators to not  leave anybody behind.

Mr. Speaker, nobody in our disability community will ever be left  behind, and you are seeing that in a bipartisan fashion.

I thank Mr. McGarvey, Ranking Member Velazquez, and Chairman Williams  for their leadership and allowing us to introduce this legislation  because we are helping the most vulnerable in our community. That is  exactly what we should be doing.