Law Enforcement Officer and Firefighter Recreation Pass Act


Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 183) to amend the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act  to provide for a lifetime National Recreational Pass for law  enforcement officers, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 183

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Law Enforcement Officer and       Firefighter Recreation Pass Act''.       SEC. 2. NATIONAL RECREATIONAL PASSES FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT                     OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.

Section 805(b) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement       Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(b)) is amended--

(1) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:

``(3) Annual passes.--The Secretary shall make the National       Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass available, at no       cost, to--

``(A) a member of the Armed Forces and their dependents; or

``(B) a law enforcement officer or firefighter,      who provide adequate proof of eligibility for such pass as       determined by the Secretary.''.

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(4) Definitions.--In this subsection:

``(A) Firefighter.--The term `firefighter' means any       employee of the Federal Government, a State, a unit of local       government, or an Indian Tribe who performs work directly       related to suppressing fires, including wildland fires.

``(B) Law enforcement officer.--The term `law enforcement       officer' means any officer, agent, or employee of the Federal       Government, a State, a unit of local government, or an Indian       Tribe authorized by law or by a government agency to engage       in or supervise the prevention, detection, or investigation       of any violation of criminal law or who is authorized by law       to supervise sentenced criminal offenders.''.

Mr. STAUBER.  183, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 183, the Law  Enforcement Officer and Firefighter Recreational Pass Act, led by my  friend and colleague on the Natural Resources Committee Representative  McClintock.

This legislation helps recognize the selfless service of Federal,  State, Tribal, and local law enforcement officers and firefighters with  a well-deserved benefit: free annual access to national parks, forests,  and other public lands managed by the Federal Government.

This meaningful legislation will ensure that the men and women who  risk their lives to protect our communities can enjoy free access to  our Nation's most treasured public lands.

Law enforcement officers and firefighters also play a critical role  in protecting our public lands by responding to wildland fires,  conducting search and rescue operations, responding to criminal  activity, and preventing vandalism and resource destruction.

For example, just over 1 year ago, on a busy Fourth of July weekend,  Yellowstone National Park law enforcement officers neutralized a  potential shooter headed toward a busy dining area in one of the most  popular areas of the park. Their selfless actions and heroism saved  countless lives, ensuring that this day of celebration did not turn  into a day of tragedy.

Whether it is a local sheriff in Minnesota, a wildland firefighter in  California, or a Tribal police officer in Missouri, our law enforcement  officers and firefighters dedicate themselves to the safety and well- being of others, often under incredibly difficult and dangerous  circumstances. This legislation gives something back to those who give  so much.

This bill also promotes the use of public lands for recreation,  health, and family time, particularly among those who may face long  hours, stressful shifts, and dangerous conditions. Outdoor recreation  is good for both mental and physical well-being, and this bill ensures  that our first responders can take full advantage of America's natural  beauty.

I commend Representative McClintock for his leadership on this bill  and his continued work to expand outdoor access for the American  people.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense, pro- recreation, pro-first-responder legislation. Let's honor those who  serve by giving them the opportunity to enjoy the lands that they help  protect.

Madam Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.                                           House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                       Washington, DC, July 9, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 183, the ``Law Enforcement       Officer Recreation Pass Act.'' Thank you for collaborating       with the Committee on Agriculture on the matters within our       jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 183 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration.            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                       Washington, DC, July 9, 2025.      Hon. Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: I write regarding our mutual       understanding of H.R. 183, the Law Enforcement Officer       Recreation Pass Act, which was ordered report by the       Committee on Natural Resources.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 183 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I will make a comment that the Republican  Party will always defend the police, not defund them.

Madam Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from California  (Mr. McClintock), the lead sponsor of this bill.

Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I will close by saying that 2 weeks ago, in  the One Big Beautiful Bill, there were 18,000 law enforcement officers  that were to be hired. Not one of my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle voted for it.

Mr. Speaker, ahead of our Nation's 250th anniversary next year, this  bill ensures meaningful access to our national parks and public lands  and recognizes the immense service and sacrifice of our Nation's law  enforcement officers and firefighters.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.