Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696882/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this CRA  resolution introduced by my good friend and colleague from Wyoming,  Representative Hageman. This resolution overturns the Biden  administration's actions to lock up public lands in Wyoming from  responsible coal development, all part of the Democrat and President  Biden's agenda, which was anywhere but America, any worker but American  energy agenda.

Last year, I had the opportunity to join Representative Hageman on a  tour across the Powder River Basin, where we visited the coal mines and  met the proud men and women who have been working there for  generations.

While I visited one of these mines, I met a union electrician, third- generation miner, who raised his hand and stated: Please don't take our  jobs away. I am working here, and my son just got hired here.

The passion he had for the industry and these jobs was incredible. He  and now his children work in that coal mine. That gentleman told me his  family's story with a lump in his throat. Like generations before him,  he and now his children had access to good-paying union jobs in the  coal mines across the Powder River Basin, but thanks to the Biden  administration's continued war on coal, his job and his livelihood was  on the line, as the mine he worked in was set to run out of coal  reserves in just a few short years.

Thanks to the Biden administration's resource management plan that  blocked new coal leasing, the mine wouldn't be able to access  additional reserves and would have to close. In doing so, the mine  would have to lay off hundreds of workers and devastate the surrounding  communities that depend on the coal mining industry to drive their  local economies.

With tears in his eyes, this electrician asked me to save his job and  save his livelihood so he could continue to provide for his family and  energy for America.

Mr. Speaker, we have the opportunity today to do just that. By voting  in favor of this CRA, we will be able to roll back the disastrous Biden  administration's anti-American energy policies and keep the Powder  River Basin alive. Through the CRA, we will stop future anti-American  energy administrations from taking similar steps to shut down the  Powder River Basin.

I thank my colleague from Wyoming for introducing this important CRA  resolution on behalf of the hardworking men and women that make up  Wyoming's coal industry. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for  this resolution.