Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.J. Res. 35  which will overturn the disastrous Biden administration's natural gas  tax on the hardworking American people.

During a time in which energy demand across the United States and the  entire world is growing exponentially, the Federal Government should  make it easier to produce ever cleaner, reliable, and affordable  energy. Rather than supporting domestic energy production, the Biden  administration and my friends on the other side of the aisle used the  so-called Inflation Reduction Act to levy an unnecessary tax on natural  gas, which ultimately fell on American people to pay, simply to try and  kill the domestic natural gas industry.

Mr. Speaker, do you know what is the largest factor that has led to  global emissions being reduced in recent years? It has been the  increased use of American natural gas, both here in the United States  and around the world. Oil and natural gas produced in the Gulf of  America is 43 percent cleaner than oil and natural gas produced  elsewhere around the world.

The natural gas tax won't stop the use of all natural gas. It will  simply stop the use of American natural gas. This tax will make it  harder for hardworking Americans to pay for their soaring energy bills  and force us to utilize more natural gas and energy produced by foreign  adversarial nations  who have far inferior environmental and labor standards.

A natural gas tax is a completely misguided tax on the working  American people that will hurt their bottom line and benefit Vladimir  Putin. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, the Biden administration has been the most antidomestic  energy-producing administration and the most antimining administration  in the history of this country. We are going to turn it around.