Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694892/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of these  three CRA resolutions that reverse the Biden administration's Bureau of  Land Management Resource Management Plans that attack Alaska, attack  North Dakota, and attack Montana, locking up millions of acres of land  from responsible oil and gas and coal development.

Last year, on their way out of office, the Biden administration  finalized these three resource management plans that not only  threatened the hardworking miners and energy workers across Alaska,  North Dakota, and Montana but also millions of dollars in direct State  and Federal taxes and royalties.

These dangerous policies also jeopardize the entire United States and  our access to reliable and affordable energy. These resource management  plans were just another example of the Biden administration's energy  agenda: anywhere but America, any worker but American.

They just couldn't help themselves, launching one last attack on  American energy independence, even on their way out of office.

Mr. Speaker, over the past 4 years, my colleagues in this Chamber  have heard me speak out against the Biden administration's attempt  after attempt to attack my constituents and shut down northern  Minnesota.

At every single turn, the Biden administration tried to shut down  responsible mining in northern Minnesota, home to the largest untapped  copper-nickel find in the entire world. The administration did to  northern Minnesota what they did to Alaska, North Dakota, and Montana.

The CRAs before us today will reverse the Biden administration's  antiresponsible resource development policies and will allow  responsible mining and oil and gas projects to continue through the  regulatory and environmental review process, allowing them to fight  another day.

Most importantly, these resolutions will prevent future anti-American  energy administrations from taking similar actions in the future.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues from Alaska, North Dakota, and  Montana for introducing these important resolutions to reverse the  disastrous Biden administration's policies, and I urge my colleagues to  join me in supporting these resolutions today.

Mr. Speaker, the prior administration was the most antimining, anti- oil and gas administration in the history of this country. I was just  up in the great State of Alaska. In the national refuge, they are  safely and responsibly extracting oil that Alaskans need.

They are going to put in an LNG pipeline, which is the safest and  best pipeline in the world, for Alaskans, our country, and our allies.  It is going to take a lot of years to fix the disastrous policies of  the last administration.

Remember, Mr. Speaker, that the Secretary of the Interior banned  mining in northeastern Minnesota, and when asked in the Senate: Why did  you stop these critical minerals from coming forward?

Her answer was: I didn't think there were critical minerals there.

Mr. Speaker, it was the biggest find in the world.

We have an opportunity right now, today, to start changing these  disastrous Biden policies and get this economy turning. We must become  American energy independent and critical mineral dominant. We need to  be. COVID has taught us so much. We cannot rely on foreign adversarial  nations for our much-needed strategic national security supply. Our  supply chains need to be coming from American development, American  communities, American technology, American workers, and American  families. We can do it. We have to have the political will to do it.

These three CRAs are worth voting for. I commend my colleagues from  these three States. I have a suspicion there might be several more  coming in the near future because of the disastrous decisions of the  prior administration.

There is a breath of fresh air across America right now. As the  chairman just talked about the reduction in the gas prices, that is  real money for the working-class and middle-class Americans when they  can save $15 or $20 at the gas pump. That is real money when they can  save money on their natural gas or propane to heat their house. That is  real money for the constituents whom I serve.

Mr. Speaker, this is good policy, and I urge my colleagues to vote  for it.