Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699454/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-public-land-order-no-7917-for-withdrawal-of-federal-lands-cook-lake-and-saint-louis-counties-mn


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the following  letters and statements from North America's Building Trades Unions,  Laborers' International Union of North America, and the International  Union of Operating Engineers, in support of H.J. Res. 140.                NABTU Statement of Support for H.J. Res. 140

Washington, D.C.--January 16, 2026--Today, North America's       Building Trades Unions (NABTU) President Sean McGarvey issued       the following statement:

``Our nation is at a crucial inflection point. Will we       continue to import critical minerals from less-than-reputable       nations, or will we do what we must to address our industrial       shortcomings?

``Our members have waited decades for certain American       mining projects to come to fruition. While these projects       should not be blindly authorized, we hope that Congress       recognizes that the longer these projects languish in       bureaucratic red tape, the longer our members go without       receiving a paycheck for their work in making our nation       safer and more independent.

``H.J. Res. 140 recognizes our need to support domestic       industries with a responsibly extracted supply of American       minerals. In order to do so, we must address unnecessary bans       that inhibit industrial growth.

``We thank Rep. Stauber for his continued leadership and       commitment to alleviating the hurdles that keep our members       from realizing work.''                                   ____                                    LiUNA!  Statement of General President Brent Booker on Representative Stauber's                        Minnesota Mining Legislation                 [For Immediate Release--January 20, 2026]

Washington, D.C.--LIUNA General President Brent Booker made       this statement regarding Representative Stauber's Minnesota       Mining Legislation:

``The Laborers' International Union of North America       (LIUNA) urges Members of Congress to support H.J. Res. 140, a       Congressional Review Act resolution that would restore our       ability to responsibly develop critical minerals that are       needed by our nation to combat climate change and protect our       national security. For more than 130 years, mining in       Minnesota has created family-supporting careers for       generations of laborers.

Northern Minnesota is home to the world's largest known       undeveloped copper-nickel deposit. The importance of mining       these minerals in Minnesota echoes the determination that we       build it all, here in America. Our inability to mine only       weakens our domestic production and outsources the jobs it       creates. We thank Representative Stauber (R-MN) for       introducing this legislation and urge bipartisan support.''                                   ____                                                 International Union                                          of Operating Engineers,                                                   January 21, 2026.      Re H.J. Res. 140--CRA to Overturn Mining Ban in Northern           Minnesota.       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. John Thune,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Chuck Schumer,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leaders Thune, Schumer and       Jeffries: The International Union of Operating Engineers       urges Congress to pass H.J. Res. 140 to overturn the mining       ban in northern Minnesota, which contains the world's largest       known undeveloped deposits of copper, nickel, cobalt and       platinum group metals, in addition to significant helium       resources.

The International Union of Operating Engineers (IUOE) is       one of North America's leading construction unions,       representing over 410,000 hardworking men and women in the       United States and Canada. Most members of the IUOE work in       the construction sector, operating and maintaining heavy       equipment; thousands of us are employed building the nation's       roads, bridges, highways, and other transportation       infrastructure.

The IUOE spends millions of dollars every year toward       training our members. Our commitment to training is best       displayed at our world-class International Training &       Education Center (ITEC) located in Texas. The IUOE invested       over $150 million at the 265-acre ITEC facility so our       members can train with the newest advances in safety and       technology. It is the largest and most comprehensive training       facility for union Operating and Stationary Engineers in       North America.

In 2023, a federal mining ban, called a ``mineral       withdrawal'' was enacted impacting 225,000 acres of federal       lands in northeast Minnesota. It has prevented responsible       development of these resources from moving forward, in       addition to locking out any future exploration and mining in       the region for 20 years.

Critical minerals are vital for every aspect of our modern       lives, and reliable access to them is imperative for       achieving our goals of energy independence, creating jobs,       bolstering defense, bringing manufacturing home, and reducing       our reliance on foreign sources.

Currently, critical minerals come from countries with the       loosest, most egregious environmental and labor standards in       the world--countries like Argentina, Chile, China, and the       Democratic Republic of Congo. Today nearly 40% of the world's       copper is mined in Chile and the Democratic Republic of       Congo, and most of the global supply is refined in China. The       South American and African countries' environmental and labor       records, where workplace hazards and occupational deaths       occur frequently, raise significant concern. China's       prominence in the sector also presents a raft of policy       considerations regarding labor and human rights abuses,       environmental degradation, national security threats, and       more.

The Duluth Complex in northern Minnesota is a world-class       mineral deposit containing nearly 8 billion tons of critical       minerals. If developed, this region could constitute 95       percent of America's nickel reserves, 88 percent of America's       cobalt reserves, one-third of America's copper reserves, and       75 percent of U.S. platinum-group resources.

Removing the withdrawal does not remove environmental       protections. Minnesota already has some of the world's most       stringent environmental and labor standards. Any proposed       project must go through the years-long, multi-agency       environmental review before any mining operations can start.

We can mine these resources, and do so in a way that       safeguards the environment. We must not rely on other       countries who may have poor labor and environmental standards       to meet our needs. Instead, we can and should lead the world       in responsible mining. The path forward is to trust science,       and to insist on strong governmental oversight and       regulation.

Mining in northeast Minnesota has provided family-      sustaining careers to thousands of Operating Engineers and       others for over 130 years and has preserved the region's       economy. We urge Congress to pass H.J. Res. 140 CRA to       overturn the mining ban in Northern Minnesota so Operating       Engineers can continue mining for the foreseeable future and       work toward achieving our goal of energy independence for       America.

Thank you for your time and consideration.            Respectfully,                                                    John L. Downey,      General President.