Small Business Procurement and Utilization Reform Act of 2025


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill,  the Small Business Procurement and Utilization Reform Act, also known  as the SPUR Act.

I will begin by thanking my colleagues and friends from California  and Washington, respectively, Representatives Cisneros and Gluesenkamp  Perez, for their support of this legislation.

Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They are the  innovators, the job creators, and the driving force behind economic  growth.

In Minnesota, small businesses account for over 99 percent of all  businesses and employ over half of the workforce. It is no exaggeration  to say that the success of our economy is tied to the success of our  small businesses.

Despite government set-asides meant to help small businesses compete,  participation in Federal contracting has dropped by 50 percent over the  past decade. That means fewer small businesses are securing Federal  contracts, and fewer are benefiting from the opportunity to grow and  innovate.

The Federal Government is the largest purchaser of goods and services  in the world. If we are serious about supporting small businesses, we  need to ensure they have a fair shot at competing for these contracts.

Right now, the scorecard system measures whether agencies are meeting  their small business contracting goals, but it fails to consider how  many of those contracts go to first-time participants. Without this  data, we don't know if new small businesses are successfully entering  the marketplace or if the same firms are winning contracts year after  year.

If small businesses can't break into Federal contracting, innovation  is stifled, costs for taxpayers increase, and American entrepreneurs  lose out on opportunities to grow.

My bill, the SPUR Act, addresses this issue by requiring the SBA to  track and report the number of new small business participants into the  Federal procurement space. This simple but crucial change will ensure  that small businesses, especially new and growing ones, have a fair  shot at competing.

Too many Federal agencies fall short of their small business  contracting goals, leaving billions of dollars in contracts out of  reach for American entrepreneurs. The SPUR Act will provide  transparency and accountability, ensuring that the Federal Government  is doing its part to support small businesses. I urge my colleagues to  support this important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, you are from the great State of New York. Forty-five  years ago tonight, Team USA, led by Herb Brooks and 12 Minnesotans,  beat Finland for the gold medal, and I congratulate them 45 years  later.