Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695238/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the leadership of Chairman Rogers  and Ranking Member Smith on this important piece of legislation.

I rise today in support of this en bloc package, which contains four  of my amendments. The first requires the Secretary of the Air Force and  the Director of the Air National Guard to work together to modernize  the Air National Guard's fighter fleet.

Last year's NDAA required a similar report, but this report did not  fulfill several requirements, like consultation from the Director of  the Air National Guard and recapitalization plans for all fighter  wings. It was entirely inadequate.

The average age of our fighter fleet has grown from 10 years to 30  years, and 51 percent of the Air Force's service-retained fighting  force is in the Air National Guard. We need to act to modernize our  fleet.

My second amendment will provide a 2-year funding mechanism for the  State Partnership Program. This is a key security cooperation program  that enables our National Guard units to train with United States  allies and increases the interoperability, compatibility, and overall  readiness of the National Guard.

Budget volatility has brought fiscal uncertainty to this program,  putting its future in jeopardy. A 2-year funding mechanism will bring  much-needed stability to the program.

My third amendment will require the DOD to increase the efficiency of  the Funeral Honors Program. The Funeral Honors Program helps the  families of fallen veterans give their loved ones the dignified and  respectful burial that they have earned. This program relies on local  veterans service organizations to provide these funeral honors, and  VSOs receive stipends for costs incurred.

Last year, it was brought to my attention that some VSOs had their  stipends withheld due to budgetary shortfalls and the National Guard's  operational needs taking priority.

My amendment will require the DOD to identify best practices and  cost-effective ways to protect the operational needs of our National  Guard while ensuring VSOs are supported in their selfless dedication to  our Nation's heroes.

My last amendment will require the DOD to address our crippling  reliance on Communist China for critical minerals. We currently rely on  Communist China for roughly 80 percent of our critical minerals. These  minerals are used to produce everything from cell phones to fighter  jets.

With the flip of a switch, Communist China could cease all exports of  critical minerals to the United States. In fact, they have already  started reducing their exports.

Further, we have turned a blind eye to the atrocities committed by  our supplier. Communist China owns 13 of the 19 industrial mines in the  Congo, and they utilize child slave labor and follow zero environmental  laws.

My amendment would require DOD to help develop a strategy to reshore  critical mineral production and end our reliance on Communist China.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this en bloc package.