-9999


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am saddened and honored at the same  time to be able to host, alongside my California colleagues, a special  hour dedicated to the memory of Congressman Doug LaMalfa from  California.

As I looked at some of my notes here of the amazing things that he  had accomplished and who he was, I realized that we are going to hear  that over the next hour.

The thing that my team and I were reflecting on earlier today, and  all I wanted to share as we kick off this memorial to an amazing man,  was that, as vice chair, I get to, every week, host an evening of floor  time for my colleagues on a myriad of topics. Doug LaMalfa was here  every single time. Every time we needed him to be here, he was here,  but he was here whether we asked him or not. Most times, he was the  only one.

Yet tonight, when I asked my colleagues if they wanted to share a  message on Doug, the reverse: It is a packed house.

That is all I wanted to share, to think about the legacy that he has  left and the importance that he has to so many of our colleagues. He  was always here for me, and we are all here today for his family. They  are hopefully able to take some comfort and solace in his memory as we  share this.

We have a lot of folks who want to share a message, and we are going  to kick it right off. I am just going to go around the room and start  calling on people as we move forward.

We are going to first hear, of course, from the California  delegation.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his  remarks.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, this is going to be a special hour,  thanks to the gentleman from California.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. (English translation of the statements made in  Korean is as follows:)

Young Oak Kim Sister

Thank you!

You did well!

You did well!

Gim Yeong-ok uiwon-nim

Gamsahamnida

Sugohasyeosseumnida

Sugohasyeosseumnida Take that, Doug.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, we will continue on to the great  State of California with bipartisan voices in support and in  remembering Mr. LaMalfa.

I yield to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Lofgren).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. The list is very long of individuals on this side  of the aisle that like to tangle with the ranking member himself as  well but also very much like him. Thank you for those awesome words.

I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Thompson), my colleague  on the Ways and Means Committee.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Costa).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Garamendi), our final Californian for the evening.

Mr. MOORE of Utah.  Tokuda).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mahalo to the gentlewoman from Hawaii. That is  ``thank you'' for the stenographers who need clarification on the  foreign languages today.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentlewoman from  Illinois (Mrs. Miller).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Rose and Mr. LaMalfa shared that rivalry with  our vice chair time, and I thank him for spending time with us tonight.

On to the great island of Guam, I yield to the gentleman from Guam  (Mr. Moylan).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. I yield now to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.  Grothman).

Mr. MOORE of Utah.  Maloy).