Big, Beautiful Bill


MR. MOORE of Utah.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be joined by my  colleagues this evening to talk about our progress on the  reconciliation bill, as well as the importance of supporting our Main  Street businesses during National Small Business Week.

I understand some of my colleagues have commitments, and I want to be  respectful of their time. So I will have them start us off before I  provide some of my own comments.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North  Dakota for her remarks.

I yield to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Stutzman).

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Indiana  for his comments, and I appreciate his work. We share a lot of work  together on the Budget Committee, and it has been a very active time.

Hageman).  Her State, quite possibly, may be the second-best State out there in  the West, second to Utah, of course. I think we have that mantle pretty  well locked up, but there are some other good ones in the running.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Wyoming  for her comments, and I appreciate her being a part of the Special  Order this evening.

Our last colleague who is going to address us this evening is a new  Member from the great State of Kansas.

He is a good friend.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, that is smart.

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Kansas  (Mr. Schmidt), who had excellent points. We all talk about small  business. We all use it as a line and a bullet point, and we all say  that we support them, and then where does the actual policy come in?

Those are incredibly important points to highlight that they are the  lifeblood. We have data that suggests that Utah, which has an  incredible economy, strong work ethic, low unemployment, good  volunteerism across the board, is ranked high in the economic  indicators for the country, and we are heavily tilted toward small  business out of Utah. There aren't an enormous amount of global  headquarters for big, multinational firms. It is a ton of small  businesses. I thank the gentleman for highlighting that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my other colleagues for being here to discuss  the goings-on for this week. We have heard so much about the  reconciliation process and the dangers of not getting this done. There  is a real threat.

We are working under unique circumstances because there is a time  limit set for the end of this year that, if we don't accomplish this  piece of legislation, there is no other way to look at it except for  the fact that taxes will increase on virtually every American family  and business.

We desperately want to create good, strong, predictable tax policy so  that our companies and our families can continue to thrive and continue  to understand what their landscape is for them to compete and go and  create more job growth and actually go and create more revenue for our  Nation to become a wealthier nation. This is a priority for  Republicans. It is a priority for House GOP leadership, the President,  his administration, and we are neck deep in the process of getting this  over the finish line.

This bill will deliver on our conservative agenda and make positive  changes that we know that Americans want. From a more secure border to  stronger domestic energy resources, to more efficient Federal programs,  to a tax code that supports families and businesses, this is a once-in- a-generation moment, and I am grateful to be part of this effort on  both the Committee on Ways and Means and the Budget Committee.

There is obviously a lot going into this and, on the Committee on  Ways and Means, we are trying to find the sweet spot of many  considerations at play. We need to ensure the provisions in the 2017  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act aren't just extended but, where possible, made  permanent.

If we don't act, we risk seeing critical policies roll back, such as  the child tax credit, which goes back to just $1,000. It was $1,000  prior to 2017. Republicans doubled it. That reverts back to $1,000, and  $1,000 in 2026, after the inflation that we have seen over the last 4  years in the previous administration, is a significantly different  number than it would be from pre-2017.

While we can't solve the debt crisis with this bill alone, it will  drive strong economic growth, bolster GDP--we know this because we have  seen this--and it puts us in a better position to address our national  deficits. This is probably the most substantive action that I have been  a part of, and it has been an honor to have been right in the thick of  it.

Over the last few weeks, several committees have passed bills aimed  at saving hundreds of billions of dollars, and we are well on our way  to making historic savings a reality. As we work through this, we are  doing so with a clear focus on the needs of our economy, particularly  on small businesses.

This week is Small Business Week, and I am recognizing the hard work  of our small business owners as something that we can all support from  both sides of the aisle. Small businesses are the backbone of our  economy, as I mentioned what it means to the State of Utah, and they  are critical to every local community across this country.

In this role, I am grateful to get to know as many small business  owners as possible and hear their concerns, understand their areas of  growth, what their opportunities are, and, most importantly, what their  challenges are.

Going back to the reconciliation package--and we are working on,  particularly, the tax portion--we are looking to deliver positive  results to our small businesses and craft policies that will allow them  to thrive.

The 199A, small business, LLC, S corp, deduction from their qualified  business expense, a 20 percent deduction, expires at the end of this  year. That is a massive tax hike on small businesses, and this is  oftentimes a category that gets overlooked because my colleagues talk  about corporations and about high-net-worth individuals, but the small  businesses are structured in a way that their ordinary income is taxed  at what some of the highest income individuals of our society are taxed  at.

These small businesses are taxed at a significantly high rate,  oftentimes higher than other corporations. We need to make sure that  199A is extended and, if not just extended, made permanent. The Tax  Cuts and Jobs Act made our small businesses more competitive, and we  want to continue to pursue policies that provide regulatory relief,  economic stability, and the ability to grow and create jobs.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues again for joining me tonight to  talk about these important issues, and we will continue to dig into  this in the weeks to come.