Historic Tax Relief for Families


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I am so glad to be joined by my  colleagues this evening to talk about the historic tax relief we are  providing for working families this tax season. I think it should be on  the mind of every single American, and we are thrilled to be able to  highlight some of the many things that we have accomplished in the  preceding calendar year.

Honoring Mark Roman

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I will briefly add that I had the  opportunity to serve on Chairman Smith's Ways and Means Committee, and  I have seen the work that Mark Roman did, mostly behind the scenes, the  stress that he is put under, and the outcomes that we have delivered.

Oftentimes, we don't talk about this being a functional place.  Sometimes when you go to Congress, Mr. Speaker, all you hear about is  the gridlock, the nonsense, and all the rhetoric. Mark Roman  accomplished some things for the American people that he will never get  credit for.

I am going to speak a little bit about it today, but I also wanted to  add how much I appreciated getting a chance to work under Mark. I wish  his amazing kids and family all the best. We hope that he really, truly  won't go far.                       Historic Tax Relief for Families

Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned, I want to share a  brief message about what we have accomplished this last year.

Mr. Speaker, House Republicans have turned a season of dread as tax  season approaches into a season of historic relief. Tax season is  officially underway, and this year, 91 percent of all taxpayers will  experience an easier and more simplified filing process.

We locked in the doubled standard deduction, and not only at the rate  that Republicans established in 2017. We actually boosted it for this  new approach. It is now considered permanent policy, meaning that  families will pay no taxes on the first $31,500 of what they make.

It will also save Americans an estimated 210 million hours per year  in paperwork and $13 billion in compliance costs annually.

We talk all the time about simplifying the tax code. Everybody talks  about it, and we have done it. Since 2017, we decided to double the  standard deduction.

That immediately targets middle- and lower-income Americans who  choose not to itemize. Itemizing is still an option you can do, Mr.  Speaker, if you have multiple different types of elements that you can  deduct from your taxes. You can still choose to do that, but the vast  majority of Americans, working Americans and everyday Americans, use  the doubled standard deduction.

That is real tax relief. It goes unsaid a lot. It is such a standard  piece. Nobody truly disagrees with it--``nobody'' meaning both parties.  It is something that we have now established as the norm, and it will  give immediate relief to the vast majority of American families.

Because the historic tax cuts are retroactive to 2025, the average  refund is projected to increase by $1,000, with a total of $91 billion  in additional refunds being returned to the American people this  spring. We also repealed the Democrats' $600 reporting requirements for  payments through PayPal or Venmo  and requirements for paperwork reporting of small payments to casual  sellers and service providers.

This, again, is an effort to simplify the tax code and make it work  for American families so they will be able to have more of what they  earned. I will get to more of that.

Filing taxes is a pain point--we all know that--for most people  because of both the amount and the process. We have simplified it to  improve the experience for filers and increase accountability for  lawmakers deciding where those funds are allocated.

Working families were our top priority in these tax cuts. We wanted  to help them achieve the American Dream, make life more affordable, and  make filing taxes less of a burden. This year, Utah families will be  able to keep more of their hard-earned money through the increased  standard deduction and face less burdensome paperwork.

It is very simple. Republicans have created a tax code that simply  works for American families. This is something that doesn't work  against them, as so oftentimes things from Washington, D.C., do.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a part of delivering this win for  Utahns, and I yield back the balance of my time.