Promises Made, Promises Kept


Mr. MOORE of Utah. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairwoman McClain for the  opportunity to speak in this Special Order hour.

When I was back home for a big portion of August, Madam Speaker, I  had a great opportunity to spend time with small business owners and  individuals trying to understand the difference between an invest  America Trump account versus a 529 and going through a lot of these  details.

I kept hearing something from a lot of folks. I get that this seems  like a good thing to always have lower taxes, but it is going to create  a whole bunch of debt, right?

I love getting that question because I am able to talk them through  some of the specifics. While I may not be great talking about tax  policy in a rah-rah situation, when you get to actually explain a few  basic concepts to people, you see that folks actually get what we are  talking about. Not the bill of goods they are being sold, but when you  look at what happens with the concept of inversion. When a U.S.  multinational company can choose to co-op with a foreign entity to be  able to find a lower tax domicile, lowering their overall tax  liability, they can do that. That happens, and they end up paying tax  revenue to foreign countries.

Let's just say what you saw prior to 2017 when Republicans did the  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, you had a tax rate of foreign drive and tangible  income at approximately 16 percent effective rate, but let's say in  Ireland, it was 13 percent. A company could easily set up their entire  tax base for that portion of their business in Ireland and pay 13  percent where the U.S. sees no revenue.

If we lower that tax rate to 13 percent just to become competitive,  we don't even have to beat other nations' tax rates. When we lowered  that to 13 percent just to be competitive, those companies started to  flee back to America, and we got more revenue.

I will talk to folks and say, when you make taxes competitive, we  will actually grow our U.S. tax revenue. That is not adding deficit.  When you see people actually grasp that concept, it is fascinating to  be able to say, of course, I would rather people be paying taxes in the  U.S. as opposed to a foreign nation. Now, the foreign country doesn't  love that when we do it.

If we put things on par, companies will almost, in every  circumstance, choose to do business in the U.S. and we get more  revenue. It is a win-win, and it is not what you are being lied to  about.

This is good, sound, competitive tax policy that will strengthen our  Nation, grow our revenue, and make it easier for business to compete.