Airspace Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701678/airspace-location-and-enhanced-risk-transparency-act-of-2026


Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 7613, the  ALERT Act. I thank the committees of jurisdiction for their tireless  work on this bill and for adopting significant feedback from the  stakeholders, including the families of Flight 5342 and the National  Transportation Safety Board.

I extend a personal thank-you to Ranking Member Larsen for his  collaboration and support. He and his team have been wonderful to work  with through a difficult process.

This bill provides a meaningful and comprehensive response to last  year's January 29 collision at the National Airport, which tragically  took 67 lives. We must do everything we can to keep this tragedy from  happening again.

This bill would implement all 50 recommendations from the NTSB's  final report on the collision. It would reevaluate the arrival rate at  National Airport, which is too high. It would establish a time-based  flow management system to make our air traffic controllers' workload  more manageable.

This bill would reevaluate our air traffic control tower facility  level to hopefully bring more resources and staffing to the tower.

This bill would improve our helicopter route charts and aims to put  guardrails on military helicopter flights in this very congested  region.

This bill is an incredible step forward for National Airport, for our  region, and for our country, and I hope to see it passed this evening.

However, the ALERT Act is not perfect. It includes ADS-B carve-outs  for some general aviation aircraft, and there are still concerns about  military helicopter flights in this region not being adequately  addressed.

The families of Flight 5342 still have legitimate concerns and put  out a statement today on their hopes for improvements to the bill in  the Senate before it becomes law, which I support.

I am disappointed to see the ROTOR Act, which had strong ADS-B  requirements, fail on the House floor earlier this year.

Madam Speaker, our goal is to adopt the strongest aviation  requirements possible. I firmly believe that the ALERT Act accomplishes  much of this goal, but that we can and should make this bill stronger.

I look forward to voting in support of the ALERT Act today, as I did  with the ROTOR Act earlier this year, with the understanding that more  work is needed.

Madam Speaker, as this bill advances, I urge my colleagues in the  committees of jurisdiction to make improvements, to close any  loopholes, and to prioritize safety for all over the convenience of a  few. I thank the committee leaders for their work on this bill.