Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688065/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition to this budget resolution.

This budget is disastrous for the American economy. It will balloon  our deficits, lead to higher interest rates, and make the things  Americans buy every day more expensive. It will slash critical  investments in the things that make us healthier, safer, and more  productive, things like cancer research, aviation security, and our  National Park System. It will decimate critical programs that support  the people we represent, stripping healthcare for millions and making  it harder for families to put food on the table and make ends meet. All  of this is for billionaires and corporations to get tax cuts they do  not need and that our country cannot afford.

I am pleased to do this with my friend, Chairman Schweikert. I also  believe in math, and I rarely brag, but I am good at math.

Americans have been clear. They want lower prices and an economy that  works for them. Yet, instead of focusing on making life easier for  American families, at every turn, this administration and my Republican  colleagues have engaged in a scorched-earth policy, a policy that  creates chaos across the country as the richest person on the planet  eliminates services that our Nation depends upon.

My friend from South Carolina earlier said that the policies would  bankrupt our country. What does he mean? Healthcare for our families?  Food for the working poor who overwhelmingly live in Republican  districts?

Sure, get rid of any identified bloat, as every President does, but  this is a budget about billionaires, not about every American, the  women, men, and children who we represent. Yes, I want to move toward a  much smaller deficit budget.

I listen to   David Schweikert every closing afternoon during his  Special Order hours. I hate the higher interest costs, but who pays?  Our families or the 1,000 billionaires, that small percentage, 1  percent or less, of the American population that has way more wealth  than they could ever spend in lifetimes to come?

Republicans have long sung from the altar of fiscal responsibility,  yet the plan they put in front of us today is a fiscal sacrilege. It  depends on fantasy math and ignores that their deficit-busting tax  breaks will add at least $4.6 trillion to our Nation's credit card and  even more interest that our families must pay.

This interest has real costs. It slows economic growth. It depresses  the standard of living. It leads to higher inflation and higher  interest rates. It makes it even harder for families already faced with  high prices and borrowing costs to make ends meet.

Wasteful, woke, and weaponized policies, my friend from Texas said.  That is a very small percentage of the Federal budget. You can never  achieve what is in this budget resolution on wasteful, woke, and  weaponized policies.

With this Republican plan, how do they address it? They double down  on the policies that will widen the growing wealth gap of this Nation  by giving billionaires trillions in handouts and providing pennies to  the middle class.

According to the Treasury Department, the top 1 percent of Americans,  those making over $750,000 a year, can expect to get an annual tax cut  of over $32,000. Working families will see a tiny fraction of that.

Of course, the other main beneficiaries will be the wealthiest  executives of the wealthiest corporations at a time when corporate  profits are at an all-time high. Americans who rely on government  services will be told they need to make sacrifices to pad their profit  margins even further. How does that make any sense?

To pay for these tax cuts for the ultrawealthy, the Republican budget  proposes to cut programs Americans rely on to afford healthcare and to  put food on the table.

Almost 100 million Americans, including seniors, children, families,  and those from every corner of this country, depend on Medicaid and the  Affordable Care Act to afford medical care. Yet, this budget would  slash almost $900 billion from these critical programs, ripping away  lifesaving coverage and raising healthcare costs for those who rely on  them.

At a time when prices at grocery stores continue to climb, this  budget would make it even harder for the 40 million Americans who rely  on SNAP to put food on the table.

The budget we are considering today will do nothing to support the  economic growth of this Nation. It will benefit the wealthiest at the  expense of those who make this country work.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to reject it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, while we are doing math, when I divide $2  trillion in savings and cuts over 10 years, I get $200 billion a year.

Madam Chair, I yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman  from Massachusetts (Ms. Clark), the whip of the House Democratic  Caucus.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, to add to the distributional impacts, the top  5 percent pay 38 percent of the taxes, but they have more than 60  percent of the wealth. The bottom 10 percent pay very little but live  hand-to-mouth, including more than 12 percent of our children.

Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Aguilar), the distinguished chair of the House Democratic Caucus.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Wisconsin (Ms. Moore), a distinguished member of the Ways and Means  Committee and the Joint Economic Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield the gentlewoman from Wisconsin an  additional 15 seconds.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from  Illinois (Mr. Casten), who is a distinguished member of the Joint  Economic Committee and our preeminent environmental economist.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from  Illinois (Mr. Krishnamoorthi), who is the distinguished ranking member  of the Select Committee on the Strategic Competition Between the United  States and the Chinese Communist Party.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from  New York (Mr. Morelle), who is a distinguished member of the House  Administration Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from New  York (Ms. Velazquez), who is the distinguished ranking member of the  Small Business Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Oregon (Ms. Bonamici), a member of the Education and Workforce  Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Takano), the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs  Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Nevada  (Mr. Horsford), a distinguished member of the Ways and Means Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from New  York (Mr. Espaillat), a distinguished member of the Appropriations  Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman  from New Mexico (Ms. Leger Fernandez), a distinguished and unenviable  member of the Rules Committee.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Madam Chair, Republicans are attacking women's  ability to afford life as a mom or a daughter.

Medicaid supports more than 40 percent of all births in the United  States.

Our grandmothers and parents in nursing homes rely on Medicaid to pay  their health bills. Their caregivers, who are mostly women, depend on  Medicaid themselves.

Over 37 million children rely on Medicaid and CHIP. Republicans would  strip this essential healthcare from women across the country. Why? To  give tax breaks to their billionaire bros.

Women need to know how they will be impacted wherever they live.

Earlier today, we heard Representative Valadao acknowledge that his  voters depend on Medicaid and are upset. Indeed, 507,000 of his  constituents receive Medicaid, but he said he will vote ``yes'' on the  bill.

I need women across the country to visit the Democratic Women's  Caucus website to find out how these cuts will impact them and how much  money billionaires and millionaires will make from women's economic  pain.

Republicans should stand with their moms and not the billionaires.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

With respect to my friend from Arizona, that is not what I heard. We  heard that this budget resolution, as put together, promises cuts that  we are desperately afraid of.

When we do the math, in Congressman Schweikert's district, Arizona 1,  people who count on SNAP to put food on the table are 85,000; Medicaid  recipients at risk of losing their healthcare, 127,000; Affordable Care  Act recipients who will see their premium payments go up by varying  amounts, 44,000. We would love to see a budget worked out that somehow  gives a lie to those frightening numbers.

Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Min), a distinguished member of the Joint Economic Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from  New Mexico (Mr. Vasquez), a distinguished member of the Agriculture  Committee and Armed Services Committee.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me just respond to my good friend from Arizona. No, that is not  what Democrats want. We don't want to see taxes go up for average,  middle-class Americans at all. This is what our budget experts say,  based on the budget resolution before us, as my friend Mr. Schweikert  knows well: To achieve significant cuts, the kind of cuts that you are  talking about, inevitably we have to look at Medicaid, Medicare, and  Social Security.

We look at the fact that in Virginia, just eliminating Medicaid  Advantage is 660,000 Virginians. We see that 46 percent of the children  in America receive their healthcare through Medicaid. When we look at  Medicare, it is beyond belief what that would do.

I am looking forward to somehow seeing how you achieve the massive  budget cuts that are in this resolution without touching those. That is  why you have heard so much concern today about what this will do to the  average American people.

It is not that we don't want to revisit not raising taxes on the  American public. We also just don't want to cut away their healthcare,  their SNAP benefits, their ability to put food on the table, and the  like.

Mr. Chair, I am ready to close when the distinguished chair of the  Joint Economic Committee tells me it is time. I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I will be happy to retract. I also notice that  our anxiety about Social Security will not go away.

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time to  close.

In doing so, let me first begin by saying that my good friend,   John  Larson, on the Ways and Means Committee has for years promoted Social  Security 2100, which would actually fix it for the rest of this  century.

Mr. Chairman, President Trump and the Republican majority were  elected last November to deliver on a simple promise, to lower costs  for Americans. Unfortunately, this budget does not do that.

My Republican friends have decided that providing billions of dollars  in tax breaks for a few millionaires and billionaires is worth ordinary  Americans bearing, as Elon Musk put it last year, some temporary  hardship. That hardship brought about by this budget will come in many  forms and may not mean much to the richest man in history, but it will  certainly mean a lot to ordinary people.

It will grow our debt by $4.6 trillion. It will lead to higher  interest rates and raising prices on goods that Americans pay for every  day. It will cut crucial government services that keep us safe,  healthy, and productive. It will strip healthcare and food assistance  from tens of millions of Americans who are already struggling to make  ends meet.

What are Americans getting in exchange for this hardship? Tax cuts  for billionaires and corporations that they do not need and that our  country cannot afford.

Mr. Chair, this is a bad deal. I urge all of my colleagues to reject  this proposal. I yield back the balance of my time.