Congratulating Dame Karen Pierce


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687959/congratulating-dame-karen-pierce


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Ambassador Dame  Karen Pierce, who served nearly 5 years as the British Ambassador to  the United States and was recently appointed as the United Kingdom's  Special Envoy to the Western Balkans.

During Ambassador Pierce's time in the United States, she happily  embraced her role as the guardian of the special relationship between  our two countries. During a time of increasingly strident partisanship,  Ambassador Pierce was able to find allies across the political  spectrum, receiving praise from all sides for her ability to bring  people together.

Ambassador Pierce has continued to play a key role in advocating for  increasing economic engagement between our two nations--I look forward  to a U.S.-U.K. free trade agreement--and she has demonstrated an  unwavering commitment to global stability. Whether wrestling with  security challenges, strengthening economic ties, or championing  democratic values, Ambassador Pierce has exemplified the very best  diplomacy leadership.

Dame Pierce was indefatigable. It seemed she gathered people to her  home in Washington every day and every evening for conversations about  the most important matters on the globe. I think I saw more of Karen  these last 5 years than I saw of my own family. She was everywhere, and  she knew everybody, one of the most important skills of the most  important diplomat from our most important ally.

Ambassador Pierce's New Year's Eve celebrations will live long in  Washington memory.

Please join me in thanking Ambassador Pierce and wishing her the best  on her next mission to the West Balkans. Her legacy of diplomacy will  continue to inspire future generations.             Zoning In on Service: Honoring Gerry Hyland's Legacy

Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of  Gerald W. ``Gerry'' Hyland, the true pillar of the Mount Vernon  community who recently passed away.

For 28 years, Gerry served as the Mount Vernon district supervisor,  but he was no ordinary public servant. After getting his LLB from  George Washington School of Law, he decided that was not taxing enough  and proceeded to earn a master's of law in taxation from George  Washington School of Law.

Gerry was a man who wore many hats, from Air Force colonel to lawyer,  but it was his role as a community leader where he truly found his  calling. He may have been known as Mr. Pothole, but his impact on the  community was anything but shallow.

Gerry was known for his sharp legal mind, his dedication to public  service, and his uncanny ability to solve problems. His office said  that the supervisor never met a pun that he didn't like or a  constituent he wouldn't try to help. You might say he had a real knack  for zoning in on the issues that mattered most.

Gerry always tried to include his constituents in every big decision.  It seems Gerry knew the secret ingredient to community engagement, a  healthy serving of Hyland sauce.

As a master of puns, Hyland left a lasting impression with his humor.  Before retiring in 2015, at his final board of supervisors meeting, he  shared one last pun that perfectly encapsulated his wit: There once was  a supervisor who told 10 puns to his colleagues to get them to laugh,  but no pun in 10 did.