Opposing the Trump Administration's Sweeping National Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699566/opposing-the-trump-administrations-sweeping-national-tariffs


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the following letter  from the National Taxpayers Union, signed by 469 economists, opposing  the Trump Administration's sweeping national tariffs as dangerous  economic policy, for consideration by the Supreme Court as it evaluates  the potential violations of the International Emergency Economic Powers  Act (IEEPA):

469 Economists: Biggest Trade Threat is if Tariffs Are Left in Place

In the case of Trump v. V.O.S. Selections, the Trump       Administration's submission to the Supreme Court of the       United States argues that terminating its sweeping national       emergency tariffs would have catastrophic consequences for       our economy.

This is backwards. The greater threat to the economy of the       United States is not that the Trump Administration's tariffs       will be struck down, but that they will be allowed to remain       in place.

As economists, we know that broad-based tariffs impose net       costs on the economy. They divert resources from their most       efficient use, while making it more difficult and expensive       for U.S. businesses to access inputs and capital goods, like       steel and machinery for manufacturers and fertilizer and       agricultural equipment for farmers.

Additionally, by increasing production costs for       domestically made products and reducing the amount our       trading partners can earn by selling to the United States,       tariffs reduce export opportunities for U.S. producers.

The Trump Administration's April Executive Order,       Regulating Imports with a Reciprocal Tariff to Rectify Trade       Practices that Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual       United States Goods Trade Deficits, asserts that trade       deficits constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to       the economy of the United States. However, this allegation is       not backed by sound economic theory or empirical evidence.

Trade deficits primarily reflect underlying macroeconomic       factors such as the U.S. savings rate and the desire of our       trading partners to invest in the United States. The United       States has experienced trade deficits for 49 consecutive       years, yet, during this period, real GDP, national wealth,       and median incomes have all grown substantially. Moreover,       U.S. industrial capacity reached a historic high in August.       Even if you believe trade deficits are harmful, no serious       claim can be made that they are either catastrophic or       constitute a national emergency.

In technical terms, the U.S. current account deficit is       offset by a surplus in the capital account. There is no       inherent threat to our economy if our trading partners invest       in U.S. companies or buy Treasury bonds instead of purchasing       American-made exports. In fact, it is not uncommon for the       U.S. trade deficit to increase when the economy is growing       and to decrease when it is not. The significant reduction in       the trade deficit during the Great Recession is the most       prominent recent example.

As the Supreme Court considers the Trump Administration's       argument that the trade deficit represents an extraordinary       threat, we respectfully encourage it to consider the       centuries of economic theory and I evidence and the       overwhelming consensus among economists that suggest       otherwise.