President Washington's Farewell Address


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700271/president-washingtons-farewell-address


Mr. BEYER. ``But these considerations, however powerfully they  address themselves to your sensibility, are greatly outweighed by those  which apply more immediately to your interest. Here every portion of  our country finds the most commanding motives for carefully guarding  and preserving the Union of the whole.

``The North, in an unrestrained intercourse with the south, protected  by the equal laws of a common government,  finds in the productions of the latter great additional resources of  maritime and commercial enterprise and precious materials of  manufacturing industry. The south in the same intercourse, benefiting  by the agency of the north, sees its agriculture grow and its commerce  expand. Turning partly into its own channels the seamen of the north,  it finds its particular navigation invigorated; and while it  contributes, in different ways, to nourish and increase the general  mass of the national navigation, it looks forward to the protection of  a maritime strength, to which itself is unequally adapted. The east, in  a like intercourse with the West, already finds, and in the progressive  improvement of interior communications by land and water will more and  more find a valuable vent for the commodities which it brings from  abroad, or manufactures at home.

``The West derives from the East supplies requisite to its growth and  comfort--and what is perhaps of still greater consequence, it must of  necessity owe the secure enjoyment of indispensable outlets for its own  productions to the weight, influence, and the future maritime strength  of the Atlantic side of the Union, directed by an indissoluble  community of interest as one Nation. Any other tenure by which the West  can hold this essential advantage, whether derived from its own  separate strength, or from an apostate and unnatural connection with  any foreign power, must be intrinsically precarious.

``While then every part of our country thus feels an immediate and  particular interest in union, all the parts combined cannot fail to  find in the united mass of means and efforts greater strength, greater  resource, proportionably greater security from external danger, a less  frequent interruption of their peace by foreign nations; and, what is  of inestimable value! they must derive from union an exemption from  those broils and wars between themselves, which so frequently afflict  neighboring countries not tied together by the same government; which  their own rivalships alone would be sufficient to produce, but which  opposite foreign alliances, attachments, and intrigues would stimulate  and embitter. Hence likewise they will avoid the necessity of those  overgrown military establishments which, under any form of government,  are inauspicious to liberty, and which are to be regarded as  particularly hostile to republican liberty. In this sense it is, that  your Union ought to be considered as a main prop of your liberty, and  that the love of the one ought to endear to you the preservation of the  other.

``These considerations speak a persuasive language to every  reflecting and virtuous mind and exhibit the continuance of the Union  as a primary object of patriotic desire. Is there a doubt whether a  common government can embrace so large a sphere? Let experience solve  it. To listen to mere speculation in such a case were criminal. We are  authorized to hope that a proper organization of the whole, with the  auxiliary agency of governments for the respective subdivisions, will  afford a happy issue to the experiment. It is well worth a fair and  full experiment. With such powerful and obvious motives to union  affecting all parts of our country, while experience shall not have  demonstrated its impracticability, there will always be reason to  distrust the patriotism of those who in any quarter may endeavor to  weaken its bands.

``In contemplating the causes which may disturb our Union, it occurs  as matter of serious concern that any ground should have been furnished  for characterizing parties by geographical discriminations--Northern  and Southern--Atlantic and Western; whence designing men may endeavor  to excite a belief that there is a real difference of local interests  and views.

``One of the expedients of party to acquire influence within  particular districts is to misrepresent the opinions and aims of other  districts. You cannot shield yourselves too much against the jealousies  and heart burnings which spring from these misrepresentations. They  tend to render alien to each other those who ought to be bound together  by fraternal affection. The inhabitants of our Western country have  lately had a useful lesson on this head. They have seen in the  negotiation by the executive, and in the unanimous ratification by the  Senate, of the treaty with Spain, and in the universal satisfaction at  that event throughout the United States, a decisive proof how unfounded  were the suspicions propagated among them of a policy in the general  government and in the Atlantic States unfriendly to their interests in  regard to the Mississippi. They have been witnesses to the formation of  two treaties, that with Great Britain and that with Spain, which secure  to them everything they could desire, in respect to our foreign  relations, towards confirming their prosperity. Will it not be their  wisdom to rely for the preservation of these advantages on the Union by  which they were procured? Will they not henceforth be deaf to those  advisers, if such there are, who would sever them from their brethren  and connect them with aliens?''

Mr. BEYER. ``So likewise, a passionate attachment of one nation for  another produces a variety of evils. Sympathy for the favorite nation,  facilitating the illusion of an imaginary common interest in cases  where no real common interest exists, and infusing into one of enmities  of the other, betrays the former into a participation in the quarrels  and wars of the latter without adequate inducement or justification. It  leads also to concessions to the favorite nation of privileges denied  to others, which is apt doubly to injure the nation making the  concessions--by unnecessarily parting with what ought to have been  retained--and by exciting jealousy, ill will, and a disposition to  retaliate in the parties from whom equal privileges are withheld. And  it gives to ambitious, corrupted, or deluded citizens (who devote  themselves to the favorite nation) facility to betray or sacrifice the  interests of their own country without odium, sometimes even with  popularity; gilding with the appearances of a virtuous sense of  obligation a commendable deference for public opinion, or a laudable  zeal for public good, the base or foolish compliances of ambition,  corruption, or infatuation.

``As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable ways, such  attachments are particularly alarming to the truly enlightened and  independent patriot. How many opportunities do they afford to tamper  with domestic factions, to practice the arts of seduction, to mislead  public opinion, or influence or awe the public councils! Such an  attachment of a small or weak towards a great and powerful nation dooms  the former to be the satellite of the latter.

``Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence (I conjure you to  believe me, fellow citizens) the jealousy of a free people ought to be  constantly awake, since history and experience prove that foreign  influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government. But  that jealousy to be useful must be impartial; else it becomes the  instrument of the very influence to be avoided, instead of a defense  against it. Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive  dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on  one side, and serve to veil and even second the arts of influence on  the other. Real patriots, who may resist the intrigues of the favorite,  are liable to become suspected and odious, while its tools and dupes  usurp the applause and confidence of the people to surrender their  interests.

``The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is,  in extending our commercial relations, to have with them as little  political connection as possible. So far as we have already formed  engagements, let them be fulfilled with perfect good faith. Here let us  stop.

``Europe has a set of primary interests, which to us have none, or a  very remote relation. Hence she must be engaged in frequent  controversies, the causes of which are essentially foreign to our  concerns. Hence therefore it must be unwise in us to implicate  ourselves, by artificial ties, in the ordinary vicissitudes of her  politics or the ordinary combinations and collisions of her friendships  or enmities.''