Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698038/promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, the PERMIT Act is the bill you offer when you  don't want to protect clean water. It is a very sad and extreme bill.  With respect to my good friend, Chairman Babin, this amendment only  makes it worse.

In 2023, the Supreme Court gutted clean water protections that we  have relied on since the 1980s, and now, the Trump administration is  trying to make it the law that Americans don't deserve clean water.

Already today, clean water protections have been defanged, leaving up  to 80 percent of our streams and 50 percent of our wetlands at risk of  pollution or destruction, but my House Republican friends have offered  this bill that further rolls back the remaining protections on clean  water.

Mr. Chair, there are a couple of articles this week that highlight  why this is so important. In Louisville, Kentucky, their water facility  recently investigated why they had a spike in PFAS, so-called forever  chemicals, and found out that a superconductor plant, Chemours, had  dumped a PFAS called GenX into the water. This is a company that  knowingly violated the allowable dumping limits several times.

The only way that folks knew that they were able to address this was  when they found out that Chemours had been violating its Clean Water  Act permit.

Louisville citizens have not only had to pay for upgrades to make up  for their company's violations, but now they face serious health risks.  This bill is only going to increase the burdens on Louisville taxpayers  and everyone who is downstream on the river.

The second article today is from The Washington Post. Mothers whose  drinking water was downstream of sites contaminated with PFOA and PFOS,  both of which are considered likely carcinogens, were much more likely  to lose their babies and more likely to have a preterm or low-weight  birth.

Pollution has impacts, and we are just beginning to learn about the  impacts of PFAS in our water.

The Trump administration said that they want to make America healthy  again, a wonderful goal and a good idea, but this bill does exactly the  opposite. Please, let's kill the bill and kill the amendment. It is  dangerous to us all.