Recognizing Good360 in Honor of National Preparedness Month


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I wish to recognize the extraordinary work of  Good360, an organization located in the heart of my district in  Alexandria, Virginia. This organization plays a vital, yet often  overlooked, role in reducing the impact of large-scale emergencies and  disasters across the United States.

As the second largest nonprofit in the Nation, Good360 is leading the  way in providing responsible and efficient distribution of unused goods  to communities affected by disasters and crises. Good360 is meeting  disaster-driven challenges head-on, heading up a nationwide network of  nonprofit partners and corporate donors to deliver essential products  to individuals and families in times of crisis. Through continuous  coordination and dialogue, Good360 has demonstrated its capacity to  serve as a strategic partner with local governments, relief  organizations, and corporate leaders in both the immediate aftermath of  disasters and throughout the long recovery process.

With increasingly frequent and severe weather events, public health  crises, and other large-scale emergencies, the ability to respond  quickly and efficiently has never been more critical. Good360 and its  partners ensure that life-saving assistance and high-quality supplies  reach those who need them most.

Good360 collaborates with the Federal Emergency Management Agency  (FEMA)'s Donations Unit as well as a wide range of national nonprofits  and local community organizers to fill critical gaps in disaster  response and recovery by leveraging private sector resources. Moreover,  Good360's preparedness model reduces waste, improves efficiency, and  strengthens the capacity of frontline communities to withstand and  recover from future disasters.

Good360's innovative use of advanced data and resource matching  technology accelerates donation routing and optimizes logistics. This  system enables the delivery of critical goods up to three times faster,  while minimizing environmental impact and ensuring that the right  products reach the right communities at the right time.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Good360 for its dedication to disaster  recovery, preparedness, and innovation. Their extraordinary work  exemplifies the spirit of National Preparedness Month--it is a reminder  that true readiness is built on effective partnerships, creative  solutions, and neighbors helping one another. As we prepare for the  challenges ahead, I encourage my colleagues to support initiatives like  those sponsored by Good360, which make a measurable difference in  disaster resilience and recovery across our Nation.