Recognizing the Dacor Bacon House Bicentennial Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692065/recognizing-the-dacor-bacon-house-bicentennial-day


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize June 10th as the DACOR  Bacon House Bicentennial Day. With its rich history, the DACOR Bacon  House stands as a powerful symbol of our Nation's commitment to  diplomacy and the rule of law.

The House was built on land previously owned by David Burnes, a  Revolutionary War veteran whose other real estate holdings were used  for key national landmarks, including the White House and National  Mall.

The House's site was acquired in 1815 by Tobias Lear V, George  Washington's personal secretary and subsequent U.S. Consul General to  Algiers. He was also the only person to hear President Washington's  final words. ``Tis well.''

The current structure was completed in 1825 by Tench Ringgold, U.S.  Marshal and Keeper of the Keys to the Capitol, using enslaved labor.  Ringgold helped lead President James Madison and several members of his  Cabinet to safety during the British burning of the White House years  earlier during the War of 1812.

Former Maryland Governor Samuel Sprigg purchased the property for his  daughter and nephew William Thomas Carroll, Clerk of the Supreme Court  and member of the prominent Carroll family. William Thomas Carroll  provided President Abraham Lincoln with the Bible that was used for his  first inauguration, which has since become known as the ``Lincoln  Bible.''

The House flourished under the ownership of the Carroll Family,  during which time they entertained numerous dignitaries.

The House later served as the official residence of numerous  prominent foreign and domestic figures in the United States, including  Russian Imperial Minister Nikolai Shishkin from 1875 to 1878 while he  was dispatched to Washington, D.C. as his country's top diplomatic  representative to the United States. Chief Justice Melville Fuller and  his family resided at the House from 1896 to 1910, during which time  the House remained a fixture in Washington, D.C. high society and  hosted President Grover Cleveland, President Theodore Roosevelt, and  Secretary of War William Howard Taft. Illinois Senator Medill McCormick  and his wife, the future Congresswoman Ruth Hanna McCormick, resided in  the House during the 1920's when they entertained lawmakers and their  spouses.

In 1973, the House was added to the National Register of Historic  Places, paying homage to its nearly 150 years of contributions to  American history and society. Virginia Murray Bacon then established  the Bacon House Foundation which worked hand in hand with the  Diplomatic and Consular Officers, Retired (DACOR) Education and Welfare  Foundation to establish the DACOR Bacon House Foundation which was  tasked with caring for the historic House in perpetuity.

On May 23, 1986, Secretary of State George P. Shultz attended the  dedication ceremony marking the DACOR Bacon House Foundation's new  ownership of the building and charged those present to ``protect and  advance the interests and ideals of America.''

Since such time the DACOR Bacon House has served as the headquarters  of DACOR, a premier organization of foreign affairs professionals,  whose members include ambassadors, Foreign Service Officers, military  and intelligence officials, political appointees from both major  parties, Members of Congress and their staffs, Peace Corps and  International Monetary Fund officials, global business leaders, and  other professionals dedicated to promoting American interests and  diplomatic relations.

Through DACOR and the DACOR Bacon House Foundation, which host  regular educational discussions, policy programs, leadership  development opportunities, and musical events, the House continues to  be a vibrant center of cultural and diplomatic exchange, a museum of  American life, and the home of the foreign affairs community.

Two hundred years after its construction, the DACOR Bacon House  remains a pillar of strength in the President's Neighborhood, pays  tribute to the legacy of its prior owners, enslaved workers, and  distinguished guests, and serves as a unique prism for understanding  the history of both the District of Columbia and the United States of  America.

I therefore ask my colleagues in the House of Representatives to join  me in recognizing the historic importance of the DACOR Bacon House to  the history of American diplomacy, the Supreme Court, and Congress. I  also wish to recognize both the DACOR Bacon House Foundation and the  Diplomatic and Consular Officers, Retired (DACOR) organization for  their decades-long efforts to preserve this unique gem located in the  heart of our Nation's Capital.