Recognizing the 10th Anniversary of Phi Delta Kappa International's Educators Rising


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I wish to recognize the 10th anniversary of  Educators Rising, a nationwide movement dedicated to eliminating the  teacher shortage in America by recruiting, preparing, and inspiring the  next generation of educators.

Educators Rising is a community-based, Career and Technical Student  Organization that supports middle and high school students in rural,  urban, and suburban communities with a passion for teaching in their  communities.

With over 60 percent of K-12 educators in the United States teaching  within 20 miles of the high school they attended, creating pathways for  local talent to enter the teaching profession plays a critical role in  addressing our Nation's shortage of teachers.

As part of their Grow Your Own initiative, Educators Rising helps  create diverse teaching workforces that reflect communities where  students live. Teachers who share similar backgrounds and experiences  with their students foster stronger student-teacher relationships,  improved academic outcomes including higher test scores, rates of high  school graduation and college enrollment, more inclusive school  climates, fewer suspensions, and lower rates of chronic absenteeism.

Educators Rising has a presence in all 50 states and the District of  Columbia, with over 1,400 school chapters and 38 state-level  partnerships, and works with institutions of higher education and State  Departments of Education to create seamless transitions into the  education field.

Over 70 schools across Virginia have Educators Rising Chapters that  are contributing to ending the teacher shortage in America. Since 1994,  over 325,000 students have participated in Educators Rising, including  nearly 145,600 students since its rebranding in 2015.

Phi Delta Kappa (PDK) International was established in 1906 as a non- profit organization that supports teachers and school leaders by  strengthening their interest in the teaching profession throughout  their careers. PDK International awards nearly 100 scholarships  annually ranging from $500 to $5,000 to students pursuing careers in  education through Educators Rising and other PDK International  programs.

On behalf of Virginia's 8th Congressional district, I commend  Educators Rising's work and express my gratitude for their efforts in  recruiting local and diverse talent and building career pathways for  educators.