Rotorcraft Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700105/rotorcraft-operations-transparency-and-oversight-reform-act


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2503, the ROTOR  Act.

Last year's January 29 midair collision at Reagan National Airport  tragically took 67 lives, but it was preventable. It is our duty to do  everything we can to keep this tragedy from ever happening again.

This bill would implement a central recommendation from the NTSB's  final report on the collision: a requirement to use Automatic Dependent  Surveillance-Broadcast technology, ADS-B Out and In.

NTSB has recommended an ADS-B In requirement 17 times before.

NTSB's final report said that the ADS-B In would have alerted the  flight crew 59 seconds before the collision and the helicopter crew 48  seconds before.

ADS-B In would have given those pilots a fighting chance to avoid the  disaster. It is high time that ADS-B Out and In are required in our  Nation's busiest airspaces like the national capital region.

Passing the ROTOR Act is the strongest first step we can take for  ensuring a safer airspace for the flying public today to improve  aviation safety and prevent a future crash at DCA.

I thank Chairman Graves, Ranking Member Larsen, Ranking Member Smith,  and Chairman Rogers for the comprehensive draft legislation they  released last week addressing the systemic causes of the January 2025  collision.

Their ALERT Act of 2026 improves important must-pass provisions. We  need to reevaluate the arrival rate at National Airport. We need to  improve our helicopter route charts. We need to limit military  helicopter flights in our region. But Congress must pass the ROTOR Act  this week to mandate that pilots have access to ADS-B In and Out as  soon as possible.

Then we must immediately work to advance the ALERT Act of 2026 while  reconciling any differences in a way that maximizes aviation safety to  ensure that all of the recommendations of the NTSB can be adopted.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the families of flight 5342 who have been a  driving force for the ROTOR Act and for aviation safety reform. These  families have been advocates, experts, and champions all in the face of  tremendous loss. It has been an honor to work with them.

Passing the ROTOR Act is the first and strongest step that Congress  must take to immediately give pilots another key tool to prevent  collisions and begin saving lives now.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the ROTOR Act and soon  the ALERT Act of 2026.