Stop Trump's Chaos--Stand Up for Science


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691389/stop-trumps-chaos-stand-up-for-science


Mr. BEYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for putting this  together. I really appreciate it.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to the Trump  administration's attack on our scientific workforce and on science,  specifically at the National Science Foundation, located a few blocks  from my home.

Today, my colleagues and I introduced a resolution commemorating the  75th anniversary of the National Science Foundation. We should be  enormously proud to support the work of the NSF.

Since 1950, the National Science Foundation has helped the U.S. lead  the world in science. It supported the research and key investments  that helped catalyze the internet, advanced technology for MRI  machines, 3D printing, and artificial intelligence.

It created American Sign Language, detected gravitational waves that  developed LASIK eye surgery, and much, much more.

It has been a cornerstone of our scientific education in the United  States, providing support from elementary and prekindergarten right  through the Ph.D. level.

NSF's prestigious awards draw researchers from across the world to  come to the United States to do their work and to study. Best for us,  they often stay.

The same incredible talent is under attack by this President, who is  not only recklessly removing our best scientists from the Federal  workforce but also defunding science and the scientific research at our  Nation's premier institutions. These are exactly the people who create  America's future.

In his skinny budget request, the President proposed a $5 billion cut  to the National Science Foundation, including $1 billion in STEM  education and workforce programs. If that budget request is enacted by  Congress, this will be a death knell for our innovation economy and for  America's future.

I have already been alarmed by the workforce cuts the Trump  administration has made over the past months. We are losing our best  and our brightest. Some might find jobs in the private sector, but many  are likely to be poached by other countries. We hear again and again  that many countries are trying to recruit our best and brightest.

I know this personally because these cuts have heavily impacted my  home. I have had hundreds of constituents, thousands, fired or coerced  out of the Federal workforce by the toxic environment that DOGE is  intentionally creating. These are professionals who have dedicated  their talent, their lives, and their scientific expertise to ensure  that the National Science Foundation is advancing the most cutting- edge, innovative research proposals.

Mr. Speaker, the last thing we should be doing is losing that talent.

I am also deeply alarmed at canceled grants and funding at NSF and  our scientific agencies.

The Trump administration has cut more than $1 billion in awards this  year. Many of these grants were terminated for no reason by the  administration. One particularly egregious example was an award on  improving the effectiveness of teaching students how to do computer  science. Really?

At a time when we need to increase our domestic AI and STEM focused  workforce, we need students to be familiar with the artificial  intelligence systems of tomorrow, so that they can contribute to our  continued leadership in tech.

Mr. Speaker, I keep looking for examples in history on this retreat  from knowledge. There were England's Luddites in the early 19th century  who fought the use of new textile technology. There was Mao Zedong's  Cultural Revolution 1966 through 1976 when intellectuals and scientists  were labeled the ``Stinking Old Ninth'' and were sent to reeducation  camps in the countryside.

For 75 years, the National Science Foundation has kept the U.S. at  the forefront of science and has made us the envy of the world.

The NSF can claim 268 Nobel Prize winners. Yet now we have a  President and an administration that is antiscience and antiprogress.

Just as we have made investments in projects that are pivotal in  artificial intelligence, quantum, and other leading areas at NIH, NOAA,  NASA, the CDC, EPA, and, tragically, the National Science Foundation,  now is not the time that we stop investing in our future. This is what  the Trump administration is doing.

I join my colleagues today to stand up for science, to oppose the  administration's attacks on the National Science Foundation, and to  fiercely champion our investment in science and knowledge for  generations to come.