Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695233/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, as co-chair of the Congressional Endangered  Species Caucus, I rise today in opposition to this amendment.

I can't believe that we are here again considering this unpopular  amendment. It was brutally defeated last year, and it was crushed the  year before, both times with bipartisan support.

The Endangered Species Act has wide popularity, but our current  biodiversity outlook has really worsened. Our scientific community  continues to scream from the rooftops that biodiversity shrinking is a  danger to humanity.

In the meantime, our national defense is in no way endangered by  saving endangered species. Amazingly, this is basically an attack on  the Endangered Species Act that the Department of Defense has never  asked for. It is a solution in search of a problem.

The Department of Defense already has a robust collaboration with the  Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service. They do  management plans everywhere.

Military lands are already excluded from designation as a critical  habitat  when there are management plans in place for listed species. Wholesale  exempting the Department of Defense and its many contractors from  compliance with the ESA puts our Nation's national legacy at needless  risk.

To date, as the Member from Arizona has mentioned, 99 percent of the  species listed under the ESA have been saved from disappearing forever,  making this one of the most successful pieces of legislation in  American history.

Actions to protect these species do not hinder national security, and  managing endangered species in balance with our mission is something  the Department of Defense already does very well.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues, once more, to reject this unwanted  and unnecessary amendment.