Accountability for Doge


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to  discuss something that should alarm every American citizen.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, DOGE or so-called DOGE employees, have been  rummaging through people's individual Social Security records.

For the general public's awareness, DOGE is the so-called Department  of Government Efficiency, initially led by Elon Musk until there was a  breakup of the bromance between he and President Trump, but DOGE still  persists.

Mr. Speaker, as you know--and it has to be as much a concern to you  as it is to me--having more than 127,000 Social Security recipients in  your district whose information is private and secure, is being  rummaged through by twentysomethings who have no accountability, have  never been vetted, and who will not come before Congress.

I asked Chairman Estes last week in our subcommittee meeting to bring  DOGE forward to please tell us what they are doing rummaging through  everyone's personal data and information.

Ranking Member Neal and I are going to introduce a resolution of  inquiry to bring DOGE before Congress. Every Member, Republican and  Democrat, should be concerned about this. Every American citizen should  be aware that DOGE has taken all of that information and stored it in a  cloud, a/k/a another site that is vulnerable, that anyone can hack  into, and that the Social Security Administration has no access to. No  one is allowed to look at that data who hasn't been vetted, as was  testified before the Ways and Means Committee last week.

How is it that DOGE employees are exempt because they are above the  law? It requires the United States Congress to call them in front of  us. If they are doing such a great job with efficiency, and if that was  their goal, clearly they ought to be able to come before Congress and  testify as to what they have found.

Mr. Speaker, I think every American should be aware that what is  really going on here is an attempt to get at your data and your  information and to further attempt to privatize Social Security. That  is the end goal.

When you look at the layoffs that have occurred at the Social  Security Administration, when you look at what has happened to the  regional offices, when you look at the basic phone service and the  inability of people to contact and speak with a human being, it should  astound and awaken every single American.

I hope that all Americans who may be listening to this or people in  the audience who may be listening to this take to heart what is  happening with their personal data and information.

Why should anyone, let alone unvetted, unaccountable DOGE people, go  through your personal records? Why do they need that information? What  does that have to do with government efficiency, and why did they steal  them and put them in an unsecure cloud that anyone could hack from the  outside?

This is an abomination, and it needs to be corrected. It can very  easily be corrected by the legislation that we have introduced calling  to make sure that DOGE comes before Congress.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans need to stand up and call them to come  before us.