Congress Has Not Enhanced Social Security in More Than 50 Years


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688584/congress-has-not-enhanced-social-security-in-more-than-50-years


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about  the Nation's number one antipoverty program for the elderly and the  number one antipoverty program for children. That is, of course, Social  Security.

Last night, in his state of the Union and over the weekend, the  President and Elon Musk referred to Social Security as a scam and a  Ponzi scheme. I don't believe the people who receive those benefits  believe that Social Security is a scam. It is the Nation's number one  antipoverty program for the elderly. Since its inception in 1935, it  has never missed a payment.

It is, for capitalism and entrepreneurialism, our safety net. Yet,  Mr. Speaker, as you know, Congress has not acted on enhancing Social  Security in more than 50 years. Richard Nixon was the President of the  United States the last time Congress, whose responsibility it is, did  anything to extend benefits. That includes a COLA that is out of place,  as AARP indicates, as well as tax cuts for people who continue to have  to work after they retire and then have their Social Security double  taxed. It also applies for an across-the-board increase for all of our  citizens who haven't seen that since 1971.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, there are 10,000 baby boomers a day that  become eligible for Social Security, and that is why it is so  important.

In your district in Illinois, Mr. Speaker, there are 173,000 Social  Security recipients: 135,000 of them are retired; 14,900 are disabled;  9,855 are widows; 4,438 spouses; and more than 8,000 children, but that  is not the most important thing, even though all these details are  important, but the Sixth District in Illinois receives $323 million  monthly.

Where does that money go? That money goes to the recipients that I  just listed.

Where do they spend that money? They spend that money right back in  Illinois' Sixth District. Yet Congress hasn't done anything to enhance  or extend the program in over 50 years.

Mr. Speaker, we are long overdue for a vote. We have got a plan that  both expands Social Security across the board, makes sure that people  who continue to work don't pay taxes on their Social Security, and make  sure that we have a COLA that works.

Don't you think, Mr. Speaker, it is long overdue for us to have a  vote?

If you have a better idea and plan, by all means, bring it to the  floor in this great democracy and see it work. Instead, we see the  President and Elon Musk with their eyes on the Social Security trust  fund because he has been ordered to come up with $2 trillion in cuts.

What a coincidence that there happens to be just over $2 trillion in  the Social Security trust fund. What a coincidence that President Trump  is calling for tax cuts for Social Security recipients, but doesn't pay  for them, further weakening the trust fund that is already under  stress.

If Congress does not act by 2033, there will be a 20 percent cut  across the board for everyone. If Trump continues down his path of not  paying for benefits, it will be over a 36 percent cut. There are over 5  million Americans, fellow citizens, who have paid in all their life and  got nothing back from the government because Congress has not acted.