Doge Has Unfettered Access to Personal Data


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I, first and foremost, will  associate myself with the remarks of Mr. Neal from Massachusetts about  our dear friend and colleague, Charlie Rangel.

Also, Mr. Speaker, I will point out, as well, that I believe the  Representative from Indiana was on the floor talking about how we  should go after PBS and NPR. ``Sesame Street'' and Big Bird are really  culprits here, and every American ought to be really concerned about  that.

We still have something we call free press and free opinions. If you  think that they are the kind of organization that they are--I believe  the other night on the floor they were called communistic, as well. How  about we have an open public hearing and debate on that and put  legislation forward not in the dark of night but when the public can  actually view what you are saying.

Mr. Speaker, I am here today primarily, though, to talk about Social  Security and also to enlighten, I hope, my colleagues on the other  side. I am very concerned about the Supreme Court's most recent ruling  that overturned two lower courts with no logic and said, no, there  shouldn't be a pause, that DOGE ought to be able to look at everyone's  personal data and records.

To all Social Security recipients and all Americans out there that  are tuned in to this, understand what this is about. This is about DOGE  having access to the more than 70 million Social Security recipients  and everybody who, in fact, is on Social Security, which will include  basically the whole Nation.

Why they need this data they don't make clear, but then again, they  have never been vetted. They have never had to go through a Senate  process. They are a special group status that has no responsibility or  accountability and have been given unfettered access to everyone's  personal data and information.

I would hope that one Republican--perhaps you, Mr. Speaker--will  stand up and speak out against this outrage, because you know how  important Social Security is to your district and how many recipients  you have and how much money comes into your district on a monthly  basis.

Imagine, that hasn't been altered in over 54 years because this body  hasn't taken action, but now Elon Musk and Trump will get over the  dispute they had because their focus is on privatizing Social Security  and going after the $2.7 trillion of the people's money that is in  trust. Their goal is to privatize Social Security by both dismantling  it from within by laying off people, cutting phone service, closing  regional offices, and suspending more than 7,000 workers under the  guise of ``we are after fraud and abuse.''

They are about to take and use something that could be a very  constructive tool in AI, but, no, they are going to be using that tool  to go after the people's data and information and the $2.7 trillion in  the trust fund.

Will anyone on the other side of the aisle join Representatives Neal  and Jeffries in putting forward a bill that stops DOGE from looking at  and taking people's personal data and information?

They have no accountability. The only accountability over Social  Security is the United States Congress. If the Republicans remain  silent and let this happen, shame on them for letting this happen.  There is no way that Americans should be subject to a person who hasn't  been verified, people who are going in and looking at their personal  data and information.

I think it is disgusting what is going on, and there ought to be  hearings and, most importantly, there ought to be a vote. We have a  plan. We have a plan not to privatize Social Security, but to enhance  it for the first time in over 54 years, to lift the 5 million people  that get below-poverty-level checks out of it.