Enhancing Social Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690830/enhancing-social-security


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the  Nation's number one antipoverty program for the elderly and the  Nation's number one antipoverty program for children.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, I am talking about Social Security. More  alarming, Mr. Speaker, is that it has been more than 50 years since  Congress has enhanced Social Security for the citizens of this great  country.

What does that mean? That means that more than 70 million Social  Security recipients have not seen an enhancement to Social Security  since Richard Nixon was President of the United States.

I applaud Leader Hakeem Jeffries for putting together a plan and for  presenting something to the American people that stands in stark  contrast to nothing being put forward.

It doesn't bother me so much that Republicans aren't putting any  proposals forward, but they would deny a hearing on Social Security and  a vote on a measure that Congress hasn't addressed in more than 50  years.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, there are more than 70-plus million Social  Security recipients. Ten million baby boomers a day become eligible for  Social Security and wonder why Congress hasn't acted.

Mr. Speaker, for more than 5 million of our fellow Americans who have  paid into this system all their lives, they get below-poverty-level  checks from their government because Congress hasn't acted.

Mr. Speaker, for more than 35 million people, this is the only  pension they will receive, and Congress hasn't responded.

Again, I applaud Mr. Jeffries for saying, yes, what we need is an  across-the-board increase for everyone on Social Security. As Mr.  Jeffries has laid out, we need to repeal the provision to have people  who continue to work after they retire and not have their Social  Security taxed.

That is part of the Democratic plan, along with making sure that no  one can retire into poverty and lifting the more than 5 million people  who get below-poverty-level checks out of poverty.

Mr. Speaker, I know you know this. In Illinois' 12th Congressional  District, there are more than 179,000 Social Security recipients, and  more than 131,000 of them are retirees. Mr. Speaker, 21,000-plus are  disabled. There are 11,000-plus widows; 4,000-plus spouses; and 10,000- plus children who haven't seen an increase in more than 50 years. It is  long overdue for Congress to take action.

I plead with you, Mr. Speaker, to join us and to encourage Republican  leadership minimally to have a hearing on this. If you have a better  plan, Mr. Speaker, by all means, put it forward. At least let the plan  that Hakeem Jeffries has put forward have a vote. If my colleagues  disagree with it, that is fine. It is America. It is a democracy. Vote  against it.

Why shouldn't Congress vote on making sure that Illinois' 12th  Congressional District sees an increase they haven't seen in more than  50 years, as well as the First Congressional District in the State of  Connecticut and all 535 congressional districts where individuals have  not seen an increase, especially during these inflationary times.

For a party that used to pride itself on entrepreneurialism and  capitalism, imagine this is the safety net for capitalism and  entrepreneurialism. Where is the money spent in Illinois' 12th  Congressional District? It is put right back in the local economy to  the stores, the pharmacies, et cetera.