It Has Been Over 50 Years Since Congress Has Enhanced Social Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688950/it-has-been-over-50-years-since-congress-has-enhanced-social-security


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the  body with regard to Social Security and the lack of congressional  action.

It might interest people in the audience to know, Mr. Speaker, that  it has been over 50 years since Congress has enhanced Social Security  on behalf of  its recipients. That is why I have introduced legislation specifically  to address this issue.

Yet, Mr. Speaker, at the same time, we see that Mr. Musk has been  charged by the President of the United States to cut $2 trillion from  the budget. Mr. Musk has made no bones about the fact that he plans to  privatize Social Security and Medicare, amongst others.

Social Security, Medicare, and defense, as a number of people in the  audience knows, makes up more than 70 percent of the budget. He has  been instructed to find $2 trillion. Coincidentally, that is just about  how much Trump's tax cut for the wealthiest 1 percent is, $2 trillion.

Where will it come from, Mr. Speaker? Obviously, he has his designs  on Social Security, the only one of those entities--defense, Medicare,  and Medicaid--that has a trust fund, a trust fund of $2.7 trillion of  hardworking people's money.

It might surprise you, Mr. Speaker, to know that, in your district,  you have over 183,000 Social Security recipients, over 13,000 who are  disabled, 7,000-plus children, 8,000 widows, and 4,000 spouses.

Here is the critical thing: Republicans should wake up in this time  of inflation. Your district and every district on average, by the way,  receives more than $200 million monthly for its Social Security  recipients. Your district, Mr. Speaker, receives $354 million.

That hasn't been changed since 1971. People in America should be  outraged by the fact that Congress has not fulfilled its responsibility  to act on behalf of its citizens.

Social Security is the number one insurance program in the country,  serving over 70 million people. Mr. Speaker, 10,000 baby boomers a day  become eligible for Social Security, and Congress continues to ignore  them and ignore their needs.

Shamefully, more than 5 million of our fellow Americans get below- poverty-level checks from the wealthiest Nation in the world and the  most successful insurance program because of congressional inaction.  Most of those 5 million are women, and among those, most of them are  women of color.

People have been taxed on their Social Security when they continue to  work after retirement, and that is false, as well. I have had a  proposal, Mr. Speaker, to correct all of that, to change it, and, by  the way, pay for it.

How do we do that, Mr. Speaker? Very simple: We lift the cap on  people who pay nothing or very little or are through paying the first  day and second day of January. Lifting the cap on over 400,000 people,  as President Biden proposed, will provide us the benefits and solvency  that Social Security needs.

Why is it that hardworking people in this gallery should pay into a  system all their lives and get a benefit, yet billionaires can be  excluded and don't have to pay in the same amount or some totally  circumvent the law altogether and pay nothing?

It is long overdue, Mr. Speaker, don't you agree, for a vote to take  place. For all the citizens in your district, the more than $300  million that comes in, imagine what that does to the local economy in  your district, how it will help out the local grocery store, the  pharmacy, and, most importantly, the individual families in that  region.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that Republicans stand up to join us in enhancing  Social Security, not cutting it.