Our Country Faces A Constitutional Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701436/our-country-faces-a-constitutional-crisis


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, good morning. This is a great  day for the Larson and Messier family. My granddaughter Soleil Audrey  Messier turns 1 year old today. She is the sunshine of our lives and a  bundle of joy. We wish her and her mom a happy birth day.

Mr. Speaker, also on her birthday, I come to the floor as a concerned  Member of this body and note that we are in a constitutional crisis, a  constitutional crisis where this administration is currently ignoring  the rule of law.

The President of the United States treats the Constitution as though  it is a mere suggestion and that he is above the law. Article I of the  Constitution means little to him.

Mr. Speaker, fortunately, there are citizens in this country who care  deeply about this. I am honored to have such a citizen who is one of my  constituents, the renowned, legendary, and iconic Ralph Nader. Ralph  Nader is coming to Washington, D.C., on April 8, along with Bruce Fein,  a constitutional lawyer and authority on the Constitution. I will be  holding meetings open to staff and open to people here in the Rayburn  Building on this campus to talk about governmental accountability.

Ralph Nader has long been a voice throughout his history of public  service since he first published ``Unsafe at Any Speed,'' where he went  after the automobile industry because of what they were doing to the  American people and citizens.

He has been a voice, and I have to read this, Mr. Speaker: An author,  lecturer, attorney, political activist, and in 2006 he was cited by The  Atlantic as one of the 100 Most Influential Figures in American  History.

Time magazine called him ``the U.S.'s toughest customer.'' The New  York Times has said of him that Nader stands apart because he is moved  beyond social criticism to effective political action--beyond criticism  to effective political action.

In 1974, a survey conducted by the U.S. News & World Report rated him  the fourth most influential person in the United States. I am proud to  have him as a constituent.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Nader along with Bruce Fein will be discussing  articles on government and corporate accountability on April 8.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Nader also gets up and says every day that there can  be no daily democracy without daily citizenship. That is so true.

We just heard Mr. Comer over here talking before about the need for  bringing forward whistleblowers. Yet, on the Committee on Ways and  Means, we have been asking for the whistleblowers who have said that  every person, including all the viewers here today, Social Security  information has been stolen and placed in an insecure cloud--not one  whistleblower, but two. Who brought them forward? The Trump Judiciary  Department, the judicial branch of the Trump administration.

I listened to Mr. Comer call for whistleblowers coming forward in  Minnesota and California. How about right here in the United States  Congress, we hold accountable people who are looking at every Member of  Congress' 435 districts, all of their data and information.

The public should be outraged. We should be demanding that they come  before us as we have. Instead, we voted yesterday, once again, to  alleviate resolutions of inquiry, the minority's choice to get answers.