Saving Social Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694818/saving-social-security


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise today to address the  pending issue of Social Security.

Madam Speaker, for you and the people in the audience, it might come  as a shock that Social Security has not been adjusted in more than 54  years.

What do I mean by that? Some would argue that Social Security was  adjusted in 1982 under Tip O'Neill, Ronald Reagan, and Bob Dole.  Indeed, it was addressed, but Ronald Reagan wanted to privatize Social  Security. Bob Dole, a Senate Republican, said no, that this is too  important a program. They agreed that what they would do was to keep  the program intact, under the assistance of Tip O'Neill, but they  raised the age. That sounds like a reasonable compromise until you  realize that for every year you raise the age, that is a 7 percent cut  in benefits. In essence, back in 1982, there was a 14 percent cut in  benefits.

Today, we have a comprehensive proposal with regard to Social  Security to help everybody across the board, including a 2 percent  overall increase in Social Security--again, something that hasn't been  done since Richard Nixon was President of the United States.

We also want to make sure that no one receives a below-poverty-level  check from Social Security. Currently, more than 5 million of our  fellow Americans--most, Madam Speaker, you will find interesting, are  women--primarily because they were the caregivers and providers at home  and, when they were in the workforce, were making less than their male  counterparts. No matter how you look at it, it is unfair and unjust.

Social Security is the Nation's number one antipoverty program for  the elderly, and it is also the number one antipoverty program for  children.

Madam Speaker, more veterans rely on Social Security disability than  they do the VA. Yet, Congress has not acted.

This is not anything that can be done through executive order or  anything that is before the Supreme Court. What all Americans should be  demanding is that their Congress not only pay attention but act.

Democrats have a proposal that does just that. It expands coverage  across the board. It makes sure that no one can retire into poverty,  like more than 5 million current Americans do. It also makes sure that  we provide a cost-of-living increase that will benefit everybody.

Where do they spend that money, Madam Speaker? They spend it right  back in the congressional districts where they live. They put it right  back into buying groceries and going to the pharmacies; paying to heat  and cool their homes; paying their rent, bills, mortgages; and putting  gasoline into their automobiles. That all helps the American economy.

During this time of inflation, it is not understandable why a  Republican-controlled House and Senate will not take up Social Security  as the main issue facing the American people, including the best step  forward during these times of inflation. Where do people spend that  check: right back in the communities that they live in. That is the  most important thing.

Madam Speaker, that is why I come to the floor today: to make sure  that we are acting on Social Security and to make sure that all  Americans understand how vital and important this is. We can no longer  afford to kick this can down the road. Kicking the can down the road  doesn't help anyone out in your district, in my district, and in the  435 districts across this Nation. Quite the contrary, it will help  everyone out.

This is not about being a Democrat or a Republican or an Independent.  This is about Americans, again, demonstrating the brilliance of  Franklin Delano Roosevelt and what they had in mind to get us out of  the Great Depression.

We are still hanging on from the recession of 2008 and 2009. If  people say it can't happen again, they are wrong. It can.