Social Security is the Number One Antipoverty Program in United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688486/social-security-is-the-number-one-antipoverty-program-in-united-states


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak and  address the Chamber about the Nation's number one antipoverty program  for the elderly and the Nation's number one antipoverty program for  children. I speak, of course, of Social Security.

Social Security is currently under attack by the Trump administration  with just this weekend, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Trump calling Social Security  a scam and Mr. Musk calling Social Security a Ponzi scheme.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I am sure as you know in your district, you have  209,000 Social Security recipients: 157,000 are retirees; 25,000 plus  are disabled workers; 10,000 are widows; 3,678 are spouses; and over  12,000 are children. I don't believe that you think that Social  Security and the checks that these people receive is a scam or that  Social Security is a Ponzi scheme.

In fact, in your district, $377 million comes into your district  monthly that goes to those individuals. Where do they spend that money?  They spend that money right back in your district at the grocery store,  at the pharmacy, at the dry cleaners, heating and cooling their homes,  paying their rent, their mortgage, and putting gasoline in their car.

The brilliance of Franklin Delano Roosevelt still lives on. This is  capitalism's answer to have a safety net for people, who through no  fault of their own or because they work and ultimately end up retiring,  have benefits that they can live on. It is especially more important as  people are living longer. They need these benefits that are currently  under siege by an administration who has asked Elon Musk to find $2  trillion in cuts.

Where is he looking? He is looking right at your district, Mr.  Speaker, and my district, and the 435 congressional districts, who, on  average, receive $200 million monthly from Social Security where, on  average, the more than 145,000 people per district that receive these  benefits go directly back to the local economy.

We are looking for three Republicans to stand with a unified  Democratic Party and Congress to push forward a bill that was last  extended in 1971. Richard Nixon was President of the United States the  last time Social Security benefits were extended for your constituents  as well as my constituents in Connecticut.

It is long overdue. We have a COLA that doesn't work. We have people  that continue to work after they receive Social Security that are taxed  on their benefits. We have had teachers and firefighters and police  officers, as well, who have been denied benefits. Now, while they are  eligible for them, they are not funded and so that money comes out of  the trust fund.

President Trump has now proposed a tax cut for Social Security that  is unpaid for. That is over a $900 billion hit to Social Security and  all the constituents who receive it.

Mr. Speaker, I know you to be a man of goodwill and you understand  your district and what your people need, as well. It is long overdue  for the citizens of the United States to have their Social Security  benefits enhanced, not cut.