Social Security is An Earned Benefit


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the  Nation's number one antipoverty program for the elderly and the number  one antipoverty program for children. That program is Social Security.

Yet, Mr. Speaker, as you know, Congress has not addressed or enhanced  Social Security in more than 54 years. Richard Nixon was President of  the United States the last time that Congress enhanced Social Security.

I am sure it is of interest to some of our listeners here today that  Social Security is the number one insurance program for a Nation who  relies on their government to make sure that it passes on savings to  them that they have paid for. This is no entitlement. All one has to do  is go to their pay stub where it says FICA, Federal insurance  contribution. Whose money is that? It is your money.

Yet, Congress hasn't acted on it. However, we want to give that  opportunity to everyone to act on it.

What is especially alarming, Mr. Speaker, is now Mr. Musk--an  unelected official who operates outside of government, who doesn't need  to be approved by the Senate, who is neither a Federal employee nor a  volunteer, he has the ear of the President of the United States and can  get all the statistics and data that he wants--is currently going after  Social Security data.

I commend the Federal employees who have stood up to this illegal act  and refused, in an effort to protect American citizens' valuable  information and, most importantly, their privacy.

Mr. Speaker, as you know, you have 115,000 Social Security recipients  in your district: 86,000 are retirees; 10,000 are disabled workers who  rely on this money; 5,486 widows; 2,600 spouses; 8,613 children; and  your district gets on a monthly basis $197 million.

Where do they spend that?

Right back in your district, Mr. Speaker.

Nobody gets wealthy on Social Security. It is the safety net for  capitalism. That is what Roosevelt intended it to be. It is long  overdue that we have a vote in the United States Congress to enhance  Social Security benefits for all Americans.

There are 10,000 baby boomers who become eligible for Social Security  every day. More than 70 million people receive Social Security, and now  Mr. Musk and Mr. Trump are out to cut those benefits?

Ask your constituents where those cuts are going to come from, Mr.  Speaker. Are they ready to say that cuts ought to be made to the money  that they receive?

In something that was widely debunked last week, President Trump made  the most outlandish claim that Social Security is contributing money to  people who are supposedly 150 years old. That was widely debunked as  false and untrue, but it is the kind of thing that is seen in  dictatorships or at the start of fascism when people all of a sudden  make outlandish claims that are untrue with regard to the Nation's  number one insurance program for the elderly and our children, which  Congress hasn't enhanced in more than 54 years.

The public ought to be demanding a vote of its Members. Do not let  any Member of Congress stand up without saying where they stand on your  benefits.