Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700039/law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act


Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1057, I  call up the bill (H.R. 2189) to modernize Federal firearms laws to  account for advancements in technology and less-than-lethal weapons,  and for other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the  House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. FITZGERALD.  2189.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2189, the Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act.

This bill will put lifesaving, less-lethal technology in the hands of  more law enforcement and public safety officers.

When the Gun Control Act of 1968 was enacted more than 50 years ago,  it was not written with the intent to regulate less-lethal projectile  devices such as tasers.

Unfortunately, if a taser or other device uses an explosive  propellant to discharge the projectile, the ATF classifies it as a  firearm. This makes it more difficult for law enforcement and public  safety officers to obtain and use these devices.

For starters, many States prohibit public safety officers from using  firearms. In at least 12 States, correctional officers are unable to  carry firearms in the course of their official duties. Many State laws  also prohibit or restrict the use of firearms in schools and hospitals,  meaning security officers would be unable to purchase these devices if  they are needed.

For police departments, law enforcement officers can be unfairly  subjected to higher levels of liability exposure for discharging a  firearm than a less-lethal device. This includes my own State of  Wisconsin, which includes in its definition of deadly force the  discharge of a firearm.

Mr. Speaker, that is why the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate  Act is both necessary and important. H.R. 2189 makes a small but  important change to the Gun Control Act's definition of a firearm to  appropriately define a less-lethal projectile device.

It does so by instituting a five-part test, ensuring only devices  that are truly less lethal will pass ATF scrutiny. It also exempts  these devices from the firearm excise tax, the simple logic being that  police departments and manufacturers should no longer be paying a  firearm tax on a device that no longer is classified as a firearm. It  was never intended to apply to them in the first place, and it should  not apply to them now.

By making these simple changes, we are equipping our law enforcement  and public safety officers with the best tools to keep our communities  safe and our first responders out of harm's way.

Innovation should be rewarded, not stifled, and this bill does just  that. I thank my colleagues--Congressman Correa, Congressman  Schweikert, Congressman Stanton, and all the others who have been  supportive of this--for their leadership on this issue over the last  two Congresses.

Mr. Speaker, I remind Members that the bill itself has a ton of  support, to include the Fraternal Order of Police, Major County  Sheriffs, the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement  Executives, NOBLE, Hispanic American Police Command Officers and their  associations, Peace Officers Research Association of California, and  the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association.

Again, I think there is a ton of support out there, and there is  actually a real need and a number of requests for this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I remind Members, again, that a lot of the accusations  that this will create other avenues for individuals to get firearms is  just not true. To be classified as a less-than-lethal device under this  bill, the device may not accept firearm ammunition. I don't know how  much clearer that can be.

There are no firearm magazines involved with these weapons at all,  and they do not have high-velocity projectiles.

There are a lot of scare tactics being used to try to paint this as  if it is being extended to other firearms. It is not.

This would also prevent these ideas from taking hold amongst  discussions about ghost guns, which is something that is out there on  the street. For any weapon that also has kits that can be converted to  a firearm, it doesn't apply to them.

This bill also requires ATF to deny classification to any device that  could be readily modified into a firearm.

I know there is a lot of hearsay, a lot of thoughts about where this  could go in the future, but, quite honestly, that is not the way this  bill was drafted. It is not going to lend itself to being used that  way.

Mr. Speaker, I do agree with the ranking member that all U.S. States  and territories already criminalize misuse of less-than-lethal devices  through existing assault and battery laws.

Mr. Speaker, 42 States have explicit statutory definitions for less- than-lethal devices. Of those 42 States, 34 already prohibit possession  by violent felons and domestic abusers, they impose age restrictions,  and impose criminal penalties for misuse. Several States even require  permits, licenses, or a background check to purchase or possess these  devices.

This is not something that the State legislatures aren't aware of. As  a matter of fact, I have said before, I think that there may be some  State legislatures that will react to the legislation before us today  and possibly come up with other items that States have already put in  place that probably will support law enforcement in this area.

I think suggestions that the bill will put these devices in the hands  of violent felons or the general public are blown way out of proportion  and that H.R. 2189 preserves State regulations on these devices. It  does not weaken existing safeguards against misuse.

Mr. Speaker, I will just remind the Members we have 22 Democrat  cosponsors on this bill. I am sure that those Members are hearing from  their own local law enforcement. I am sure they are hearing from their  chiefs of police. I am sure they are hearing from their sheriffs.

I am sure that they are hearing from some private security firms that  want to be able to access this technology that has been there for some  time and has been proven to be a de-escalator in these very tense  situations that law enforcement officers find themselves in.

Mr. Speaker, I will say Wisconsin, my State, defines deadly force in  its use-of-force policy as: The intentional use of a firearm or other  instrument that creates a high probability of death or great bodily  harm.

That is what we are trying to overcome, is this definition that does  not fit this new technology.

Wisconsin already regulates the use of tasers and stun guns at the  State level. You must be over 18 to own a stun gun or a taser, and you  must be 21 and possess a valid concealed carry permit to carry in the  public.

This is not going to be unchecked. There are absolutely going to be  legislatures that will revisit this. It is currently a felony to carry  a stun gun or a taser in public without a valid permit. It is illegal  to possess stun guns or tasers for those who had prior felony  convictions.

Mr. Speaker, a lot of this has already been thought out. It is law  enforcement members who think about these items each and every day. It  is those in leadership positions who think about these items, and we  are responding to that. That is simply what we are doing here.

Once again, I think it is a great bill. I hope that Members support  it. It sounds like it is going to be what I would expect to be a solid,  bipartisan vote today.

Mr. Speaker, I will reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the CBO score for this bill.   H.R. 2189, LAW-ENFORCEMENT INNOVATE TO DE-ESCALATE ACT, AS REPORTED BY         THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY ON JANUARY 30, 2026 ------------------------------------------------------------------------                                           By fiscal year, millions of                                                    dollars--                                      -----------------------------------                                          2026      2026-2030   2026-2035 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Direct Spending (Outlays)...........          *           *           * Revenues............................          *           *           * Increase or Decrease (-) in the               *           *           *  Deficit............................ Spending Subject to Appropriation             *           *          **  (Outlays).......................... ------------------------------------------------------------------------ * = between -$500,000 and $500,000. ** = not estimated.

Increases net direct spending in any of the four       consecutive 10-year periods beginning in 2036? No.

Increases on-budget deficits in any of the four consecutive       10-year periods beginning in 2036? *.

Statutory pay-as-you-go procedures apply? Yes.

Mandate Effects:

Contains intergovernmental mandate? No.

Contains private-sector mandate? No.

H.R. 2189 would amend the definition of firearm in the Gun       Control Act of 1968 to exclude certain nonlethal projectile       devices. Under current law, people who violate this Act could       be subject to criminal penalties. Criminal penalties are       recorded in the budget as revenues, deposited into the Crime       Victims Fund, and later spent without further appropriation.       Because CBO expects that the number of affected cases would       be small, we estimate that any decrease in revenues and       direct spending would be insignificant over the 2026-2035       period.

CBO estimates that any administrative costs for the       Department of Justice to implement H.R. 2189 would be       insignificant. Any related spending would be subject to the       availability of appropriated funds.

The CBO staff contact for this estimate is Sean       Christensen. The estimate was reviewed by H. Samuel       Papenfuss, Deputy Director of Budget Analysis.                                                 Phillip L. Swagel,                             Director, Congressional Budget Office.

Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Speaker, I will spend the time I have remaining  responding to a few points made by my colleagues.

First of all, the U.S. States and territories already criminalize the  misuse of less-lethal devices through existing assault and battery  laws, and 34 States also restrict possession by violent felons and  domestic abusers.

Let me repeat that. It is illegal for violent felons and domestic  abusers to own or misuse less-lethal devices.

Mr. Speaker, our bill does not change that. H.R. 2189 preserves State  regulation and, in fact, may invite State legislatures to adjust their  statutes to harmonize with Federal law.

Second, the bill will not create ghost guns or other unregulated  firearms. The five-part test in this bill would sufficiently protect  against deregulation, and any product submitted to ATF for  classification will be scrutinized under the ATF's existing  classification process.

There is no loophole. This fear-mongering by colleagues on the other  side of the aisle this morning is nothing more than that.

Finally, police do, in fact, have difficulty obtaining these devices.  State and local police departments in States like California, New York,  and Texas will not buy the newest taser models due to the increased  liability.

This is not some hypothetical. Unless we make this change, State and  local police departments will have to settle for weaker, less-accurate  taser models due to this misclassification.