Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699904/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. FITZGERALD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the resolution and  in support of H.R. 2189, the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate  Act. This bill will put lifesaving, less lethal technology in the hands  of more law enforcement and public safety officers.

When the Gun Control Act of 1968 was enacted more than 50 years ago,  it was not written with the intent to regulate less lethal projectile  devices such as tasers. Unfortunately, if a taser or other device uses  an explosive propellant to discharge a projectile, the ATF classifies  it as a firearm. This makes it more difficult for law enforcement and  public safety officers to obtain and use these devices.

For starters, many States prohibit public safety officers from using  firearms. In at least 12 States, correctional officers are unable to  carry firearms in the course of their official duties. Many State laws  also prohibit or restrict the use of firearms in schools and hospitals,  meaning security officers would be unable to purchase these devices.

For police departments, law enforcement officers could be unfairly  subjected to higher levels of liability exposure for discharging a  ``firearm'' than a less lethal device. This includes my own State of  Wisconsin, which includes in its definition of deadly force the  discharge of a firearm.

Mr. Speaker, that is why the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate  Act is both necessary and important. H.R. 2189 makes a small, but  important, change to the Gun Control Act's definition of a firearm to  appropriately define a less lethal projectile device.

It does so by instituting a five-part test, ensuring only those  devices that are truly less lethal will pass ATF scrutiny. It also  exempts these devices from the firearm excise tax, the simple logic  being that police departments and manufacturers should no longer be  paying a firearm tax on a device that is no longer classified as a  firearm. It was never intended to apply to them in the first place. It  should not apply to them now.

By making these simple changes, we are equipping our law enforcement  and public safety officers with the best tools to keep our communities  safe and our first responders out of harm's way.

Innovation should be rewarded, not stifled, and this bill does just  that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Congressman Correa, Congressman  Schweikert, and Congressman Stanton, for their leadership on this issue  over the last two Congresses.