Better is Possible


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my illustrious colleague of  the great State of New Jersey for being the lead for tonight's  Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour to talk about the  government, money, funding, keeping this government open, and about why  we come here every single day of each week and why some of us are  fighting for the American people while others of us are fighting for  Donald Trump.

This is a great time to share that Republicans don't care about you-- you, all of you. Trump doesn't care about you, none of you. They don't  care about your safety. They don't care about your freedom. They don't  care about your voice. They don't care about your vote. They don't care  about your pocketbook.

Why does the Congresswoman from California say this? Because I have  receipts, and I am going to share them.

Earlier this year, Republicans voted on a $4.5 trillion tax cut for  the richest of the rich. In order to pay for that, they passed a  honking series of cuts to all the services that you need to help you  survive and thrive.

What kinds of services? It is things like shutting down or  threatening to shut down Social Security offices in high-rent  districts, which would include all of Los Angeles. They are cutting  funding to SNAP, which helps young mothers who are looking for baby  formula for their babies and folks who need help buying food so that  maybe their children's bellies aren't empty when they are going to  school. Services by farmers who actually produce goods that are sold  into this agricultural program would be cut.

They are cutting funding to the Small Business Administration. Most  people in my district are interested in their hustle, their small  business that they are trying to get off the ground. I thought that was  why the SBA was developed, designed, and created: to help start  businesses. Now, we have a President who wants to cut that, maybe  because he wants all the money.

We have a President, supported by the Republican Party, who is  sending in the National Guard and militarizing soldiers against  citizens in those cities and States. They are right here at Union  Station in Washington, D.C. The taxpayers are footing a million dollars  a day for these National Guard members to pick up trash. They are doing  the job that sanitation workers would be doing in the District of  Columbia.

We are talking about $770 billion for Medicare. I talk to young  people in my district, Mr. Speaker. They say: ``I am not on Medicare.''  I say: ``That is right. Maybe you are not, but your grandmother is,  your elderly aunt is, and the doctor you see is able to see you because  of the reimbursement they are getting from a Medicare patient.''

With these cuts, we are hearing from community clinics. We are  hearing from hospitals. We are hearing from doctors and other  healthcare providers. They are trying to see if they are able to stay  open to help you when you get sick, but that has been cut.

In the last administration, President Biden said that he was going to  forgive student loans. This President says: Oh, no. Everybody pays  except me. Everybody pays but me.

Not only are we doing away with that forgiveness, but we are actually  capping the amount of money that you can get in student loans and in  grants to maybe go to medical school because Lord knows we need more  doctors, especially in rural communities, willing to help Americans as  they search for healthcare.

One place, though, that didn't get cut is ICE and Homeland Security  because this is an administration that wants his own personal militia  to go after folks who ask for the truth. These cuts also mean and  include cuts to Federal jobs. California is a State with the second  largest number of Federal workers. These are workers who have been  answering the phones when you call, checking on your application when  you submit it, and getting back to you about your benefits. Those folks  are being terminated, but this is the President who is all about  workers first, which is why I had to drive down to the city to the  Department of Labor and see the President's face on the big, old  banner.

Why are we spending money on these banners but cutting money to  farmers? Because dismantling USAID and cutting USAID is more than just  what is happening in other countries. You are actually also cutting  contracts to American farmers who produce goods and products that we  then sell to other countries. This is all about hurting all of us.

They are cutting funding to the National Institutes of Health. They  are cutting cancer research.

In my State of California, we were on the cusp of clinical trials  because a cure had been found for breast cancer. We were on the cusp of  clinical trials for a cure for prostate cancer. All of that has now  stopped because of cuts to the National Institutes of Health.

That is what we are talking about. The party in power has a  responsibility to make sure that those basic services--because nothing  I talked about was not basic--are not cut.

I am trying to find out why we have a President who is chair of both  the World Cup and the Olympics. These are events that will be happening  in my district and in my State. The World Cup festivities will be  happening in cities across this State. How can you have cities that are  preparing for the World Cup and the Olympics when they are being  attacked by the Federal Government and when we are not providing them  the support that they need to get ready?

Here we are on the verge of the third set of receipts, a funding  shutdown, which is imminent and can be stopped by the party in power,  the Republicans.

The Republicans have to make a decision. Are they going to prioritize  the American people, or are they going to prioritize the President of  the United States?

I don't know about you, but the Congresswoman from New Jersey talked  about hosting townhalls in her district. I did, too. I didn't meet a  constituent who said they wanted the Rose Garden paved at the White  House. I haven't met a constituent who said they want to see more gold  candelabras in the White House. I have met constituents who said: What  is going to happen to my health insurance? When is ICE going to get out  of the kindergartens in Los Angeles?

I hope we don't have a government shutdown, but that would require  Republicans to make some decisions about who they are going to support.  On top of that, which people like to forget, the last thing we did  before the beginning of August was that Republicans voted on a  rescissions package, which was essentially giving the President back  money that Congress had already voted to appropriate to go to the  American people.

Some Republicans said let's do this once a month. That is not an  exercise. It is like going on a diet once a month. Let's cut more money  out of the hands of the American people. It is not funny.

I know people think that Congress is drama and theater, but it is not  theater when you talk to a constituent who says, ``Thank God you called  the agency on my behalf so I could get my benefits back.'' It is not  theater when you have a constituent who is older and is going to get  evicted, and they say, ``Thank God you called HUD to  make sure that my grandmother doesn't get evicted from her house.''

I thought that was what the government was supposed to do. How come  no one answers my calls? How come this President doesn't care about me?

This is not theater. We have farmers in trouble. We have young  children who are hungry. We have elders who are concerned if they are  going to be able to go to the doctor when they get sick. We have young  people who don't even know if it is worth going to college because they  don't know if they will find a job. We have partners and friends who  have opened up businesses in our cities across this country who are  afraid to show up to their jobs because they don't know if they will be  snatched and deported, even though they are legally allowed to be here.

What is going on? We read these headlines. It does not sound like  anything that should be happening in the United States of America.

It is one thing to talk about policy, but it is another thing to cut  the benefits of a veteran who put their life on the line to protect us.

It is one thing to debate policy. It is another thing to vote to shut  down a hospital.

It is one thing to talk about foreign policy and where we should be  and what we should be doing. It is another thing to cut jobs, folks who  are building things that keep us safe.

I had a gentleman come into my office a week ago. He is not even from  my State. He has a business in Mississippi, and they make the  thermostats that we put into refrigerators. They have investments in  another country. They have American people, American workers working in  Mississippi and in that country, and you know the money they make comes  here.

He said: I am going to have to fire all those people and shutdown  because of these cuts on top of these tariffs.

Now, that man didn't vote for me. That man probably didn't even vote  for my candidate, but he came in my office and said: Can you help? What  is going on? What is going on?

My answer was: You have got some people up in here that ain't got no  courage. They don't have no courage. I don't owe you nothing, you are  not from my State. However, you are trying to create jobs to help  American people, give young people an idea about how they can start  their own business and be an entrepreneur and come up with a product  they can patent that is good for business, that allows them to earn  some money, save some money, start a family. All that is in jeopardy  because of these cuts, because of these rescissions, and because of  this potential government shutdown.

I don't know about you, but when I am in trouble, I don't call  somebody and say, hey, are you a Republican or a Democrat? I just call  and say: Can you help me?

My dad has got health issues right now. I was on the phone. I wasn't  saying: Hey, who did you vote for? I said: Hey, can you help my dad?

That is what Americans across this country are asking, like, are you,  the people in power, the people with the gavel, are you going to help  me?

Make me drop my notes.

I want the party in power to say: Yeah, I am going to help you. I am  going to prioritize you. I am just not going to prioritize you in March  of 2026 before my name is on the ballot, I am going to prioritize you  right now because American companies, American students, American  innovators, American researchers, American veterans, American farmers,  American students deserve all of us fighting for them and not for one  person who is only looking to hang more banners up and put up more gold  candelabras at 1600 Pennsylvania.