Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of Chuy  Garcia and against this resolution. I am, in fact, appalled at the  hubris behind all of this.

If this is not a question of legality, if this is not a question of  State law, then what is it a question of?

I was in Chicago with Congressman Chuy Garcia when hearings were held  about the inhumane and barbaric  treatment of Chicagoans across his district and other districts by this  administration and ICE. I saw his conviction, his commitment, his love  for not just his district but the city in which he was raised and  lives.

This is a man who is a legend. He is a legend to his district, and he  is a legend in this Congress. I don't understand why we are having to  debate him. This is character assassination.

My question is this: Is this the most significant subversion that has  happened this year? We have an administration that is starving poor  children. We have an administration that is involved in unauthorized  strikes in countries around the globe. We are in the midst of fighting  for survivors by getting the Epstein files released. We are in the  fight of our lives to make sure that Americans can afford the  healthcare that they deserve. That is what we should be debating. Those  are issues that are far more pressing and critical to Americans.

I was home in my district this weekend. Not one person asked me about  Chuy Garcia, not one person in my district or in my State. We have to  worry about our own districts. Isn't that what people say, ``What is  happening in your district?'' Worry about your own district.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. I would just ask that we get back to that.

I am going to have to say this Democratic intraparty fighting is not  what any of us want, and it is not what the American people deserve. I  would hope that we would get back to focusing on the issues that are  most critical. If any of us have an issue with what is going on in  somebody else's district, we should have the decency and respect to go  to them and ask them about what is going on in their district before we  do all of this kind of character assassination on this House floor.