Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Mr. President, I stand before you all today to seek  unanimous consent for S. 959, the Tariff Transparency Act, my bill that  will demand a nonpartisan study on this administration's tariffs and  how they will impact everyday Americans.

This administration came in the door saying they would lower costs  and ease burdens on American families. These tariffs would do the exact  opposite. The President readily admits that these tariffs will disrupt  the economy, but he claims two things: that there will only be a minor  disruption and says that they will cause a little bit of pain.

Maybe it will only be minor to those who are billionaires, but to  everyday Americans, to the people who go to work every day to provide  for their families--the families like the family I grew up in, a blue- collar family, a father who is a car salesman and a mother who is a  receptionist--well, they can't afford any disruptions, and they cannot  afford any further pain.

They deserve instead to know the truth about the Trump tariffs on the  front end. They deserve to know exactly how the Trump tariffs will  affect their day-to-day lives. They deserve to understand how these  moves will change the price of groceries. They deserve to be told if  the Trump tariffs will make energy costs more expensive or if their  dream of owning a home or a car will be made more impossible. What they  don't deserve is to be subjected to this indiscriminate and chaotic  approach to this economy that is already not working for everyone.

If these tariffs do depress the economy and a recession comes, which  many, many economists are now predicting, it will not be the  billionaires who are affected the most. It will be American small  businesses that are burdened. It will be American consumers that are  harmed. At the end of the day, it will be the American people who are  footing the bill for the Trump tariffs.

When we talk about American people, let's be clear. This is the  middle class. These are working-class, hard-working people who will be  impacted.

Do you know what? This administration knows the truth. They know that  these tariffs will raise prices and spike inflation and harm American  businesses, but they want to hide it from the American people until it  is too late. This is absolutely unacceptable. It is, in fact, wrong.

The American people need someone to stand up for them, so I am here  today to stand up for them, to speak for middle-class families across  Maryland and across America, working people across the country, to  defend the Americans who are fighting to keep a roof over their heads  and food on their table and can't afford the chaos that is ensuing in  their lives.

I shouldn't be standing for them by myself. They are who we all  should be fighting for. They are the ones who sent us here to represent  them. They sent us here to make their lives easier. They should be on  our minds before any actions that we take in this Chamber.

959 and the Senate  proceed to its immediate consideration; that the bill be considered  read a third time and passed and the motion to reconsider be considered  made and laid upon the table.

Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Madam President, in response to that, I say  respectfully that I think we have been presented a false choice. In  this moment, I think it is really important for us to be able to not  only respond to the fentanyl crisis that we have certainly seen in our  country--we have seen it in Maryland, and we have seen it all across  the country--but I think the urgency of the moment requires to some  extent that we are able to walk and chew gum.

We have to fight fentanyl, but we also have to respond to the  devastation and respond to the uncertainty and the pain that is created  by the tariffs that do directly attack the middle class.

All we are asking in this moment, if these tariffs are so harmless to  the American people, well, let's prove it. Allow the bipartisan group,  the International Trade Commission, to do the study and to give the  American people the benefit of information about how these tariffs will  impact their everyday lives, how it will affect the bottom line. Will  it, in fact, cause the cost of groceries to rise? Will it, in fact,  cause energy costs to increase? Will it, in fact, cause housing to  increase?

I think the American people deserve answers, and in this moment where  chaos is ensuing all around them, where they are losing their jobs,  where they are losing--many of them--the funding streams that help  seniors and children to eat, the very least we could do would be to  provide information to hard-working families, like the one I grew up  in, answers about how these tariffs will, in fact, affect them.

Again, I don't believe that we have to consider the false choice  about whether or not we protect our borders against fentanyl and also  whether or not we protect the American people.

The President has said this is liberation day. I want to know whom we  are liberating. Are we liberating the billionaires who benefit from  these tariffs that allow the tax cuts or are we really fighting for  middle-class people?