Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


Ms. ALSOBROOKS. Mr. President, I thank Senator Welch and Senator  Marshall and my colleagues who are here today and all the members of  the Senate Agriculture Committee for their bipartisan work on this  legislation.

This legislation rightfully provides more options for parents,  students, and teachers, which will benefit our children and their  families. Specifically, this legislation will allow schools to provide  whole milk, but it also makes it easier for parents to request that  their child be provided with a milk alternative, if their child suffers  from lactose intolerance.

I do, however, remain concerned about the continued classification of  lactose intolerance as a disability. I want to be clear that this issue  predates the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act, and the bill does not  create this problem.

Lactose intolerance of some degree affects more than 50 percent of  the population. The classification of lactose intolerance as a  disability can cause confusion for parents, who would not refer to  their lactose intolerant child as having a disability, especially given  the high prevalence of lactose intolerance. So they may not realize  that they can write a letter asking for their child's school to provide  a milk alternative, and it creates an undue stigma.

I want to thank my colleagues and their teams for their receptiveness  to my concerns.

I especially want to say thank you so much to Senator Welch and also  to Senator Marshall, and for the discussions that we and our teams have  had around them.

After those discussions, I understand why my colleagues prefer not to  use the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act as the vehicle to address these  concerns, and therefore, I agreed to lift my hold on the bill in  exchange for a commitment from my colleagues to work with me to find an  appropriate legislative solution to address this longstanding problem.

Again, I want to thank my colleagues and the members of the Senate  Agriculture Committee for their work on this bill that ensures that  schools will provide healthy milk and milk alternative options for our  children.

I look forward to working with you to further support the children  and families in all of our States.