Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699346/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. CUELLAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, but first,  I want to thank the chairmen of the subcommittees and the full  committee and my ranking member for their leadership. Certainly, I also  thank the staff on both sides for the hard work that they have provided  on this difficult bill.

I represent 280 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border. Let me be the first  to say this bill is not perfect. However, this bill is better than the  alternatives of either funding the Department under a continuing  resolution or shutting down the government. That is the choice in front  of us.

This bill puts real requirements on the Department. It provides  oversight and makes targeted investments that directly help States and  local communities to make sure that we help folks like firefighters and  other folks.

Let me say this: It is better than the alternative, leaving the  Department with a blank check, virtually unchecked by the Committee on  Appropriations and Congress.

Allowing DHS to operate under a continuing resolution or trying to  shut it down, ICE would ensure that they have no direction from  Congress.

This bill flat-funds ICE, but at the same time, we also strengthen  the oversight of ICE by increasing funding to the inspector general by  over $38 million over fiscal year 2025. That includes $20 million to do  additional inspections of ICE facilities and $12.8 million to provide  oversight of the Department for the funds that they got under  reconciliation.

It also provides, as the gentleman said a few minutes ago, $20  million for body-worn cameras, specifically for CBP and ICE, which are  conducting immigration enforcement. It also provides funding to  increase training for CBP and ICE agents for deescalation tactics.

Let me say this: We did try to fight more. Unfortunately, we couldn't  reach an agreement with our Republican friends, but we did not walk  away from the work of putting the oversight into law that this bill  provides.

We also provide funding accountability to the Office of Civil Rights  and Civil Liberties and the Office of Citizenship and Immigration  Services, which is, again, something that they tried to close.

Let me be clear: ICE can operate based on the funds that they were  provided under reconciliation, but we cannot say the same thing to  other departments or other agencies under DHS, especially when we talk  about FEMA. FEMA gets $5.7 billion, including $3.8 billion for Federal  assistance, which is a 20-percent increase above fiscal year 2025.  Again, that money goes back to help firefighters and disasters.

Again, it also provides money to CISA. As you know, there were cuts,  but we are providing money there to make sure that we fight the threats  to our critical infrastructure that we are seeing across the country.

Finally, this provides funding in the amount of a $550 million  increase for the Coast Guard because, again, we have to make sure the  Coast Guard gets the funding, especially when it comes to funding drug  interdiction.

Again, I say this: Is this bill perfect? No. However, a continuing  resolution provides no oversight, and ICE also gets funding from the  reconciliation.

Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is simple. This bill is better than the  alternative.