Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, just across the street from where I  stand today is the U.S. Supreme Court. That building has four words  etched in marble above its entrance: ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' 

  The promise of those four words is that in our country, our system of  justice must treat everyone equally regardless of their race, gender,  sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, disability, or  socioeconomic status, but too many people in our country grow up  knowing and experiencing that in America we have two systems of  justice--one in which certain people are held accountable and another  in which powerful people like Donald Trump escape accountability  altogether. 

  This has been true from the first days of our Nation's history, when  a group of men gathered in Philadelphia to debate lofty notions of  justice and equality, yet produced a document that literally counted  Black Americans as fractions of a person. 

  In the Declaration of Independence, we were told that ``all men are  created equal,'' but we know that in our Nation's founding at that  time, the policy of our Nation was to rob indigenous people of their  land and their livelihood and to exclude women from the right to vote. 

  So to make true the promise of America and move us toward a more  perfect Union, people have organized and fought and marched for  justice. From the suffragettes to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., those  fights have won us progress toward a more just and inclusive nation,  but, clearly, there is still more work to be done to achieve equal  justice under law. 

  When the determination of whether you sit in jail before trial is too  often based on the size of your bank account  rather than the size of your crime, we have not yet achieved equal  justice under law. There is more work to be done when young people  selling drugs on the corner too often become felons for life, while  white-collar criminals face no accountability. 

  There is more work to be done when regarding the sexual assault of  women, the current President has said:  

       When you're a star, they let you do it. You can do       anything.  

  There is work to be done when the American people know that the rules  aren't equally enforced against powerful people. Unless we acknowledge  these truths, too many Americans will remain distrustful of our  institutions and cynical about our government and our leaders. 

  This is the point, my colleagues: We now face a choice. Will we  insist that we have one system of justice that applies equally to all  or will we continue to have two systems of justice in which some are  above the law? 

  Later this week, the Senate will likely begin the impeachment trial  of President Donald Trump. This moment in our history will have  consequences. The Senate is charged with deciding whether the President  of the United States, with all his power and supposed wealth, will be  held accountable for his actions and whether we will finally live up to  the principle of ``Equal Justice Under Law.'' 

  This is why I speak to you today, fully aware that I stand on the  shoulders of those who come before me in our Nation's ongoing fight for  equality. I speak because I was raised by people who spent most of  their lives demanding justice in the face of racism, misogyny, bigotry,  and inequality. I speak because I have dedicated my entire career to  upholding the rule of law and bringing integrity to our system of  justice. I speak to ensure that everyone in California and throughout  our country can enjoy the rights and freedoms guaranteed to them by the  U.S. Constitution. 

  As a U.S. Senator, I speak fully prepared to uphold my solemn oath to  support and defend the Constitution of the United States and to do  impartial justice according to the Constitution and laws, and to affirm  that my first obligation is to serve the people of the United States-- all the people. 

  I hope my colleagues can agree that our Nation's Founders had the  foresight to create a system of checks and balances and anticipate the  need to remove a President who might yield to foreign influence or use  the Presidency for personal power and benefit. 

  Our Founders feared that a day like this might come, and so they  empowered the U.S. Congress with the tool of impeachment to hold a  lawless President accountable. 

  This week, after months of investigation, sworn testimony, public  hearings and debate, the House of Representatives will likely send to  the U.S. Senate two Articles of Impeachment. These articles charge  President Trump with abusing his power for his personal and political  gain and with obstructing Congress's effort to investigate his  misconduct. 

  In this trial, the U.S. Senate must not only consider the charges  against the President but also conduct itself in a way that  demonstrates to the American people that in our system of justice no  one is above the law. Each Senator here must exhibit the kind of moral  and ethical leadership that this President abandoned when he pressured  a foreign nation to interfere in our elections. 

  There is no question that President Trump's misconduct has left a  vacuum of leadership in our country, and the American people are  therefore rightly looking to the U.S. Senate to demonstrate that their  leaders are worthy of the public's trust. 

  The American people should expect their Senators to seek the truth,  not cover up the facts. So let's honor our oath to defend the  Constitution by doing the job the American people have entrusted to us. 

  Let us ensure that this trial is a search for truth and that we  follow the facts where they lead and come to a verdict based on all of  the available evidence. 

  Let us do our jobs and insist that we hear from Mick Mulvaney, John  Bolton, and anyone with a firsthand knowledge of the President's  misconduct. Let us demand that the White House turn over additional  emails and documents that shed light on the President's motives for  withholding military aid from Ukraine. And let us be clear that an  order from this President to block evidence or witness testimony will  itself be further evidence of his efforts to obstruct the U.S.  Congress. 

  The importance of this moment in our history cannot be overstated.  What we do in this trial will show the world who we are as a country.  Our actions will also send a message to further Presidents and future  Presidents of the United States about the kind of conduct that is  acceptable from the leader of our Nation. 

  As the U.S. Senate, we must say that it is unacceptable for a  President to shake down a vulnerable foreign nation for personal or  political benefit. We must say with one voice that no President can  disregard the legitimate oversight authority of the U.S. Congress, and  we must say, as leaders of the United States of America, that in our  system of justice, everyone--everyone--will be held accountable for  their actions, including the President of the United States. 

  My final point is that, years from now, people are going to judge.  They are going to judge whether we rose to the solemn occasion that is  the impeachment trial of the President of the United States, and we  cannot be passive in this moment. I am mindful of Coretta Scott King's  words:  

       Freedom is never really won. You earn it and win it with       each generation.  

  It is incumbent on this generation to fight for a system of justice  in which all are treated equally. 

  In that ongoing fight, we, as the U.S. Senate, must agree that we  cannot speak about the ideals of equality and justice and then act in  ways that violate those very principles. It is our duty, both as  Senators and as proud Americans, to protect the Constitution, to earn  the people's trust, and to prove to the American people that it is  still within the power of the U.S. Congress to hold the President  accountable. History is watching. Our actions here will shape this  body's legacy. 

  I urge my colleagues to have the courage, the foresight, and the  patriotism to act in the interest of our Nation and its people. I urge  my colleagues to fight for one system of justice in the United States  of America and to ensure that no one is above the law. I urge my  colleagues to reaffirm the most basic of American principles--that ours  is not the government of one man but a government of the people, by the  people, and for the people. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT