Harris: "The Very Integrity of the United States Senate is on Trial"


U.S. Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA) on Thursday joined Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) at a press conference to discuss the need for the Senate to call firsthand witnesses and demand direct evidence of the president's misconduct in the impeachment trial of President Trump.

"I would argue that not only is this an impeachment trial, but that the very integrity of the United States Senate is on trial," said Harris. "What is before us are charges that are arguably the most serious charges that have ever been leveled against a President of the United States."

Harris also declared that in order for the Senate to live up to its responsibility to do fair and impartial justice, senators must "[demand] that the American public and each member of this body receive all evidence--documents and individuals who are witnesses--so that we can engage in a fair deliberation and make a decision that reflects the ideals and the values and the very principles of the United States system of justice."

Full transcript of Harris' remarks:

HARRIS: Thank you, Leader Schumer.

I would argue that not only is this an impeachment trial, but that the very integrity of the United States Senate is on trial.

What is before us are charges that are arguably the most serious charges that have ever been leveled against a President of the United States.

And where there has been an abandonment of responsibility to uphold the ideals, much less the words, of the United States Congress by the President of the United States, that responsibility now rests on the shoulders of each member of the United States Senate--which is to uphold the integrity of our system of democracy, uphold the integrity of our system of justice, and to uphold the integrity of the United States Senate, which has a responsibility to do fair and impartial justice.

Which means demanding that the American public and each member of this body receive all evidence--documents and individuals who are witnesses--so that we can engage in a fair deliberation and make a decision that reflects the ideals and the values and the very principles of the United States system of justice.

And so that is what is before us today, and we took a very solemn oath. It's a very serious matter, which each of us should take responsibly and take seriously, understanding that whatever the party affiliation of the President of the United States, right now it is incumbent on the United States Senate to do the work of upholding America's Constitution and our very system of justice.