Harris, Castro, Colleagues Condemn White Nationalist Stephen Miller, Call for Immediate Removal From Role As White House Senior Advisor


U.S. Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA) and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20) on Thursday introduced a resolution condemning the presence of white nationalist Stephen Miller in the White House and called for his immediate resignation from office. The resolution outlines Miller's consistent advocacy of racist and white supremacist ideology. Miller's work in the Administration has encouraged a resurgence of racism and bigotry and helped create a climate of fear, danger, and violence for communities of color and immigrants.

"Stephen Miller is the hateful force behind the cruel and xenophobic policies that have defined the Trump administration. His white supremacist, anti-immigrant ideology has no place in our country, let alone the White House," said Senator Harris. "I'm proud to lead this effort on behalf of immigrant families in California and throughout the country."

"It is unacceptable for the Trump Administration to knowingly install a known white nationalist and believer of white supremacist ideology in a position of power and influence over federal policy. Stephen Miller's presence in the Trump White House has allowed him to sow hate into federal policy, grind our immigration system to a halt, and encourage the President's own xenophobic beliefs," said Congressman Castro. "Americans, and in particular the Latino community, will never forget it was President Trump and Stephen Miller's hateful rhetoric that helped inspire the deadly attack in El Paso where 22 individuals were killed for being Latino. When we see the families suffering at the border or being torn apart by ICE raids, we can look to Stephen Miller as the main architect of the Administration's cruel anti-immigrant policies. He must be removed from the White House immediately to stop further damage to our country and our communities."

"From racist policies at the border to coddling white supremacists, this administration has stoked division and pitted our people against each other. Stephen Miller's record is one of hatred and cruelty. He has no place in the White House," said Senator Wyden.

"White nationalism has no place in the White House -- period," said Senator Blumenthal.

In the Senate the resolution was cosponsored by Senators Ed Markey (D-MA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN).

In the House the resolution was cosponsored by Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chair Judy Chu (CA-27), Congressional Black Caucus Chair Karen Bass (CA-37), Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Congressman Don Beyer (VA-8), and Congressman Brad Schneider (IL-10).