Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, when the Framers wrote the Constitution,  they didn't think someone like me would serve as a U.S. Senator, but  they did envision someone like Donald Trump being President of the  United States, someone who thinks he is above the law and that rules  don't apply to him. So they made sure our democracy had the tool of  impeachment to stop that kind of abuse of power. 

  The House managers have clearly laid out a compelling case and  evidence of Donald Trump's misconduct. They have shown that the  President of the United States of America withheld military aid and a  coveted White House meeting for his political gain. He wanted a foreign  country to announce--not actually conduct, announce--an investigation  into his political rivals. Then he refused to comply with congressional  investigations into his misconduct. Unfortunately, a majority of U.S.  Senators, even those who concede that what Donald Trump did was wrong,  are nonetheless going to refuse to hold him accountable. 

  The Senate trial of Donald Trump has been a miscarriage of justice.  Donald Trump is going to get away with abusing his position of power  for personal gain, abusing his position of power to stop Congress from  looking into his misconduct and falsely claim he has been exonerated.  He is going to escape accountability because a majority of Senators  have decided to let him. They voted repeatedly to block key evidence  like witnesses and documents that could have shed light on the full  truth. 

  We must recognize that still in America there are two systems of  justice--one for the powerful and another for everyone else. So let's  speak the truth about what our two systems of justice actually mean in  the real world. It means that in our country too many people walk into  courthouses and face systemic bias. Too often they lack adequate legal  representation, whether they are overworked, underpaid, or both. It  means that a young man named Emmett Till was falsely accused and then  murdered, but his murderer didn't have to spend a day in jail. It means  that four young Black men have their lives taken and turned upside-down  after being falsely accused of a crime in Groveland, FL. It means that,  right now, too many people in America are sitting in jail without  having yet been convicted of a crime but simply because they cannot  afford bail. And it means that future Presidents of the United States  will remember that the U.S. Senate failed to hold Donald Trump  accountable, and they will be emboldened to abuse their power knowing  there will be no consequence. 

  Donald Trump knows all this better than anybody. He may not  acknowledge that we have two systems of justice, but he knows the  institutions in this country, be it the courts or the Senate, are set  up to protect powerful people like him. He told us as much when,  regarding the sexual assault of women, he said, ``When you're a star,  they let you do it. You can do anything.'' He said that article II of  the U.S. Constitution gives him, as President, the right to do whatever  he wants. 

  Trump has shown us through his words and actions that he thinks he is  above the law. And when the American people see the President acting as  though he is above the law, it understandably leaves them feeling  distrustful of our system of justice, distrustful of our democracy.  When the U.S. Senate refuses to hold him accountable, it reinforces  that loss of trust in our system. 

  Now, I am under no illusion that this body is poised to hold this  President accountable, but despite the conduct of the U.S. Senate in  this impeachment trial, the American people must continue to strive  toward the more perfect Union that our Constitution promises. It is  going to take all of us--in every State, every town, everywhere--to  continue fighting for the best of who we  are as a country. We each have an important role to play in fighting  for those words inscribed on the U.S. Supreme Court building: ``Equal  Justice Under Law.'' 

  Frederick Douglass, who I, like many, consider to be one of the  Founders of our Nation, wrote that ``the whole history of the progress  of human liberty shows that all concessions yet made to her august  claims have been born of earnest struggle.'' 

  The impeachment of Donald Trump has been one of those earnest  struggles for liberty, and this fight, like so many before it, has been  a fight against tyranny. This struggle has not been an easy one, and it  has left too many people across our Nation feeling cynical. For too  many people, this trial confirmed something they have always known,  that the real power in this country lies not with them but with just a  few people who advance their own interests at the expense of others'  needs. For many, the injustice in this trial is yet another example of  the way that our system of justice has worked or, more accurately,  failed to work. 

  But here is the thing. Frederick Douglass also told us that ``if  there is no struggle, there is no progress.'' He went on to say:  ``Power concedes nothing without a demand.'' And he said: ``It never  did, and it never will.'' 

  In order to wrestle power away from the few people at the very top  who abuse their power, the American people are going to have to fight  for the voice of the people and the power of the people. We must go  into the darkness to shine a light, and we cannot be deterred and we  cannot be overwhelmed and we cannot ever give up on our country. 

  We cannot ever give up on the ideals that are the foundation for our  system of democracy. We can never give up on the meaning of true  justice. And it is part of our history, our past, clearly, our present,  and our future that, in order to make these values real, in order to  make the promise of our country real, we can never take it for granted. 

  There will be moments in time, in history, where we experience  incredible disappointment, but the greatest disappointment of all will  be if we give up. We cannot ever give up fighting for who we know we  are, and we must always see who we can be, unburdened by who we have  been. That is the strength of our Nation. 

  So, after the Senate votes today, Donald Trump will want the American  people to feel cynical. He will want us not to care. He will want us to  think that he is all powerful and we have no power, but we are not  going to let him get away with that. 

  We are not going to give him what he wants because the true power and  potential of the United States of America resides not with the  President but with the people--all the people. 

  So, in our long struggle for justice, I will do my part by voting to  convict this lawless President and remove him from office, and I urge  my colleagues to join me on the right side of history. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT