Letter to the Hon. Charles P. Rettig, Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service and Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Department of the Treasury - As Americans' Bills Come Due, Harris Demands Treasury Dept. Send Payments ASAP


Dear Commissioner Rettig and Secretary Mnuchin:

On March 27th the "Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act" or the "CARES" Act was signed into law, including a provision to send cash payments of $1,200 to qualifying individuals, $2,400 to qualifying married couples, and an extra $500 for children under 17.

Millions of Americans are struggling to make ends meet.  They deserve immediate guidance on how their federal government will be sending these essential payments.  According to the Department of Labor,   almost 3.3 million Americans filed unemployment claims the week of March 21, 2020, the highest number of initial jobless claims in history. Tomorrow, these Americans and many more whose hours have been reduced, jobs have been furloughed, or who have been laid off, will have rent payments and other bills due that they will have difficulty paying.

Secretary Mnuchin said on Sunday, March 29th, "We expect that within three weeks, that people who have direct deposit information with us will see those direct deposits into their bank accounts." The American people deserve a more precise timeframe for when they should expect their cash payments, including those who do not have direct deposit capabilities. Even before the Coronavirus, people struggled to make ends meet and will now have even more difficult decisions to make to keep themselves and their families safe and healthy. The Administration has a responsibility to provide clear information about when Americans can expect to receive the cash assistance that will be essential to covering their housing, food, and living expenses while staying in their home.

To better understand how and when the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will get these cash payments to households across the country, I ask you to provide answers to the following questions:

On what date will the direct deposits begin?On what date will physical checks be sent in the mail?When can Americans who do not have direct deposit, or those who are social security recipients, expect a check in the mail?Who is being prioritized when the IRS sends cash payments?Will you be prioritizing low-income individuals and families when deciding when to send direct cash payments to eligible recipients? If so, can you share what that process will entail?Additionally, the Internal Revenue Service must create a process to provide cash assistance to individuals who did not qualify for cash payments based on their most recent tax filing, but will qualify for payments based on their current 2020 income due to the adverse impact of the pandemic, including being laid off and/or reduced hours. These individuals should be able to receive their much needed payments now as opposed to waiting until they file their tax return in spring of 2021.

We must do everything we can to offer transparency and stability to the American people during this time, which is why I ask the Administration to take into account the financial stresses people across America are experiencing during this time and make every effort to expedite payments.

I request a response to this letter no later than Friday, April 3rd. Thank you for your consideration and prompt attention to this important matter. I look forward to working with you on this issue in the near future.

Sincerely,