Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 35


  To suggest that anything short of pulverizing someone so much that  the casket would otherwise be closed except for the heroism and courage  of Emmett Till's mother, to suggest that lynching would only be a  lynching if someone's heart were pulled out and produced and displayed  to someone else is ridiculous--and on this day, the day of George  Floyd's funeral and a day that should be a day of national mourning. 

  In 2018, the Senate unanimously passed bipartisan antilynching  legislation, which I proudly introduced with the only other Black  Members of this body--Senator Cory Booker and Senator Tim Scott. It was  a historic moment. It marked the first time in the history of our  country that Federal antilynching legislation had been passed by the  U.S. Senate. It passed again by unanimous consent in 2019. 

  Senator Paul is now trying to weaken a bill that was already passed.  There is no reason for this. Senator Paul's amendment would place a  greater burden on victims of lynching than is currently required under  Federal hate crimes laws. There is no reason for this. There is no  reason other than its being cruel and deliberate obstruction on a day  of mourning. 

  On this very day, at this very hour, there is a memorial service to  honor the life of George Floyd, who was murdered on a sidewalk by a  police officer, with a knee on his neck. For 8 minutes 46 seconds,  George Floyd pled for his life, called for his late mother, and said he  could not breathe. The pain experienced not only by that man, that  human being and his family and his children, but the pain of the people  of America witnessing what we have witnessed since the founding of this  country, which is that the Black lives have  not been taken seriously as being fully human and deserving of  dignity--and it should not require a maiming or torture in order for us  to recognize a lynching when we see it and recognize it by Federal law  and call it what it is, which is that it is a crime that should be  punishable with accountability and consequence.  

  So it is remarkable and it is painful to be standing here right now,  especially when people of all races are marching in the streets of  America, outraged by the hate and the violence and the murder that has  been fueled by racism during the span of this country's life. America  is raw right now. Her wound exposed. Raw from the fact that in the  history of our country, Black people have been treated as less than  human. 

  I stood here with Senator Booker when we first proposed this lynching  law, and we talked about the pain and the history of the pain of this  issue in America. The fact is that the country is raw because America  has never fully addressed the historic and systemic racism that has  existed in our country. 

  Our bill, in its current form, is an opportunity--it is an  opportunity for this body to acknowledge the seriousness of this, to  acknowledge that if someone places a noose over someone else's neck,  why would it be required that in addition their heart would be pulled  out or their body pulverized to the point beyond recognition? 

  Our bill is an opportunity to right a wrong and an opportunity for a  reckoning in Federal law. We cannot pretend that lynchings are a thing  of the past. Ahmaud Arbery was a victim of a modern-day lynching. He  was murdered on February 23, 2020, 3 months ago. Today, we learned that  one of the men who killed Mr. Arbery used a racial slur after shooting  him. He should be alive today, and his killers should be brought to  justice. No longer should the crime of lynching go unpunished. No  longer should victims and their families go without justice. 

  In closing, Ida B. Wells once said:  

       Our country's national crime is lynching. It is not the       creature of an hour, the sudden outburst of uncontrolled       fury, or the unspeakable brutality of an insane mob. It       represents the cool, calculating deliberation of intelligent       people who openly avow that there is an ``unwritten law''       that justifies them in putting human beings to death without       complaint under oath, without trial by jury, without       opportunity to make defense, and without right of appeal.  

  Our country has waited too long for a reckoning on this issue of  lynching, and I believe no Senator should stop the full weight of the  law in its capacity to protect these human beings and human life. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT