Vote Explanation


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I  would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 416 the confirmation of  Executive Calendar No. 465, Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to be United  States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted no on rollcall vote No. 417 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 466, Karen Spencer Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United  States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted no on rollcall vote No. 418 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 480, Daniel Mack Traynor, of North Dakota, to be United  States District Judge for the District of North Dakota. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted no on rollcall vote No. 419 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 481, Jodi W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United States  District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma.  

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted no on rollcall vote No. 420 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 490, John M. Gallagher, of Pennsylvania, to be United  States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted no on rollcall vote No. 422 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 354, Mary Kay Vyskocil, of New York, to be United States  District Judge for the Southern District of New York. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted yes on rollcall vote No. 423 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 383, Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New Mexico, to be United States  District Judge for the District of New Mexico. 

  Madam President, I was absent but had I been present, I would have  voted yes on rollcall vote No. 424 the confirmation of Executive  Calendar No. 234, Robert J. Colville, of Pennsylvania, to be United  States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT