Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


Mr. Speaker, over the last hours we heard arguments from the other  side of the aisle that the United States must prioritize innovation.  The Republican crypto bills we considered will create giant loopholes  in our Federal financial laws that put consumers and investors at risk  in the name of innovation.

These bills would increase the chance of another costly financial  crisis like the one in 2008 that led to trillions of dollars of wealth  being wiped out in the name of innovation.

It comes as a surprise to me that the last bill we will debate would  block any research, pilots, or consideration about how to digitize the  U.S. dollar, it is the reason that I call H.R. 1919 the anti-innovation  act.

We have been discussing a lot about cryptocurrency. We have talked  about two different acts, which are the CLARITY Act and the GENIUS Act.  We have talked about a lot of intricacies of crypto. The general public  does not understand all of this because the big  issuers, the big boys, literally kind of own all of the information.  They are the issuers, et cetera, et cetera.

It is time for the United States Government to take charge, and our  central bank must be involved in the study and the research so that we  don't have issuers with crypto or anything else without the Federal  Government knowing about it and being in control.

H.R. 1919 would immediately halt and prohibit the United States from  any research and exploration of the benefits of a central bank digital  currency, or CBDC. A central bank digital currency is essentially a  digital version of the dollar, issued by the Federal Government, that  uses crypto technology known as blockchain to record everything and  everybody who owns tokens. Open it up. Let us know who the big issuers  are.

There are two types of CBDCs, and this bill bans both of them. A  retail CBDC is made available directly to consumers from the Federal  Reserve, from a bank, or other Federal institutions. A wholesale CBDC  is not available to the public but only to the banks and other  financial institutions. This bill would ban both of these kinds of  CBDCs.

Mr. Speaker, when Republicans raise concerns about CBDCs, they are  talking about retail CBDCs, but because they are so averse to knowledge  and averse to studying things, they have no idea that their bill blocks  research into other forms of digitizing the dollar that would truly cut  costs for people.

For example, J.P. Morgan Chase has estimated that $100 billion could  be saved in cross-border transactions every year if a wholesale CBDC is  adopted. Earlier this week in the Rules Committee, we heard Republicans  claim that we need to weaken oversight of private crypto because doing  so will help cross-border payments.

I ask my colleagues across the aisle: Why should we abandon any  research into making the greenback ready for the future? If this bill  passes, the United States would be the only country in the world to ban  any research in the world on CBDC. What are my colleagues afraid of?  Why do they not want the knowledge explained?

Mr. Speaker, 137 countries are racing ahead. Some are studying, and  others are issuing their own CBDC. The foreign currency markets are  evolving, but Republicans want to stick their heads in the stand. Those  137 countries and currency unions represent 98 percent of the global  GDP, and China is one of the frontrunners in the global race to  implement a viable CBDC.

Do my friends across the aisle know why China is quickly rolling out  its digital currency? It desperately wants to create an alternative to  the U.S. dollar to determine the dominance of our currency.

Mr. Speaker, America reaps great riches because our currency, the  dollar, is the premium currency used around the world for all sorts of  trade. It is used from sales of oil to commodities to financial  contracts.

One of those benefits is that when we take out a loan to buy a car or  use our credit cards, our interest rates are much lower than in other  countries. Another benefit is that the United States can pressure bad  actors from Iran to Russia to China by cutting off access to our  financial system and the dollar using sanctions.

Those same countries would love to replace the dollar with their  currency or something else. One way China hopes to do this is to show  that the dollar is an antiquated currency, whereas the Chinese currency  is the future.

It is so shortsighted to not even study how the dollar could be  digitized, especially during the same week that Republicans want to let  private companies create their own currency.

It is very important for all of us to understand that if we want to  be innovative and if we want innovation, we will study and we will  understand so we then will be able to explain. If we really want to  protect the American dollar, we will not put our heads in the sand. We  will allow this research to go on to make sure that the American dollar  stays strong even in digital.

Ms. WATERS.   He knows more about digital assets than anybody on the opposite side of  the aisle.

Ms. WATERS.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats are not the only ones who want to study CBDC.  In 2021, my dear friend, Chairman Hill, worked with Representative  Foster to introduce the Central Bank Digital Currency Study Act.

Chairman Hill also wrote a letter to the Fed asking for information.  After the Fed agreed to do a study, he issued a statement saying:

The Fed is finally taking actionable steps to do what we       have been asking them to do       for 2 years, and we are pleased to see Chairman Powell       announce steps toward making a digital dollar a reality.

I ask the gentleman: What changed?

We need more research. We need to learn more, so we need to vote  ``no'' on this bill. It goes in the opposite direction from what the  gentleman wants and has been asking for.

Finally, we have a chance to vote, and certainly I am asking for a  ``no'' vote, and I hope that the gentleman would, too.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, yet, again, my colleague confuses retail and  wholesale CBDC. Banning wholesale CBDC is nonsensical. It has nothing  to do with surveillance and everything to do with modernizing how  American financial institutions and our central bank engage in  intrabank cross-border transactions.

This suggestion of Big Brother and monitoring is just a fabrication,  a bogeyman. We must support financial innovation and not hide from the  future.

Earlier my colleagues praised our wonderful private sector, and we  know now my friends do not like studies, but I would encourage them to  read the study from our biggest bank, JPMorgan Chase, explaining how  CBDC's can save $120 billion in cross-border payments. Please read the  study. Even if you don't like studies, read it anyway.

Mr. Speaker, the bottom line is that we fall further and further  behind the global economic stage with congressional Republicans'  policies. We are already seeing inflation rise on consumer  goods as Trump's tariffs take place. Now, Republicans want to raise the  cost of auto loans, credit card fees, and mortgages for Americans by  forcing the dollar to become a relic of the past. That is why I will  vote ``no.''

Further, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Himes made a great argument and a great  point about ignorance. He believes that this is an ignorant bill, and  it just does not speak well for the Members of Congress not wanting to  do research and study to determine what is in the best interest of the  dollar and our country.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.