Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism


Mr. Speaker, I wish we were here on the House floor this morning  debating solutions that would reduce grocery bills, lower housing  costs, end Trump's tariffs that are strangling American small  businesses and manufacturers, solve the Republican healthcare crisis,  or any legislation that allows Americans to afford to live through the  catastrophic economic policies of Trump and the Republicans.

Mr. Speaker, instead of doing the work that our constituents  desperately want us to do, Republicans in the House have chosen once  again to advance a resolution under the guise of denouncing  ``socialism.''

Let me be clear. This resolution is an embarrassing distraction from  the complete and total failure of the Trump administration to deliver  actual results for the American people, and the American people see  right through it. Sixty-one percent of Americans say that Trump's  policies have worsened economic conditions in this country, and 64  percent of Americans say Trump's policies are raising the prices of  food and groceries.

What is worse is that this very resolution goes further by using the  specter of socialism to undermine some of the most important government  programs in our country like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and  ObamaCare. These are programs that help everyday Americans put food on  their plate and care for their children.

Republicans absurdly think they can convince Americans these programs  that are decades old are leading America toward a Stalinist Russia,  even though it is blatantly obvious that the policies of Donald Trump  are straight out of a dictator's playbook.

Mr. Speaker, the House returned this week from the Trump-Republican  shutdown, the longest government shutdown in American history. While  House Republicans gave themselves a paid, 2-month vacation, hundreds of  thousands of Federal employees were left wondering how they were going  to pay their rent or mortgage, and 42 million Americans nearly lost  their food assistance.

What was the Trump administration doing? Instead of working with  Congress to end the shutdown or with local communities to blunt the  impacts of the shutdown, it decided to use the full force of the United  States Government to make sure these American families  went hungry and fought twice in the Supreme Court to block legally  available funds from being used to help feed them. It further chipped  away at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and fired an entire  office dedicated to helping rural and struggling communities, the  Community Development Financial Institutions fund. All of this because  Republicans want to raise the cost for people with ObamaCare health  insurance.

Twenty-two million Americans will see their monthly health insurance  premiums double, and up to 5 million Americans will likely lose their  insurance altogether.

Where is the Republican plan? Where is the plan? Where is the plan to  deal with all of this? They don't have one because they think keeping  healthcare costs low is socialist.

If Republicans truly cared about denouncing authoritarian socialism,  they would start with the Trump administration. In less than 1 year,  the Trump administration has demanded U.S. companies like Intel, U.S.  Steel, MP Materials, Lithium Americas, and Trilogy Metals to hand over  stock to the U.S. Government. These are capitalist companies who are  doing business that they claim this government supports. Trump is also  considering forcing Lockheed Martin to do the same.

Why are my colleagues, who are so quick to tout their capitalist  leans, silent when Trump follows China's communist tactics? The double  standard is astounding.

This resolution also seeks to condemn atrocities committed by  despotic regimes such as Joseph Stalin and Mao Zedong, which everyone  in this Chamber agrees should be condemned.

Somehow, once again, this resolution fails to condemn some of our  history's most terrible dictators, like Adolph Hitler and modern-day  dictators like Vladimir Putin, who is responsible for killing countless  people in Ukraine, or President Xi who basically runs actual  concentration camps for ethnic minorities.

Why aren't House Republicans denouncing these dictators when we, as  Congress, can actually do something to stop it? It is probably because  President Trump has said he thinks Putin has done ``a great job,'' and  is ``a genius,'' or maybe because he thinks President Xi ``is really a  friend of mine.''

In line with these other authoritarian regimes, just this week, Trump  said Democrats in the House and Senate had committed ``seditious  behavior, punishable by death'' and reposted a post saying: ``hang  them.''

We should be working as Congress to denounce these horrific words,  not beloved government programs like Medicare and Medicaid.

Just as those authoritarian regimes are often rife with corruption,  the Trump family is also doing everything possible to enrich itself.  Since taking office, they have issued their own stablecoins and meme  coins and various crypto products, even as Congress was in the middle  of considering legislation and regulators were drafting rules. In fact,  the Trump family is more than $1 billion richer from crypto alone since  Trump took office, and Trump's billionaire buddies have also made  fistfuls of money as the rest of America struggles just to put food on  the table.

The excess is so great that Trump is literally tearing down the White  House to build a golden ballroom. He is sending $40 billion to bail out  Argentina and his billionaire buddies and has even hosted Great Gatsby- themed parties at Mar-a-Lago.

This resolution is a huge waste of time and does absolutely nothing  to lower costs or solve any of the problems that our country faces.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this resolution.  If they keep it up, I am going to name all of the Republicans who took  PPP money. Is that socialism? I am going to name them who are taking  advantage of other programs that they call socialist. I am going do it  if they keep this up.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, for those who are expecting their Social  Security checks this month, turn them down if you think that is  socialism.

Ms. WATERS.

Mr. Speaker, House Republicans just passed a resolution that gives  Senators the right to sue their own government for up to $500,000.  Trump is suing the government also. The President of the United States,  who controls the Department of Justice, is suing the Department of  Justice. He wants to personally get $230 million because he didn't like  being investigated, and he wants to get revenge on his enemies. Give me  a break.

I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer).

Listen, instead of debating this pointless resolution, Congress  should be focused on how we can reverse the catastrophic economic  policies of the Trump administration that have raised costs for  everyone.

It is estimated that the illegal disastrous tariffs Trump has imposed  will amount to an average tax increase of $1,200 in 2025 and $1,600 in  2026 per household and represent the largest U.S. tax increase as a  percent of GDP since 1993.

Mr. Speaker, not only are Trump's policies raising prices for  everyone, they are killing American jobs. Although he campaigned on  bringing back manufacturing to the United States, President Trump's  tariff policies have killed 42,000 manufacturing jobs.

Since the beginning of this year, U.S. employers have eliminated  nearly 1.1 million jobs. This past October saw the highest number of  layoffs for any October since 2003.

Additionally, during the Trump Republican shutdown, Trump fired an  entire office at the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund  that was dedicated to helping rural and struggling communities.

Instead of debating this useless resolution, we should be working to  reverse the Trump administration's reckless economic policies that are  hurting the American people.

Does anyone want to know why Republicans are so scared of the mayor  of New York? It is because he wants to lower grocery bills,  transportation costs, and housing costs. Republicans know that Trump's  policies are the reason costs are so high.

Mr. Speaker, the evidence and the facts are right before us about  what is happening with this economy. The President of the United States  refuses to accept the facts, and he keeps supporting these tariffs. He  does not understand how it all works.

We are in danger of him because they and him--the President and the  Republican Party--simply want to be in control. They love power. The  President loves Putin. The President likes Kim Jong Un. He likes having  a parade with  all of the military to show he is in control. He comes up with policies  that give him more power and more control, and he is ignoring the harm  that he is doing to this country.

Mr. Speaker, I say to all the Members: It is not only about the harm  that is coming to urban communities. Those rural communities that are  losing their hospitals, that don't have healthcare, and have hungry  families who have voted for him are now understanding and are  demonstrating that it has been buyer's remorse. When the next election  comes, we are going to see what happens.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman said something about what was happening in  New York with the mayor, and he mentioned government-owned grocery  stores. First of all, my colleague won't admit that groceries are too  high and that families cannot afford the cost of eggs and basic good  foods to have great nutrition for their families.

By the way, let me remind my colleagues of something. My then-husband  was stationed at Camp Carson in Colorado. Mr. Speaker, guess where we  got our food? We got our food from government-owned commissaries. They  had the best prices, and we had great nutrition. They absolutely  supported the families. Who ran them? They were run by the government.

I would love the idea of seeing what we can do to reduce the cost of  groceries. We already have them in the commissaries. They have price  control, and they are heavily subsidized.

Let me ask the question: Does this mean we should eliminate them  because that is socialism or because the commissaries provide food that  is affordable at the bases all over America and the world?

Are the fire departments, police departments, schools, and hospitals  socialism? I raise the question.

Instead of my colleagues taking this time to talk about how we were  the cause of the shutdown, when my colleagues know they were, don't  deflect it. Come on. Let's talk about socialism. Let's talk about the  commissaries. Let's talk about our Social Security. Let's talk about  the PPP program and how some of my colleagues got money from their  government to put into their businesses.

Let's talk about socialism. My colleagues on the other side of the  aisle are trying to deflect from what is wrong with this administration  and what is wrong with the economic policies of this administration.  Let's talk about it.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, as I am challenging my Republicans on the  opposite side of the aisle, let's talk about socialism. Let's not try  to deflect from what you know and understand that you want to hide.

Before I go into much more, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Maryland (Mr. Raskin), who is the ranking member of the Judiciary  Committee, to tell them what socialism is really all about.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I would just like to say that the  Republicans are confusing socialism with despotism or authoritarianism.

Again, Republicans are confusing socialism with despotism or  authoritarianism. Despots try to control the press, education, and the  system of justice. Despots send the military against their own  citizens. Despots try to control the economy. Despots arrest their own  citizens, including children, in the middle of the night.

Let me just say that the young lady talked about working hard, and  socialism, you know, robs families of what they have worked hard for  and what they have earned. Well, I want to ask you: What is this  administration doing when it takes a 10 percent equity stake in Intel,  15 percent equity stake in MP Materials, a 10 percent equity stake in  Lithium America, a 10 percent equity stake in Trilogy Metals, and a  ``golden share'' in U.S. Steel Corporation? What is that?

Now, the Republicans have tried to confuse you on what socialism is  and even called it communism-lite. That is an absolute distraction from  what we are discussing here today.

Communism is communism. Socialism is socialism. This is a government  run by someone who is not taking into consideration the facts and the  harm and the threat that they are doing to education, the attempt to  take over law firms, the attempt to tell some of the finest  universities in this country what they can teach and what they cannot  teach, and I repeat, giving away our money to a country, $40 billion,  at a time when that money is so desperately needed in this government.

We can talk about this all day, but, absolutely, you are looking  silly when  you are trying to talk about communism-lite or you are trying to  describe socialism when you don't know what it is.

So I am saying that I denounce this administration, Trump's family,  and all that is going on that is undermining our democracy.

We are about a democracy that must be protected, that must be fought  for. We on this side of the aisle are fighting every day to make sure  there is justice and there is equality and that our government is not  undermining democracy and calling it socialism, calling it communism,  calling it whatever you think you can use to deflect from what is going  on.

We are in a terrible time in this government with a President of the  United States and a family who is enriching themselves on our backs.

Yes, I fought hard to keep the President of the United States, the  Cabinet, and the Members of Congress from owning cryptocurrency, but  unfortunately, they are enriching themselves every day. I think the  President has enriched himself by maybe $1 trillion already in the  limited time that he has been the President of the United States.

So don't come here talking about the dangers of socialism. You better  come here and talk about what you are going to do to strengthen our  democracy, how you are going to make sure that we have an education  system for all the children, rather than an education system that is  being torn apart by the President of the United States. Let's talk  about how people are sleeping on the street, homeless, when we are  cutting Section 8 programs in housing.

We can go on about this all day. I will reserve the balance of my  time so I can rest a bit. Let them say what they want to say, so I can  come back and tell them what they need to hear.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to take the words down.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to take down her words.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Salazar for withdrawing her words, and let's  get on with this discussion about socialism.

Instead of legislating and doing the work to tackle real problems-- Americans face the skyrocketing cost of groceries, rising rents, and  mortgage payments.

Republicans have always opposed Medicaid and Medicare. They have been  undermining it since day one, and they do not want to fix the  catastrophic economic policies of this administration.

Mr. Speaker, I want you to know that this administration is  responsible for the situation that we find ourselves in with this  failing economy. The Trump administration must take the credit for what  is happening with the loss of food for our children, for a limited  period of time, before we fought to get it back.

Mr. Speaker, I haven't finished, but I vote ``no,'' and I want you to  vote ``no'' because this is absolutely unnecessary.

Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 285,  nays 98, answered ``present'' 2, not voting 47, as follows:                               [Roll No. 305]                                 YEAS--285       Aderholt      Aguilar      Alford      Allen      Amo      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Auchincloss      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bera      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Bishop      Boebert      Boyle (PA)      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Budzinski      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carbajal      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Case      Castor (FL)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Ciscomani      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Cline      Cloud      Clyburn      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Craig      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Crow      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      De La Cruz      Deluzio      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Figures      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foster      Foxx      Frankel, Lois      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gonzalez, V.      Gooden      Goodlander      Gosar      Gottheimer      Graves      Gray      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Harder (CA)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Himes      Hinson      Horsford      Houlahan      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Jeffries      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Johnson (TX)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kaptur      Kean      Keating      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Landsman      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Lee (NV)      Letlow      Levin      Lieu      Loudermilk      Luttrell      Lynch      Mackenzie      Magaziner      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Mannion      Mast      McBath      McClain      McClain Delaney      McClintock      McCormick      McDonald Rivet      McDowell      McGuire      Meeks      Meng      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norcross      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Panetta      Pappas      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Peters      Pettersen      Pfluger      Pou      Reschenthaler      Riley (NY)      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Ruiz      Ryan      Salazar      Salinas      Scalise      Schmidt      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Simpson      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Sorensen      Soto      Stanton      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Stevens      Strickland      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Sykes      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Titus      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Vasquez      Vindman      Wagner      Walberg      Walkinshaw      Wasserman Schultz      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Whitesides      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (FL)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Yakym      Zinke                                  NAYS--98       Adams      Ansari      Balint      Barragan      Beyer      Bonamici      Brown      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casten      Castro (TX)      Chu      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Cohen      Courtney      Crockett      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fletcher      Foushee      Friedman      Frost      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Goldman (NY)      Green, Al (TX)      Grijalva      Hayes      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Johnson (GA)      Kamlager-Dove      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Larson (CT)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Matsui      McClellan      McCollum      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Menendez      Min      Moore (WI)      Mullin      Neal      Neguse      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Pelosi      Pocan      Pressley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Rivas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Subramanyam      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Waters      Watson Coleman      Williams (GA)                          ANSWERED ``PRESENT''--2       Bynum      Ross                                       NOT VOTING--47       Barr      Beatty      Bell      Bost      Brownley      Buchanan      Casar      Davids (KS)      DelBene      Dingell      Feenstra      Fields      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Gimenez      Gomez      Houchin      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Larsen (WA)      Latimer      Liccardo      Lofgren      Lucas      Luna      Mace      Massie      McBride      McCaul      Mfume      Nadler      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Pingree      Quigley      Rulli      Rutherford      Shreve      Smith (MO)      Spartz      Stansbury      Swalwell      Torres (CA)      Van Orden      Veasey      Velazquez      Womack

Mr. HOYER changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

So the concurrent resolution was agreed to.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Stated for: