Equal Opportunity for All Investors Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, in both this Congress and last, I have been particularly  outspoken about the risks of retail investors investing in private  securities. Amongst other things, private securities lack sufficient  transparency, have longer lock-up periods, and are much more volatile  and less liquid than their public counterparts. It is critical that  anyone who invests in these risky assets have sufficient knowledge of  those risks.

Currently, companies, or the brokers they hire, can only solicit  these ``investment opportunities'' to individuals who have been deemed  to be accredited investors. This definition is currently based on a  person's income and net worth, meaning only those making a certain  amount of money or possessing a big enough bank account have access to  them. Anyone can tell you that just because you have a lot of money,  that doesn't make you knowledgeable about the markets. Knowledge is the  key here, and the definition needs to be revised to center around this  core concept of knowledge and expertise.

The committee has heard from investors who want to invest their own  money in some of these risky and illiquid investments and don't want to  be barred from investing just because they don't meet the wealth or  income tests.

The Equal Opportunity for All Investors Act addresses this problem by  allowing an individual to qualify as an accredited investor if they  pass an exam that ensures they are properly versed in the risks of  investing in the private markets.

With this change, ordinary investors who want to invest in private  securities can now do so, assuming they pass the test, which would  establish that they are keenly aware of the specific pitfalls related  to high-risk and illiquid securities, as well as the conflicts of  interest presented when financial professionals try to sell them these  products.

Last year, committee Democrats worked with Former Chairman McHenry  and my colleague Mr. Flood to ensure that this test contained specific,  robust elements, elements that the Republican witnesses at previous  Financial Services hearings talked about when discussing how they teach  and mentor their budding investors.

I am so glad that the Financial Services Committee agreed to make the  test available free of charge to anyone who is willing and able to go  through the rigor.

Finally, I thank Mr. Flood, my colleague from across the aisle, for  working with the committee Democrats on a bill that ensures that the  SEC is appropriately overseeing this exam process.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS.  McBride.)

Compared to investing in publicly traded securities, private  securities contain lots of risks. They are less liquid, harder to  value, and are more volatile than their public counterparts. It is,  therefore, essential that anyone investing in these products fully  understand the risks involved, just as prospective drivers must pass a  written test displaying they understand the rules and dangers of the  road before they are given access to a car.

This bill puts that commonsense principle into practice by creating  an SEC-administered test investors can take if they want to invest in  private securities.

In doing so, we adequately balance investor protection while  providing folks with sufficient freedom to do what they please with  their hard-earned dollars. I urge my colleagues to support this bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.