For America's 250th Act


Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to speak on H.R. 5616, the $2.50 for America's  250th Act, sponsored by the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Aderholt).

This legislation directs the Treasury Secretary to mint and issue a  $2.50 collectible coin to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the  signing of the Declaration of Independence later this year.

Under this bill, the Treasury would also conduct a study to evaluate  minting and issuing a separate $2.50 coin for wide circulation in the  United States.

For starters, I am glad this legislation now considers the cost- effectiveness of a potential $2.50 circulating coin. This is important,  especially as President Trump's abrupt decision to stop production of  the penny last year, without any meaningful plan, created problems that  retailers, banks, and consumers are still dealing with today. This is  the mess we are now forced to clean up.

Additionally, to be clear, I was deeply concerned by the language in  the introduced version of this legislation, which may have been  interpreted by the Treasury Secretary to allow him to select a new  design for a $2.50 coin.

We are already witnessing how Secretary Bessent has exploited  loopholes and ignored existing laws, resulting in the Treasury minting  a $1 coin bearing Trump's image. The Treasury's decision to put Donald  Trump's face, a living President, on our currency is illegal and  reminiscent of a monarchy, which 250 years ago our country firmly  rejected. I was happy to see that this bill makes it explicit that  Trump's face cannot be on this collectible coin.

Furthermore, as we speak of the ideals of the Declaration of  Independence, we would be horribly remiss not to recognize the violence  taking place in this country.

Since taking office, the Trump administration has established a  legacy of violence and cruelty. Trump's administration has empowered  and unleashed brutal attacks against Latino, Black, and countless other  communities. They have locked up children and killed innocent people  without fear of consequences, and they celebrate this cruelty and  unapologetically mock the victims.

Therefore, as we attempt to commemorate the founding principles of  this country, we must not turn a blind eye to the very real destruction  that is taking place right here, right now.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from  New Jersey (Mrs. Watson Coleman), who has put a lot of work into this  as she serves as the co-chair of the America 250 Caucus and serves on  the Semiquincentennial Commission.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Madam Speaker, I thank Representative Waters  from the great State of California for yielding.

Let me just say, I enjoyed working on this endeavor with my colleague  across the aisle, Mr. Aderholt. It has been a pleasure.

Madam Speaker, in 1776, the Declaration of Independence put into  writing a set of ideals that reshaped this Nation and influenced the  world.

Every major anniversary since has given Americans a chance to reflect  on those principles and what they require of us. The $2.50 for  America's 250th Act continues a long tradition of commemorating our  Nation's milestones through coinage.

This bill authorizes the Treasury to issue a circulating and  collectible $2.50 coin, modeled on the design first issued for  America's 150 anniversary.

That earlier coin connected Americans to their shared history through  something tangible and accessible to all. This legislation does the  very same as we prepare for the semiquincentennial.

As a cofounder and co-chair of the America 250 Caucus and a member of  the America 250 Commission, I am so grateful for the partnership with  Representative Aderholt and my House colleagues on a bipartisan basis  as we prepare the Nation's celebration of America's 250 birthday, which  I pray is bicameral, bipartisan, and able to be enjoyed by all the  people in this country.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation gives us an opportunity to celebrate  the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence and the ideals  and founding principles of our country, like the rule of law and  separation of powers. Individual freedom, dignity, and equality are  being ruthlessly undermined today by this administration.

Mr. Speaker, I hope this Chamber's commitment to America's founding  principles is not merely symbolic, somewhat like the coin, but will be  represented in our commitment to protect these principles and exercise  our responsibilities to democracy in the Constitution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I thank  Mrs. Watson Coleman for all of the work that she has put in on  America250 Caucus.