Appropriations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693852/appropriations


Mr. SCHUMER. This week, the Senate is expected to take up the first  set of appropriation bills for fiscal year 2026.

On the substance, a number of the bills negotiated in committee make  significant reversals of DOGE's horrible cuts. Of particular importance  are the reversals these bills make to DOGE's cuts to veterans programs,  which were so vicious and so mean and hurt so many veterans. And it  also makes reversals on other important Democratic priorities.

We will see how Republican leaders plan to move forward with these  bills and other bipartisan bills on the floor.

Yet, yesterday, the Republican leader gave an interview where he said  he would like to see more bipartisanship when it comes to  appropriations. He said, rightly, that it takes cooperation from both  sides to move things through the Senate, in the appropriations bills.

But, frankly, the Republican leader is talking a bit out of both  sides of his mouth. On the one hand, he talks about bipartisanship and  wanting to see both parties come up with an appropriations process. On  the other, he is putting on the floor rescission packages with cuts  demanded by Donald Trump and Russell Vought that retract many of the  bipartisan agreements, with the promise by Russell Vought of more to  come.

When Donald Trump and Russell Vought insist on rescissions, and an  obedient Republican Congress goes along--even though many of them know  how wrong it is--it makes the spending process totally partisan.

The leader's words and his actions are a complete contradiction. He  can't have it both ways.

Again, not 1 week ago, Republicans jammed a rescissions package  through this Chamber, axing billions in bipartisan funding to public  broadcasting and foreign aid, purely on a party-line vote. Less than a  day later, Russell Vought comes out and says the appropriations process  should be ``less bipartisan.''

Frankly, I don't want to hear Republicans grouse about Democrats if  they are going to give people like Russell Vought a free pass to trash  the good work that takes place in this Chamber.

And now, of course, there are reports that Donald Trump and Russell  Vought want Congress to agree on another rescissions package in the  near future.

Then, there is Donald Trump's ``Big Ugly Betrayal''--a purely party- line vote, a partisan giveaway to billionaires and special interests-- paid for with the biggest cuts to healthcare, food funding, and good- paying energy jobs we have seen in our lifetimes.

Leader Thune says he wants to see bipartisanship. That is all well  and good. But Leader Thune can't have it both ways. If Leader Thune  wants to talk about bipartisanship, he should focus on keeping his side  of the street clean first, because Donald Trump and Russell Vought have  made clear they want to continue launching partisan broadsides that  will inflict deep harm on the American people, raising costs,  unleashing chaos, inviting even deeper corruption across the Federal  Government.