Budget


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693882/budget


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, today, we got the news that the  Congressional Budget Office, the CBO, confirms Donald Trump's ``Big  Ugly Betrayal'' is going to kick at least 10 million Americans off  their health insurance and spike our national debt by another $3.4  trillion. In truth, the number of people who will lose health insurance  could be much higher--as many as 16 million when you account for the  cuts to ACA and other forms of insurance.

This finalized, independent analysis from the CBO confirms it:  Republicans' signature bill is the ultimate--the ultimate--betrayal of  the American people. It betrays every single family who will lose  health insurance. It betrays our financial future. It is betraying our  children and grandchildren, who will pay for these billionaire tax  breaks as the debt rises and rises. It betrays every family worried  about paying for groceries, the mortgage, the rent, prescription drugs.  All are going up because of Donald Trump and his administration. Every  price is going up. It betrays every rural community from the benefits  of good-paying energy jobs. Republicans' supposed signature bill  betrays everyone outside of the billionaire class and the special  interests.

Now, Republicans are going to spin the mother of all propaganda jobs  to sell this ugly bill to the American people. But today's report  reminds us of something: Facts are stubborn, and the facts are clear.  The ``Big Ugly Betrayal'' is a loser for the country and a loser for  the Republicans.

The Republicans can yak, yak, yak when they go back home. But when  people lose their jobs, when people's bills go up, when they are paying  more, when they are losing their health insurance, that is reality; and  no amount of propaganda, no amount of going home and telling people how  great this is will undo the actual damage that will be done to the  American people. And we know--we know--that they will realize the  Republicans have betrayed them.