Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699088/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, launching a criminal investigation to  coerce the Federal Reserve is a dangerous crossing of the Rubicon--even  for Donald Trump, who has crossed many Rubicons already, to his  detriment and to the country's detriment.

America's economic stability depends on impartial, stable monetary  policy. Our central bank must always operate free of coercion, free of  intimidation, and free from short-term political calculation. But what  Donald Trump is doing is the MAGA-fication of monetary policy--one of  the last places we should have any kind of MAGA influence.

Anyone with two eyes and half a brain can see what this probe is--a  brazen attempt to cannibalize the Fed's influence. It is monetary mob- boss thuggery.

If you are an American worried about costs--housing costs, car loan  costs, any interest rate costs--what Donald Trump is doing should alarm  you. If you are worried about bringing your mortgage rate down if you  have a variable-rate mortgage, if you want to keep the mortgage down,  if you are a new home buyer and want a lower mortgage, Donald Trump's  assault on the Fed should alarm you because when there is chaos in the  Fed, interest rates go up.

The banks and financial institutions, when they say ``chaos,'' they  grab on tightly and say ``We better not lower anything. We better keep  things high because we are not exactly sure what is going to happen''  because when there is chaos in the Fed, there is chaos across the  economy, and rates go up.

That is what financial institutions do in times of uncertainty. They  rachet rates up to avoid a pitfall of some kind of downward decline  that chaos often brings. It becomes more expensive for people to  borrow. It makes it harder to own a home. It makes it harder to build  more homes. It raises car payments and credit card payments. It raises  the price of almost anything.

So if Donald Trump is serious about bringing costs down, about  fighting inflation, about showing the American people he cares about  them, the last thing he needs to be doing is launching criminal  investigations against members of the Federal Reserve Board. Congress  should not--cannot--be silent in the face of such naked political  attacks.

Now Republicans are whispering in the hallways to one another that  they are troubled about what the DOJ is doing against the Federal  Reserve, but actions speak louder than words. It is not enough for  Republicans to whisper their worry; Senate Republicans should act like  they are in the majority and use their oversight powers to bring the  DOJ to heel.

We must bring Department of Justice officials here to the Senate to  testify in committee under oath and answer for their reckless conduct.  We must hold the line against any Federal Reserve nominee from Donald  Trump so long as this dark cloud hangs over the Fed.

If Senate Republicans are truly worried about the Fed's independence,  if they are worried about what chaos at the Fed means for rising  housing costs, rising borrowing costs, rising inflation, then they  ought to conduct some oversight. Otherwise, their concerns are little  more than hot air.                                   Populism

Mr. President, now on Donald Trump's fake populism, yesterday, in  Michigan, Donald Trump once again tried to gaslight the American people  about the affordability crisis in another rambling speech meant to  prove he cares about the struggles of ordinary Americans. He mocked the  word ``affordability'' once again. He called it a fake.

Maybe to Donald Trump, affordability is a fake because he is a  billionaire. He doesn't have to go out and buy the groceries, by a car,  sign up for a healthcare proposal that doesn't meet your family's  needs. Donald Trump doesn't need to do those things; he doesn't have to  worry. But tell that to a teacher, to a truckdriver, to a bartender, to  a nurse, that affordability is fake. Tell it to anyone who actually has  to work for a living. Affordability isn't fake; it is a very real  nightmare. I am sure that last night, probably tens of millions of  families gathered to decide which bills they could afford to pay and  which bills they couldn't for necessities they need.

Like many Presidents before him, Donald Trump is falling into a  classic trap. When times are tough, he ignores reality and tries to  convince people that everything is actually going great. This has never  worked, and it is not going to work now.

A year ago, Donald Trump stormed into office on the promise to lower  costs, to fight for ordinary Americans, to unrig a rigged system. He  ran, in other words, as a populist who promised to drain the swamp and  end inflation.

But Donald Trump is not a populist; he is a posturer. He throws out  these populist ideas to try to persuade people he is on their side, but  he never does anything to get them done. He never lifts a finger or a  phone. And the American people see that he talks a good game but never  does anything to accomplish what he wants to do when it comes to  lowering their costs. And the situation of the American people only  gets worse.

To Donald Trump: Your posturing, your throwing out these ideas that  people like and then doing nothing to actually make them happen, ain't  gonna work, Donald Trump. Your posturing ain't gonna work when it comes  to costs, when it comes to populism. You have to solve the problem.

What is Donald Trump doing now? He is throwing spaghetti at the wall.  He throws a slew of half-baked proposals that are thin on substance-- throws those out--in a desperate attempt to show Americans he cares  about rising costs.

In the last week, he has talked about housing, credit cards, the  price of beef, trade, and done nothing on any of them, and costs keep  rising. The American people don't want a bunch of words that have  nothing of substance behind them. They don't want pandering. They don't  want posturing. They want Donald Trump to take action.

This is exactly Donald Trump's Achilles heel when it comes to costs  and so much else. He talks about a lot of things that may sound nice,  but he never follows through or delivers on any of his promises.  Whether it is costs or Epstein or ending forever wars, the pattern is  the same. Donald Trump talks about credit cards one day, food prices  the next, housing the day after, but never actually follows through on  getting his Republican colleagues to act.

So here is the reality for you, Donald Trump: It is not enough for  you, Donald Trump, to just talk about a bunch of ideas to lower costs.  You need to get your Republican colleagues to actually pass  legislation, much of which we Democrats have stood for, for a long  time.

Otherwise, what Trump is doing is not populism; it is simply  posturing.

Actions speak louder than words. If Donald Trump is serious about  costs, he needs to put in the work to get Republicans to pass  legislation that actually will lower costs for America.                                  Healthcare

Mr. President, finally, on ACA legislation, when it comes to lowering  costs, Americans don't want nice-sounding statements; they want action.

Today, the Senate has a chance to take action to lower the cost of  healthcare. In a few hours, I will come to the floor to seek unanimous  passage of legislation passed by the House last week to extend ACA  premium tax credits for 3 years.

Senate Democrats unanimously supported extending these credits last  year. Some Republicans even joined us. But Leader Thune led the way to  block this legislation, and it ensured that people's premiums are now  skyrocketing.

Well, we have another chance to deliver relief for the American  people, Republicans, by passing the same bill the House approved last  week with bipartisan support. Time is of the essence.

The New York Times reported that nearly 1.5 million Americans already  have lost coverage. Americans are in the middle of a healthcare  emergency, all because the tax credits are not being extended.

The best, quickest, simplest thing Congress can do to lower premiums  is to pass a clean restoration of the credits that expired last year.

So to my Republican colleagues: Do not block this legislation. Do not  get in the way. The American people demand relief, and today, you have  a chance to deliver it.

Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, Americans across the country--they could  be Democrats; they could be Independents; they could be Republicans;  they could live in the north, the south, the east, or the west--agree  on one thing: The cost of healthcare is at crisis levels, and families  are struggling to pay for healthcare, such a necessity for their  families and themselves.

Now, on January 1, as just about everybody knows, the ACA premium tax  credits that lowered premiums for millions of Americans expired because  Republicans chose to let them die. Republicans knew the crisis was  coming; they knew the consequences, and they deliberately blocked  relief from the American people.

Already because of the callous actions of our Republican colleagues,  ACA enrollment has already dropped by nearly a million and a half  people. The average American with an ACA plan has seen their premiums  double, and many have seen them much worse than that. It is outrageous;  it is wrong, and Republicans know it.

There is a demand from one end of the country to the other to undo  the crisis by very simple--there is a very simple way to do it. All  Republicans have to do is join Democrats in voting for legislation that  expands the credits by 3 years. It will be done. It passed the House.  But mark my words, if Republicans don't do it, America will know, and  the political price they pay will be severe.

And so to rectify this injustice, to rectify the fact that families  are deciding whether to even have healthcare or not or to cut back on  something else very important to pay for the increased costs of  healthcare, families are deciding that right now.

Every night, millions of American families are talking about what to  do with these new healthcare bills that have come through, which have  doubled or tripled what they have to pay each month, which will cut  back in so many instances on the kind of healthcare they get--make them  switch hospitals, switch doctors, not afford the prescription drug that  is desperately needed by their child who has cancer.

Every night, Americans are grappling with this horrible problem  because there is nothing more important to a family than the health of  its members; yet Republicans blocked it. But my fellow Americans, the  fight to lower healthcare costs is not over. Today I bring to the floor  a very simple request, that when this Chamber receives the bipartisan  legislation that passed the House last week, providing a simple 3-year  reinstatement of the ACA premium tax credits, that it be immediately  agreed to in the Senate.

The Republican leader of the Senate could put this on the floor, and  it would pass in the blink of an eye. Most Republicans would vote for  it because they know how much the public wants to renew these credits.  So there is no reason under Heaven for us to delay. The House passed  this bill last week by 230 to 196, and 17 Republicans joined Democrats.  That is not a fluke. That is a glaring signal to Republicans that  Americans are demanding relief.

Fifty percent--55 percent of Trump voters want the tax credits  extended, but the Republican Senate is blind, is in a bubble, is not  even understanding the anguish of America about these increased  healthcare costs. And they sit there and come up with one excuse after  the other why they shouldn't do this. The House, fortunately, listened  to the American people and acted, and the Senate should now do the  same.

Leader Thune knows that people back home are suffering. He knows that  he can fix the problem by just putting the bill on the floor because it  will pass. There is a lot to discuss and debate when it comes to fixing  our  healthcare system, but right now, there is an immediate concern.  Premiums are spiking across the country, so the most immediate thing we  can do to lower healthcare costs for the American people is pass a  clean restoration of these credits.

We offered the Republicans the chance during the so-called Big  Beautiful Bill; they rejected it three times unanimously. But they went  home over the summer and the fall and now into the winter and they hear  their constituents clamoring for relief. Open your ears, open your  minds, Republicans, listen to the American people. There is no doubt,  you know it, that the majority of Americans, the overwhelming majority  of Americans, even the majority of Republicans and Trump voters, want  us to do this.

And frankly, to Americans back home, it is not a Democratic or a  Republican issue. The only thing they care about is getting those costs  lower. And they want to know who is going to step up and bring premiums  down. Who is going to lower costs?

Senate Democrats say in one voice to Americans: We hear you. We have  a plan to bring your premiums down. We can pass it through the Senate  today, right now, if only the Republicans get out of the way.

We are going to keep at this. This issue isn't going away. We are  going to fight and fight and fight until we achieve this for the  American people because it is so important. There are other issues  Republicans have out there. Some want to block it because they want to  extend provisions that hurt women on the issue of abortion. Some want  to block it because they want to privatize the system, which would only  make it worse. But it doesn't matter; we can debate all those things  down the road. The opportunity is now, right now, to allow this body to  unanimously pass this much-needed proposal to extend the credits by 3  years.

I urge my Republican colleagues, let this bill pass. Let's give the  American people what they so fiercely and rightfully demand. Most of  all, let's give millions of Americans relief from the sky-high price of  these premiums now that the 3-year extension has expired.

Americans need it. Americans want it. Americans demand it. It is the  only humane and right thing to do. This is another chance for my  colleagues across the aisle to rectify their mistake and help the  American people with an issue that is at the top of the list for them.

1834 as passed by the House on January 8, 2026, that the Senate proceed  to its immediate consideration; that the bill be considered read three  times and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made  and laid upon the table.

Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the need for this resolution is simple.  It is clear. The American people do not support another forever war  with Venezuela. The American people don't want Donald Trump sending our  troops into harm's way without so much as a debate in Congress.

Today, the Senate has a chance to move forward on asserting  Congress's constitutional authority on matters of war and peace. We can  tell Donald Trump: Enough with foreign adventures. It is time to focus  on lowering costs here at home. That is what the American people want.

This resolution is necessary right now because Donald Trump has made  clear that what happened in Venezuela is not a one-and-done operation-- not at all.

Last week, the New York Times asked him: Are we going to be there a  month? 6 months? a year?

Do you know what his answer was? Donald Trump said:

I would say much longer.

He said: We want to give money to Venezuela.

Here we are. People don't have enough money for healthcare, for  housing, for so many other things, and we want to give money to  Venezuela? How is that ``America first?''

Trump threatened further military action if the current government  doesn't cooperate with the United States. The administration is trying  to concoct an argument that we are not engaged in hostilities, but that  is absurd. You don't have to be a great expert on military affairs to  know that  we are heavily engaged. Donald Trump says we are not engaged in  hostilities? Tell that to the 16,000 U.S. servicemembers currently  deployed in the Caribbean. Tell that to our servicemembers on the Ford  Carrier Strike Group. Look at the Marine Expeditionary Unit operating  in the region.

Donald Trump is turning the Caribbean into a dangerous powder keg,  and Congress must rein him in before one mistake ignites a larger, more  unstable conflict.

So the Senate needs to exert its constitutional role when it comes to  the use of military force.

I know that there are Senate Republicans acting in good faith who are  worried about Venezuela getting out of hand. I urge them to reject this  point of order, to provide a necessary backstop, a necessary check, a  necessary guardrail on Executive power. It is the right thing to do for  the American people. That means no more forever wars, no more military  escapades without congressional authorization, no more tens of billions  to prop up foreign regimes while American families struggle right here  at home.

I want to thank Senator Kaine, I want to thank Senator Schiff, and I  want to thank Senator Paul for joining with me in this very necessary  resolution. Of course, I thank our great ranking member of the Armed  Services Committee for his good work as well.