Cost of Living


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698474/cost-of-living


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, now, on cost of living, if Donald Trump  refuses to focus on the one thing Americans want most, which is to  lower the cost of living, Democrats are happy to do it for them. As we  begin 2026, Democrats enter the new year on our front foot. The cost of  living will remain the No. 1 focus for this week, this month, this  year, and beyond.

The tip of the spear for so many people when it comes to costs, of  course, is healthcare. It is now January 5, 2026. For tens of millions  of people, the reality of sky-high premiums has now been locked in,  thanks to Republicans who let the ACA premium tax credits expire last  year. Millions more no longer have healthcare at all. Many others have  switched to lower quality plans and can no longer see the doctors they  have gone to for years and years and years or afford the medicines that  their children have been taking to cure deadly diseases. Parents  without insurance now don't know what to do if their kids get sick.

Every Democrat in the Senate voted to extend the premium tax credits  at the end of last year. And a number of Republicans--a small number,  unfortunately, of Republicans--in both Chambers say they want to do it.  But instead of listening to the vast majority of Americans who want  these tax credits rendered, Leader Thune and Speaker Johnson have sided  with rightwing extremists who are happy to see these credits die. The  result: higher premiums, more uninsured Americans, greater uncertainty  for the people back home--especially people, actually, in the red  States.

Democrats will not relent on the issue of the cost of living, of how  difficult it is for Americans to pay the bills for things they  need. The topic is not going to go away anytime soon. In fact, it will  only grow in intensity over the year.

But, as everyone knows, healthcare is not the only part of the story  when it comes to lowering the cost of living. In the coming weeks and  months, Democrats will lay out cleanly and comprehensively how we can  lower costs for the American people on a number of different topics-- from health to housing, to groceries, to childcare, to energy costs,  and beyond.

In the coming weeks, for example, I will work with a number of my  colleagues, including Senator Warren, on the many options we have to  help Americans pay for housing. We also need to look at lowering  grocery costs. We need to end Donald Trump's destructive tariffs. We  need to help families afford daycare. These are the things that  Americans care about, not invading Venezuela, not attacking Colombia,  or dreaming of invading Greenland.

The Democrats are focused on the things that matter to the American  people, and we will focus on these like a laser--the high cost of  living; affordability. Just like Democrats are dialed in on healthcare  and brought the Nation's attention to this important issue, we are also  focusing on costs as they relate to housing and groceries and energy  and childcare and so much more.

We show the contrast that, while Donald Trump and Republicans are  spending all of their time on foreign wars, on ballrooms, on private  jets, Democrats are the ones focused on helping people pay the bills  for the things they need every day to live their lives decently.