Department of Government Efficiency


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688202/department-of-government-efficiency


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, DOGE--day by day, Americans are getting  more alarmed by the slash-and-burn approach DOGE is taking to basic  government programs. Americans certainly want a more efficient  government, but what DOGE and Donald Trump are doing is not efficiency.  Instead, it is chaos. Americans did not sign up for chaos, that is for  sure.

Americans did not sign up for DOGE to take its chain saw, for  instance, to aviation safety. There was another near miss, this time in  Chicago, in the air. Thank God no one was hurt, but this shows you the  immense importance of having a fully staffed FAA.

How on Earth is it efficiency to fire aviation safety assistance or  maintenance mechanics or people who help with safety inspections and  repairs? But that is just what DOGE did. I can't imagine any American  thinks that is efficiency.

The only thing that is going to accomplish, of course, is making  flying less safe. It is going to lead to delays and mixups at airports.

And not even the 9/11 families who lost loved ones or were hurt as  they rushed to the towers right after 9/11, not even these folks were  safe from the DOGE buzz saw.

DOGE tried to ax the workforce for the World Trade Center Health  Program. I am glad we pushed Donald Trump and DOGE to reverse.

Later today, I will join Senator Gillibrand, Representatives Goldman  and Garbarino to reintroduce the bipartisan 9/11 World Trade Center  Health Program reintroduction, 2 months after Elon Musk killed this  program when he tanked the bipartisan funding bill in December.

Mr. President, 9/11 families deserve to be treated with dignity, with  respect, not with the contempt we see from DOGE. And no good business  operator would take this slash-and-burn approach DOGE is taking.

People's Social Security benefits are also at risk. Their ability to  see a doctor is at stake. Their ability to put kids in daycare is at  stake. The longer DOGE is allowed to rain chaos on the American people,  the stronger the backlash will become.

And let's not forget, even by their most optimistic projections--and  they have had to reduce them--the amount of money that DOGE will cut is  far less than the amount of the deficit created by the huge Republican  tax cut. So all this talk that they need to do this for deficit  reduction is belied by their clinging to a whopping deficit creation by  the tax cut.