Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696558/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela-that-have-not-been-authorized-by-congress


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first let me thank our great Senator from  Virginia Senator Kaine. He has been the most vigilant watchdog against  over-encroachment of the military. He has been the most rigorous  watchdog in making sure Congress's power to make war and engage in acts  of war are upheld.

There are many Presidents, as Senator Kaine pointed out, who try to  push the boundaries, but no President has pushed the boundaries more  than President Trump.

Americans need Kaine here to do just what he is doing.

Thank you, Senator Kaine.

I also want to thank Senator Paul and Senator Schiff for championing  this resolution today because the Senate will vote to discharge a  resolution that says two--two--simple things.

First, it affirms that the United States will always support our  troops when they act to protect the American people and themselves from  foreign attack.

But it also says that if Donald Trump wants to engage in military  hostilities against Venezuela, he must seek authorization from Congress  first.

As we speak, America's largest aircraft carrier, the Gerald Ford, is  on its way to the Caribbean. It is part of the largest military buildup  in our hemisphere that we have seen in decades.

According to press reports, Donald Trump is considering military  action on Venezuelan territory. But it also sounds like nobody really  knows what the plan is because, like so many other things with Donald  Trump, he keeps changing his mind. Who knows what he will do tomorrow.

To date, we have heard no clear goals, no clear timetable, no clear  explanation for what Donald Trump's objective is in Venezuela. This is  unacceptable, and it is dangerous.

Even in our briefing with Secretary Rubio, yesterday, we walked out  of the room with more questions than answers. We need a clear  explanation.

I am demanding a full Senators' briefing on this issue of Venezuela  and the intervention there, at once.

In the meantime, the Senate must act today to discharge this  resolution because Donald Trump seems ready to lead our troops over the  Rubicon with a blindfold over his eyes, and that is a recipe for  catastrophe.

Congress must assert its authority on matters of war and peace, and  time is of the essence. Multiple warships have been moved from other  ports of the world to be just off the coast of Venezuela. By some  estimates, 10 percent of the Navy's deployed assets are now in the  Southern Command area of responsibility.

These actions certainly do not sound like mere drug enforcement  against organized criminals--not even close. These are actions you take  before you consider launching a major military operation against  another country, and that authority--the Constitution is clear--must  come from Congress.

Nobody here denies the Maduro regime is horrific and undemocratic,  and we also agree drug traffickers and organized criminals who poison  Americans ought to be tracked down and dismantled. That was why, when I  was majority leader, Congress provided billions for counternarcotics  operations and granted sweeping authorities to combat the flow of  narcotics and opioids like fentanyl.

If we must do more, we should. We should help law enforcement,  intelligence operators, and Federal agents to dismantle criminal  networks and drug smugglers. But saber-rattling and military  escalations are a poor substitute--a poor substitute--for a real  counternarcotics strategy.

I ask my colleagues: Remember what Colin Powell used to say about  military force? You break it; you own it.

It is the old Pottery Barn rule.

This is the danger of unilateral attacks against Venezuela. If we  break it, we are going to own it. The mere thought of another endless  war ought to make the American people sick to their stomachs.

So, today, the Senate must act to uphold the Constitution, uphold our  national security, and reaffirm the authority of Congress to have its  proper say on matters in war and peace.

Vote on Motion to Discharge