Establishing the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2025 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2026 Through 2034


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689512/establishing-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2025-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels-for-fiscal-years-2026-through-2034


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, a few minutes ago, for the second time  this year, Senate Republicans began the process to pass legislation  eviscerating Medicaid, abandoning our kids, failing our veterans, and  squandering our future--all for the sake of tax cuts for the ultrarich.  This is the Republican agenda: Billionaires win; American families  lose. Billionaires win; American families lose in the Republican plan.

Republicans have failed to be honest with the country about the true  nature of their plans. They have tried to hide their Medicaid cuts.  They have tried to hide their billionaire tax giveaways with budgetary  gimmicks and distractions. They are tying themselves in knots. They  don't want the American people to know what their agenda is. Well, if  Republicans won't be straight with the American people about their  agenda, Senate Democrats are glad to do it for them.

Tonight, my colleagues and I will begin to put the Republican agenda  on trial before the court of public opinion here on the floor of the  Senate. It is going to be a long few days for Senate Republicans.  Democrats will expose the dark corners of the Republican plan. We will  explain the devastating consequences, highlight the many injustices  that Republicans will inflict on people's healthcare, on their  financial security, on their children's futures, and on the very future  of the American dream itself.

We begin tonight with a topic close to home for all of us: Medicaid.

It is my honor to join my fellow Democrats to lay the case before the  American people for how Republicans plan to destroy Medicaid as we know  it and harm millions and millions and millions of Americans. We will  share the stories of people back home. We will illustrate the full  scale of the destruction these cuts would do. And we will make it clear  to the American people that while Republicans work like hell to  eliminate Medicaid to cut taxes for the rich, Democrats are fighting to  protect the healthcare the American people deserve and need.

Medicaid will be the first--the first--of six different themes that  we will focus on here on the floor.

Tomorrow, we will be focused, likewise, as we debate this bill, on  Republicans' morally bankrupt tax breaks for billionaires and on Donald  Trump's dumb and costly tariffs, on the need to stand up for our  veterans and our national security, on the unprecedented corruption  Donald Trump has unleashed in our government, and finally on the  existential fight to protect Social Security from the chain saw of Elon  Musk. These are the themes we will cover today and tomorrow.

This is the fight the American people need to see because people's  lives and livelihoods are at stake. The healthcare that protects our  kids is in danger--our children. Their healthcare is in danger. The  benefits that keep our seniors whole are at risk. Senior citizens, in  their golden era, could have Medicaid--the rug--pulled out from under  them, leaving them in dire straits. The investments that unlock  America's future now stand on the edge of a knife.

Why? Why? Why are Republicans doing this? Why are they being so  cruel? so callous? so thoughtless? Why are those in the billionaire  bubble who seem to run Donald Trump and Elon Musk--why are they doing  this? It is very simple. They are trying to give the ultrarich another  tax break. The Republicans are enthralled with these very wealthy, very  greedy people, and all they want is a tax break.

When Donald Trump became President, they got control of the  Republican Party, and Elon Musk and Donald Trump are in the billionaire  bubble. And when Democrats expose all of these cuts to healthcare and  veterans' aid and benefits for the American people to see, the American  people will think it is sickening.

So, tonight, let us begin with Medicaid.

Seventy million--seventy million--people rely on Medicaid in one way  or another to provide medical care, and tens of millions more are their  families and friends. That includes not just seniors who are within the  70 million but also newborns, parents, Americans with disabilities,  rural communities that have access, perhaps, to a single hospital or  clinic if they are fortunate. Medicaid--Medicaid--makes all these  things possible.

I want to focus on a truly sobering experience I had earlier this  week when visiting two nursing homes in New York: the Silver Lake  Specialized Care and Rehab Center on Staten Island and the Carillon  Nursing and Rehab Center on Long Island. These institutions alone-- there are just 2 of them--serve over 600 residents together and employ  600 people. They are the lifeline to local communities. They help  seniors with dementia, with postsurgical rehab, with physical  disability support, and so much more.

My visit to these communities was clouded by a shadow of fear and  anger. I talked to senior citizens who knew that if Medicaid were cut,  they would lose their healthcare. In fact, the owner of Silver Lake-- one of the most esteemed healthcare facilities on Staten Island--told  me that if the cut were even half what the Republicans are proposing,  his home would close. Hundreds of senior citizens would have no  healthcare, and 300 people would lose their jobs. They were frightened.  They were scared. They were angry.

There is no question about it: Even if Republicans pass a fraction of  the cuts they are pushing, it will devastate these communities.

We have the heads of major hospitals there--many of them not the same  party as mine--telling us what would happen if these devastating cuts  to Medicaid went through.

On Staten Island, we estimated 18,000 people would lose their jobs.  Tens of thousands would no longer get healthcare. It would cause a  recession on Staten Island--like that. Seniors at the centers--new  seniors who are getting out of hospitals or have a new illness that  they are just encountering--would be turned away. There would be no  funding. There would be no beds. There would be no place for them to  go.

It is not just the residents at these nursing homes; it is their  children who now can breathe easy for their parents who helped raise  them and worked so hard through the years to provide for them.

Staten Island is a middle-class community, and so is Long Island--the  two places I visited--but their kids would not be able to care for most  of them. Most of them need more healthcare than just going back to  their kids' homes. It is not adequate healthcare for so many of them.  Others said their children had no extra room for them. What are even  the kids going to do? On both Staten Island and Long Island, these are  middle-class communities. They are going to be devastated by these  cuts.

Some of the residents said their children might be able to take care  of them, but the burden would be immense. These families don't have the  financial means to take care of their parents in their advanced ages.  They don't have space at home. They don't have the medical know-how to  meet the needs like a nursing home does.

For any of you--of the millions of Americans who have a parent who  has struggled with dementia or physical disabilities--to those people,  we know that our parents need the help of medical professionals to care  for them properly. That is why Medicaid is so vital, so important, such  a lifeline to tens of millions of families across America. The  Republican Medicaid cuts would be a gut punch to these families.

It was the same story on Long Island. Senior citizens are scared,  nervous, angry about what these budget cuts would do to them that the  Republicans are proposing, that Trump and Musk are proposing. Workers  worried they might lose their jobs--and they have worked so hard in  these facilities because they care about the patients they are caring  for--are told ``No, no more funding'' for no reason. They are doing a  great job.

It is the same on Long Island as on Staten Island, and it is the same  across all of America in poor communities, which, of course, depend on  Medicaid.

For so many people, Medicaid is their only lifeline to healthcare-- for middle-class communities and even well-to-do communities. All of  them are nervous, scared, angry, furious at what these cuts would do to  them.

Why? people ask. Why are they doing this? Why are they being so mean?  Why are they being so cruel? Why are they being so callous?

We have to answer: For one reason--they want to give billionaires a  tax cut. They want to take the money away from working families. They  want to take things that working families need. They want to take them  away so there are more tax cuts for the billionaires.

It angers me. It is infuriating that something so wrong, so callous,  so detrimental to America could be right here on the Senate floor with  the support of so many Republican Senators.

I say to the Republican Senators: Listen to your constituents. Listen  to your constituents. They don't want this. You know that. Are you  going to get up on the floor and make a speech that says you are  cutting Medicaid because you want to give tax breaks to billionaires?  That is what you are doing. Get up and have the courage to say it. Get  up and have the courage to say it.

The senior centers I visited were represented, actually, by  Republican Members of Congress on both Staten Island and Long Island.

There, I told every patient, every doctor, every nurse, every  employee who works in these institutions to call their Congress Member  and tell them that their jobs are at risk and, if they are a resident,  to tell them their healthcare is at risk. If they are a child of a  parent in one of these nursing homes, call.

I told them to make it clear to their Congressmen that the Republican  Congressmen and Senators have the power in their hands to stop these  cuts because there are narrow margins in both the Senate and the House.

A handful of Senators and a handful of Congressmen, if they have the  courage to do the right thing--and most of them--or some of them, at  least, know that it is the right thing even though they are afraid to  vote yes--they are afraid to vote no and stop this, but they should  have the courage to do it.

So I told them. I told everyone I encountered in these two nursing  homes and in many other places in New York.

I went to a hospital in the Bronx--one of the biggest hospitals. It  serves 1.3 million people in the Bronx. It is the only cancer care  treatment for all of those 1.3 million. The leaders of that hospital  told me the hospital would probably close if there were a 20-percent  cut to Medicaid, and the Republicans are proposing a deeper cut than  that in this budget bill. Close. The only hospital. One of the biggest  employers. It employees 18,000 people itself. This story could be  repeated. The Bronx has poorer communities. Staten Island and Long  Island have more middle-class communities. But every one of them will  be affected terribly by these cuts. So I told them to call. I tell  everyone: We have to stop this. Public sentiment is everything.

Every American in a similar position to those I spoke to should do  the same. Call your Congressman. Call your Senator. Tell them you don't  want Medicaid to be slashed. Tell them you don't want nutrition  assistance to be eliminated. Tell them you don't want our seniors to be  abandoned. Tell them you don't want to see these cuts--these cruel,  heartless cuts--just so the wealthiest Americans can get another break  they don't need.

That is what the next few days are about: fighting these awful cuts  done to help the wealthiest Americans get a tax break. That is the  fight Democrats will have here on the Senate floor. That is the fight  we will have tonight. That is the fight we will have tomorrow and  beyond.

Democrats are fighting every day in every way against these attacks  against American families, against this plan, which says billionaires  win; families lose.

Democrats stand united. We are unified in fighting this awful bill.  We will fight the Republican anti-family agenda. We will shine a light  on these terrible cuts that Republicans are trying to pass. The  American people will be horrified at what they see.