Federal Reserve


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701776/federal-reserve


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on the Fed, this morning, once again,  Donald Trump escalated his attacks on the independence of the Federal  Reserve.

In an interview on Fox Business, the President renewed his threats  against Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, saying that if Powell doesn't  leave, he will fire him. There are no legitimate grounds for the  President to remove the Chair of the Federal Reserve for simply doing  his job.

Trump's threats against the Fed does nothing but rattle markets,  undermine confidence, inject more chaos into the financial system, and  then raise rates. Doesn't Trump understand something rudimentary? When  there is uncertainty about the Fed's path, rates go up. Trump, are you  hearing that?

The more you screw around with the Fed, the higher rates will be, and  you want lower rates.

He doesn't know what to do. He doesn't know what he is talking about.  He doesn't understand the economy, the Fed, or interest rates.

To every American who is struggling with high prices, if you want  mortgage rates to come down or if you are worried about the economy  getting worse, the President's attacks on the Fed should alarm you. And  meddling with the Fed will certainly drive up interest rates because  the markets hate uncertainty.

We know what is going on. Donald Trump--typical--is angry that his  own policies have driven up prices and killed jobs. But instead of  owning up to his mistakes, he continues to look for a scapegoat,  someone else to blame.

That is all he does. He screws things up and then blames somebody  else.

Doesn't he realize that is not going to solve the problem?

That is not going to solve the problem. Blame Donald Trump. That is  not going to do it. It may make you feel better for a minute or two,  but it sure doesn't solve the problem. And it doesn't solve the  American people's firm, strong disagreement with what you are doing.

Trump wants to fire Powell because he won't lower interest rates, but  Trump's Treasury Secretary said yesterday that the Fed shouldn't lower  interest rates because of the chaos of the Iran war.

What is going on in this administration? Trump says one thing. His  Treasury Secretary says another.

Senate Republicans have an obligation to push back when Donald Trump  threatens the independence of the Federal Reserve. And so long as these  bogus investigations and intimidation tactics continue, the nomination  of Kevin Warsh should not--should not--move forward.