Full-Year Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688900/full-year-continuing-appropriations-and-extensions-act-2025


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, before we finish today, I would like to  say that soon, the Senate will vote on a bipartisan piece of  legislation that will make an important DC funding fix.

This legislation will make sure that we take care of the residents of  the District; that we will support law enforcement and firefighters and  teachers and city services. The legislation is very good news for the  residents of the District of Columbia. I am happy we are passing the  bill today.

I thank my colleagues for working quickly to bring this bill to the  floor. Once the Senate acts, we urge the House to act quickly.

Government funding expires at midnight tonight, and the vote before  us is a Hobson's choice. The CR bill is a bad bill, but as bad as the  CR is, I believe that allowing Donald Trump to take even more power via  a government shutdown is a far worse option.

A shutdown would allow DOGE to shift into overdrive. It would give  Donald Trump and DOGE the keys to the city, the State, and country, and  that is a far worse alternative.

I want to remind everyone that it was Republicans who pushed this  false shutdown choice. Their inability to govern has led us to this  precipice. Our caucus Members have two bad choices. Different Senators  will come down on different sides of the question, but that does not  mean that any Senate Democrat supports a shutdown.

Whatever the outcome, our caucus will be united in our determination  to continue the long-term fight to stop Donald Trump's dangerous war on  our democracy and on America's working families.

Now, I want to be clear about what this bill does and does not do.  The full-year CR is a law that sets funding levels for the full year.  The President and executive branch have a legal and constitutional duty  to faithfully execute the CR. The CR does not change the underlying law  making the Trump administration's impoundments and mass firings  illegal. This is true as a matter of law.

Nothing in the CR changes the Impoundment Control Act, the foundation  of Congress's appropriations authority, and the authorization laws that  require USAID and other Agencies to exist and to operate the programs  as Congress has assigned to them. Nothing changes title 5, governing  the civil service, the Administrative Procedure Act, and so on.

One of the reasons I am voting for cloture is for the very reason  that these actions are illegal and no new law is needed to declare  that.