Kash Patel


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701891/kash-patel


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on Kash Patel, the American people expect  competence from the President's Cabinet, not the unmitigated and  continuing chaos we see every day.

Over the weekend, more damning reports about FBI Director Kash  Patel's disorderly, drunken, and deranged behavior came to light. The  Atlantic's reporting only confirmed what Senate Democrats have said  from the start: Kash Patel is not simply unqualified, he is a grave  risk to the rule of law and to American national security.

I have called on Acting Attorney General Blanche to preserve all  records, all communications, and other evidence regarding Kash Patel's  dangerous behavior before the Trump administration tries to brush it  under the rug again.

We are asking--we are calling on Acting Attorney General Blanche to  preserve all records, communications, and other evidence regarding Kash  Patel's dangerous behavior before the Trump administration tries to  brush it under the rug.

The Atlantic interviewed dozens of people who have observed Patel's  erratic behavior, his excessive drinking. Apparently, Patel frequently  misses key briefings and meetings because he is too hungover to attend.  Patel's security detail often struggles to wake him up after his nights  of partying and once even had to ask for breaching equipment because  Patel was unresponsive behind a locked door.

All of this is made even worse by the reports of Kash Patel's  constant jet-setting on the taxpayers' dime, his illegal crusade  against Trump's political enemies, and his purge of countless  counterintelligence officers focused on Iran just days before Trump  launched this reckless war.

Americans deserve steady, sober leadership from their FBI Director,  and they are not getting it--it seems--in any way.

Kash Patel's job is to protect the American people and our  Constitution, not to party on the job. Patel must resign immediately.  Every day he remains in office subjects America to serious and  unnecessary risks.