National Semiconductor Technology Center


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693456/national-semiconductor-technology-center


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, and finally, a very good day. I just got  in from Albany in New York State. It was a very good day for Upstate  New York. This morning, I was up in Albany to make a very exciting  announcement years in the making. America's first ever national  semiconductor technology center is now officially open for business in  Albany, NY, in Upstate New York.

Today is the day I have been dreaming about since the time I wrote  the Chips and Science law and when I was writing the NSTC program into  the bill. I had always been thinking of Albany and of Upstate New York.

This center will be a leading hub for semiconductor innovation, not  just in America but the whole world. This is a  great message for all Americans. Whether you live in Albany, New York  State, or any other part of this great country, there is a bold, vital  message that comes from Albany: The future of chips and the most  advanced semiconductor chips is here in America--not overseas, not  China.

These chips are vital to so many parts of our lives--our phones and  computers and our cars and our national security and even to the AI  systems that are already changing the world. Albany NanoTech will  specifically focus on what is called EUV, extreme ultraviolet  lithography research. It will be one of only two public facilities on  Earth to be home to this EUV tool and the only one in America.

So what does this announcement mean? It is not just an abstract  thing. It means major chip companies from around the world will have  the ability to collaborate in New York in R&D for new chips. It means  startups and other innovators will have access to the most advanced  machinery to experiment and discover new innovations in semiconducting.  It will even mean more good paying jobs--J-O-B-S--at Albany NanoTech  and the local economy.

We all worried that China would gain the lead on this chip  production. Well, now we have the answer, and that is the Albany  NanoTech Center. No. 1 place in the United States and in the world for  the new high-end research into semiconductor chips.

At the end of the day, this announcement, which I have worked so long  and hard for since 2017--at the end of the day, this announcement will  help make chips and science a reality, boosting American innovation,  creating American jobs, making the United States the world leader in  chipmaking.