Nomination of Emil J. Bove III


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693921/nomination-of-emil-j-bove-iii


Mr. SCHUMER. Now, on Mr. Bove--Emil Bove--last week, Senate  Republicans on the Judiciary reported out one of Donald Trump's worst  judicial nominees yet, Emil Bove; and that is saying a lot, since there  are so many bad ones. Judiciary Republicans were so afraid to talk  about Mr. Bove's nomination, in fact, that the Republican chair cut off  debate time and refused to let all Democrats speak. And rather than  being part of this farce, Judiciary Democrats, led by my friend the  ranking member, Senator Durbin, rightly walked out of the hearing.

I commend my Democratic colleagues for standing up for the integrity  of our courts and refusing to participate in a compromised committee  process with a deeply compromised nominee.

It is obvious why the Republicans were so eager to cut off debate.  They know the arguments against Mr. Bove are telling and so unworthy of  anyone nominated to a court of appeals or any judicial position in this  government.

Mr. Bove is the perfect example of the type of person Donald Trump  wants on the bench: political, aggressive, unprofessional, abusive, and  ready and willing to put the Trump agenda over the rule of law. We all  know what Donald Trump wants from judges: complete obeisance of  whatever he wants, regardless of the rule of law, regardless of  precedent, regardless of the Constitution.

Mr. Bove has a long history of defending Donald Trump when he was his  personal attorney. He defended the President when the President was  accused of inciting the January 6 insurrection, mishandling classified  documents, falsifying business records, and more.

So what should that do when someone defends a President who is  accused of very serious crimes? It should disqualify them from the  bench. But the opposite occurs in the Trump administration. His defense  of Trump's indefensible actions earned him a top spot at the DOJ, where  he used his power to fire prosecutors who were working on criminal  cases for the January 6 insurrectionists.

That is right. Mr. Bove helped the rioters who assaulted law  enforcement officers on January 6 get off without any charges.

What is happening to this country? What is happening?

And if that is not enough to disqualify him, one whistleblower  testified Mr. Bove repeatedly told DOJ lawyers to ignore court orders  and even deliberately mislead judges. Mr. Bove encouraged officials not  to tell judges the truth, the same sort of judges he is now nominated  to serve alongside.

How can someone who has such disregard for our judges and our courts  be trusted on the bench? Mr. Bove's nomination previews the dark,  ominous plan Donald Trump and Republicans have for the Federal  Judiciary. They want to fill our courts with partisan operatives who  will protect and serve Donald Trump, not protect the rule of law.

Experience doesn't matter. Judicial independence doesn't matter.  Understanding the law and applying it without fear or favor doesn't  matter at all. In fact, there is fear of Donald Trump among so many of  the Republican nominees for judges and so many of our Republican  Senators. For Donald Trump, the only thing that matters, when it comes  to judges, is unyielding fealty to himself.

We have never seen--never--such a disastrous mandate for our Federal  courts in all of American history, and if the Republicans proceed, the  damage to our Judiciary will be irreversible.

Mr. Bove's nomination is an insult to every single qualified,  independent judge who has ever sat on the Federal courts. He should  never have been nominated. He should never have been reported out of  committee, and he should never, ever be confirmed by the Senate to such  an important job.