Nomination of Frank Bisignano


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690683/nomination-of-frank-bisignano


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, finally, on Mr. Bisignano to be head of  the beleaguered Social Security Administration, we all know that SSA-- the Social Security Administration--is in a state of chaos, but instead  of advancing someone who will bring order and stability to Social  Security, Senate Republicans are backing a slash-and-burn, billionaire  CEO who will only pour gasoline into the DOGE fires.

Mr. Bisignano has zero experience in government or with Social  Security, but he has plenty of experience in cutting jobs and  downsizing. He says of himself:

I am fundamentally a DOGE person.

That is who they want.

Madam President, American people, Republicans, you want someone who  is a DOGE person in charge of Social Security? My goodness. I can't  think of a worse Agency for Mr. ``Slash-and-Burn'' Bisignano to lead  than the Social Security Administration. That is his nickname, ``Slash- and-Burn.''

Every single Senate Republican who votes yes on Mr. Bisignano is  voting yes to put Social Security benefits in jeopardy. Voting yes on  Bisignano means voting yes on continuing the wave of office closings  and mass layoffs. What they are doing at Social Security--DOGE and the  Trump people--they are afraid to say they want to kill it, so they try  to strangle it--closed offices, longer wait times, phone lines  disrupted, emails disrupted.

Mr. Bisignano's nomination is another reminder that Donald Trump's  chaos is made possible thanks to the complicity of Senate Republicans.  They could stop the attacks by DOGE if they wanted. They could halt  terrible nominees if they wanted. But every Senate Republican, every  time, who has a chance to side with the American people instead sides  with Donald Trump. They are doing it again with Mr. Bisignano's  nomination.

The Senate should reject the nomination of Mr. ``Slash-and-Burn'' or  else the chaos we have seen from DOGE will only get worse.