Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698255/nominations


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, tonight, President Trump will address the  Nation on what he claims is a speech on his supposed victories this  year.

President Trump can say whatever he wants on camera, but the reality  is for Americans across the country that costs are up, unemployment is  rising, the holidays are more expensive and stressful than ever, and  tariffs are taxing people to no end.

If Donald Trump had any shred of honesty and self-respect and self- insight, he would look into the camera tonight and say to the American  people: I have failed you.

I mean, just last week, Donald Trump seriously suggested the one way  families can lower costs is for parents to buy their kids fewer toys.  What kind of Christmas is that? Donald Trump is like the Grinch--just  with a lot more bronzer.

Now, today, Senate Democrats will hold a special caucus lunch to roll  out a new initiative to lower costs for the American people and show  precisely how Donald Trump and Republicans have made life far more  expensive for Americans.

This morning, a report came out that Americans will pay 13 percent  more on energy costs than they did last year. In part, why? Because  Donald Trump and his obeisant Republicans cut out the cheapest way to  get new power and new electrons on the grid--solar energy. They cut it  out in obeisance to the oil industry. It was disgraceful.

That is what is wrong with this government--the corruption. The oil  industry promises Donald Trump that Harold Hamm will raise him a ton of  money, so Trump cuts out clean energy, and these guys went right along  with it. The cost of groceries is up. Rent is up. Housing foreclosures  are up. Healthcare is about to soar through the roof while Republicans  refuse to do anything about it. John Thune said he doesn't want to  extend the ACA tax credits at all. And Americans will pay the price.

Donald Trump and his billionaire buddies and the Republican Senators  just don't get it. They don't understand what it is like to struggle to  pay for groceries or struggle to keep a roof over your head. They don't  know what it is like if your car breaks down and you don't have enough  money to fix it and you wonder, how am I going to get to work?

Donald Trump, after all, calls affordability a hoax.

Well, if anything is a hoax, Donald Trump, it has been your promise  to lower costs on day one.

The biggest hoax on affordability was Donald Trump's promise to lower  costs on day one.

So, today, Democrats are going to come together to do precisely what  Republicans refuse to do, fight on behalf  of the American people to lower their costs. We are going to focus on  five major issues: healthcare, energy, housing, groceries, and Donald  Trump's tariffs. When Americans think about lowering costs, these are  five things they think about most, and these are the issues that will  be our focus.

Senate Democrats will focus on these five issues like a laser. We  will come back to them again and again and again, in the coming weeks,  just like we came back to healthcare, over and over and over again,  this fall. And the American people know who is on their side when it  comes to healthcare costs.

Americans are tired of feeling like the cost of living is a constant  crisis. Americans are tired of hearing Donald Trump call their  struggles a hoax. Americans didn't sign up for higher grocery costs and  more expensive healthcare, but that is what the Republicans and Donald  Trump have given them in just 1 year in office.

So Democrats will show the American people another way forward, a way  focused on lower costs, more prosperity, and an agenda focused on the  working- and middle-class families of America--not the billionaires,  not the special interests, not the huge lobbyists who seem to dictate  what the Republicans do.                               U.S. Coast Guard

Mr. President, on the Coast Guard swastika, earlier this week, the  U.S. Coast Guard enacted a policy downgrading the swastika from its  list of recognized hate symbols.

Can you believe it? Can you believe it? The swastika is no longer a  recognized hate symbol?

They did this just after the horrible shootings in Sydney and so many  other shootings--anti-Semitic shootings--and activities that have been  plaguing America.

The new policy of the Coast Guard is shameful. It is dangerous and  another troubling instance of the Trump administration normalizing the  threat of Nazism and White supremacy.

This policy has all the markings of a dog whistle. It is a ``stand  back and stand by'' in the form of an office memo. Not 4 days ago, 15  Jews were slaughtered in cold blood--a beautiful picture of a little  10-year-old girl celebrating the first night of Hanukkah--and a day  later, the Trump administration chose to soften its stance against  Nazis and swastikas.

Can you believe it? Can it get any lower? Can it get any more  insensitive? Can they be any more in a bubble than they are in?

And for the millions of American men and women who served in the  Coast Guard, this is an insult to them. How about the Coast Guard  members who served during World War II and fought that swastika? Why  was this policy change even necessary at all? Why did the  administration go out of its way to soften its policies against  swastikas of all things?

Today, Republicans will attempt to confirm the Commandant of the  Coast Guard by unanimous consent, before the end of the year. If he is  to be the head of the Coast Guard, this new nominee must reverse this  egregious policy, and I am asking him right now: Change that policy  now.

Let's be very clear. If you are a Jew, if your family gave their  lives to fight the Nazis in World War II, if you are a minority in any  way, there is nothing, nothing potentially divisive about a swastika.  It is just about the most unmistakable hate symbol in existence.

Now, this is part of an emerging pattern on the right. Young  Republicans were texting about gas chambers. Trump officials were  talking about having a Nazi streak. Tucker Carlson interviews Nick  Fuentes, and Donald Trump refuses to condemn Fuentes. Yesterday, JD  Vance took to social media to suggest that anti-Semitism only exists  because of immigrants.

Where has he been? Does he know the history of anti-Semitism? What an  ignorant statement from Vance. Sometimes you think he must know better,  but he doesn't. He just plays along with the rightwing, sucks up to  them.

And now, according to the Trump administration, swastikas no longer  count as hate symbols within the Coast Guard. This is exactly why I  introduced my resolution condemning Nick Fuentes, Tucker Carlson, and  neo-Nazism. Neo-Nazism is no longer a fringe or theoretical threat. It  is real. It is growing. It threatens our democracy, and every elected  official must condemn it forcefully.                                  Healthcare

Mr. President, now, on healthcare, there is breaking news this  morning--good news--that the discharge petition in the House got the  necessary 218 signatures to move forward.

It shows that the demand by the American people for Congress--the  House and the Senate--to extend the ACA premium tax credits is  undeniable. Yet Republican leaders inside the House and the Senate are  making it clear that they are opposed and will be responsible for  healthcare costs rising through the roof.

Yesterday, Leader Thune admitted:

We're not going to pass anything by the end of this week.

That is a clear admission of failure--a failure to govern, a failure  to lower costs for the American people.

The damage has been done, no matter what happens, because, at this  point, Republicans have made it impossible to prevent many Americans  from paying more on their monthly premiums on January 1. And  Republicans can't even say they tried to stop it.

House Republicans, meanwhile, are on the warpath to vote on a  rightwing healthcare sham bill, one that doesn't extend the ACA credits  a day, doesn't lower premiums, and does absolutely nothing to help  people afford coverage.

So let's be very clear. There is only one reason--one reason-- Americans' premiums are going through the roof starting in just 14  days: It is because Republicans--Trump, the Republican Senate, the  Republican House--chose for it to happen.                                  Venezuela

Mr. President, on Venezuela, yesterday, President Trump announced ``a  total and complete'' blockade of all sanctioned oil tankers entering  and leaving Venezuela--another dangerous escalation with no clear plan  whatsoever. Donald Trump has offered precisely zero explanations-- zero--to the American people for what he is trying to accomplish in the  Caribbean.

Most Senate Republicans, meanwhile, appear to have no interest in  doing any congressional oversight in a serious way of the  administration's military buildup. We have had no serious public  congressional hearings on the threat of military conflict off the coast  of Venezuela, no public testimony from Defense officials on this issue.

Where are Senate Republicans? Where is the oversight?

The purpose of hearings is to challenge an administration when it may  well be going off course, and they certainly seem to be going off  course in Venezuela.

Donald Trump talks one way, then another. I have asked some of our  leaders: Where is the limit to how far they will go? No answer. Could  this be getting us into an endless war?

The American people fear that above most other things, maybe all  things. That is why we need oversight, and the Senate Republicans are  nowhere.

Meanwhile, the briefing we had, yesterday, with Secretary Rubio and  Hegseth was utterly disappointing. The administration walked into the  room totally empty-handed. They gave us no real answers about what the  objective is in the Caribbean. Hegseth also refused to give Senators  full access to the video of the September 2 strikes.

The same, same lack of transparency that is affecting the September 2  video is affecting our whole policy in the Caribbean and with  Venezuela--no oversight, no plan, no discussion with either the Senate,  the House, or the American people. That is what leads to trouble--big  trouble.

Let's be very clear. Donald Trump does not have the authority to use  military force to carry out his current plans in the Caribbean, without  authorization from Congress. If Trump acts without congressional  authorization, the Senate stands ready with a bipartisan resolution-- led by Senator Kaine, myself, Senators Paul and Schiff--preventing the  unauthorized use of force.                          Tribute to German Vazquez

Mr. President, finally, let's say good-bye to German Vazquez--a very  special good-bye to one of the Senate's unsung heroes, German Vazquez,  who will retire soon, after 28 incredible years of service.

The public may not know German, but every single Senator knows him.  You see his face, and you smile. You  can always find him near the Chamber, working as a doorkeeper, at the  elevators, or up in the Gallery. No matter the role, he is  professional, warm, and a positive presence that makes the Senate come  to life.

He has been wonderful to our staffs, as well--kind, steady, and  generous in the way that matters every day in a place like this.

So, German, on behalf of all of us in the Senate, thank you, thank  you, thank you. Godspeed on your next adventure, and we wish you and  your family all the best.