Nvidia


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693851/nvidia


Mr. SCHUMER. Finally, on Nvidia and China, Donald Trump's trade war  has created a mess for U.S. businesses. Now, he is rushing to clean up  that mess, and he is getting played by Beijing.

Last week, the Trump administration handed President Xi and the  Chinese Government a major win, approving chipmaker Nvidia to resume  selling American H20 chips, used to develop AI, to China.

When these chips were blocked, Americans breathed a sigh of relief.  China would not get the basic tool to catch up and even surpass us on  AI and so many other important technological advances. Not 4 months  ago, for that reason, the administration blocked the sale of these  chips.

Now, typical of Donald Trump--there is no consistency, just what he  feels is good for himself at the moment--they are making a costly,  troubling U-turn. Flip-flops like this show weakness to the Chinese  Government, and that is the last thing we can afford.

What is more, the chips are vital in the race to dominate AI. These  H20 chips are among the best on the market and were critical for  China's development of DeepSeek.

We all wondered: How did China catch up with DeepSeek? Well, by using  these chips.

Now, Donald Trump is green-lighting the sale of even more of these  chips. If you are worried about allowing China to dominate in AI, with  all of the troubling prospects of that domination, then this reversal  from the administration is a huge step toward enabling that Chinese  dominance. Every chip Donald Trump allows Nvidia to sell to Chinese  competitors is one more boost to Beijing in the race for AI dominance.

The administration's capitulation keeps going. As part of trade talks  with Beijing, they are also undermining export controls of U.S.  technologies deemed to be critical for our national security. This  sends an unmistakable message to adversaries around the world:  America's national security is open to negotiation under Donald Trump's  government.

The administration should revert to its original decision, in April,  to block the sale of these chips to the Chinese Government. Donald  Trump should stop giving the Chinese Government leverage in the race  for technologies of the future.