One Big Beautiful Bill


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693133/one-big-beautiful-bill


Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, it has been a pretty rough week for  Donald Trump's so-called Beautiful Bill. As everyone watching can tell,  things haven't gone according to plan. The bill has been bucking under  its own weight, the delays have piled up, and it is obvious large  chunks of the Republican conference don't like their own bill.

But, of course, we are hearing that Republicans may still try to  bring this legislation to the floor as soon as tomorrow. That is not  real legislating. This is a total rush job. This is Donald Trump  bullying Senate Republicans to get a bill passed no matter what is  actually in it, and this is Republican leadership perhaps daring their  own members who are deeply worried about this bill to oppose it on the  floor.

So if Republicans do, in fact, proceed very soon, let me remind them  about the consequences of passing this bill. It will be a disaster for  families, for the economy, and even for Republicans themselves. It rips  healthcare from 16 million people. It is the biggest cuts ever to food  funding. It raises energy prices and surrenders American energy  leadership to China. And it rewards the ultrarich.

Republicans should abandon these destructive policies. But, of  course, they aren't doing that. Instead of fixing their bill,  Republicans want to rush it because they don't want the American people  to find what is in it. And their fears are certainly justified because  the more and more that Americans look at this bill, the more and more  they despise it. It steals their Medicaid. It jacks up their premiums.  It takes away their jobs. And it gives trillions away to billionaires  and special interests. This is a nonsense and destructive piece of  legislation, and it makes no sense for Republicans to scramble to pass  it.

There is nothing inherently critical about July 4. Even Donald Trump,  2 hours ago, admitted the July 4 deadline is a fake. And yet, here they  are, rushing, scrambling, and twisting themselves into knots to try and  salvage a bill they know will hurt both their constituents and their  own political futures. Republicans aren't just lying to their  constituents, frankly; they are lying to themselves because this bill  is wholly toxic.

Here is what Republicans should do. They should not let Donald Trump  bully them. They should hold firm and tell Donald Trump his Big  Beautiful Bill is a disaster, a betrayal of the American people.  Republicans should keep their own promises not to cut Medicaid. They  should listen to the critiques of some of their own colleagues like  Senator Tillis, who reportedly said behind closed doors, ``This will be  devastating to my State,'' or Senator Justice, who said, ``our rural  hospitals are going to have a tough time . . . you may have to hold  your nose and vote for disagreeable policies.''

Senate Republicans should listen to their own words. They should  ignore fake deadlines and stop the rush job.