Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Record of Decision for the Barred Owl


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696462/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-record-of-decision-for-the-barred-owl


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in a few minutes, my good colleague from  New Mexico Senator Lujan will be offering a unanimous consent request,  and I want to thank him for his extraordinary leadership on the issue  of SNAP, leading the way on an urgent issue for millions of Americans.

Now, right now, we are facing down two crises at once: a healthcare  crisis and a hunger crisis, and both are caused by and intensified by  one man and one man only: Donald Trump.

We are now 3 days away from open enrollment, and now, for the first  time in history, a President is refusing to fund SNAP during a  shutdown; 42 million Americans--young children who need food, veterans  who might have PTSD and need help, senior citizens who rely on SNAP to  help feed themselves, and so many others--people who are out of work  because they lost their jobs through no fault of their own--need SNAP.

Why are we not doing it? Not because the money is gone; it is there.  Not because it is not permitted; it is legal. But because Donald Trump  ordered it stopped. It falls on his shoulders.

Let's be clear: This does not need to happen. Never before under any  President, Republican or Democrat, has SNAP been cut off during a  shutdown. We are not talking about--we are talking, with the shutdown,  we all know our position. We need a negotiation, but this SNAP doesn't  have to happen in any case and only because Donald Trump is doing it,  and the Republican leadership goes along with Donald Trump to let SNAP  expire.

Trump did this once before. In 2019, he funded SNAP during his last  shutdown. Back then, Trump kept SNAP funded. This time, he is  deliberately pulling the plug, even though in September he said he  would fund it and could fund it, independent of any shutdown.

Trump is weaponizing hunger. He is using kids and parents as pawns.  Donald Trump is a vindictive politician and a heartless man.

Just a few weeks ago, Trump's own USDA confirmed it had $6 billion in  emergency funds to keep food and aid following. When asked about SNAP,  Trump assured everyone it will be fine; he said it.

Then suddenly, last Friday, Trump ordered USDA to delete the plan,  take it off their website, and refuse to use the money. No reason. No  explanation. Just cruelty. Two-thirds of SNAP recipients are kids,  seniors, or people with disabilities. That is whom Trump is cutting  off: kids who rely on school meals, seniors on fixed incomes, veterans  trying to get by, families trying to get groceries. That is the real- world consequence of Trump's decision.

And while he is manufacturing two crises here at home, where is his  focus? Overseas, on a ballroom, on sending $40 billion to Argentina.

There is money for Argentina but not for SNAP? And the Argentina  money far exceeds the money needed for SNAP by at least a whole month.

Every President before, Democrat and Republican, has used the same  funds to keep families fed. Trump could fix this today with one stroke  of his pen. We don't have to wait; we don't have to discuss; we don't  have to deliberate.

Let's be clear: Republicans have been on a crusade against SNAP all  year. They have slashed it by a historic $200 billion this summer in  their so-called Big Beautiful Bill to pay for tax cuts for  billionaires. And now they are doubling down, using the shutdown to  devastate families and leave kids hungry.

It is heartless; it is cynical; and it is wrong. Well, Senate  Democrats are not waiting, and that is why I am so grateful for Senator  Lujan.

In a few minutes, we will force a vote to avert this avoidable  crisis. I thank Senator Lujan. I thank him for championing the Keep  SNAP and WIC Funded Act, which will make sure that 42 million Americans  don't lose their benefits. It will make sure 7 million moms  and babies on WIC aren't left behind. It is simple. It is moral. It is  urgent.

If the other side wouldn't block it, I bet you it would pass  overwhelmingly.

There is another bill by Senator Hawley a Republican, conservative. I  believe it has 11 Republican cosponsors already. It is another bill  that could pass. It doesn't have WIC, but it does have SNAP.

Democrats are ready to do what every President in American history  has done except for Trump; avert this problem. We are willing to work  with anyone to get this bill on the floor and stop this cruelty.

But right now, unfortunately, Senate Republicans are frozen,  paralyzed by fear or cynicism, while enabling Trump to use millions of  hungry Americans as political hostages. Senate Republicans should let  this bill pass.

Mr. President, I yield to Senator Lujan for the unanimous consent  request.