Secretary Hegseth


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697173/secretary-hegseth


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on Hegseth, I want to say a word about  Secretary Hegseth. I don't think we have ever seen someone so  unserious, so childish, so obviously insecure serving as Secretary of  Defense as Pete Hegseth, and that should alarm every single one of us.

Secretary Hegseth loves to look tough. He loves to boast about the  lethality of our forces. He wants to be taken seriously, but yesterday  he posted a ridiculous tweet of a cartoon turtle firing on alleged drug  traffickers--a sick parody of a well-known children's book. This man is  a national embarrassment. Tweeting memes in the middle of a potential  armed conflict is something no serious leader would ever even think of  doing. The only thing this tweet accomplishes is to remind the world  that Pete Hegseth is not up to the job.

But, of course, this is much more serious than memes on twitter. A  few days ago, the Washington Post reported that Secretary Hegseth gave  a spoken directive to kill all the occupants of the first alleged drug  boat struck by U.S. forces. If the reports in the Washington Post are  accurate, this may expose those involved to legal consequences.

What we need right now more than anything else is the truth, the  facts, which is precisely what Secretary Hegseth has refused to give.

There are tapes in the possession of the Department of Defense that  would show exactly what happened during these military strikes.  Secretary Hegseth has an obligation to be truthful, so he should  release those tapes. He says the Washington Post account is not  correct, so why not release the tapes and prove it? If he refuses to  release these tapes, it calls into question the truthfulness of his  account.

The tapes will show one way or the other what happened and whether  Hegseth is telling the truth. If Secretary Hegseth has nothing to hide,  he should not fear being truthful.

In the meantime, Republicans in the House and Senate, including the  chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, have promised  ``vigorous oversight'' on these strikes. This is very encouraging, and  I thank them for working in a bipartisan way on this matter. But now  Republicans in both Chambers must follow through. We need congressional  hearings. We need full and transparent briefings from the Pentagon.  Most importantly, the committees should continue to demand that  Secretary Hegseth release--release--the tapes.

This is such a serious matter that Secretary Hegseth himself should  come before the Congress to testify under oath about the nature of his  order, the evidence supporting the strikes, and an explanation for what  the goals are in Venezuela.

With our troops standing on a knife's edge in the Caribbean, we need  a Secretary of Defense who can prove himself to be serious, sober- minded, and someone of high character. Sadly, Hegseth has the opposite  of each of these qualities.