Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696451/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first, I want to thank our great Senators  Klobuchar and Kaine and Wyden for leading the charge here on the Senate  floor against Donald Trump's destructive, self-defeating, and often  utterly juvenile trade war.

Today, the Senate will vote to end Donald Trump's national emergency  declaration against Canada and put a stop to the asinine trade war with  our neighbors to the north. This has been the most peaceful  relationship over the centuries, and Donald Trump seems to throw a hand  grenade to undo that relationship. We need to put a stop to this  asinine trade war with our neighbors to the north.

And if Americans want proof that Donald Trump's trade war has been a  catastrophe, consider this: While he capitulates to Beijing, he is  raising tariffs on Canada.

How nonsensical. How stupid. How thoughtless.

Canada--one of our strongest allies, one of our most important  trading partners. I don't know of two large economies that are more  entwined than America's and Canada's. And after a year and a half of  failed trade war, Americans have not gotten liberation. Instead,  Americans have been saddled with a national sales tax. That is what  Trump's tariffs are, a national sales tax on Americans.

The average family--America, listen to this--the average family,  American family, is paying $2,000 more a year thanks to Trump's  tariffs. Our farmers are taking a beating.

In New York, Donald Trump's 35 percent tariffs on Canada have been  devastating. We depend on tourism. More than a quarter of the tourists  who visit Niagara Falls and the wine country in the Finger Lakes region  are from Canada. So many from Canada flood New York City every year.  And yet, this year, tourism and border crossings are down 20 percent.  Western New York and Buffalo depend on those border crossings all the  time.

Trade between our Nations has been hurt. Jobs have been squandered.  The economy of every northern border State--as with Minnesota--has  suffered.

And now Donald Trump wants to add another 10 percent tariff on Canada  because his feelings were hurt over an ad featuring Ronald Reagan. Can  you imagine what an infantile leader we have in America? He sees an ad  and then hurts the American people with these tariffs.

Yes, that is right. Donald Trump's pride has become so fragile that  he is threatening to increase tariffs on Canada by another 10 percent,  from 35 percent to 45 percent. Why? Simply because the government of  Ontario released an ad that included a radio address from President  Reagan, warning about the danger of tariffs, and, apparently, that got  Donald Trump's feelings all hurt.

Trump is letting his delicate little ego drive U.S. trade, whether it  is with Brazil, Argentina, or with Canada. The consequence is that  Americans are paying more.

This isn't a laughing matter, really--no. Struggling families have to  pay thousands of dollars more each year because Donald Trump doesn't  like the internal goings on in Canada or Argentina or Brazil. That  hurts Americans, and we pay more for construction materials, for  aluminum, for paper, and so much more.

But do you know what? The truth hurts. What President Reagan said,  back in those years, about the danger of tariffs was true back then and  remains true today. And I know my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  disagree.

It's an       important visit, because while I expect to take up our       relations with our good friend Japan, which overall remain       excellent, recent disagreements between our two countries on       the issue of trade will also be high on our agenda.

As perhaps you've heard, last week I placed new duties on       some Japanese products in response to Japan's inability to       enforce their trade agreement with us on electronic devices       called semiconductors. Now, imposing such tariffs or trade       barriers and restrictions of any kind are steps that I am       loath to take. And in a moment I'll mention the sound       economic reasons for this: that over the long run such trade       barriers hurt every American       worker and consumer. But the Japanese semiconductors were a       special case. We had clear evidence that Japanese companies       were engaging in unfair trade practices that violated an       agreement between Japan and the United States. We expect our       trading partners to live up to their agreements. As I've       often said: Our commitment to free trade is also a commitment       to fair trade.

But you know, in imposing these tariffs we were just trying       to deal with a particular problem, not begin a trade war. So,       next week I'll be giving Prime Minister Nakasone this same       message: We want to continue to work cooperatively on trade       problems and want very much to lift these trade restrictions       as soon as evidence permits. We want to do this, because we       feel both Japan and the United States have an obligation to       promote the prosperity and economic development that only       free trade can bring.

Now, that message of free trade is one I conveyed to       Canada's leaders a few weeks ago, and it was warmly received       there. Indeed, throughout the world there's a growing       realization that the way to prosperity for all nations is       rejecting protectionist legislation and promoting fair and       free competition. Now, there are sound historical reasons for       this. For those of us who lived through the Great Depression,       the memory of the suffering it caused is deep and searing.       And today many economic analysts and historians argue that       high tariff legislation passed back in that period called the       Smoot-Hawley tariff greatly deepened the depression and       prevented economic recovery.

You see, at first, when someone says, ``Let's impose       tariffs on foreign imports,'' it looks like they're doing the       patriotic thing by protecting American products and jobs. And       sometimes for a short while it works--but only for a short       time. What eventually occurs is: First, homegrown industries       start relying on government protection in the form of high       tariffs. They stop competing and stop making the innovative       management and technological changes they need to succeed in       world markets. And then, while all this is going on,       something even worse occurs. High tariffs inevitably lead to       retaliation by foreign countries and the triggering of fierce       trade wars. The result is more and more tariffs, higher and       higher trade barriers, and less and less competition. So,       soon, because of the prices made artificially high by tariffs       that subsidize inefficiency and poor management, people stop       buying. Then the worst happens: Markets shrink and collapse;       businesses and industries shut down; and millions of people       lose their jobs.

The memory of all this occurring back in the thirties made       me determined when I came to Washington to spare the American       people the protectionist legislation that destroys       prosperity. Now, it hasn't always been easy. There are those       in this Congress, just as there were back in the thirties,       who want to go for the quick political advantage, who will       risk America's prosperity for the sake of a short-term appeal       to some special interest group, who forget that more than 5       million American jobs are directly tied to the foreign export       business and additional millions are tied to imports. Well,       I've never forgotten those jobs. And on trade issues, by and       large, we've done well. In certain select cases, like the       Japanese semiconductors, we've taken steps to stop unfair       practices against American products, but we've still       maintained our basic, long-term commitment to free trade and       economic growth.

So, with my meeting with Prime Minister Nakasone and the       Venice economic summit coming up, it's terribly important not       to restrict a President's options in such trade dealings with       foreign governments. Unfortunately, some in the Congress are       trying to do exactly that. I'll keep you informed on this       dangerous legislation, because it's just another form of       protectionism and I may need your help to stop it. Remember,       America's jobs and growth are at stake.

Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.

Mr. SCHUMER. Yesterday, the Senate came together in a bipartisan way  to pass legislation to end Donald Trump's bogus emergency declaration  in Brazil, under the leadership of Senator Kaine. Today, we can take  the next step to reverse Trump's trade war on one of America's most  important allies, under the leadership of Senator Klobuchar. I urge--I  urge--my Republican colleagues to join Democrats once again to think  about the families back home that are hurt by Trump's tariffs and put  an end to Trump's tariff war on Canada.

Enough is enough.