Veterans' Administration


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the VA workforce--Donald Trump and  Secretary Collins are manufacturing a cynical staffing crisis at the  Veterans' Administration.

Earlier this year, we learned that Secretary Collins announced plans  for a wide-scale, 80,000-plus employee reduction of the workforce at  the VA, putting the well-being of our veterans at immediate risk. There  was never any transparency for these plans, and many of the decisions  were clearly done haphazardly, without thinking through the  consequences.

Yesterday, the VA released another alarming announcement, saying they  are on pace to lose 30,000 staffers without having to resort to a  reduction in force--as if that made things better. They proposed  80,000, and because of huge pressure--mainly from our veterans and our  veterans groups--they backed off. But make no mistake about it, a cut  of 30,000 will decimate the ability of the VA to provide good  healthcare to our veterans, who have risked their lives for us.

Secretary Collins is making the VA so toxic that workers are leaving  on their own. The workers--I have talked  to so many of them--are dedicated to helping our veterans, and when  they see the administration just slashing and burning the VA without  any concern for the consequences or why people were fired--the bottom  line is still this: Thanks to Donald Trump and Secretary Collins, tens  of thousands of highly skilled workers are exiting the VA, and our  veterans are the ones that suffer.

I have heard this from veterans over and over again. One story sticks  out in my mind. A woman who served in Afghanistan got PTSD and was  treated at the VA hospital near Buffalo, and then, because she saw the  dedication of those VA workers, she became an employee. She worked  really hard. She was dedicated to the veterans. She knew she could  probably make more money in another job. But she got home one Friday  night and saw on her computer ``You are RIF'd''--which means you are  fired--with no reason why and not even a chance to come back into the  office to pick up her mementos she had there--pictures of her loved  ones.

Donald Trump likes to pretend that he cares about our armed services  members and veterans, but actions speak louder than words, and Donald  Trump's actions when it comes to sabotaging the VA are disgusting. And  the worst part about what is happening at the VA is the timing. While  Donald Trump creates a staffing crisis at the VA, his big, ugly bill  will jeopardize Medicaid coverage for veterans as well as shut down  hospitals that serve veterans and thereby put even more strain on the  VA. It is a vicious cycle, a cynical double whammy where veterans pay  the ultimate price for Donald Trump's cruelty.

The administration should immediately reverse course and refill these  positions and make sure the VA operates at full capacity.