Working Families Tax Cut Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701777/working-families-tax-cut-act


Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on tax day, not a single American would  say that tax day is their favorite date on the calendar. Republicans,  however, seem to think today will mark an inflection point in their  political fortunes. Evidently, they haven't been paying much attention.

When Republicans passed the One Big Beautiful Bill, they promised  Americans that their tax refunds would grow  by a thousand dollars, on average. Well, the results are in, and the  massive tax relief Republicans promised has turned out to be a dud.

Refunds, on average, have changed only by a third, about $350, and  Americans need every penny they can get, but a couple of hundred  dollars doesn't go very far on a tax break when the average American  family will pay an extra $2,000 on tariff taxes and $740 this year to  fill up their tank.

That is right. Donald Trump's war in Iran alone has wiped out any tax  refund Americans will see this year.

Let me say that again: Donald Trump's war in Iran alone has wiped out  any extra tax refund Americans will see this year, and that is not  including all the increases they are paying because of tariffs and  higher electric bills and what they are doing to healthcare.

No wonder only one in four Americans believe the One Big Beautiful  Bill is helpful, only one in four. That means there are some  Republicans who don't like it. Seven in ten Americans, meanwhile, say  they are still paying too much in taxes. Seven in ten Americans say  they are paying too much in taxes while the ultrawealthy aren't paying  their fair share.

And they are right. Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill has been a dud for  working families, but millionaires got a $300,000 tax cut. Big  corporations got a tax cut of $65 billion. Republicans want to call  their bill a working- and middle-class tax cut, but truth be told, it  should be called a massive giveaway to the ultra-ultrawealthy. The  lion's share of the benefits go to those at the very top, while  inflation and Trump's war has eviscerated any shred of benefit felt by  the rest of Americans.

That is not tax relief. That is not tax relief. That is a brazen  betrayal of working Americans. If Republicans think that rebranding  their toxic bill will make Americans forget the economic pit that Trump  and the Republicans pushed them into, they will be sorely mistaken.