Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise today in strong support of Joshua  Dunlap to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.

Josh is an attorney of extraordinary intelligence, extensive  experience, and demonstrated integrity. He is highly respected in the  legal community throughout the State of Maine, and I urge my colleagues  to support his nomination to the First Circuit.

Josh grew up in Vassalboro, ME, and now lives in Scarborough with his  wife Sydney and their three children.

He graduated first in his class from Notre Dame Law School, where he  received the law school's highest honor, awarded to the student with  the most distinguished academic record.

He then clerked for Judge Paul Kelly of the U.S. Court of Appeals for  the Tenth Circuit.

In 2009, Josh joined the very well respected law firm Pierce Atwood  in Portland, ME. During his 16 years at the firm, he has specialized in  complex civil litigation matters and currently serves as cochair of the  firm's appellate team.

Josh is admitted to practice in multiple U.S. courts of appeal and  the U.S. Supreme Court. He has also assisted special masters in three  original jurisdiction proceedings before the Supreme Court.

Finally, Josh also chairs the Maine Appellate Rules Committee, to  which he was appointed by the Maine Supreme Judicial Court.

This impressive experience, coupled with his intelligence and  integrity, makes Josh exceptionally well qualified to serve on the  First Circuit. His substantial appellate litigation experience will  also bring a practitioner's perspective to the court.

The nonpartisan American Bar Association unanimously rated Josh as  ``well qualified'' to serve on the First Circuit. I would note that  that is the highest possible rating for a judicial nominee. It reflects  the ABA's assessment of his integrity, experience, and temperament.

There were several compelling letters of support submitted to the  Senate Judiciary Committee in favor of Josh's nomination, and I would  like to highlight a couple of them.

A diverse group of faculty and alumni from his law school who taught  Josh or studied alongside him praised him for his ``respect for  differing views'' and ``deep appreciation for the rule of law.''

A letter signed by a group of leading Maine attorneys who describe  themselves as representing a broad spectrum of political views and  legal philosophies wrote that Josh has all the qualities the very  finest judges exhibit: He is hard-working, courteous, and judicial in  temperament, very smart, and of sterling character, with a commitment  to fairness and the rule of law.

At his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee,  Josh testified that Mainers are famously independent and that he  suspects that characterizes him as well. That is exactly what we want  in a judge.

Maine is proud of our history of supplying superb, well-qualified,  independent-minded jurists to the Federal bench. I know that Josh will  continue in that fine tradition. I urge all of my colleagues to vote in  favor of his nomination, for he truly deserves bipartisan support.

Mr. President, seeing that there are no other speakers, I would ask  unanimous consent that the already scheduled vote begin immediately.