Child Predators Accountability Act


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from North  Carolina for his work on this bill and the bipartisan work from the  Subcommittee on Crime and Federal Government Surveillance, which has  worked on this, and I appreciate that very much.

The ranking member, the whole committee, and the entire Committee on  the Judiciary has banded together, which if you ever watched the  Judiciary Committee, you would know that this is a remarkable time.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the support that we have here because  anyone who exploits a child for sexual purposes must face full  accountability and must face the full measure of the law.

There cannot be loopholes or technicalities that would let predators  slip through the cracks, and when we find them, this body has to fix  that. Protecting minors from sexual exploitation remains a core  priority for our Subcommittee on Crime and Federal Government  Surveillance.

A recent decision by the Seventh Circuit in United States v. Howard  exposed a dangerous gap in current law. Both of the previous speakers  have spoken to that, but that really is the crux of this. The court  overturned a conviction for producing child sexual abuse material  because the minor--a sleeping, clothed child--was merely present in the  video, not touched, actively involved, or engaged.

In that case, the defendant filmed himself in sexual conduct near his  9-year-old niece. The court ruled that he did not use her under  existing statute because she was passive. That interpretation is  utterly unacceptable.

Predators should not evade justice simply because the child whom they  exploit is unaware. The harm is real. The intent is clear. This  loophole weakens 18 United States Code, section 2251(a), and related  statutes, making it harder to prosecute offenders and easier for  exploiters to walk free and then exploit others and create more  victims.

The Child Predators Accountability Act of 2025 closes this gap by  clarifying that a minor is engaged in sexually explicit conduct when  the offender intentionally includes the child in the depiction, even  passively. This is a straightforward, bipartisan fix that ensures that  Federal law captures these heinous acts and imposes the penalties that  they deserve.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I commend law enforcement for  their tireless work of protecting children, and I commend the work of  this committee and the lead sponsor of this bill, Mr. Harris.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6715 so that every  child predator is fully held to account. Let's do this today. Let's get  it out of the Senate quickly and get it up to the President's desk to  be signed and enacted immediately.