Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Chairman, nationwide injunctions are highly  disfavored. There was a time that people across both sides of the aisle  here recognized that.

A certain judge named Boasberg continually exercises those nationwide  injunctions, and that wouldn't necessarily be a problem, except he has  repeatedly displayed bias and partisanship.

For instance, without substance or evidence, he complained to Chief  Justice Roberts that he didn't think President Trump would comply with  judicial orders. That displayed his bias, Mr. Chairman. That displayed  his partisanship.

Without legal authority and without precedent, Judge Boasberg ordered  the government to turn around planes that were in international  airspace, conducting a military operation. That is what he insisted  upon.

The appellate court rejected Judge Boasberg's theories regarding that  incident. Do you know what Judge Boasberg did? He didn't care what the  appellate court said because he is biased. He is prejudiced. Judge  Boasberg ordered the Trump administration to come in and explain  further why they violated what he felt was his authority, which the  appellate court said was not rational.

Judge Boasberg is the one who issued surveillance subpoenas against  Members of this body and the United States Senate, against Federal law,  Mr. Chair. It was against Federal law.

Judge Boasberg issued nondisclosure orders.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Chair, when we see this pattern and we know  that he has displayed and said that he has bias against President  Trump, he no longer is a fair arbiter, and he must be reckoned with.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of my  friend, Representative Crane's, amendment.

I take umbrage with the last comments made. If this was such a  doggone great program, then why has it been unauthorized by this body  for more than 20 years? The reason is it has lost its moorings. It is  wandering around. It hasn't complied with transparency requirements. It  more closely resembles covert political operations designed to entangle  the United States in foreign disputes and undermine diplomatic efforts  than support them.

Their board and staff overwhelmingly donate to Democratic candidates.  They even demanded the removal of Congresswoman Elise Stefanik from the  board for defending President Trump, a clear sign of ideological  capture, and that is the biggest problem. They have lost their way.  They cannot be trusted. We should not give them another dime.

Ms. LOIS FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the  gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the ranking member of the  Appropriations Committee.