Protect America's Workforce Act


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

This bill would nullify President Trump's Executive Order No. 14251,  which rightly excluded 40 national security agencies from collective  bargaining.

Agencies like FEMA, the Coast Guard, the CDC, and the VA cannot  afford to be paralyzed by union red tape when lives are on the line.

I want to emphasize that this is going to nullify an executive order.  It is going to attack his agenda, the America First agenda, that he was  overwhelmingly elected to enact.

These unions are not neutral actors. The word ``billionaires'' was  mentioned by my colleague from California. I am glad he mentioned the  term ``billion,'' because that is what the partisan machine government  union spent in the last election, just under $1 billion, $980 million  of it going to Democrats, which explains in no small measure the  rationale for the movement of this bill to negate President Trump's  executive order.

In its final days, the Biden administration rushed to lock in long- term union contracts designed to tie President Trump's hands for a  second term.

H.R. 2550 preserves those deals signed after President Trump was  reelected but before Inauguration Day. That undermines the will of the  voters and the authority of the Commander in Chief. It is legislative  sabotage, and we shouldn't give in to that.

The Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 explicitly gives the President  authority to exclude agencies from collective bargaining when national  security is at stake. This would undo that.

Presidents from Carter to Reagan to Trump have exercised this  authority. Courts have already sided with President Trump, affirming  that in matters of national security, the President enjoys ``unique  responsibility.''

Arizona knows too well the cost of bureaucratic failure. The Phoenix  VA scandal shows what happens when accountability is lost. Veterans  died waiting for care.

We must not allow unions to dictate policy if it is going to impact  national security, if it is going to affect our borders, if it is going  to affect our energy, and if it is going to affect protecting Americans  during pandemics.

In a State where public safety and national defense are daily  realities, my State, this bill would put union bosses ahead of the  American people and in front of Arizonans.

In 2024 alone, the political arm of the Democratic Party, the four  largest public-sector unions, spent $900 million-plus on progressive  politics, and 86 percent of it came from their member dues. They are  using taxpayer-backed salaries to fund partisan activism, not to serve  the American people.

H.R. 2550 strips the President of his constitutional authority,  undermines national security, and rewards partisan obstruction.  President Trump is trying to fulfill his duty to protect the American  people. Congress should not stand in his way.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stand with the President, put  America's security ahead of union politics, and vote ``no.''