Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Texas, Mr.  Roy, for yielding 2 minutes to me.

Mr. Speaker, I will say this. This is really humorous to hear the  machinations and the twisting and goings-on from our friends across the  aisle. As they say, this is too much.

Mr. Schumer denigrated Black people and basically said they can't get  the IDs. Kamala Harris said rural folks can't get IDs. It is just too  hard. That is BS. They know it is BS. The American people know it is  BS. It is exactly why 85 percent of Americans say we need to do this.

Let me just say that I come from a State that is the most unique  State in the country because we have been, for years, requiring proof  of citizenship when a person registers for a State ballot. We have to  do that in Arizona, and we have had no suppression. We are the only  State that does it because the Supreme Court ruled that way. Somehow,  we can't do it for Federal ballots?

Mr. Speaker, think about that. For an alderman or legislator in  Arizona, we have to show proof of citizenship to register to vote. We  can't do it for the President, though. How absurd is that?

We have had no problems. There has been no voter suppression. They  want to make it an issue because they don't want that proof, and we  need to have that proof. Every rational American knows it is not  suppression. It is common sense. That is why we need to show ID when we  vote. It is popular in Arizona. It is popular across the country.

We need to show our citizenship when we register to vote. That is  what has to happen in Arizona. It will work across the country. There  is not a doubt in my mind, and I urge passage of this bill.