Recognizing My Congressional Staff in Honor of National Employee Appreciation Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688691/recognizing-my-congressional-staff-in-honor-of-national-employee-appreciation-day


Ms. ROSS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my profound  appreciation for the staff who serve the people of the Second District  of North Carolina.

This is an exceptionally challenging time for public servants in  America. Congressional staff are no exception. Yet, despite an  increasingly hostile political environment, my office continues to  deliver superlative results for my constituents.

Last year, my district staff hosted or attended almost 200 events in  Wake County, closed more than 1,500 constituent cases, and returned  more than $22.3 million in federal benefits to the people of North  Carolina. Over the same period, the staff in my Washington, D.C. office  researched hundreds of policy questions, drafted 32 bills, amendments,  and resolutions, and responded to more than 43,000 messages from  constituents.

These numbers are an impressive but inadequate measure of my staff's  contributions. In ways large and small--sometimes splashed on the  frontpage of the newspaper but more often known only to a single  family--they touch the lives of the people I represent.

Their service isn't just about providing information on legislation  or assistance with benefits. In moments of hardship and frustration, my  staff offer hope and wise counsel. They make people feel heard and  understood and appreciated. In a very practical sense, they make real  our Constitution's promise to every American of the right to ``petition  the Government for a redress of grievances.''

Mr. Speaker, in recognition of their dedicated service and long hours  on behalf of the people of North Carolina, I wish to include in the  Record the names of each staffer currently employed by my office:

Puj Adusumilli, Kimberly Moore, Nadia Alston, Samantha Crane,  Caroline Spencer Sparks, Josie Feron, Maura Haydin Thompson, Walker  Beard, Tom Koester, Matthew Lee, Katie Paulson, Ally Tannenbaum, Jackie  Gonzalez, Daphne Moore, Bardia Asefnia, Huston Wallace, Sam Upah, Alisa  Sarkisian-Tatarian, Sophia Jacome, Sophie MacOmber, Erendira Ramirez,  Easton Inman, and Chalina Morgan-Lopez.

Mr. Speaker, March 7th was National Employee Appreciation Day. On  that day and every day, I am grateful that my staff have chosen to  invest so much of their precious time and talent to making a difference  for North Carolina. Their enthusiasm energizes me. Their creativity  inspires me. At this difficult time, their positivity in the face of so  much turmoil fills me with hope for the future.