Providing for Consideration of H.R. DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Policing Protection Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lowering Age At Which A Minor May Be Tried As Adult for Certain Criminal Offenses in District of Columbia; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Guaranteeing Reliability Through the Interconnection of Dispatchable Power Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. National Coal Council Reestablishment Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695524/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-dc-criminal-reforms-to-immediately-make-everyone-safe-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-policing-protection-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-lowering-age-at-which-a-minor-may-be-tried-as-adult-for-certain-criminal-offenses-in-district-of-columbia-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-judicial-nominations-reform-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-guaranteeing-reliability-through-the-interconnection-of-dispatchable-power-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-national-coal-council-reestablishment-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-promoting-cross-border-energy-infrastructure-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 707 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 707

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House any bill specified in       section 2 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such bill are waived. Respective       amendments in the nature of a substitute consisting of the       text of the Rules Committee Print specified in section 3 of       this resolution shall be considered as adopted. Each such       bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in each such bill, as amended, are       waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on each such bill, as amended, and on any further amendment       thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except:       (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the       chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  The bills referred to in the first section of this       resolution are as follows:

(a) The bill (H.R. 4922) to limit youth offender status in       the District of Columbia to individuals 18 years of age or       younger, to direct the Attorney General of the District of       Columbia to establish and operate a publicly accessible       website containing updated statistics on juvenile crime in       the District of Columbia, to amend the District of Columbia       Home Rule Act to prohibit the Council of the District of       Columbia from enacting changes to existing criminal liability       sentences, and for other purposes.

(b) The bill (H.R. 5143) to establish standards for law       enforcement officers in the District of Columbia to engage in       vehicular pursuits of suspects, and for other purposes.

(c) The bill (H.R. 5140) to lower the age at which a minor       may be tried as an adult for certain criminal offenses in the       District of Columbia to 14 years of age.

(d) The bill (H.R. 5125) to amend the District of Columbia       Home Rule Act to terminate the District of Columbia Judicial       Nomination Commission, and for other purposes.

Sec. 3.  The Rules Committee Prints referred to in the       first section of this resolution are as follows:

(a) With respect to H.R. 4922, Rules Committee Print 119-      10.

(b) With respect to H.R. 5143, Rules Committee Print 119-      11.

(c) With respect to H.R. 5140, Rules Committee Print 119-      12.

(d) With respect to H.R. 5125, Rules Committee Print 119-      13.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1047) to       require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to reform       the interconnection queue process for the prioritization and       approval of certain projects, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Energy and Commerce now       printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a       substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print       119-9 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended,       shall be considered as read. All points of order against       provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as       amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 5.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3015) to       reestablish the National Coal Council in the Department of       Energy to provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary       of Energy on matters related to coal and the coal industry,       and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the       nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy       and Commerce now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 6.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3062) to       establish a more uniform, transparent, and modern process to       authorize the construction, connection, operation, and       maintenance of international border-crossing facilities for       the import and export of oil and natural gas and the       transmission of electricity. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the       nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Energy       and Commerce now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 7.  In the engrossment of the bill (H.R. 3633) to       provide for a system of regulation of the offer and sale of       digital commodities by the Securities and Exchange Commission       and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and for other       purposes, the Clerk shall--

(a) add the text of the bill (H.R. 1919) to amend the       Federal Reserve Act to prohibit the Federal reserve banks       from offering certain products or services directly to an       individual, to prohibit the use of central bank digital       currency for monetary policy, and for other purposes, as       passed by the House, as new matter at the end of H.R. 3633;

(b) conform the title of H.R. 3633 to reflect the addition       of H.R. 1919, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;

(c) assign appropriate designations to provisions within       the engrossment;

(d) conform cross-references and provisions for short       titles within the engrossment; and

(e) be authorized to make technical corrections, to include       corrections in spelling, punctuation, page and line       numbering, section numbering, and insertion of appropriate       headings.

Sec. 8.  Section 5 of House Resolution 354, agreed to April       29, 2025, is amended by striking ``September 30, 2025'' and       inserting ``March 31, 2026''.

Sec. 9.  Section 2 of House Resolution 313, agreed to April       9, 2025, is amended by striking ``September 30, 2025'' and       inserting ``March 31, 2026''.

Sec. 10.  Section 4 of House Resolution 211, agreed to       March 11, 2025, is amended by striking ``for the remainder of       the first session of the 119th Congress'' and inserting       ``during the period from March 11, 2025, through March 31,       2026''.

Sec. 11.  The provisions of section 202 of the National       Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622) shall not apply during the       period from September 16, 2025, through March 31, 2026, to a       joint resolution terminating the national emergency declared       by the President on July 30, 2025.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from  Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as  I may consume. During consideration of this resolution, all time  yielded is for the purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 707 provides for  consideration of seven measures. The rule provides for consideration of  H.R. 4922, H.R. 5140, H.R. 5143, and H.R. 5125 under a closed rule with  1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and the  ranking member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or  their respective designees.

The rule provides each bill with one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 3015, H.R. 3062, and  H.R. 1047 under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate each equally  divided and controlled by the chair and the ranking minority member of  the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their designees.

The rule provides each bill with one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides that in the engrossment of H.R. 3633, the  Clerk shall add the text of H.R. 1919 as passed by the House as a new  matter at the end of H.R. 3633.

Further, the rule tolls the day counts regarding resolutions of  inquiry until March 31, 2026.

Finally, the rule tolls the day counts until March 31, 2026,  regarding joint resolutions terminating the national emergencies  declared by the President on February 1, 2025; April 2, 2025; and July  30, 2025.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the  underlying legislation. The rule before us provides an opportunity for  Congress to reverse the disastrous energy and crime policies left  behind by the previous administration and restore accountability where  needed the most.

For far too long, the American people have been forced to live under  a regulatory agenda that drove up costs, weakened our grid, and made  our communities less safe. These measures begin to roll back that  damage and put us on a stronger and safer trajectory.

To restore accountability in our energy policies, this rule provides  for consideration of H.R. 3015, the National Coal Council  Reestablishment Act. This legislation permanently restores the National  Coal Council, an advisory body for nearly four decades, providing  expert recommendations on matters affecting the American coal sector.

Established in 1984, the council delivered 40 reports to the  Secretary of Energy on coal markets, research and development into  clean coal technologies, and regulatory barriers that affect the coal  industry.

However, in 2021, at the behest of leftwing organizations, the Biden  administration disregarded this history and disbanded the council,  replacing it with an advisory body charged with fulfilling the left's  Green New Deal agenda. Make no mistake. This was not about policy, it  was about shutting coal out of the conversation, an essential piece of  our Nation's energy matrix.

The United States is home to the world's largest coal reserves, with  approximately 440 years' worth of supply at current production levels.  Today, our fleet of over 400 coal-fired power plants provide 16 percent  of America's electricity, and in five States, coal provides more than  one-half. In 17 States it provides more than 20 percent. Together, the  coal industry supports hundreds of thousands of jobs, lifts up small  communities across the country, and provides affordable and reliable  baseload power that helps keep prices stable.

Premature retirements of coal plants are being driven by Federal and  State policies that intentionally attack their financial viability, yet  the demand for electricity is only going up.

Since 2022, the retirement of 29,000 megawatts of coal capacity has  been delayed because of rising demand and insufficient replacement  resources. To put it bluntly, removing coal from the grid at this  moment in time would lead to higher costs and greater instability for  families and businesses. This is a reality that my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle refuse to acknowledge.

In New York we are already seeing what these anti-energy radical  policies have done: shutting down production of reliable baseload power  in favor of pursuing unrealistic and dangerous green agenda items.

Now, despite widespread public opposition, Governor Kathy Hochul and  Albany Democrats are moving forward with a ban on natural gas and  propane hookups in new construction starting in 2026. That means  families in western New York, where winters are long, snow is great,  and it is cold and oftentimes dangerous in these terrible winter  storms, they will be denied the ability to choose the energy source  that best keeps them safe and warm in their homes. Taking affordable  and reliable options off the table is not sound policy.

It is assaults like this on consumer choice and on the freedom to use  reliable, affordable energy like coal and natural gas that leave people  more vulnerable when the power goes out. That is why it matters who is  at the table. When it comes to energy policy, this measure makes the  National Coal Council permanent, so future administrations can't simply  shut it down for political reasons.

H.R. 3015 also reinforces President Trump's April 8, 2025, executive  order to reinvigorate America's clean coal industry recognizing that  coal must remain part of our future if we want to ensure future  prosperity, meet rising electricity demands, and lower costs for  families.

By reestablishing the National Coal Council, Congress will ensure  that reliable, affordable baseload power remains a cornerstone of our  energy policy while supporting family-sustaining jobs and fueling next- generation industries like artificial intelligence.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 3062, the Promoting  Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act. This measure creates a  transparent and permanent framework for permitting pipelines and other  cross-border energy projects.

For years, developers have been subject to political gamesmanship,  destroyed investments, and stranded jobs. The cancellation of the  Keystone XL pipeline was not based on science; it was simply based on  politics. The Biden administration sided with radical activists over  American workers in energy security for our country.

We have seen the same story play out in my own State of New York. The  Northern Access pipeline was a major natural gas infrastructure project  that promised thousands of good-paying jobs, more affordable energy for  families across the northeastern United States, and new tax revenue for  rural communities like mine in the southern tier.

However, instead of moving forward, that project was tied up with  endless red tape and obstructed by regulators. Western New York and the  southern tier lost jobs and investment in energy security that would  have come from it. A project that should have supported a large  construction workforce and strengthened our region was derailed again  because of politics.

This is exactly why permitting reform is needed and is needed now.  Without certainty, projects like this will continue to slip away,  taking good jobs and economic growth with them.

Energy developers, workers, and communities all deserve better. Yet  when it comes to the permitting reforms that would actually allow  critical energy projects to move forward, Democrats have consistently  acquiesced to the demands of radical environmental groups instead of  the needs  of American workers and their families.

The result is higher costs and fewer options for American families.  This legislation cuts through that red tape, gives developers  certainty, and ensures critical projects can move forward.

In addition, the rule includes H.R. 1047, the Guaranteeing  Reliability Through the Interconnection of Dispatchable Power Act.

Year after year, projects that would keep the lights on and lower  bills are stuck in the interconnection queues and regulatory wait  lists. Sometimes as long as 7 years they are stuck there. That is  simply unacceptable. Families do not care about bureaucratic excuses.  They care about whether their homes are heated in the winter and cooled  in the summer. This legislation cuts through that backlog. It empowers  grid operators to prioritize projects that actually enhance  reliability.

Let us be clear about how we got here. Democrats have spent years  forcing premature retirements of coal, nuclear, and natural gas through  excessive regulation, while shoveling subsidies to wind and solar. The  result is interconnection queues flooded with projects that only have a  5 percent completion rate.

Meanwhile, Democrat policies have left ratepayers footing the bill  for two grids. One grid props up wind and solar with massive  transmission costs. The other is the backup power we all rely on when  the Sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing.

This measure puts reliability first. It follows the lead of major  grid operators who know the danger of relying too heavily on  intermittent sources, and it makes sure that the grid is strong enough  not only to keep the lights on at home but also to power next- generation industries like AI and manufacturing so America, not China,  leads the future.

Mr. Speaker, energy security is, simply put, national security. The  rule before us takes important steps to keep power reliable and  affordable and American made.

But security is not just about the strength of our grid. It is also  about the safety of our communities. Nowhere is that failure of safety  more visible than right here in our Nation's capital.

While Washington should be a place that is showcased as what is the  very best of America, it has instead become a city struggling with  violent crime, juvenile offenses, and weakened law enforcement. The  next measures in this rule take direct aim at those failures and  restore accountability where the D.C. council has refused to act.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 4922, the D.C.  Crimes Act of 2025. This legislation reasserts congressional oversight  over the District by prohibiting the D.C. council from further pursuing  its progressive, soft-on-crime sentencing guidelines.

The council has failed to keep residents and visitors from our  country and from around the world safe. Even as violent crime has  soared, police staffing has dropped to a 50-year low. This measure  takes direct aim at the council's reckless decisions. It lowers the  definition of a youth offender from under 25 to under 18 where it  belongs so that adults are simply treated as adults.

It ends judicial discretion that allows juvenile, violent offenders  to escape mandatory minimums, and it prohibits the council from  weakening mandatory minimums on sentencing guidelines any further.

Make no mistake, carjackings and robberies by juveniles are out of  control. More than 500 minors were arrested for robbery in 2023, and  more carjackings were committed by juveniles. Every American should be  able to visit their Nation's capital without fear of being the next  victim.

We know all too well what happens when local leaders choose leniency  over accountability. In my home State of New York, cashless bail has  unleashed a wave of tragic and entirely preventable outcomes. Governor  Hochul and Democrats have doubled down on procriminal policies that put  violent offenders back on our streets, leaving families and communities  to suffer the consequences. The American people deserve better. New  Yorkers deserve better. People in Washington, D.C., deserve better, and  President Trump has already stepped in to end cashless bail here in  Washington. It is long past time for New York to follow that lead.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 5140, the District  of Columbia juvenile sentencing reform act. Since the pandemic,  juvenile crime has surged. More than 2,000 juveniles were arrested in  both 2023 and 2024. According to the Metropolitan Police Department,  over half of robbery arrests last year were juveniles. This year,  juveniles account for more than half of carjacking arrests. This  legislation responds to that reality.

Current law allows juveniles 16 and older to be tried as adults for  violent crimes. This measure lowers that age to 14. These are not  youthful mistakes. They are violent, life-altering crimes.

Consider the tragic example of Mohammad Anwar, a hardworking  immigrant killed in 2021 by two teenage girls during a carjacking. Both  will be back on the streets by the age of 21.

In July of 2023, another Lyft driver, who previously served as an  interpreter for the U.S. military in Afghanistan, was fatally shot  while driving. The teen responsible was just 14 years old. They were  sentenced to only 3 years of secure detention. Old enough to commit  horrific and senseless murder, yet he will be back on the streets in  just 3 years.

Let me be clear. This legislation applies only to violent crimes:  murder, first degree sexual abuse, burglary in the first degree, and  robbery while armed. These are serious offenses that endanger residents  and visitors to our Nation's capital every day. They demand serious  consequences to truly restore law and order.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 5143, the  District of Columbia Policing Protection Act. In 2023, the council  imposed a set of restrictions that require officers to evaluate a  checklist of 14 factors to decide whether to pursue a fleeing suspect.  One of those factors even requires an officer to determine whether  anyone in the suspect's car had a chance to surrender a weapon. That is  absurd. Officers rarely have time or information to work through such a  checklist when a suspect takes off.

This legislation repeals those restrictions. It restores discretion  to trained officers. It allows pursuit when an officer or supervisor  determines it is necessary, the most effective means of apprehension,  and does not present an unreasonable risk to bystanders. Officers must  be able to act quickly to protect lives, and this measure restores that  authority.

Finally, the rule provides for consideration of H.R. 5125, the  District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act. The Judicial  Nomination Commission currently limits President Trump's choices for  D.C. judges to a very narrow list of names. That process is slow, it is  politicized, and it is very likely unconstitutional under the  appointments clause. The result has been persistent vacancies, clogged  courts, and criminals slipping through the cracks.

This legislation abolishes the commission and restores normal  constitutional processes. The President nominates; the Senate confirms.  That is how it works everywhere else in America, and that is how it  should work right here in D.C. A duly elected President should not be  bound by a bureaucratic commission when choosing judges. By ending this  broken system, we can fill vacancies faster, strengthen courts, and  ensure justice is delivered without delay.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats' soft-on-crime policies have failed in D.C.  just as they have failed in States like New York. These bills hold the  line, restore accountability, and put public safety ahead of politics.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LANGWORTHY.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle love to talk about  affordability. They love to play class warfare, but if Democrats were  serious about lowering costs for working families, then they wouldn't  have spent the last 4 years driving energy prices higher with more  regulations, higher taxes, and subsidies that pick winners and losers.

Families have felt the pain every time they fill up their gas tank,  pay their rising utility bills, or try to keep their lights on in their  small businesses.

Republicans, working with President Trump, are focused on real  solutions: Restoring energy policy that unleashes production here at  home secures our grid, delivers reliable, affordable power that  families and businesses can count on, and creates jobs in the process.  That is exactly what this rule is about.

The three energy bills before us are straightforward. They support  family-sustaining energy jobs. They streamline approvals for cross- border infrastructure and ensure reliable and dispatchable generation  for the grid. Together, they mean lower bills for families, stronger  supply chains, and a more competitive America.

When Democrats talk about affordability, they don't have a leg to  stand on in this fight because it is their assault on the American  energy industry that led to so much of the inflation that this country  suffered under for the last 5 years.

The answer is right here in the rule, and we need to support this  legislation.  I strongly support the legislation and encourage my colleagues to do  the same.

Mr. Speaker, I want to touch on the gentleman's comments on tariffs.

Republicans are doing what Democrats promised the American people for  generations that they would do but utterly failed at: ensuring fair  trade, protecting American workers, and bringing countries to the  negotiating table in the process. For years, Democrats sold a bill of  goods to working-class Americans while they turned a blind eye as their  factories closed and their jobs were shipped overseas.

Today, Democrats claim to be the party of working families, and we  know that is not the case. Yet, it is President Trump, over the  Democrats' loud objections, who is fighting for fair trade deals for  our working families, like the working families in New York's 23rd  Congressional District.

Access to the American economy is a privilege, not a right. President  Trump is using tariffs as leverage to reduce reciprocal barriers,  safeguard our national security, and level the global playing field for  American producers and manufacturers, and it is working.

Treasury has already collected more than $29 billion in tariff  revenue this year, while countries like India, China, and South Korea  are at the table negotiating new deals as we speak.

This is the same decisive leadership that secured stronger trade  agreements with the EU, Japan, the U.K., and partners across Asia.  These aren't trade wars. They are trade wins that deliver more jobs,  higher wages, and greater opportunities for American families and  American products around the world.

Mr. Speaker, the same focus on protecting working families is exactly  what we are doing with the bills before us today. This rule advances  commonsense legislation to strengthen our grid, unleash American  energy, and restore coal's role in the mix.

Also, let's not underplay what it means to protect the people of  Washington, D.C., which we do have a Federal oversight responsibility  for. Having a crime-ridden Nation's Capital is unacceptable by any  metric.

Mr. Speaker, let's set the record straight. There is a lot to unpack  there and a lot of talk about playing games, but what my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle refuse to admit is how during the COVID-19  pandemic they had intentionally passed premium tax credits with a  sunset allowing them to expire and, in the process, playing politics  with the healthcare of millions of Americans.

If Democrats truly supported these credits, as they claim they now  do, being made permanent, they would have made them permanent when they  controlled both Chambers of Congress and the White House. It would have  been suggested by President Biden when he was in the White House that  it should have been a priority of the Congress. They refused to do so.  They never brought that up.

Mr. Speaker, this is a pattern with Democrats. They would rather use  working families for their political means and ends than genuinely work  to make their lives better. The American people see that for what it  is. Mr. Speaker, you are hearing: The sky is falling. Everyone is going  to lose their healthcare if this is not attached to a CR at this  moment.

Yes, we do have the majority. I am confident we will pass the CR in  the House. However, Mr. Speaker, you know darn well that in the Senate,  Leader Schumer will hold the majority hostage using the filibuster to  force us into a shutdown, just like they threatened to do in March. I  mean, that is the tactic that is being played. All these expectations  are being set by the other side, knowing that they have a trap door,  and they intend to try to leverage the American people to get more of  their political will accomplished.

Republicans already voted to deliver lower premiums for patients by  passing H.R. 1, which targeted waste, fraud, and abuse across the ACA  marketplace. Democrats unanimously opposed this bill, showing once  again they are not serious about solving affordability problems for  everyday Americans, just like they are not serious about trying to keep  the government open. If they were, they would have supported these  commonsense policies. Instead, they would rather play politics.

Mr. Speaker, what we are actually debating today are commonsense  measures in this rule to strengthen American energy policy, to keep  violent crime off our streets here in our Capital City. These bills are  about lowering costs for working families, keeping our communities safe  and restoring accountability. We are getting the job done with or  without their support.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues across the aisle want to  pretend Republicans are manufacturing a crime crisis in our Nation's  Capital, but the facts tell a completely different story. Under  President Biden and Democratic leadership, Washington, D.C., became one  of the most dangerous cities in America.

In 2023, D.C. had the fourth highest homicide rate in the Nation,  trailing only New Orleans, St. Louis, and Detroit. If D.C. were a  State, it would have had the highest homicide rate in America. That  number could be even higher because, as we know, D.C. officials may  have manipulated the crime  data to hide the true extent of the problem.

Democrats would rather fudge the numbers to justify their radical  policy experiments in places like D.C. than actually protect  communities from violent crime. The same thing is happening in my home  State of New York. They would rather quibble over process arguments and  gaslighting using false statistics than acknowledge how many lives have  been saved since President Trump took action to enforce law and order  in the streets of Washington.

This is how unserious and radical today's Democratic Party has  become. Contrast this with what has happened since President Trump  stepped in. In the 20 days following the Federal surge, carjackings  dropped 87 percent compared to the same period last year. Across the  board, violent crime fell 39 percent, burglaries dropped 45 percent,  and carjackings fell 75. More than 2,700 arrests were made and 323  firearms were recovered. These aren't talking points. They are results.  They are real safety improvements felt by families here in the District  of Columbia.

While Democrats scramble to defend their failed policies and liberal  experiments in America's major cities, and they downplay the true cost  in lives that come from policies that have long been supported in these  cities, Republicans are restoring accountability, enforcing the law,  and delivering real results to make our communities safer. That is  exactly what this rule is about.

The legislation before us strengthens accountability here in  Washington, D.C., our Nation's Capital. It should be the gem of the  country, and it will be again. If Democrats are truly serious about  protecting families, they should support this rule and all of the  underlying legislation, which is common sense to support law and order  and protect the lives of the residents and the visitors to this great  city.

Mr. Speaker, the authors of inflation, the creators of inflation on  the other side of this Chamber, the people who hypercharged an economy  and drove down the value of our dollar, are now going to lecture us on  why groceries cost so much. Where the hell have they been for the last  4 years? Where were they when Americans were struggling with the cost  of their groceries because gas was up near $4 a gallon?

Their policies determined that when they ran all facets of the  government. Now, they have this revisionist history, and they want to  talk about a cup of coffee.

The tariff negotiations that President Trump has used have created  new deals and new markets for our products around the globe. It is  making a more competitive America, and we are not going to be taken  advantage of by other countries anymore.

Again, more and more class warfare, Mr. Speaker. We hear the term  ``millionaires and billionaires'' thrown around. Yet, every single one  of them voted against all the tax benefits that would have helped the  middle class and will continue to help the middle class.

The minority voted against no tax on tips, against no tax on  overtime,  against doubling the child tax credit, and against doubling the  standard deduction, all things that put serious money back into the  pockets of my constituents.

Now, to my colleague, $1,800, $2,000, $2,500 might not seem like a  lot to him, but it might be two mortgage payments to my constituents.  Yet, every single one of them voted no.

I will not be lectured, and none of us should be lectured by people  who stood in the way of getting that tax code made permanent.

Mr. Speaker, for far too long, Americans have been forced to endure  higher costs, weaker energy security, and rising crime because of  policies pushed by the left.

The American people rejected that approach last November, and they  elected a President and a Congress committed to restoring  accountability, protecting families, and ensuring our future is built  on reliable and affordable American energy.

The measures in this rule fulfill that promise. They strengthen our  grid, cut through bureaucratic red tape, and make sure America, not  China, leads in powering the next generation.

They also hold the line on public safety by rolling back soft-on- crime policies here in our Nation's Capital in Washington, D.C., and  they restore the accountability that local leaders have refused to  enforce.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the rule before us today and the  underlying legislation.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment To H. Res. 707 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike sections 9, 10, and 11.