Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury Relating to the Review of Applications Under the Bank Merger Act; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691514/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-the-comptroller-of-the-currency-of-the-department-of-the-treasury-relating-to-the-review-of-applications-under-the-bank-merger-act-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-review-of-final-rule-reclassification-of-major-sources-as-area-sources-under-section-112-of-the-clean-air-act-and-waiving-a-requirement-of-clause-6a-of-rule-xiii-with-respect-to-consideration-of-certain-resolutions-reported-from-the-committee-on-rules


Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 426 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 426

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 13) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of       the Department of the Treasury relating to the review of       applications under the Bank Merger Act. All points of order       against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The       joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of       order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the       joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial       Services or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       commit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 31) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to       ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources as       Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''. All       points of order against consideration of the joint resolution       are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the joint       resolution are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2)       one motion to commit.

Sec. 3.   Con.       Res. 14.

The gentleman from New York is recognized for 1 hour.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from  Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as  I may consume.

During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                 General Leave

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, House Resolution 426 provides for  consideration of S.J. Res. 13 under a closed rule, with 1 hour of  debate each, equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on Financial Services, or their  designees, and provides for one motion to recommit.

Additionally, the rule provides for consideration of S.J. Res. 31  under a closed rule, with 1 hour of debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Energy and Commerce, or their designees. It provides for one motion to  commit.

Finally, the rule provides for the flexibility to consider a rule  related to reconciliation on the same day it is reported from the Rules  Committee in order to expeditiously enact President Trump's agenda.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the  underlying legislation.

The rule before us presents an important opportunity for Congress to  continue its work to reverse the last-minute attempts at regulatory  overreach by the former Biden-Harris administration.

The rule includes consideration of S.J. 13, to provide for  congressional disapproval of a Biden-era Office of the Comptroller of  the Currency regulation titled ``Business Combinations Under the Bank  Merger Act.''

In September of 2024, the OCC and the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation, FDIC, revised their approach to evaluating bank merger  applications. The updated rule restricts a bank's ability to scale,  manage risk effectively, and broaden product offerings, ultimately  discouraging mergers altogether.

By dismantling a longstanding standard, and eliminating automatic  approval for certain applications, the Biden administration's actions  risk stifling competition and innovation in the financial sector. These  changes will delay strategic decisionmaking among financial  institutions and limit access to innovative financial services for  everyday Americans.

For small- and mid-sized banks in particular, the rule imposes  additional red tape and bureaucratic hurdles that hinder their ability  to merge and compete with larger financial institutions. Despite what  my colleagues on the other side of the aisle may claim, the Biden  administration's rule strengthens the dominance of the largest market  players while undermining smaller, community-focused institutions,  limiting consumer choice and consumer access.

We should strive for a regulatory environment that is streamlined,  balanced, and rooted in practical oversight, one that protects  consumers without obstructing innovation and competition. What we don't  need are more Biden-era regulations that distort the market and smother  opportunity with overreach.

S.J. Res. 13 will ensure that future bank regulators cannot repeat  this ill-conceived rulemaking, and that financial institutions can  continue to make strategic, innovative decisions that will ultimately  benefit American consumers.

Also, the rule provides for consideration of S.J. Res. 31, providing  for congressional disapproval of the rule submitted by the Biden EPA  relating to review of final rule classification of major sources as  area sources under the Clean Air Act.

Section 112 of the Clean Air Act lays out stringent compliance  standards for facilities emitting over 10 tons of a single hazardous  air pollutant, or 25 tons of an aggregate. Facilities below those  thresholds are classified as area sources and subject to more flexible  requirements.

In 2020, under President Trump, the EPA adopted a more rational  approach allowing facilities that significantly reduced their emissions  to be reclassified as area sources. This commonsense change rewarded  emissions improvements and reduced unnecessary regulatory burdens on  American manufacturers and energy producers.

To no one's surprise, the Biden administration reversed course by  reimposing the outdated and rigid ``once in, always in'' policy. This  framework permanently locks facilities into strict major-source status,  even if they make substantial efforts to reduce harmful emissions. That  is not only unfair, it discourages environmental progress.

Whom did the Biden administration hurt?

They hurt the chemical manufacturing sector, which includes thousands  of mid-sized companies representing hundreds of thousands of jobs.  These companies have invested millions in cleaner technologies and  equipment upgrades. Under this Biden-era EPA rule, their investments  will not be rewarded with a lighter regulatory touch. In fact, despite  upgrades  to reduce emissions, they will continue to face the same higher  regulatory costs.

Moreover, there is the pulp and paper industry, a critical employer  in States like Georgia, Wisconsin, and Maine. Mills that switch to  cleaner fuels or have implemented advanced scrubber systems will  receive no regulatory relief under the Biden-era EPA's ``once in,  always in'' rule. In a sector that already faces stiff foreign  competition and very narrow margins, the Biden administration heaped  further unnecessary burdens onto this industry, jeopardizing the jobs  of thousands of American workers in the process.

Additionally, there is the independent and smaller scale refiner that  often lack the scale of larger competitors but serve critical regional  fuel markets. They may have made substantial environmental progress in  reducing hazardous air pollutant emissions, but the Biden-era ``once  in, always in'' rule locks them into compliance regimes that do not  reflect their improved emissions profile.

Finally, let's not forget our small and rural manufacturing  facilities in communities across this country, including in my own  district in New York's southern tier. These facilities include metal  fabricators and food processors, many of whom have taken proactive  steps to cut emissions in very good faith. Under the Biden-era EPA  ``once in, always in'' rule, these improvements to reduce hazardous  emissions do not matter. They will still be treated with the same  costly and burdensome regulatory regime. Simply put, the Biden EPA and  its ``once in, always in'' rule not only disincentivizes innovation and  cleaner operations, but it also threatens plant closures and kills  jobs.

Mr. Speaker, you would have to be more concerned with appeasing  environmental extremists than protecting American workers to support  this punitive and counterproductive regulatory framework.

Through S.J. Res. 31, House Republicans stand up for the American  workers and job creators. The CRA, ensures regulatory fairness and  restores real incentives for emissions reduction. Without this CRA,  even the most environmentally responsible facilities are punished,  trapped under heavyhanded rules that do not reflect their cleaner  operation.

Upon returning to office, President Trump and House Republicans  focused on restoring commonsense governance: prioritizing American  jobs, economic strength, and practical solutions. S.J. Res. 31, like  other measures undoing ill-advised Biden-era policies, represents a  decisive step in the right direction.

Let's get back to smart, forward-thinking policies that actually  serve the American people, not far left activists and D.C. bureaucrats.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, the budget reconciliation bill is the work of 11  committees that have gone through full markup, that went through the  full bipartisan process.

I sat through 27 hours in the Energy and Commerce Committee. I know  full well that I had a front seat to the longest markup, just as my  colleague did with his service on the Agriculture Committee.

That is not what we are here debating. Despite what some of my  colleagues across the aisle are saying, the CRA that we are discussing  right now is addressing standards for major and area sources that will  actually promote cleaner and more environmentally conscious operations  among manufacturers, refiners, and energy producers.

The rule implemented by the Biden administration reflects a flawed  approach, one that eliminates incentives for voluntary emission  reductions and imposes excessive regulatory burdens without delivering  clear environmental benefits.

Under this policy, facilities that successfully reduce their actual  or potential hazardous air pollutant emissions below the major source  threshold are still prohibited from reclassifying as area sources. This  means that even after substantial improvements, these facilities remain  subject to the strictest and costliest regulatory framework forever,  indefinitely.

This not only increases operational costs but also removes a key  incentive for companies to invest in cleaner technologies and  practices, something we should all be encouraging.

For example, take a chemical plant that emits hazardous air  pollutants like benzene or formaldehyde. Under the Biden-era rule, if  they invest millions in cutting-edge emissions control systems that  reduce their pollution below the regulatory threshold, they get no  relief from the major source permitting burdens.

The Biden-era rule entangles them in permanent red tape, discouraging  innovation and undermining progress.

Under the Trump-era rules that S.J. Res. 31 would pave the way for,  companies would have a financial incentive to invest in pollution  control since doing so would actually reduce their compliance costs and  regulatory delays. The result is cleaner air, a cleaner environment.

The reality is that most of these companies and the people who run  them live in the very communities affected by emissions. They have  every reason to care about cleaner air and healthier environments.

What they need is smart, flexible policy, not arbitrary and  capricious restrictions that stifle growth and reduce competitiveness.  S.J. Res. 31 would restore a proven framework that recognizes and  rewards emissions reduction. It allows regulatory classifications to  reflect a facility's current environmental impact, not a legacy status  based on past emissions.

This flexibility fosters continuous improvement and aligns  environmental goals with economic incentives. This is not about  weakening protections. It is the contrary, actually. It is about  applying regulation in a way that actually works, delivering clean air,  encouraging innovation, and maintaining the strength of America's  industry.

Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense path forward to a cleaner, more  sustainable future, one that supports jobs, growth, and the  environment.

This should be a no-brainer for my colleagues who claim to be the  champions of effective environmental policy. Let's not be fooled by  their rhetoric. The reality is that many on the other side of the aisle  are beholden to a vocal and uncompromising wing of the environmental  lobby, groups that would rather see American workers laid off,  manufacturing plants shut down, and entire communities economically  gutted than support balanced, commonsense regulatory reforms.

Mr. Speaker, we are hearing a lot of dramatic words from my friend  and colleague across the aisle about the reconciliation process. Let's  take a moment to remind them of what they did when they were in the  majority.

During the 117th Congress, when a Democratic-led House considered the  last reconciliation bill, also known as the Build Back Better Act, the  process was a little messy, to say the least. The gentleman talks about  CBO scores, and it is certainly something that we are working very hard  on.

Mr. McGovern, in a meeting on November 4, 2021, was reading the  manager's amendment to be self-executed. His response to not having a  CBO score was:

I know my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will do       everything they can to slow this process down. I will also       assure the gentleman, as he knows, that this cannot become       law and will not move forward in the Senate without a CBO       score, and that will have to happen.

Regardless if we do have a JTC score or a CBO score or what that  score says, I don't think any of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle will vote for this bill at the end of the day.

People in glass houses really shouldn't throw stones here.

In fact, this process on their side of the aisle was so messy that  two separate rules had to be passed out of the Rules Committee, each  one self-executing a new manager's amendment as negotiations were  ongoing and changes continued to be made. It was constantly a shifting  landscape and, frankly, chaos at times.

I know that the gentleman from Massachusetts won't let facts get in  the way of a good story. He pounds the table over the use of same-day  authority. The reality is that the first rule for Build Back Better  extended what is essentially a martial law procedural lockdown of the  House floor, granting broad, same-day authority that allowed the  majority to jam through changes without proper scrutiny.

Let's not forget the second rule for that bill was brought to the  floor and voted on the very same day. It was reported from the Rules  Committee, exactly the kind of tactic our colleagues are now clutching  their pearls while opposing.

The fact is that governing is hard. The process is rarely a smooth  one, but the American people elected President Trump, a Republican  majority in the House of Representatives, and a Republican majority in  the United States Senate, and gave us unified government with a clear  expectation for Congress to deliver on this agenda.

The Rules Committee will continue to use the tools at its disposal to  facilitate the passage of historic legislation, just as our colleagues  did when they were in charge.

Mr. Speaker, our friends on the other side of the aisle, they love to  cherry-pick the facts when it comes to the timing of committee  proceedings, especially in reference to the Rules Committee's upcoming  meeting. They bemoan the late start and the timing of tonight's  meeting. Yet, they actively ensured one committee markup after another  for the legislation before us tonight, they ran hours and hours, if not  days on end.

Why did those markups run as long as they did? They ran that long  because Democrats engaged in the legislative process, which is their  right.

The same principle applies to the Rules Committee. On this committee  we have a long tradition of meeting late into the evening to complete  our work. This isn't new, and it is not unique to our current majority.  It is simply how the legislative process operates when the House has  its full agenda.

We need only look at the Committee's operations under Democratic  control to see a long history of meetings in the dark of night. Under  Democratic control of the Rules Committee, we have seen things like  House Resolution 587, which the report was filed at 3:46 a.m. House  Resolution 481, the report was filed at 2:09 a.m. House Resolution 597,  the report was filed at 3:43 a.m. House Resolution 903, the report was  filed at 2:25 a.m. For House Resolution 445 in the 116th Congress, the  Committee adjourned at 12:20 a.m.

Late-night sessions are not partisan anomalies and unique to the  Democrats. These are precedents that Democrats themselves have  maintained for years.

Let's be clear, this is the way the Rules Committee has operated when  necessary, regardless of which party holds the gavel. It is about  getting the work done. In fact, tonight we may not be reporting in the  dark of night at all but rather as the new day has begun. I expect Mr.  McGovern to take full advantage of our unlimited debate rules in the  Rules Committee to make sure that that happens, and I see my second  sunrise in a couple of weeks here.

I invite my colleagues to set aside the theatrics and focus on the  work at hand, and I encourage my colleagues on the other side to prove  me wrong.

Once again, my colleagues across the aisle are doing what they do  best. They spread misinformation, and they try to sow fear into the  hearts of the most vulnerable in this country about Republicans' work  through the budget reconciliation process.

Let's set the record straight. President Trump and House Republicans  are working to strengthen and secure and sustain Medicaid.

Democrats, through their reckless spending and unwillingness to enact  commonsense guardrails themselves, have worked to undermine this  critical program. We are laser-focused on protecting the absolute most  vulnerable among us, Americans with disabilities, pregnant women,  children, and our beloved seniors, by putting in place commonsense  guardrails to ensure that those truly in need always get the care that  they deserve. That means making sure that precious Medicaid resources  go to the living, breathing Americans who actually need the care, not  bureaucratic bloat, fraud, or people that have come into this country  illegally and have been put on this system.

We are also ensuring Medicaid's long-term sustainability by rolling  past costly Biden-era regulations that are driving up the program's  price tag by hundreds of billions of dollars.

Let's be clear, Medicaid should always serve American citizens first  and foremost, and that is why reinforcing citizenship verification,  another commonsense step that the American people believe in, not only  protects the program but saves the taxpayers tens of billions of  dollars.

Yes, we are, reintroducing Clinton-era work requirements. One of the  most popular things Bill Clinton achieved in his Presidency, and he  worked with Congress to get it done, was bringing commonsense work  requirements to social welfare programs.

It would only apply to able-bodied adults without dependents. It is  something that we should all be able to agree on. If you can work, you  should work. It is a step that was once broadly bipartisan, but today,  our Democratic colleagues would rather let Medicaid spiral into  insolvency with no solution in sight than support a basic principle  that if you are able to work, you should.

Now, Mr. Speaker, we have heard noise from across the aisle, words  like ``cruel'' and ``harsh,'' and all the hyperbole you could expect to  be thrown around to score political points from their base. Let me be  clear. Those labels belong not to those fighting for reform but to  those who would refuse commonsense changes today and instead allow this  critical safety net program to become fiscally unsustainable, leaving  behind the very people that depend on it every single day.

If we want Medicaid to be there in its entirety for the next  generation, for those that truly need us, who we need to be working for  every day, we must act now. House Republicans are committed to doing  just that.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, I didn't serve then, so I am not sure.

Mr. Speaker, we had to go and do a little research, but in the 110th  Congress on August 1, 2007, when considering House Resolution 3162, the  Democrats did indeed convene a Rules Committee meeting at 1 a.m., and  they gaveled out at 3:07 a.m.

They have done exactly the same thing that we have all heard about,  the ranting and raving and the waving of arms here today. What is good  for the goose is good for the gander. However, rules for thee and not  for me is typically the way this works.

We will do the work of the Rules Committee. We will continue to pass  this legislation and deliver real relief for working families in this  country. We have listened to a lot of rhetoric about millionaires and  billionaires. It sounds like Bernie Sanders is in the Chamber, but  really this is about the working people of this country.

If we do nothing and the tax cuts expire in this country, it will be  a $4.5 trillion tax increase on the American people. It will cut the  child tax credit in half. It will cut the standard deduction in half  that puts real money into the pockets of working families. In my  district, it is about $1,700 a month that the current Tax Cuts and Jobs  Act delivers. We deliver even more in this reconciliation package.

That might not sound like a lot to some of the people on the other  side of the aisle. For my constituents, that is a couple of mortgage  payments. That means real relief for working families in western New  York.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, we are here once again to protect Americans from the  heavy hand of Biden-era regulations. The slew of midnight rules forced  on the American people by the last administration pose a direct harm to  our Nation's economy, and it has threatened jobs.

The pieces of legislation before us today under this rule are not  filler. They are quite the opposite. The resolutions passed by the  Senate and here before the House are lawmaking exercises. Democrats'  dismissal of these CRAs speak volumes as to their lack of care and  compassion for the serious ramifications that the regulatory agenda has  had on the economy, on consumer choice, and on the environment.

My Democratic colleagues certainly wouldn't want to focus our time  today on these CRAs because they are part and parcel to dismantling the  regulatory agenda that they wed themselves to for 4 long years under  President Biden.

What was the result of their commitment in the Biden-era regulatory  agenda: $450 billion in new regulatory costs on the economy. That may  just be numbers on paper for a D.C. bureaucrat, but the amounts of jobs  lost, manufacturing shuttered, and communities decimated for folks  outside the beltway is what it is really all about.

The CRAs before us will allow Congress and the Trump administration  to continue its important work of reversing harmful regulations and  unleashing the promise of the American economy. I strongly support the  rule before us today.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 426 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 4. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 2753) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of       1974 to provide for a point of order against reconciliation       measures that cut benefits for Medicaid or the Supplemental       Nutrition Assistance Program, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Rules or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 5. Clause 1 (c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 2753.