Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''; and Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Relating to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688464/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-national-emission-standards-for-hazardous-air-pollutants-rubber-tire-manufacturing-and-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-ocean-energy-management-relating-to-protection-of-marine-archaeological-resources


Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 177 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 177

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J.       Res. 42) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Department of Energy relating to ``Energy       Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification       Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement       Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial       Equipment''. All points of order against consideration of the       joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Energy and Commerce or their respective designees; and (2)       one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J.       Res. 61) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency relating to       ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants:       Rubber Tire Manufacturing''. All points of order against       consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The joint       resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint       resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage       without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the joint resolution (S.J.       Res. 11) providing for congressional disapproval under       chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule       submitted by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management relating       to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources''. All       points of order against consideration of the joint resolution       are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the joint       resolution are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any       amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion       except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled       by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Natural Resources or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to commit.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Neguse),  pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume. During  consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the purpose  of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, I remind my Democratic colleague that the rule we are  debating today provides for consideration of H.J. Res. 42 regarding a  Department of Energy appliance rule, H.J. Res. 61 regarding an EPA  National Emission Standards rule on rubber tire manufacturing, and S.J.  Res. 11 regarding the EPA's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management rules  requiring burdensome archaeological reports on energy producers.

There will be ample opportunities to debate, amend, and provide  suggestions when the appropriate authorizing committees move forward  when we begin our work on spending reforms in a budget reconciliation  package. We should focus on the legislation before us this week.

I encourage my colleagues to engage in regular order as our  authorizing  committees begin to work on our reconciliation and not prejudge their  outcomes and make baseless assumptions.

My colleagues across the aisle have mentioned how they find these  measures not worthy of our time. This certainly isn't the first time  they have mocked House Republican efforts to curb regulations on  appliances, from heating systems to dishwashers, refrigerators, and  freezers.

If this were such an unserious endeavor as my colleagues across the  aisle claim, then why did the administration they supported for 4 years  issue at least 31 regulations covering a vast array of different  appliances and other products out of the DOE and the EPA? Is $60  billion foisted on to our Nation's manufacturers and consumers in new  regulatory and compliance costs not serious enough for Congress to  thoroughly scrutinize?

Democrats seem to be confused about what it is that the American  people voted for in November, and one of those items was lowering day- to-day costs that are hurting workers and families. Reversing these  regulations is something that House Republicans are deeply committed to  doing, and we are working with the administration to actually get this  done.

I would also recommend that my colleagues across the aisle speak with  the fellow Democrats in their Caucus about how harmful these  regulations are and why CRAs to reverse Biden's anti-energy and  economically harmful regulations are so important.

Last Congress, Democrats voted with Republicans to pass at least five  measures to halt Biden administration green energy regulations,  including the following:

A CRA to halt the Biden definition of the Waters of the United  States. Nine Democrats voted ``yes.''

A CRA to halt draconian emissions standards on heavy-duty vehicles.  Four Democrats voted ``yes.''

A CRA to halt draconian emission standards on light-and medium-duty  vehicles. Eight Democrats voted ``yes.''

In this Congress, a whopping 11 Democrats voted just last week in  support of a CRA on the Biden administration's rule on conservation  standards for consumer gas-fired instantaneous water heaters, one of  those appliance-related regulations that my colleagues here today claim  is not worth our time in the House, but their colleagues voted ``yes.''

Finally, six Democrats voted ``yes'' on last week's CRA to halt the  Biden-era implementation of a natural gas tax that would harm our  Nation's energy producers and consumers.

The Democratic Party is busy pulling their hair out over President  Trump, Elon Musk, DOGE, whatever else is their outrage of the day.  However, they have lost sight of the kitchen-table issues affecting  everyday Americans. They ignore the rising costs hurting workers and  families in order to cater to their own extreme leftwing base. It is so  bad that even Members in their own Caucus are breaking ranks to vote  for commonsense reforms such as the rolling back of these radical anti- energy agenda items that the Biden administration foisted upon us in  the eleventh hour of their administration.

Mr. Speaker, we listen to calls from our Democratic colleagues for  compassion and concern. I must ask the question, where was the  compassion and concern while they watched prices skyrocket over our  constituents over the 4 years of the Biden administration?

Where was the compassion and concern where the Biden regulatory  environment smothered the U.S. economy with regulation after  regulation, trillions of dollars in off-budget spending,  which soared inflation for the American people? Where was the  compassion then?

Where was the outrage when House Republicans were calling for relief  for the American people in the last Congress?

They said that we were following the wishes of only President Trump.  They followed the Green New Deal playbook to a t, and that is what we  are here to debate today are these important rollbacks of the Green New  Deal agenda.

We sat idly by and watched our country get invaded by at least 10  million people that came across our country's borders with the direct  will of the President to do it. President Trump has proven in just less  than 2 short months the ability for a President to roll this all back  with executive orders. Yet, the cost to New York alone was $7 billion  in costs on New York taxpayers. Where was the outrage then?

For 8 years, this hysteria has cost them. While they persisted in  their witch hunt of President Trump in 2022, Americans contended with  40-year high inflation, after Democrats and President Biden dumped  trillions of dollars into a recovering post-COVID economy, which even  one of their chief economists told us would create massive inflation.  They ignored that guidance.

Did they seek to address everyday Americans' concerns about the  direction of our economy? They did not. They doubled down on lawfare  against President Trump, and it lost them the House in 2022. In 2024,  when the world was on fire with our borders flung open to the invasion  of millions of illegal aliens into this country that prompted a crisis  in countless communities, including my own, Americans' top concerns  coming back time and time again, poll after poll, were the economy and  our border. Democrats did no work to address those concerns.

Did Vice President Kamala Harris address them? No, she did not. She  didn't make that sale to the American people when she was campaigning  across this country. Instead, all we heard was about Kamala brat summer  and the last-ditch jittery attempt at once again trying to convince  Americans that Trump was somehow a threat to democracy. Democrats lost,  historically, on November 5, 2024. They lost the electoral vote, the  popular vote, and they lost every swing State on the table.

Did Democrats learn from this smarting defeat since President Trump  took office? They clearly have not. Instead, they focus their time  again defending USAID slush funds, flat-out government waste, and  pretty much every problem, trying to lay it at President Trump's feet,  including what he is doing every single day as well as DOGE and how  they are trying to fix the crisis and the mess that was left behind by  the Biden years.

Mr. Speaker, the American people have time and again responded to  Democratic hair-pulling with, at best, disinterest. Yet, here we are  today on the House floor with more of the same.

The rule before us considers legislation focused on ridding American  consumers in an industry of harming regulations that are truly  impacting their wallets and their financial well-being and our Nation's  economic future. I urge my colleagues to quit the hysterics and for  once listen to the voices of the American people after years of  refusing to do so.

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Are you yielding me your time?

Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, we have seen a lot of masterful  theatrics out of the Democratic Party recently, and we are seeing  nothing different from that today. It is amazing that people who are so  concerned about burdensome regulations and costs on people offer no  solutions.

We are here doing the work of that today. We are taking price  concerns off of the back of industries. We are preserving jobs. We are  creating a brighter future for our communities by getting rid of this  eleventh hour rulemaking that was put forward by the Biden  administration.

They had all the power to make this country move in the right  direction when Democrats controlled all of Congress and the White House  following the 2020 elections. They had the ability to make those  changes, but they took the country in the wrong direction.

That is why the country, at the ballot box, made the changes that  they made. They took the House out of Democratic hands and made  Republicans lead the House of Representatives. Then, they did the same  with the Senate and the White House in 2024.

That is the report card that the Democratic Party earned because they  prioritized the things that the American people did not want  prioritized. They haven't read the room. They answer to their woke and  angry mobs that they are foisting on Members of Congress and people all  over the country right now. It is a very coordinated effort. They deny  it, but make no mistake, every U.S. Senator today released a video that  has the exact same script. It is very clearly a theatrical performance  that the American people are seeing out of Democrats in the U.S.  Senate.

We are here with solutions to problems created by the last  administration. We are putting them forward to get the job done. We  have a timeline that we have to focus on, and that is why these CRAs  are so important for us to tackle right now. We have limited  legislative days in order to roll back these unnecessary, burdensome  regulations that no one asked for and no one wanted. We are getting the  job done that we were sent here to do.

Let's look again at the numbers. The Biden administration has issued  at least 31 regulations for residential and commercial appliances and  equipment, totaling $60 billion. If my friends on the other side of the  aisle don't think that added regulatory costs filter into the price of  new appliances, then we  have several bridges available for them to purchase.

Let's look further at some of the regulations that will reap  financial savings for American consumers. In one example, under the  Biden DOE's dishwasher efficiency standards, Americans are expected to  save a whopping $1.12 under that regulation. Was that necessary to put  out there? Of course, it wasn't.

These are savings that the left expected the American people to be  excited about as they racked up more regulations and more restrictions  that cost us jobs from the results of the Biden years.

Under the latest DOE rule that H.J. Res. 42 would fortunately curb,  home appliance manufacturers have already outlined how the rule  requires their industry to provide a myriad of unnecessary information  and data that is meaningless when demonstrating efficiency but simply  is required to meet compliance with the rules.

It is regulations for the sake of regulations, and the American  people are left to pay higher prices and have fewer choices.

At the end of the day, Mr. Speaker, my colleagues simply refuse to  acknowledge the natural dynamics of the marketplace. When left to their  own devices, the American people will seek out the most efficient model  of an appliance that they can afford.

I agree with my colleagues when they say that the American people  want cost savings, both at sale and with efficiency over the lifecycle  of an appliance. What they don't want is government intervention that  limits their ability to make those choices themselves. They want to  have more affordable options available to fit tighter budgets, not  fewer, more expensive choices because unelected bureaucrats at Biden's  DOE needed to micromanage what refrigerators, dishwashers, heaters,  air-conditioners, you name it, were permissible under unrealistic  efficiency standards.

H.J. Res. 42 will help curb these costly, limiting, and anti-natural  gas standards from the final days of the gasping Biden administration  that were finalized at the behest of his radical climate lobby.

Mr. Speaker, the epiphany that those on the other side of the aisle  now have--and they are so concerned about costs and economic concerns-- when they fought us tooth and nail on every single action that we tried  to take to curb the Biden administration's uncontrollable regulatory  environment is just laughable.

We watched, warned, and fought in the 118th Congress to stop an  administration that created a regulatory environment that has added  about $1.5 trillion in needless regulations that have stifled the  growth of industry and jobs in this country. Now, we are seeing them  all of a sudden change their tune.

As our new administration is less than a month and a half old, things  are moving in the right direction. People have a new view of what the  future is. We are fighting hard to preserve a predictable tax code in  this country. We are extending the current tax code so that we can have  regulatory certainty, tax certainty, so that businesses can thrive and  grow and not fear the hammer of government that they did in the Biden  years.

There was an explosion after election day of people ready, willing,  and able to invest in America. We have seen unprecedented investment  come in from overseas, bringing new jobs, new opportunities, and new  future creation here to the United States since election day. That will  continue because that is what President Trump campaigned on. That is  what House Republicans fight for and what we will achieve together.

Mr. Speaker, this epiphany that we have had on the other side of the  aisle, that they are now all of a sudden concerned with the costs of  everyday Americans, was nowhere to be found for 2 years in the 118th  Congress, as we fought every day about the costs of gas and groceries  and how it was pinching away because of Biden's inflation and what it  had done to the purchasing power of everyday Americans' accounts.

People in probably both of our districts said the same exact thing,  that they were watching the American Dream slip away from our kids and  grandkids because we couldn't necessarily be certain that the future  would be brighter under the current trajectory of this country.

We have saddled the country with $36.5 trillion in debt. It is a debt  service that is higher than what we spend on our national defense. It  is an unacceptable legacy that we are leaving to our future  generations. We are working every day toward our budget reconciliation  to get that under control so that we can be the era that bent the curve  on spending and got this country back on track.

Yet, we have other people on the other side of the aisle who want to  keep spending levels at the COVID era. COVID fell upon us 5 years ago  this week, yet they still want to spend like we are in the midst of an  emergency.

It is time that we have a commonsense revolution in this country,  commonsense like what we are doing here today: rolling back needless  regulations that hurt jobs, hurt workers, and hurt consumers. That is  what we were asked to do by our constituents.

These CRAs this week are important because they reinstitute choice in  the marketplace. They take the bureaucrats that DOGE is fighting every  single day out of the equation and put the  American consumer back in the driver's seat so that we can have choice  in our consumer goods, not creating a standard just to justify  someone's job in a cubicle somewhere. That is what this government has  been about for far too long, but those days are over.

Mr. Speaker, we are now putting common sense in the driver's seat in  this country. We are working toward a brighter future for our kids and  grandkids.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

For 4 years, Democrats gaslit the American people in a vain attempt  to convince them that costs weren't going up, inflation wasn't real,  our economy wasn't in trouble, and there wasn't a crisis at our  borders. The American people saw past that deception, and they voted  for a President and a Congress that promised to put our country back on  track.

Part of fulfilling that promise includes unwinding a slew of  burdensome rules, prohibitions, restrictions, and other ticky-tacky  attempts to micromanage everyday life for Americans. It also includes  ensuring that the woke mob and their radical environmental NGOs can no  longer call the shots at these Federal agencies at the expense of our  manufacturers, our domestic energy producers, and good-paying jobs.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the rule before us today.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Neguse is as follows:       An Amendment to H. Res. 177 Offered by Mr. Neguse of Colorado

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 4. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 1637) to reinstate veteran Federal employees, to       require reports from executive branch agencies of the Federal       Government on the number of veteran employees fired from such       agencies, and for other purposes. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment       thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except:       (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the       chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 5. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 1637.