Recognizing the Service of Those Who Gave the Ultimate Sacrifice: Memorial Day 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691585/recognizing-the-service-of-those-who-gave-the-ultimate-sacrifice-memorial-day-2025


Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in solemn remembrance of  those brave men and women who gave the ultimate sacrifice in defense of  the United States of America. On behalf of the United States Congress,  and the constituents of the 23rd Congressional District, I am proud to  recognize our brave service members' courage, sacrifice, and valor as  we come together this Memorial Day.

All gave some, and some gave all. Memorial Day is more than a long  weekend--it is sacred time for a grateful Nation to reflect on the cost  of liberty. We owe our freedom to those who answered the call and never  returned. In America--the greatest country on Earth--our founding  promise of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is preserved  only through the sacrifice of our heroes.

The American flag flies in red, white, and blue--each color rich with  meaning. Blue stands for vigilance and justice, a call to remain  steadfast in our values. White reflects our Nation's ideals and purity  of purpose. Red honors the valor and the blood shed by those who died  defending our rights.

This weekend, across Western New York and the Southern Tier, veterans  and families will gather at town centers, VFW halls and cemeteries to  commemorate the fallen and ensure that their sacrifice will never be  forgotten. This is a responsibility that we all must pass on to the  next generation, to continue this great tradition in memory of those  who made this life of freedom and opportunity possible.

Today, we remember those we've lost and give thanks to the veterans  still among us. We are the land of the free because we are the home of  the brave. The selflessness of our service members inspires deep  gratitude every day--not just on Memorial Day. May we never forget  their sacrifice.