Lowering Housing Costs and Advancing Main Street Community Banks


Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague, the  gentleman from Florida (Mr. Haridopolos) for arranging this Special  Order hour.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6644, the Housing  for the 21st Century Act.

Americans across the country are feeling the squeeze of a very real  housing crisis. The National Association of Realtors estimates that the  average first-time home buyer was 40 years old in the year 2025.

In my home State of Montana, the estimates show the median home price  of a home exceeds $500,000. The internet and social media are filled  with testimonies critiquing sky-high housing prices like Bozeman where  starter homes can exceed $1 million.

For once, both sides of the aisle agree. The root cause of this  crisis lies in the supply side. Put simply, we do not have enough homes  to meet the demand.

So what should we do?

Throwing money at a problem rarely fixes it. What Americans deserve  are concrete, commonsense regulatory reforms that make it easier to  build more homes. The Housing for the 21st Century Act achieves this by  removing unnecessary regulatory barriers, modernizing HUD programs, and  enhancing community banking operations to expand lending for buyers and  builders alike.

What is more, our bill accomplishes this with no new permanent  programs and no new spending. We are simply getting the government out  of the way.

I could not be more enthusiastic to endorse this legislation. I thank  Chairman Hill and Chairman Flood for their hard work in getting it to  the floor today where it passed on a bipartisan basis by a vote of 390- 9.

Looking forward, I believe we have the opportunity to make even more  progress on housing by addressing reforms to the Build America Buy  America Act, or BABA, and reauthorizing the Native American Housing  Assistance and Self-Determination Act, or NAHASDA.

Don't let the name fool you. BABA may sound patriotic, but mandating  BABA compliance for HUD-funded projects hamstrings builders by  dictating how they source materials, driving up the cost of  construction, and increasing the time to market.

We also cannot afford to forget about our Tribal communities. Montana  is home to 12 distinct Tribal Nations, and NAHASDA reauthorization and  modernization would be a game changer for them.

NAHASDA is a lifeline for Indian Country, and its authorization  lapsed after fiscal year 2013. This law consolidated and authorized  Indian housing programs, which provide Tribes greater autonomy when  using Federal resources for housing projects on Tribal lands.

Mr. Speaker, homeownership is a cornerstone of the American Dream.  Families should not have to wait decades before buying their first  house. Kids should grow up playing in the living room of their  childhood home, not a rental.

Sadly, what was once a reality is fast becoming just that, a dream.  The American people are looking to Congress for a solution. Let's give  them one by getting this bill to President Trump's desk as soon as  possible.