Assisting Small Businesses Not Fraudsters Act


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be here today as we debate the first set  of Committee on Small Business bills. Our committee has a long  tradition of putting politics aside to deliver for our Nation's small  business employers.

Small businesses employ roughly half of the private workforce, create  the majority of new jobs, drive innovation, and generate almost half of  our Nation's economic activity. They are the heart and soul of our  communities. Whether it is a neighborhood childcare center, or a bakery  on Main Street, they are creating neighborhood jobs and reinvesting in  the local economies.

More than 21 million small businesses were launched during the  previous administration, with a vast majority of the applications being  filed by women, including women of color. This is a clear indicator of  positive growth and strong entrepreneurial activity, but more work  needs to be done.

Today, we are considering seven bipartisan bills that will create  additional opportunities for entrepreneurs.

Mr. Speaker, my hope is that we can work together to conduct  oversight of the Trump administration's policies. I have been  particularly troubled by the pauses in Federal funding to small  businesses, inflationary tariffs, and Elon Musk's access to the SBA's  HR, contract, and payment systems. I welcome the opportunity to look  into these matters in a bipartisan way.

Mr. Speaker, turning to our first bill, H.R. 825 will prohibit anyone  convicted of defrauding the government during the COVID-19 pandemic  from receiving an SBA loan.

The Small Business Administration disbursed approximately $1.2  trillion in economic aid during the pandemic. The vast majority of this  aid served as a lifeline, helping to keep small businesses afloat  during troubling and uncertain economic times.

Unfortunately, bad actors took advantage of the program early in the  pandemic when SBA removed or weakened internal controls. Upon taking  office, the Biden administration reinstituted longstanding antifraud  controls and put new safeguards into place to curb the flow of pandemic  dollars to fraudsters.

Before issuing a loan, the SBA would screen applicants on the  government's Do Not Pay list and then check its internal database for  fraudulent flags or holds. Borrowers had an opportunity to clear their  names, but the SBA did not move forward until the holds were cleared.

The bill we are considering today has the same effect as the actions  taken by the Biden administration, and it sends a strong message that  SBA will not do business with anyone who defrauded the government.

Mr. Speaker, the single most important action that Congress can take  to recover fraudulent pandemic funds is to fully fund the inspector  general and give the office the resources it needs to go after the bad  actors.

Former Representative Luetkemeyer and I sponsored two bills, which  became law, to extend the statute of limitations for fraud in the PPP  and the EIDL program to 10 years. Without additional resources, the OIG  will not be able to capitalize on these new laws, and American  taxpayers will lose out.

In closing, I appreciate the bipartisan work of Chairman Williams,  and Representatives Simon and Mfume.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ.  Simon).

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I gladly rise in support of this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.