Extension of Sbir and Sttr Authority


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5100, a simple bill to  extend the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business  Technology Transfer programs for an additional year.

Over the course of its 40-year history, the SBIR and STTR have been  among the Federal Government's most effective engines for driving  innovation. By channeling a small portion of research and development  budgets into highly competitive awards, the government is able to  utilize our nimble and innovative small businesses to drive forward  technological innovation and meet critical agency needs.

These programs have been endlessly scrutinized since their founding,  but economic analysis has shown an overwhelmingly successful program  with an outsized return on investment for taxpayers.

Unfortunately, the SBIR and STTR programs are set to expire on  September 30. If these programs are allowed to expire, agencies would  lose the ability to issue new awards, cutting off a vital source of  early-stage funding for small businesses. It would also delay  commercialization of promising technologies and weaken the United  States' competitiveness with foreign adversaries.

Despite this fast-approaching deadline, negotiations for a  comprehensive reauthorization are ongoing, and while I attempted to  start the process early by introducing a bill last December, formal  negotiations didn't start until last month.

There are many areas of overlapping priorities between the majority  and minority on this bill. We share a desire to lower the barrier to  entry for new entrants and bridging the valley of death for the most  promising ideas.

However, there are some outstanding issues we are working through  that will take additional time. That is why I am grateful to our  chairman, Mr. Williams, as well as Chairman Babin and Ranking Member  Lofgren for their support for a 1-year extension.

This program has always been bipartisan, and it is imperative that we  continue to work together to bridge our differences in a thoughtful  manner. A 1-year extension is the most responsible course forward, one  that five out of six corners agree on. It gives agencies and small  businesses the certainty they need, while giving us adequate time to  make the best decisions we can.

While we have heard arguments that this could be added to the NDAA,  the timeline simply does not make sense. The programs will expire long  before final passage of the NDAA, and doing so will result in a lapse  in the program, something that has never happened before.

A 1-year extension does not mean that the work ends. We will continue  to be at the table, ready to negotiate and ultimately pass a  bipartisan, bicameral comprehensive reauthorization.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to close by reminding everyone that this is  a bipartisan program that has never seen a lapse in its over 40-year  history. The House is taking the responsible step of extending this  program for a year to give us time to negotiate a longer-term  reauthorization.

I appreciate the partnership of Chairman Williams and of my  colleagues on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Chairman  Babin and Ranking Member Lofgren, for keeping this vital source of  capital for our Nation's most promising innovators alive. I look  forward to continuing discussions in the coming weeks and months to  reach a bipartisan agreement.

Allowing this program to lapse is simply not an option. I encourage  all of my colleagues to support this commonsense measure.