Main Street Parity Act


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5763, the Main Street Parity  Act.

One of the key functions of the SBA is to ensure that small  businesses in communities across the country have access to the capital  they need to grow and scale their operations.

The SBA has long served this need through its loan guarantee program,  including the 504/CDC program. The 504/CDC program supports small  businesses in accessing capital for the development of major fixed  assets like land, buildings, equipment, and machinery. As part of the  program, loans are guaranteed for so-called special use properties like  amusement parks, car washes, bowling alleys, and gas stations.

When the special use designation was created in 1996, Congress  required businesses developing these properties to pay a special  purpose penalty. The penalty requires these businesses to provide at  least 15 to 20 percent equity instead of the minimum 10 percent for  standard 504/CDC loans.

While the additional equity requirement served an important safeguard  for the program when first enacted, we have seen over time that the  extra risk is not as great as anticipated.

In the past 30 years, technological developments and time have shown  that many of these properties can be successfully repurposed for  alternative uses, increasing the market pool of potential buyers.

Further, the charge-off rates for special purpose and standard loans  are similar, demonstrating that these loans pose no greater risk than  regular 504 loans. Because of its limited risk, the special use penalty  is no longer necessary.

H.R. 5763 reduces the minimum equity requirement for special purpose  properties to at least 10 percent, in line with the requirement for  standard 504/CDC loans. Most importantly, it maintains discretionary  authority to require higher equity if deemed necessary. This bill is  supported by the National Association of Development Companies.

Madam Speaker, I applaud Chairman Williams' and Representative  Simon's bipartisan work on this issue, and I ask all my colleagues to  support it.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman  from California (Ms. Simon).

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I, again, thank Chairman Williams and Representative  Simon for their bipartisan work on this bill. I encourage all my  colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I yield back the balance of my time.