Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the House Homeland Security  Appropriations Subcommittee, I stand today in opposition to this  Homeland Security appropriations bill.

I want to be very clear. The bill that passed out of committee had  protections for U.S. citizens against what we are seeing playing out in  Minnesota and other American cities. During our debate in the House  Appropriations Committee, I successfully amended the bill to include  language that would prevent ICE from apprehending and deporting U.S.  citizens. When the bill was reported out of committee, it included my  amendment.

However, during negotiations, I was told that the White House,  Stephen Miller in particular, stripped my amendment from the bill. This  means that Donald Trump does not want to protect U.S. citizens.

Let that sink in, Mr. Speaker.

Donald Trump does not want U.S. citizens protected from being  detained and deported by ICE.

The Trump agenda has never been about apprehending and deporting the  worst of the worst. Their own statistics prove that. Their stories  reported by journalists on the ground prove that, and eyewitness and  firsthand accounts prove that.

U.S. citizens, alongside lawful immigrants and members of vibrant  communities, including children as young as 5 years old, are being  targeted by ICE and Border Patrol in the kinds of abuses many of us  never believed would happen in America: indiscriminate stops on the  streets, racial profiling, people dragged from their cars and their  homes, legal observers physically assaulted for documenting abuses,  theft and destruction of property, and people being killed by agents.

Violations of law, violations of the Constitution, and violations of  civil rights are happening here in America at the hands of the American  Government, specifically, the Department of Homeland Security. This  cannot stand.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``no.''