Trump Immigration Policies


Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Takano for yielding. I am so  grateful for his leadership and for bringing us together on the House  floor to talk about what is happening here in our country every day.

Americans are sounding the alarm about the crisis that our country is  in. It is not just an economic crisis, as we see our country sinking  very quickly into an economic crisis, which is being reflected in  Donald Trump's poll numbers. In fact, his sinking poll numbers are even  being reflected in the issue that many consider to be his strong suit  with the American people, which is immigration.

Americans are now realizing that Donald Trump's anti-immigrant  policies are targeting everyone in our country, including U.S.  citizens.

When Donald Trump eliminates due process for immigrants, whether it  is  for legal immigrants or students who are here with legitimate visas, he  is impacting due process for all of us.

When Donald Trump ignores an order from the Supreme Court to bring  back a wrongfully deported immigrant, he is violating the rule of law,  which impacts all of us.

Mr. Speaker, when Donald Trump sends immigrants to a gulag in a  foreign country, believe him when he tells you that he will be doing  this to U.S. citizens next. In fact, he has already begun deporting  U.S. citizen children.

Just today, in the House Judiciary Committee, as the Judiciary  Committee was marking up the reconciliation package, which,  unfortunately, many Republicans will just blindly approve, Judiciary  Committee Republicans refused to protect U.S. citizens from  deportation.

It is shocking, I know.

Here is the thing: We can have strong border security and a fair and  humane immigration system that works for our Nation. That is not what  Donald Trump is doing. He is acting like a tyrant, and he will keep  undermining our democracy, our country, and the rule of law as long as  compliant Republicans allow him to.

Will there be just four Republicans who will stand with us and their  constituents to protect the Constitution, the rule of law, and law and  order in this country? I hope so.