Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Madam Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 3838,  the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026, also known  as the SPEED Act. I thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Smith for  their leadership in bringing this bipartisan legislation to the floor  for the 65th consecutive year.

The Intelligence and Special Operations Subcommittee portions of this  bill, in conjunction with approximately $2.2 billion in reconciliation  funding, continues to focus on providing our Special Operations Forces,  the Defense Intelligence Enterprise, and the security cooperation  enterprise with the tools required to ensure their capabilities can  support the Department's efforts in strategic competition and in  countering malign PRC actions.

This bill supports critical platforms like the V-22 and the MV-75,  which are assembled in Texas' 13th Congressional District. This  legislation also provides the U.S. Special Operations Command with the  ability to accelerate research, development, testing, and procurement  at speed and scale to affect outcomes against adversaries through the  Urgent Innovation Technologies and Capabilities Pilot Program.

The authority for SOCOM, combined with the Defense Intelligence  Enterprise and the Defense Security Cooperation Agency's efforts will  continue to be our strategic hedge against an increasingly contested  and denied battle space by peer adversary capabilities and malign  influence. We will enable leaders to make informed decisions in an  increasingly complex world, enhancing the U.S. military's lethality  across the board.

Finally, this bill, coupled with reconciliation, is just the  beginning of the increased resourcing needed to ensure our Special  Operations Forces, the Defense Intelligence Enterprise, and the  security cooperation enterprise can support the Department's efforts in  strategic competition in countering malign influence.

We owe it to the men and women who volunteer to serve in these roles,  our special operators, uniform and civilian intelligence personnel, and  security cooperation personnel, to equip them with the capabilities.