Letter to Betsy DeVos, Secretary of the Department of Education - Warren Joins Bennet, Menendez, Colleagues to Call on DeVos to Reverse Course and Allow DACA Students to Access Emergency Financial Aid Secured in CARES Act


Dear Secretary DeVos:

We write to express our serious concerns regarding the U.S. Department of Education's("Department") decision to prohibit institutions of higher education (IHE) from grantingemergency assistance provided by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security(CARES) Act to undocumented students, including tens of thousands of students who areDeferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients. This decision unnecessarily harmsstudents in need, and contradicts clear Congressional intent and the plain language of theCARES Act. We expect you to comply with the intent of the CARES Act and reverse thisunauthorized decision immediately.

DACA recipients came to this country as children and make extraordinary contributions to ourcommunities and our economy. During this Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic,DACA recipients attending institutions of higher education across the country face challengeslike other students, many with the added burden of supporting their parents and siblings or beingthe first in their families to attend college. These students should not be excluded from criticalemergency financial aid. Indeed, those who are especially vulnerable to economic hardship areexactly whom these funds were designed to help.

The CARES Act allocated $14 billion to the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund, withmore than $6 billion of these funds required to go directly to students through emergencyfinancial aid. The statutory text of the CARES Act allows DACA recipients to receiveemergency financial aid and establishes broad flexibility to each institution of higher educationto meet the unique needs of their students. While the bill uses existing mechanisms to physicallydistribute funding, the Department, itself, has stated that "the Secretary does not consider theseindividual emergency financial aid grants to constitute Federal financial aid under Title IV of theHEA"1for which undocumented students would be ineligible. What's more, the CARES Actlays out the authorized uses for the funding, which fall outside of the scope of any existingfederal student aid program. Because the CARES Act is not title IV funding, it cannot carry therestrictions of title IV funding, and does not prohibit DACA recipients from receiving support.In fact, your April 9th letter to institutions of higher education announcing the availability ofCARES Act funding for students states that:

"Each institution may develop its own system and process for determining how toallocate these funds, which may include distributing the funds to all students or only tostudents who demonstrate significant need. The only statutory requirement is that thefunds be used to cover expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due tocoronavirus (including eligible expenses under a student's cost of attendance, such asfood, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and child care)."2

This letter accurately describing the CARES Act directly contradicts the guidance theDepartment subsequently produced, which established unauthorized requirements andrestrictions on students and institutions of higher education.Additionally, when asked about the changing guidance, a spokesperson for your Departmentstated that the exclusion of DACA recipients "is consistently echoed throughout the law."3

While some sections of the CARES Act contain explicit requirements that result inundocumented individuals being deemed ineligible for various aspects of non-education relatedrelief, neither the Education Stabilization Fund nor the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fundcontain such prohibitions, making it clear that eligibility for these funds should be at thediscretion of each institution. The Department cannot project a specific prohibition from onesection of the law to an unrelated and independent section of the law where Congress made nosuch prohibition.

Lastly, it is in the public interest to provide students with emergency financial aid and othereducational supports. Ensuring that all students have secure housing, food, and health care duringa time of economic turmoil is a key part of keeping families safe and indoors and to ending theCOVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, we have seen disturbing data on how COVID-19 hasdisproportionately affected communities of color.4 Blocking support for DACA recipients willonly worsen this crisis and harm our families and communities.

As students and families across the country struggle to deal with the public health and economicconsequences of the COVID-19 emergency, we must work together to help all students in need,regardless of immigration status. We, again, urge you to immediately reverse your decision toexclude DACA recipients from CARES Act emergency financial aid grants to students.

Thank you for your attention to this important matter.

Sincerely,