Letter to Governor Gavin Newsom - Members Call on Interior, California to Work Together to Manage California Water Supply


Dear Governor Newsom,

California is facing a real risk of a fundamental breakdown of our water delivery system.We urge you to take what likely is the last remaining opportunity over the next few weeks tohelp preserve the longstanding tradition of successfully coordinating the operation of the StateWater Project and federal Central Valley Project. We believe the most plausible path forward isthrough continued negotiation and the voluntary agreement process.

We understand that an agreement between the necessary parties was close but has not yetbeen reached. Early implementation of such a voluntary agreement when fully negotiated couldprovide a framework to allow the State to settle its lawsuit with the federal government andresolve the differences between the federal biological opinions and the State's incidental takepermit for the long-term operation of the State Water Project. Early implementation will alsohelp to restore threatened and endangered fish populations. We fear if an agreement is notreached, all parties will enter prolonged litigation which will set us back for years to come.

We know you agree that continued coordinated operation of the state and federal waterprojects is necessary to ensure a reliable water supply for diverse uses throughout California,including urban, agricultural and environmental uses. Together, these two projects provide water foran estimated 30 million Californians, nearly 4 million acres of the most productive agricultural landin the world, and many ecosystems--including managed wetlands--on which fish, waterfowl, andother wildlife rely. Historically, these projects have operated in a coordinated manner, with eachproject meeting its individual purpose while operating within a framework that enables both projectsto jointly meet water supply and environmental obligations.

The longstanding coordinated operation of the two projects is threatened by the conflictbetween the federal biological opinions and the State's recently issued incidental take permit.This conflict, if allowed to continue, will not only reduce water deliveries just as drought maybe returning to California, but also block the successful negotiation of voluntary agreements tomeet Delta water quality requirements, which we support. To this end, you and your team havemade substantial efforts, yet we have heard significant frustration that the lawsuit and theincidental take permit have complicated finding a needed solution.

Fortunately, we believe early implementation of voluntary agreements would provide animportant foundation to avoid further conflict. To date, state and federal agencies simply do notagree on the level of Delta outflow required to adequately protect smelt, salmon, and other listedspecies. However, these issues do not need to be resolved through litigation if a framework for voluntary agreements can be reached with the necessary parties, and early implementationprovides interim protections for listed fish species acceptable to the state.

The State's incidental take permit already includes a provision allowing its modification toallow reliance on voluntary agreements, if approved by the State Water Resources Control Board.We urge you to refine this provision to also allow reliance on early implementation of voluntaryagreements when fully negotiated, prior to approval by the State Water Board, to meet Deltaoutflow needs as well as to continue necessary coordinated operations of the two projects. We areconfident that public water districts and users will commit to work with your administration onsuch an approach. Securing additional outflow and implementing adaptive management will notonly achieve environmental benefits in the near term, it will also provide a foundation to bring allinterested parties back to the table so that a long-term comprehensive agreement on Delta waterquality protections can be achieved with reduced litigation.

California water policy is at a critical juncture. Without forceful leadership by state andfederal political leaders, our state will slip back into the "old binaries" referenced in your originalState of the State address. We look to your leadership to help resolve these critical issues andensure coordinated water supply for all Californians. We stand ready to help achieve thatoutcome in any way we can. Thank you for considering our views.

Sincerely,