Letter to David Bernhardt, Sec. of the Interior - Members Call on Interior, California to Work Together to Manage California Water Supply


Dear Secretary Bernhardt,

We urge your Department to work with the State of California topreserve the longstanding practice of coordinated operation of California's StateWater Project and the federal Central Valley Project. The next few weeks arelikely the last remaining opportunity to achieve that outcome.

Continued coordinated operation is threatened by the conflict between thefederal biological opinions and the State's recently issued incidental take permit(ITP) for the long-term operation of the State Water Project. Given the seriousnessof this challenge, we urge you to take advantage of what is likely the lastopportunity to work with the state and seek a solution to this impasse.

We know you agree that coordinated operation of the state and federal waterprojects is necessary to ensure a reliable water supply for diverse uses throughoutCalifornia, including urban, agricultural, and environmental uses. Together, thesetwo projects provide water for an estimated 30 million Californians, nearly 4million acres of the most productive agricultural land in the world, and manyecosystems--including managed wetlands--on which fish, waterfowl, andother wildlife rely. Historically, these projects have always been operated in acoordinated manner, with each project meeting its individual purpose whileoperating within a framework that enables both projects to jointly meet watersupply and environmental obligations.

Numerous water users, both urban and rural, have made clear to us that allCalifornians stand to lose if the state and federal water projects are no longeroperated in coordination. This will reduce water supply certainty and deliveriesjust as drought may be returning to California.

We believe this is a critical moment and look to your leadership andGovernor Newsom's leadership to resolve this avoidable problem. Please let usknow if there is any way we can help. Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,