Nomination of Christopher Hanson


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, it is my pleasure to support the  confirmation of Christopher Hanson to be a Commissioner at the Nuclear  Regulatory Commission. 

  Chris has diligently served the Senate and the people of California  over the last 6 years as a key member of the Senate Energy and Water  Development Appropriations Subcommittee staff. During that time, he has  advised me and the full Senate Appropriations Committee on issues  surrounding the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, including its budget,  its oversight of nuclear reactor decommissioning at San Onofre in  California, and issues related to proposed new reactor technologies. 

  He has also overseen nuclear energy research and development,  radioactive waste cleanup, nuclear weapons, nonproliferation, and naval  reactor programs. 

  Prior to coming to the Senate, Chris worked at the Department of  Energy, where he advised the Assistant Secretary of Nuclear Energy and  worked on appropriations issues for then-Secretary Steven Chu. 

  In all, Chris has 25 years of experience working on the very issues  at the heart of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's mandate. 

  As the Senate knows, the members and staff of the Energy and Water  Appropriations Subcommittee work seamlessly together in order to  produce a bipartisan bill each year. Chris's expertise, his  professionalism, and his quiet, good nature are instrumental in that  effort. He is respected and appreciated by Members on both sides of the  aisle. 

  It is not surprising, therefore, that Senator Alexander, our  subcommittee chairman, sent a letter to the Environmental and Public  Works Committee in support of Chris' nomination, which I very much  appreciate. Senator Alexander and I have spoken about how much the  subcommittee will miss Chris, but we are happy for him, and we look  forward to working with Chris in his new role. 

  I have every confidence that Chris will give his usual thoughtfulness  and insight to the issues that come before the Nuclear Regulatory  Commission. And I know the other Commissioners will find him to be a  joy to work with. 

  I thank Chris for his dedicated service to the people of California,  to the Senate Appropriations Committee, and to the U.S. Senate, and I  look forward to his success in his new role and continuing to serve the  country with all the expertise and professionalism he has shown us  these past 6 years. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT