Senate Resolution 563--Designating March As ``National Women's History Month''


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today in honor of Women's  History Month to recognize the tremendous achievements women have made  for the United States and pay tribute to the vital role they have  played in the political, economic, and social development of this  Nation. 

  What began as a local celebration of women in Santa Rosa, California  more than 40 years ago, has grown to become a nationally observed month  of reflection on the many accomplishments of American women. 

  Women's History Month gives us the opportunity to honor the many  contributions women have made, while also inspiring the next generation  of women leaders. 

  I look upon the courage our predecessors displayed with great  admiration, and I continue to be inspired by those who blazed the trail  for women like me. 

  This year, the United States celebrates the 100th anniversary of the  ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the United  States, which guarantees women the right to vote. I am inspired by the  progress we've made over the past 100 years and hopeful we will  continue to build on that momentum toward full equality. 

  When I first came to Washington in 1992, they called it the ``Year of  the Woman.'' Only two other women were serving in the Senate, and four  women had just been elected to the chamber, myself included. 

  Today, 26 women serve in the Senate and 105 women serve in the House,  including the only woman to have served as Speaker. 

  I'm proud to say that my home State of California has now sent 43  women to Congress and leads all other States in this regard. 

  Even at these historic levels, the number of women in Congress falls  far short of the 51 percent of women members we should expect based on  the country's demographics. 

  I have great confidence that future generations of women will  continue to rise up and help lead the way in building a better  California and United States. 

  As with government, the business world has been transformed by  powerful women at the table, as have the fields of science, music,  film, athletics, literature, and many more. 

  Women also serve in critical roles in the military, with more than  200,000 active-duty servicewomen proudly serving with honor, courage,  and distinction and a growing number of women veterans representing  every branch of service. 

  The gains this Nation has made in terms of social progress would not  have been possible without the extraordinary efforts of women. As women  have fought for themselves, their families, and their communities, so  too have they fought for all Americans. 

  As a senator proudly representing California, I ask you to join me in  celebrating the stories and greatness of American women who  accomplished so much by continuing to defend the rights they worked so  hard to attain. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT