Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I am pleased to join my Judiciary  Committee colleagues, Chairman Graham and Senator Durbin, as the lead  cosponsor of the ``Temporary Reauthorization and Study of the Emergency  Scheduling of Fentanyl Analogues Act.'' 

  This bill will ensure that fentanyl-related substances remain in  Schedule I and will help deter the manufacture of fentanyl-related  substances responsible for overdose deaths. 

  In 2018, the number of fentanyl-related deaths in the United States  increased from 28,000 to 32,000. 

  This is more than double the number of heroin-related overdose  deaths. It is a staggering number of lives lost that we simply cannot  accept. 

  To address the increasing deaths, the Drug Enforcement Administration  (DEA) issued a temporary order to control fentanyl-related substances,  or fentanyl analogues, as a class. 

  That order is set to expire on February 6th. 

  Based on the information my office has received from the DEA and the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, it is clear that this order  has been effective. 

  The number of law enforcement encounters of new fentanyl analogues  has decreased from 8 to 2. That is significant and means that the order  has reduced the supply of new fentanyl analogues by 75 percent. 

  This decrease in supply has reduced the need for widespread  prosecutions of fentanyl-related offenses. In fact, since the DEA's  order went into effect, it is my understanding that there has only been  two related prosecutions. 

  Additionally, although the number of fentanyl-related overdose deaths  has continued to increase, the rate at which these deaths has increased  has declined significantly. 

  For example, between the 12 month periods ending January 2017 and  January 2018, fentanyl deaths increased by nearly 36 percent. 

  Comparatively, between the 12 month periods ending May 2018 and May  2019, which is the latest data available, the rate of fentanyl deaths  only increased by just over 9 percent. 

  I would have preferred a long-term solution to addressing this  problem that can gamer strong bipartisan support, and I am eager to  continue working with my colleagues on such a solution. 

  However, given the limited amount of time that we have before the  DEA's temporary order expires, we cannot sit idly by and do nothing. 

  For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  legislation. Given the staggering number of overdose deaths associated  with fentanyl-related substances, inaction is not an option.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Ms. Murkowski): 

  S. 3203. A bill to amend title 38, United States Code, to codify the  requirements for appointment, qualifications, and pay for therapeutic  medical physicists of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other  purposes; to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT