Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to introduce the  ``Helicopter Safety Act.'' 

  On January 26, 2020, a helicopter carrying nine Californians flew  into foggy weather, ultimately crashing minutes later. Los Angeles and  the world soon learned that among the crash victims were basketball  legend Kobe Bryant and his daughter Gianna. 

  And in the time since, we have learned the names and stories of John,  Alyssa, and Keri Altobelli; Sarah and Payton Chester; Christina Mauser;  and Ara Zobayan. These were spirited friends and family members  connected by their love of sport, traveling to a weekend basketball  tournament. 

  The sudden and shocking nature of the accident touched many, and I  have been moved by the public remembrances in Los Angeles and elsewhere  in honor of the victims. 

  But this tragedy is one that could have been averted. While the  National Transportation Safety Board is still investigating the  incident, a preliminary report indicates the helicopter was flying  through thick clouds and fog, yet was not equipped with a terrain  awareness and warning system among other safety technology. This  technology provides pilots real-time, in-flight warning signals and an  image of surrounding terrain. 

  Since 2006, the National Transportation Safety Board has recommended  to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that all new and existing  helicopters capable of carrying six or more passengers be equipped with  terrain awareness and warning system technology. However, FAA has only  required these warning systems for air ambulances. 

  The lack of a terrain awareness and warning system left the pilot  vulnerable, without an adequate understanding of his surroundings. This  technology has become standard on new helicopters from Airbus, Bell,  Leonardo, and Sikorsky since December 2018. 

  This bill also requires crash-resistant flight data and voice  recorders. Otherwise known as black boxes, this technology is important  for when accidents do happen and mistakes are made. It would allow  agencies like the NTSB to have a better understanding of the incident  and provide more information to the FAA to prevent future accidents. 

  It is clear that additional steps are needed to ensure that  helicopters can fly safely, both for the sake of passengers and those  on the ground. Our bill offers a commonsense approach to preventing  further accidents like this one. It would simply direct the FAA to  implement the National Transportation Safety Board's recommendations to  require terrain awareness and warning systems and flight data and voice  recorders on all helicopters carrying six or more passengers. 

  I appreciate the hard work of the National Transportation Safety  Board in developing these important recommendations, and it is long  past time that the FAA heed its call. 

  My thoughts continue to be with the victims and their loved ones  impacted by this heartbreaking accident. Our bill would help prevent  future tragedies like the one that occurred this past January and it is  critical that Congress pass it swiftly to ensure that such loss of life  was not in vain. 

  Thank you, Mr. President.                                   ______                                   

      By Mr. KAINE: 

  S. 3947. A bill to amend the provisions relating to the higher  education emergency relief fund to clarify the flexibility provided to  institutions and for students under the fund, and for other purposes;  to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT