Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of the  Restoration of Essential Conveyance Act, which I introduced today.  Representatives TJ Cox and Jim Costa, both Democrats of California,  have introduced companion legislation in the House. 

  This legislation would help California water users and California's  nation-leading agricultural industry comply with a recent State  requirement to end the overpumping of groundwater. The stakes are huge:  Bringing groundwater into balance will reduce the water supply of the  San Joaquin Valley by about 2 million acre-feet per year. 

  Unless local water agencies and the State and Federal governments  take action, a recent U.C. Berkeley study has projected severe impacts  from these water supply losses: 798,000 acres of land would have to be  retired from agricultural production, nearly one-sixth of the working  farmland in an area that produces half the fruit and vegetables grown  in the Nation; and $5.9 billion would be lost in annual farm income. 

  How the bill would help: One of the most cost-effective and efficient  ways to restore groundwater balance is to convey floodwaters to  farmlands where they can recharge the aquifer. California has the most  variable precipitation of any State. When we get massive storms from  atmospheric rivers, there is plenty of runoff to recharge aquifers--but  only if we can effectively convey the floodwaters throughout the San  Joaquin Valley to recharge areas. 

  Here is where the challenge arises. For a variety of reasons, the  ground beneath the major canals has dropped by as much as 10 to 20 feet  which has caused canals designed to convey floodwaters to buckle and  drop in many places. Other parts of the canals have not subsided, so  the water gets stuck in the low points. 

  As a result, these essential canals for conveying floodwaters have  lost as much as 60 percent of their conveyance capacity. The bill I am  introducing today would provide Federal assistance to help fix these  Federal canals. 

  Specifically, the bill would authorize $600 million in Federal  funding-cost share for three major projects to repair Federal canals  damaged by subsidence to achieve their lost capacity: $200 million for  the Friant-Kern Canal, which would move an additional 100,000 acre-feet  per year on average; $200 million for the Delta Mendota Canal, which  would move an additional 62,000 acre-feet per year on average; and $200  million for California Aqueduct repairs, which would move an additional  205,000 acre-feet per year on average. While parts of the California  Aqueduct are State-owned, the majority of the repairs are on its  federally owned portion. 

  The bill would also authorize $200 million in additional funding for  the Environmental Restoration Goal of the San Joaquin River settlement.  This provision will ensure that the bill helps to restore not only the  San Joaquin Valley's water supply, but also its native salmon runs. I  think it is appropriate that we consider legislation that would benefit  both our water supply and the environment. 

  Benefits of the bill: If the Federal Government covers a portion of  the cost of restoring these three essential Federal canals for  conveying floodwaters, it will give local farmers a fighting chance to  bring their groundwater basins into balance without being forced to  retire massive amounts of land. 

  Critically, the ability to deliver floodwaters through restored  Federal canals will allow the water districts to invest in their own  turnouts, pumps, detention basins and other groundwater recharge  projects. The South Valley Water Association, which covers just a small  part of the Valley, provided my office with a list of 36 such projects  for its area alone. 

  The Public Policy Institute of California, or PPIC, has determined  that groundwater recharge projects are the best option to help the San  Joaquin Valley comply with the new state groundwater pumping law. PPIC  projects that the Valley can make up 300,000 to 500,000 acre feet of  its groundwater deficit through recharge projects. 

  Job Losses if We Take No Action: A forthcoming study commissioned by  the coalition group called the ``Water Blueprint for the San Joaquin  Valley'' estimates that required reductions in groundwater could cause  a loss of up to 42,000 farm and agricultural jobs in the San Joaquin  Valley. Another 40,000 jobs or more could be lost statewide each year  due to reductions in valley agricultural production, putting the total  at approximately 85,000 jobs statewide. Most of these impacts will fall  disproportionately on economically disadvantaged communities. These  impacts will be significant unless we address them through  collaborative planning, policies, infrastructure, recharge, and  necessary financial support. 

  Friant-Kern Canal: Let me now turn to the three critical canals that  the bill would authorize assistance to restore. The Friant-Kern Canal  is a key feature of the Friant Division of the Federal Central Valley  Project on the Eastside of the San Joaquin Valley. For nearly 70 years,  the Friant Division successfully kept groundwater tables stable on the  Eastside. This provided a sustainable source of water for farms and for  thousands of Californians  and more than 50 small, rural, or disadvantaged communities who rely  entirely on groundwater for their household water supplies. 

  But unsustainable groundwater pumping in the valley has reduced the  Friant-Kern Canal's ability to deliver water to all who need it. Land  elevation subsidence caused by over-pumping means that not all of the  supplies stored at Friant Dam can be conveyed through the canal. In  some areas, the canal can carry only 40 percent of what it is designed  to deliver. 

  In 2017, a very wet year in which we should have been banking as much  flood water as possible, the Friant-Kern Canal couldn't deliver an  additional 300,000 acre-feet of water that it would have been able to  convey had its capacity not been limited by subsidence. This  significant amount of water would have been destined for groundwater  recharge efforts in the south San Joaquin Valley, where the impacts of  reduced water deliveries, water quality issues and groundwater  regulation are expected to be most severe. 

  California Aqueduct and Delta Mendota Canal: The California Aqueduct  serves more than 27 million people in Southern California and the  Silicon Valley and more than 750,000 acres of the Nation's most  productive farmland. But despite its name, much of the California  Aqueduct is owned by the Federal Government and serves portions of  Silicon Valley, small towns and communities in the northern San Joaquin  Valley, and farms from Firebaugh to Kettleman City. The aqueduct  represents a successful 70-year partnership between the Federal  Government and the State of California. 

  In recent years, particularly recent drought years, the California  Aqueduct has subsided. It has lost as much as 20 percent of its  capacity to move water to California's families, farms, and businesses.  California is leading efforts to repair the aqueduct and is working to  provide its share of funding, but the Federal Government will also need  to pay its fair share. The bill I am introducing today would authorize  $200 million toward restoring the California Aqueduct. 

  The Delta-Mendota Canal stretches southward 117 miles from the C.W.  Bill Jones Pumping Plant along the western edge of the San Joaquin  Valley, parallel to the California Aqueduct. The Delta-Mendota Canal  has lost 15 percent of its conveyance capacity due to subsidence. The  bill I am introducing today would authorize $200 million toward  restoring its full ability to convey floodwaters to farms needing to  recharge their groundwater, and to wildlife refuges for migratory  waterfowl. 

  In conclusion, this bill responds to a potential crisis that very  possibly could cause the forced retirement of nearly one-sixth of the  working farmland in an area that produces half of America's fruits and  vegetables. 

  These are Federal canals, and the Federal Government must help give  these farmers and communities reliant of the agricultural economy a  fighting chance to keep their lands in production. 

  I hope my colleagues will join me in support of this bill. I yield  the floor.                                  ______                                   

      By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. Cardin, Ms. Collins, Mrs. Shaheen,          and Mr. Durbin): 

  S. 3833. A bill to extend the loan forgiveness period for the  paycheck protection program, and for other purposes; read the first  time. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT