Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I rise today to talk about an issue of  critical importance to California: doctor shortages. 

  First, I want to express my deepest appreciation and gratitude to the  entire medical community, particularly the doctors, nurses, and support  staff who have been on the frontlines of the coronavirus pandemic.  Amidst a severe shortage of protective equipment, they nevertheless  continue to work around the clock to save countless lives. I--and my  colleagues--are eternally grateful to you. 

  I have heard from countless Californians who have said the same  thing: we need more doctors. 

  That is why Congress established the Public Service Loan Forgiveness  Program in 2007 to encourage doctors to pursue careers at public and  nonprofit facilities, especially in areas experiencing physician  shortages. As a result, physicians who provide care in a nonprofit or  public hospital can have their student debt forgiven by the Public  Service Loan Forgiveness Program after making 120 qualifying monthly  payments under a qualifying repayment plan. 

  However, when the Department of Education issued implementing  guidance for the program, it unintentionally excluded California and  Texas physicians from being eligible to receive loan forgiveness. Under  state law in California and Texas, doctors are prevented from being  directly employed by corporations, including nonprofit organizations.  As a result, physicians in California and Texas who provide medical  services at nonprofit hospitals do not qualify for the Public Service  Loan Forgiveness program. 

  To make matters worse, the United States is facing a shortage of  physicians. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges,  our Nation can expect a shortage of up to nearly 122,000 physicians by  2032 as demand for physicians continues to grow. California alone will  need an additional 10,000 primary care doctors. 

  During this difficult and challenging time, it is clear that more  medical professionals are needed. And long after this pandemic ends, we  will still need more doctors to provide high-quality care, in both  rural and urban areas. 

  That is why I am pleased to introduce the bipartisan ``Stopping  Doctor Shortages Act.'' This legislation would help attract more  doctors to public service and address the looming physician shortage by  fixing a loophole that prevents thousands of doctors from participating  in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. 

  According to the California Medical Association, this bill alone  could bring as many as 10,000 physicians to California over the next  ten years. 

  Similar legislation, introduced in the House by Representatives Josh  Harder, Paul Cook, Joaquin Castro, Dan Crenshaw, and Karen Bass, also  enjoys bipartisan support. 

  I would like to thank Senators John Cornyn and Kamala Harris for  their support on this critical issue and for cosponsoring the bill. 

  I ask my colleagues to join us to right a wrong and pass the  ``Stopping Doctor Shortages Act'' in a timely manner as we continue to  find ways to combat the coronavirus pandemic and save lives. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT