Veteran Treatment Court Coordination Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, in 1993, I voted against the North  American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. At the time, I was concerned  about a number of issues, including that NAFTA would not adequately  protect American jobs--manufacturing jobs in particular--and also  lacked sufficient environmental protections. 

  Today, I voted yes on the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement that will  replace NAFTA because it will substantially improve upon NAFTA, and in  the process benefit California and the United States. 

  There are several provisions in the agreement that will help  California, including greater access to Canadian agricultural markets,  including dairy; labor provisions that go far beyond past trade  agreements; and $300 million to help address pollution from the Tijuana  River. It also includes $215 million and renewed authorization for the  North American Development Bank to address pollution along the U.S- Mexico border, a provision that comes from legislation I introduced  with Senator Cornyn. 

  The agreement sets new standards for labor protections in a trade  agreement. The agreement will require Mexico to make major improvements  to its labor laws, including collective bargaining reforms,  establishing independent labor courts and union dispute-resolution  bodies, and eliminating compulsory labor. It will substantially improve  monitoring and enforcement of these labor reforms in Mexico, and make  the enforcement process easier. For example, the agreement will  establish benchmarks for Mexico's compliance with its labor obligations  that will trigger a new labor-specific enforcement mechanism if those  obligations are not met. 

  The updates to NAFTA include several provisions that will help  California's agricultural producers, including increasing access to  Canada's dairy market. The agreement also puts wine, beer, and spirit  products from each country on a more level playing field. 

  I recognize that some critics think we can do more to protect the  environment and fight climate change, and I agree. But we can't make  the perfect the enemy of the good, and this agreement takes important  steps in that area. In addition to fighting pollution along the  southern border, the agreement provides increased funding for  environmental compliance monitoring and enforcement, helps prevent  illegal and unregulated fishing and trafficking of wildlife, protects  marine species, affirms each country's commitments to international  environmental agreements, and makes it easier for countries to issue  regulations in the public interest. 

  This agreement is a step in the right direction, in large part due to  important improvements made by House Democrats. Those improvements  helped secure many of the strong labor  and environmental provisions I have just mentioned. 

  These updates to NAFTA will also go a long way toward stabilizing our  trade relationships with Mexico and Canada--two of the most important  trading partners for California and the Nation. Canada and Mexico are  two of the largest trading partners with the United States, each  accounting for more than $600 billion in trade. The two countries are  California's two largest export markets, buying nearly $50 billion of  California's exports each year. 

  Finally, it is notable that this agreement has broad bipartisan  support, which I think is a sign that Congress can still work together  to get important things done. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT