Trump Administration


Mr. LUJAN. Will the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. LUJAN. First, I want to begin by thanking our friend, and I say  ``our friend'' because he is more than my friend, Senator Merkley. We  are friends from across our Nation's Capital and across America--some  who are here, listening to you themselves, and others who, I am sure,  are tuning in. Whether it is on social media or on C-SPAN or on one of  the news outlets that is carrying the conversation that you are having  on behalf of the American people, I want to say thank you. Thank you  for your courage, for your conviction, and for your tireless leadership  in speaking up today on behalf of all that is going on across America  and around the world but especially what is impacting your  constituents.

If I am not mistaken, Senator Merkley, it has been nearly 20 hours  that you have been on the floor now, speaking to the American people.

Now, I like you. I am proud to be a U.S. Senator. I know, the way you  speak about Oregon, I am always battling with you on whether it is New  Mexico or it is Oregon. Which is more beautiful? I still believe it is  New Mexico, but that is not my question today, Senator Merkley.

I am so proud to represent the people from New Mexico, and every day  I am reminded that the work that we do here doesn't just impact our  homes. The work that we do here touches every corner of the United  States of America.

For the last 3 weeks of this Republican shutdown--and the reason I  say that is that the American people know that the House of  Representatives has a majority of Republicans; that the Speaker of the  House is a Republican; that the majority in the U.S. Senate is  controlled by Republicans; that the majority leader is a Republican;  and that the President of the United States is a Republican.

Now, as I visit with constituents from across New Mexico--and last  night, Senator Merkley, I had a townhall, a telephone townhall. We had  thousands and thousands of New Mexicans who were on this call. They all  told me that they were worried about what would happen if their health  insurance premiums doubled, even tripled. Every news article I read  this morning and those that I saw on television or on social media  today had similar stories from constituents about concerns about maybe  losing their healthcare.

Now, Senator, you know, as well as so many people across New Mexico  and a few across America, that 3 years ago I survived a stroke. When  someone has a heart attack or a stroke or some other chronic episode  like that, you learn that time is not on your side. You are not  thinking about how expensive those hospital bills may be. All you are  hoping is that you can get to see a medical professional who might be  able to save your life. By the grace of God, by the love of my family,  Senator Merkley, I am here. I am alive today. I healed, and it is quite  miraculous, but a big part of that was because I was fortunate enough  to have health insurance. I was fortunate to get to a facility quickly  enough. On the way there, a local paramedic and an EMT from Santa Fe  County Fire Department helped to prepare me before I got to the  emergency room. They helped to save my life.

Well, right now, across the country it is not just the concern of  health insurance premiums doubling or tripling so that millions of  people could lose coverage; under this thing called the Big Beautiful  Bill, my Republican colleagues here said: Well, we are going to have  the largest cut in Medicaid funding since the program has been created.

In addition to that, how about my Republican colleagues saying: Well,  let's also go after food programs, and the largest cut to food programs  across America were included in that bill.

The reason I bring up Medicaid is that, in New Mexico, we had a  Republican Governor who actually embraced Medicaid expansion. So New  Mexico was one of the States that had the most uninsured people per  capita and became one of the most insured. Because of that expansion,  people were able to get care and help.

As for those rural health clinics that also provide care to so many  of our Medicaid beneficiaries in New Mexico, all of a sudden, when  Federal Medicaid dollars go away, they might close.

So I am going to go back to my stroke.

Time is not on our side. If someone has to travel hours to try to get  into a medical facility because the rural health clinics have closed  that might be able to stabilize them in the way that that EMT and that  paramedic did for me at the local fire department, they might not heal  or, worse, they may not live.

Now I am going to get back to one of the conversations we are having  right now: How can we work as Democrats and Republicans and work with  the President to ensure that health insurance premiums will not double  or triple for the American people?

One of my constituents told me, Senator Merkley, that it is almost  like they are reaching into our pockets and just stealing money. What I  mean by that is, in New Mexico, if these tax credits go away, it is  going to cost people about $7,000 a year--7,000 bucks--for hard- working, middle-class families. That is taking from their pockets.

In addition to that, when they go to the grocery store--well, let me  even back up a little. Remember when the President said, when he was  running as a candidate, that, on day one, he would lower prices for the  American people just like ``that''? Well, at the grocery store, things  are getting more expensive. Everything seems to be getting more  expensive. Well, that is taking money out of the pockets of the  American people--our constituents--who are hard-working families just  trying to get by, who are trying to leave better lives for their kids  than they had for their own if they are blessed to have children.

Many are worried about how they will even put food on the table now  that the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program is delayed or even  this program called WIC. You know, there are acronyms all over our  Nation's Capital. WIC is the program for Women, Infants, and Children.

How are we going to make decisions across the country to make sure  that we are going to provide food for the most vulnerable in the  richest Nation in the world? Everyone seems to be worried about that  except for President Donald Trump.

The reason I say that, Senator, is, this week, all President Donald  Trump seems to care about is breaking ground on this $250 million  ballroom.

Some constituents have reached out to my office and have asked: Well,  what does that mean?

I have told them: Well, the President allowed a bulldozer to go and  knock down part of the White House so he could build a $250 million  room to throw some parties in. That is essentially what is happening.

I mean, heck, in New Mexico, Senator, if someone is going to do some  remodeling of their home, they have to go pull local permits and get  permission and follow the rules and all the rest--not this guy. At a  time when people are about to have their health insurance premiums  double or triple and when food programs are getting taken away, this  President says that his priority is to build a $250 million party room.  That is a lot of money. That is more money than most people will see in  their lives. I mean, heck, $1 million is one of those numbers.

In addition to that, President Trump decided to throw a picnic  yesterday for some of my Senate Republican colleagues who wanted to be  there. I was told that he gave away thousands of dollars of his own  personal Trump swag. What is that--hats? signed bags? pens? I don't  know what else was in there--watches? maybe a pair of his shoes?  Instead of working to end this shutdown that they started, they decided  to have a picnic.

It is my understanding that President Trump may even be leaving the  country this weekend. He is leaving for a week as opposed to bringing  people together?

I am reminded, Senator Merkley, that President Trump said not too  long ago in an interview: If there is a shutdown, it is up to the  President to bring people together to prevent the shutdown.

I think, in that same interview, the President said something along  the lines of, if there is a shutdown, it is a bad mark on the  President. It sounds to me like the President should be bringing people  together.

Last night, one of my constituents from Albuquerque, NM, shared with  me that she had been furloughed as a Federal employee. She told me she  didn't know how she was going to pay this month's bills without a  paycheck. She felt that President Trump was doing nothing to end the  shutdown, and she didn't know how she could continue handling all the  stress of not being paid. That is something else that we are not  talking about here--all of the stress and mental health challenges that  families are going through.

One of my constituents in Las Vegas, NM, has four children, a  mortgage to pay, and his family lives paycheck to paycheck. He said,  with all the stress and hurt that is being caused by the Republican  shutdown, he doesn't know if people will be able to afford their  healthcare if it is taken away.

This week, people across America are watching Donald Trump tear down  the east side of the White House to make room for that $250 million  ballroom.

There is a story that I just saw coming in, Senator Merkley, about  President Trump and that it looks like he is trying to shake down the  Department of Justice to get 230 million bucks for himself. And here is  the kicker: The person who would actually have to sign off on giving  President Trump $230 million in taxpayer money from the Department of  Justice is a guy named Todd Blanche. Anyone who knows who this person  is knows that Todd Blanche was Donald Trump's personal defense  attorney. He didn't do so well because he got convicted, but he is the  guy who would have to sign off.

So I will sum it up this way, Senator Merkley--and I have a question  for you, sir. My colleague from Hawaii said it perfectly yesterday.  Here is the quote:

There is enough money to bail out Argentina with $40       billion.

By the way, for people who don't know what that means, to all the  cattle ranchers in America, President Donald Trump said he is going to  bail out Argentina and buy $40 billion of their beef. What is that  going to do to American cattle producers?

Now back to the quote:

There is enough money to bail out Argentina with $40       billion.

``There is enough money to buy Kristi Noem,'' who is the Secretary of  Homeland Security, ``a $173 million [personal] jet,'' just to fly a  little more comfortably.

There is enough money to renovate that ballroom for 250 million  bucks, but there isn't enough money for you, the American people. It  seems to me the priorities are clear.

So will the Senator yield for a question?

Mr. LUJAN. Senator Merkley, how are Americans supposed to trust an  administration that seems to be so focused on giving things to  themselves when Americans are worried they won't be able to afford  basic necessities like food and health insurance?

I yield to the Senator.