Doe and Nasa Interagency Research Coordination Act


Mr. BEGICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 1368, the  Department of Energy and NASA Interagency Research Coordination Act.

This legislation authorizes the U.S. Department of Energy and the  National Aeronautics and Space Administration to carry out research and  development activities focused on the advancement of shared DOE and  NASA mission priorities. This includes R&D in critical technology areas  like nuclear thermal propulsion systems, astrophysics, radiation health  effects, machine learning, and more.

DOE and its predecessor, the Atomic Energy Commission, have a long  and successful history of interagency collaboration with NASA. Over the  last 60 years, this relationship has evolved from radioisotope power  systems to new areas of research such as quantum information and  environmental sciences.

This interagency relationship has greatly benefited my home State of  Alaska. The North Slope of Alaska is home to the Department of Energy's  Atmospheric Radiation Measurement, or ARM, user facility, which gathers  data pertaining to clouds and radiation processes in cold environments  and high altitudes.

Given its strengths, NASA has partnered with this DOE facility to  conduct research in areas such as aerosols. In addition, any  atmospheric data from ARM stands to benefit the Pacific Spaceport  Complex on Kodiak Island in my home State of Alaska, which supports  commercial and government suborbital and orbital launch missions, as  well.

Additionally, H.R. 1368 requires the Secretary and the Administrator  to implement research security provisions consistent with the CHIPS and  Science Act of 2022. Given the transformational nature of these  emerging technologies and their impact on national security, this  language is necessary to protect our investments and breakthroughs from  hostile powers such as the Chinese Communist Party.

I thank my colleague, Mr. Whitesides of California, for working with  me on this important legislation and continuing the bipartisan  tradition of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1368 is a good governance and commonsense bill, and  I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.