Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688188/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-waste-emissions-charge-for-petroleum-and-natural-gas-systems-procedures-for-facilitating-compliance-including-netting-and-exemptions


Mr. BEGICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J. Res.  35, which repeals the Biden administration's natural gas tax, a  misguided policy that drives up costs, stifles investment, and weakens  our energy security. This so-called waste emissions charge won't reduce  methane emissions, but it will punish American producers, increase  reliance on foreign energy, and make life more expensive for America's  working families.

While some claim this tax does not directly impact my home State of  Alaska, what is bad for American energy is bad for Alaskan energy.  Alaska holds over 100 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, and the  Alaska LNG project is our best chance to bring it to market. Yet,  burdensome Federal regulations discourage investment, keeping Alaska's  energy potential locked away.

Meanwhile, Cook Inlet gas supplies are declining, threatening  Alaskans in south central Alaska with higher heating and electricity  costs. If we want long-term energy security, we must develop our  resources.

Mr. Speaker, every job is an energy job because energy powers  everything that we do. Supporting American energy production means  creating good-paying jobs in oil and gas, construction, transportation,  manufacturing, and small businesses that rely on affordable energy. The  Alaska LNG project alone would generate thousands of jobs,  strengthening our economy and supply chains. If we want to grow  opportunity for working families, we must stand with American energy  and repeal the natural gas tax.

Let's be clear: Opponents of this bill are spreading falsehoods. They  claim this tax will cut emissions, but the U.S. already leads the world  in methane reduction, cutting emissions intensity by 42 percent since  2015. They say this is about Big Oil, but 90 percent of U.S. natural  gas comes from small and midsize producers. They claim only gas  producers are affected, but the Biden administration designed this rule  to also hit oil producers.

Mr. BEGICH. Mr. Speaker, they argue this tax protects energy  security, yet it increases reliance on foreign adversaries.

If we are serious about energy security, affordability, and economic  growth, we must repeal the natural gas tax. H.J. Res. 35 is a  commonsense step toward a stronger energy future. I urge my colleagues  to vote ``yes.''