Work Highlights of Western Caucus


Mr. BEGICH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the many  opportunities of Alaska.

As America's most Western State, most Eastern State, and most  Northern State, Alaska is nearly 20 percent of the United States'  landmass. We have more than half of the United States coastline, and it  is estimated that we have more undiscovered estimated natural gas and  oil resources than any other State in the country.

We have nearly every critical mineral on the critical minerals list  in Alaska. We have base metals, precious metals, and of course we have  rare earths in abundance. We have incredible timber resources, and we  produce about 60 percent of America's seafood. Alaska is a crucial  State, and I am proud to be a member of our House's Western Caucus.

I am the only Member from the State of Alaska. We have about 730,000  people who live in a State that is 2\1/2\ times the size of Texas. We  are vast. We are independent, and we want to make sure that we have the  ability to develop the resources that we have been blessed with.

Under President Trump's leadership, we have seen executive orders  that specifically allow for development of our critical minerals, those  rare earths that I spoke of, and of our natural resources, including  tremendous energy resources in ANWR, NPR-A, and elsewhere. That is what  Alaskans want. Alaskans want the ability to be independent, to develop  their resources responsibly, and to stand on their own two feet.

I am thrilled to be a part of this body, a body that is focused on  making sure that Alaska's resource potential is fully unlocked, that  our mineral potential is fully unlocked, and that we restore domestic  supply chains again.

As we restore those supply chains, we know that those supply chains  begin with resources and begin with energy  to process those resources. Alaska is the cornerstone of this strategy,  and we are excited to be a part of that conversation. I look forward to  the opportunities that we will be bringing forward in the 119th  Congress to advance Alaska's interests, our Nation's interests, and  restore domestic manufacturing in this Nation again.