Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697807/disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-texas


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, the bill before us is a bipartisan  compromise that continues our work to improve the quality of life of  our servicemembers and their families. I thank the chair and ranking  member for working so diligently to bring this forward.

At the heart of our national security are the people whose courage,  skill, and integrity make every mission possible. This legislation  recognizes their value with a 3.8 percent pay raise, an increase in the  family separation allowance, and other provisions that will help ease  the financial pressures of military families.

It also extends the Child Care in Your Home pilot through 2029 and  requires annual reviews of childcare fee assistance.

We also include protections I championed for our Department of  Defense civilian workforce, barring arbitrary layoffs for DODEA  teachers and childcare staff, and shielding public shipyard employees  from reductions in force or hiring freezes.

I am very grateful that this bill moves forward a reform that I have  worked on for years. It authorizes automatic Selective Service System  registration for eligible men, making the system more fair and  efficient.

I am especially proud that this legislation codifies the Women's  Initiatives Teams across all services. Women serve and lead in every  domain of our military. We cannot let Secretary Hegseth sideline them.  Making WITs permanent ensures each branch can continue to identify the  barriers and remove those  barriers to women's recruitment, retention, health, and safety.

I do all this and support this bill, despite my extreme lack of  confidence in this Pentagon's leadership, but I must always support the  men and women who wear the uniform. Our servicemembers and their  families make extraordinary sacrifices for our Nation, and now,  especially now, we must fulfill our commitments to them.

Mr. Speaker, with my remaining time, with very much respect to the  ranking member and chairman, I would also like to echo Mr. Khanna in  imploring a full committee hearing for the House Armed Services  Committee with Secretary Hegseth and a full committee hearing for the  Intel Committee with Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard.  We absolutely and collectively all must have the oversight and the  understanding of what is going on in Venezuela and the attacks in the  open Caribbean.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues for the opportunity to serve.