Mathematical and Statistical Modeling Education Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688979/mathematical-and-statistical-modeling-education-act


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Haley Stevens for  this opportunity to speak on behalf of this really important  legislation.

Imagine, if you will, the ability to model a manufacturing process to  design a basketball shoe, maybe modeling the opportunity to cure a  disease, maybe modeling market behavior, perhaps modeling a system to  be able to equitably donate organs to people or molecules to cure a  disease, modeling energy sources so that we can have a more safe and  healthy planet, or maybe even, unfortunately, having to model the  destruction of our infrastructure so that we can make sure that we have  the national security resources to be able to protect our fine Nation.

H.R. 730, the Mathematical and Statistical Modeling Education Act, is  designed to address all of these different issues in our society, but I  come to the floor with really bad news, as though we needed more.  America's K-12 students are falling further and further behind,  particularly behind China's students, academically.

This lag is particularly concerning when we talk about the STEM  fields because our industrial base continues to tell us that we are not  educating and preparing the designers, engineers, and modelers of the  future in order to be able to compete with our adversaries.

The National Assessment on Education Progress, which is colloquially  known as the Nation's report card, has shown us that this knowledge and  talent shortage is a nationwide challenge. In 2022, the assessment  registered the largest decline in mathematics scores since we first  started assessing in 1990. The scores of the average fourth grader were  down 5 points. Worse, the average eighth grader recorded a score of 8  points lower than the previous assessment. The 2024 survey was even  more concerning because it showed an overall growth of zero from 2022  and even declines among some students, as well.

With all the chaos that is unfolding in other parts of our  government, particularly in the education sector, now is the time to  invest in math and STEM education.

The Mathematical and Statistical Modeling Education Act is just one  answer to this challenge. It is a bipartisan bill, and it directs $10  million of already-appropriated money to the National Science  Foundation for a grant program that will support the modernization of  mathematical and statistical modeling for education across this Nation.

As a former educator myself and an engineer by education and  profession, I know personally that there is a very serious need to  improve mathematics education for our K-12 students. Indeed, when I  taught chemistry, I saw firsthand how my students struggled because  they lacked the basic foundations in math that are necessary for the  sciences. Today, I hear from both our generals and our CEOs about what  these gaps mean for our country. It doesn't just hurt our economy. It  hurts our national security, as well.

Math skills form the basis for all the STEM disciplines, and  importantly, they also form the basis just for critical thinking and  problem-solving in general. If our students can't get ahead in school,  how will they get ahead in the STEM workforce as engineers, computer  scientists, chemists, nurses, doctors, and much more?

Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, importantly, how will those who may decide  to pursue STEM fields succeed where these same skills are useful among  the trades or manufacturing?

Thankfully, schools across the country are developing new tools and  curricula with students to help them learn these challenging topics.

I will repeat again that this is without any additional cost. This is  with funds already appropriated.

I will also repeat again that this is a bipartisan piece of  legislation that will provide our young people with the skills they  need to succeed in our marketplace.

It passed in the 118th Congress unanimously out of the Committee on  Science, Space, and Technology as well when it was last marked up. I  hope that my colleagues will support this unanimously and make this  bill finally a law.

Lastly, I thank my Republican colleague and fellow veteran, Mr.  Baird, for his hard work on this legislation and extend appreciation to  the staff of the SST Committee, as well as Representative Stevens and  Representative Babin, who have helped shepherd this legislation through  today.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides to support this  commonsense, bipartisan measure to strengthen our national security and  our economy.