Procurement and Placement of Statue of Benjamin Franklin in the United States Capitol


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688221/procurement-and-placement-of-statue-of-benjamin-franklin-in-the-united-states-capitol


Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Morelle for  yielding.

Today, I am so grateful to have the opportunity to rise and offer  this bipartisan legislation, H.R. 250, the Benjamin Franklin statue  placement act. It is so very important to highlight moments where we do  come together here in the body, and this bipartisan, bicameral  legislation is a bright moment of that kind of unity.

I am really grateful for the support and partnership of my colleagues  in this effort, Representative Fitzpatrick and Senators Coons and  Boozman, on the other side of the Capitol.

The Benjamin Franklin statue placement act does seek to honor  Benjamin Franklin, as mentioned, a renowned author, inventor,  statesman, and dare I offer, the most important Founding Father of our  great Nation.

Mr. Franklin's accomplishments and inventions are numerous and  infamous. Electricity, bifocals, and the lightning rod are just a  couple of examples that every day still centuries later are in our  lives. He is known, as was mentioned earlier, for very pithy, very  profound, and witty statements, such as a stitch in time saves nine or  a penny saved is a penny earned. Most memorable, perhaps, is: ``It is a  republic, if you can keep it.''

Arguably, Mr. Franklin's most important accolade is that he is the  only person to have signed formally all three foundational documents  separating our new Nation from the British monarchy.

The Treaty of Paris, the Declaration of Independence, and the Bill of  Rights, together known as the Charters of Freedom, boast the signatures  of some of our Nation's most revered figures. Mr. Franklin's signature  is the only one that appears on all three documents, however. That is  not only something worthy of note, but something, of course, to  celebrate.

This is why I was shocked when I learned on my very first official  tour of the Capitol Building--which was given to me by my own team  member, Emma Consoli, who is the one we really should thank for this  legislation--that there are no statues on the Capitol tour of Mr.  Franklin. Indeed, Mr. Franklin's lone statue sits at the base of a  stairwell, a dark stairwell, just off the Senate floor, out of sight of  the hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Capitol.

As we approach this Nation's 250th anniversary, it really is of  utmost importance to have Mr. Franklin rightly on display and  immortalized for his contributions to our foundation. The Benjamin  Franklin statue placement act will do just that.

While Representative Fitzpatrick and I both are both immensely proud  of Pennsylvania's own Ben Franklin, we know this is not just for  Pennsylvania but for our entire country. I am very grateful to the 77  Members who shared this sentiment last Congress and to our 22 evenly  bipartisan original cosponsors and to the 33 Members who have already  sponsored it today.

I am also very grateful for the leadership of Chairman Steil and  Ranking Member Morelle who supported this bill and believed in it as it  passed through the House Administration Committee unanimously in  September.

This placement act, as written, directs the Joint Committee on the  Library to procure and to place a statue of Mr. Franklin along the  Capitol tour route, as mentioned, before 2026 ends in celebration of  our 250th anniversary.

The installation of this statue in the Capitol Building will not only  be an apt celebration for such an important figure in our history, but  it is something that I will urge my colleagues to make sure that we  vote in favor of today, so we can start that clock ticking. It is  important that we take up this legislation now so that this awesome  statue that has already been built and already been donated can be cast  to perfection and placed ahead of 2026.

I am grateful for the support of this effort. I thank the sculptor,  Zenos Frudakis, for his beautiful work already. I appreciate so much  the hard work that has gone into this by all of the people who stand  around me for being able to get this to the floor for consideration.