Recognizing Deborah P. Brown


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700723/recognizing-deborah-p-brown


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Deborah P. Brown  for more than forty-four years of extraordinary service to the American  Lung Association and for a lifetime of visionary leadership dedicated  to saving lives by improving lung health and preventing lung disease.

As Chief Mission Officer of the American Lung Association, and  previously as President and CEO of the Lung Association of the Mid- Atlantic, Deb Brown has been a transformative leader whose steadfast  advocacy, innovative leadership, and unwavering commitment to public  health have strengthened programs, advanced research, expanded  advocacy, and forged impactful partnerships across the Nation. Her work  has helped improve lung health and strengthen public health protections  for Pennsylvanians and communities nationwide.

Deb's commitment to lung health is deeply personal. After losing  loved ones to pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), she dedicated her  life to ensuring that no family faces lung disease without access to  support, education, and hope. That experience strengthened her resolve  to raise awareness, advance research, and champion policies that  improve quality of life for those living with lung disease.

In Pennsylvania, Deb was instrumental in advancing landmark public  health achievements, including tobacco prevention initiatives, asthma  control efforts, expanded healthcare access, clean air protections and  anti-idling legislation that strengthened safeguards for residents  across the Commonwealth. Her leadership also extended to Delaware,  where she played a pivotal role in the passage of the state's Clean  Indoor Air Act--then the second comprehensive law of its kind in the  Nation. As Chair of the Delaware Cancer Consortium, she led statewide  efforts to improve cancer prevention, detection, and treatment.

Over the past eight years, under her national leadership, Deb  advanced the American Lung Association's work in research, advocacy,  and public education. Under her direction, the organization  successfully advocated for stronger car and truck emission standards,  cleaner power plants, and critical methane emission controls from oil  and gas operations--policies that continue to deliver lasting health  benefits. She also served on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's  Clean Air Act Advisory Committee. During her tenure, the organization  supported approximately $178.6 million in research investments to  advance initiatives that improve lung health and accelerate innovation.

Deb's leadership was particularly critical during the COVID-19  pandemic, when she helped advance science-based public health efforts  to protect people living with lung disease. She also played an  important role in advancing Tobacco 21 policies, protecting children  from predatory marketing of e-cigarettes, and supporting state-level  successes, including increased tobacco taxes. She strengthened advocacy  efforts that bring lung disease patients and caregivers to Washington,  D.C. each year to advocate for protecting access to affordable  healthcare and securing sustained federal funding for the National  Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and  Prevention.

With degrees in Public Health and Health Education and as a Certified  Health Education Specialist, Deb has dedicated her career to empowering  communities through education, prevention, and advocacy. She has  authored curricula, contributed to research publications, and trained  advocates and educators across the country. Just as importantly, she is  widely respected for her mentorship and compassion, helping cultivate  the next generation of public health leaders.

Through her visionary leadership, deeply personal commitment, and  tireless dedication to lung health, Deb has improved the lives of  countless individuals and families and helped create healthier  communities across the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the United  States. Her legacy will endure in cleaner air, stronger public health  protections, groundbreaking research, expanded access to care, and the  many lives saved and leaders inspired by her example.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join me in celebrating the  career and retirement of Deborah P. Brown.