Recognizing National Donate Life Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701641/recognizing-national-donate-life-month


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize April as  National Donate Life Month and to recognize the historic life-saving  contributions of Gift of Life Donor Program. Donate Life Month is a  time to honor organ and tissue donors, donor families, transplant  recipients, caregivers, medical and donation professionals, and the  thousands of Americans waiting for a second chance at life through  transplantation.

For more than 50 years, Gift of Life Donor Program has led the Nation  in saving lives through organ donation, driven by an unwavering  determination to end the transplant waitlist. Founded in 1974 and  headquartered in Philadelphia, Gift of Life is the nonprofit, federally  designated organ procurement organization (OPO) serving 11.3 million  people in the eastern half of Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and  Delaware.

As one of the most active OPOs, Gift of Life coordinated the most  life-saving organs transplanted in U.S. history in 2025. The program  also has coordinated the most kidney transplants in the U.S. for ten  years in a row--bringing its cumulative total to 22,756, the highest  number of kidney transplants facilitated by any OPO in U.S. history and  helping to address a critical public health issue. Overall, Gift of  Life has coordinated the most donor heroes (15,586) and organs for  transplant (43,108) since the start of our national donation system in  1988.

Yet the work is far from finished. Today, more than 100,000  Americans--including approximately 4,500 people in Gift of Life's  region--need a transplant to survive. Working around the clock in  partnership with 123 hospitals and hundreds of transplant centers  nationwide, Gift of Life's staff meets this urgent public health crisis  every day. A global leader since the early days of transplant, Gift of  Life continues to advance the field, championing organ recovery and  preservation technologies that have greatly increased the possibility  of donation for families who want to create a legacy of hope for their  loved one.

In addition, Gift of Life provides the most comprehensive array of  services available to the U.S. donation and transplantation community.  Its affiliates--Gift of Life Institute and Gift of Life Howie's House-- extend this impact globally and locally. For more than 20 years, the  Institute has served as an international training center for organ and  tissue donation professionals. Gift of Life Howie's House, celebrating  its 15th anniversary this year, is a 32-room lifeline for transplant  families, providing temporary affordable lodging, meals and  professional supportive services for thousands of patients and  caregivers during their transplant journey.

Each of us can support the Gift of Life mission. A single organ donor  can save up to eight lives; a tissue donor can heal as many as 100  others with gifts that restore health, mobility and sight to patients  in need. Every person has the potential to save and heal lives through  donation regardless of age, health or medical history. Registering  takes less than one minute. This simple act is a profound expression of  generosity and shared responsibility.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in celebrating National  Donate Life Month, honoring the extraordinary generosity of donors and  donor families, giving hope to our fellow citizens waiting, and  encouraging all Americans to register as donors. Together, we can help  Gift of Life achieve its vision of ending the transplant waitlist.