Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700701/small-business-innovation-and-economic-security-act


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Velazquez for  yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate a big win for small businesses  and innovators in my district and across the country, as well.

For years, I proudly led the bipartisan RAMP for Innovators Act, a  bill that gives our small businesses the tools they need to turn great  ideas into market-ready products.

Today, I am thrilled that a significant portion of that work is  included in the Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act.  Thanks to this bill, these very important provisions and improvements  will soon be law.

Today's passage is a testament to what bipartisan and bicameral  collaboration can achieve. It was a real disservice that the SBIR and  STTR programs lapsed last year, which are the lifeblood of innovation  on Main Street. They help both entrepreneurs and small businesses in  places like Pennsylvania's Sixth District turn ideas into real products  and businesses.

Thanks to this legislation, the programs are back and stronger than  before.

Importantly, the bill incorporates key provisions for my RAMP for  Innovators Act that give small businesses more control over their  commercialization efforts. Under this legislation, companies can now  use technical and business assistance funds not just to utilize outside  experts but to also hire new staff, expand existing teams, and to train  their employees to move their technologies to market.

Agencies will continue to provide oversight to ensure that funds are  used effectively, but awardees now have a lot more flexibility to  direct these resources to where they are most needed.

Additionally, this bill ensures that SBIR and STTR recipients can  participate in the Innovation-Corps, or I-Corps, programs, which  provide key trainings that help turn research into market-ready  products. Under the provisions in my RAMP for Innovators Act,  businesses can use TABA funds and other funding sources for  participation in I-Corps, giving small businesses the flexibility they  need to fully take advantage of these opportunities.

Having scaled a lot of businesses in southeastern Pennsylvania, I  know how critical these resources are. They can literally mean the  difference between a promising and even life-changing idea sitting on a  shelf and a product that creates jobs and strengthens our economy.

I thank Representative Balderson for his continued participation and  bipartisanship on this, the RAMP for Innovators Act, and to Senator  Coons for championing these provisions in the Senate. Together, we are  ensuring that small businesses have the support that they need to grow,  hire, and bring bold ideas to market.

This is a really proud moment for Main Street, for innovators, and  for my community. I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' for the  Small Business Innovation and Economic Security Act.