Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695246/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this bill.

I was very proud of the markup that passed out of the Armed Services  Committee. The bill that we delivered to this floor this week was  overwhelmingly bipartisan. It supported our men and women in uniform  and strengthened our national defense.

It was an honor to work so closely with Chairman Rogers and Ranking  Member Smith on that bill.

Unfortunately, the toxically amended bill that is here before us is  no longer that. Not only have a number of very difficult amendments  been added to the original markup, but also, since the markup, this  administration has recklessly and dangerously deployed the National  Guard to American cities without the request or permission of either  State or local officials.

For good reason, the Governor of each State makes the decision about  when and where to deploy National Guard, not Presidents who are trying  to score cheap political points and who are trying to divide our  Nation.

I am very proud to be a veteran, and as ranking member of the  Military Personnel Subcommittee, it is my responsibility to make sure  that we are taking care of our troops and deploying them responsibly  and legally, but you don't need to be a veteran or a member of a  military family to see what this administration has done with our  military. It is divisive, shameful, and irresponsible.

It is divisive, shameful, and irresponsible for us to ask our  soldiers to act as local police officers, a role that undermines our  readiness for actual conflicts.

It is divisive, shameful, and irresponsible that we force them to  leave their families and their jobs for an uncertain period of time  with uncertain pay and benefits. It is most certainly divisive,  shameful, and irresponsible when we force them to spend their days  picking up trash at a cost of millions to the taxpayer.

Our National Guard is designed and trained, indeed purpose-built, to  serve key roles in domestic emergencies, natural disasters, and in  deployment overseas. When we stray from that mission, we put our  national security at risk, and we disrespect these men and women.

For these reasons, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I  would have offered the motion with an important amendment to this bill.  This simple amendment requires that the State's Governor must consent  before the National Guard can be deployed.

I know that many of my colleagues may agree with me, including some  who are, indeed, running for Governor of their home State, so I ask  these Members and all of those who believe in federalism and States'  rights to have the courage to support this important amendment today. I  hope my colleagues will join me in voting for this motion to recommit.

Mr. Chair, I include in the Record the text of this amendment.

Ms. Houlahan moves to recommit the bill H.R. 3838 to the       Committee on Armed Services with instructions to report the       same back to the House forthwith, with the following       amendment:

At the end of subtitle B of title V, insert the following       new section:       SEC. 5__. REQUIREMENT OF CONSENT OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE                     OFFICER FOR CERTAIN FULL-TIME NATIONAL GUARD                     DUTY PERFORMED IN A STATE, TERRITORY, OR THE                     DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Section 502(f)(2)(A) of title 32, United States Code, is       amended to read as follows:

``(A) Support of operations or missions undertaken by the       member's unit at the request of the President or Secretary of       Defense, with the consent of--

``(i) the chief executive officer of each State (as such       term is defined in section 901 of this title) in which such       operations or missions shall take place; or

``(ii) if such operations or missions shall take place in       the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of       Columbia.''.