Three-Year Anniversary of Russia's Brutal Attack on Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687988/three-year-anniversary-of-russias-brutal-attack-on-ukraine


Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, this week marks a very solemn anniversary.  It is the anniversary of Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine.

Three years ago, Russia started this war by invading Ukraine, not the  other way around.

I repeat: Three years ago, Russia started this war.

I am utterly disgusted that President Trump would refute this  absolute truth.

I am equally horrified by President Trump's characterization of  President Zelenskyy as a dictator who does not want peace. I was with  President Zelenskyy just last week in Germany for the Munich Security  Conference. He is an honorable and earnest leader, a man who has even  offered to step down from the Presidency if it would guarantee the  freedom of his people.

President Trump's blatant lie and absurd insult is a lie directly out  of Soviet-style propagandist playbooks. It is Putin who wants to take  Ukraine's resource-rich land. It is Putin who wants to strip its people  of their rights and their freedoms, and it is Putin who wants to  destroy another European democracy. It is Putin who is a cancer on the  world, a liar, a torturer, a murderer, and a war criminal.

It is appalling to see our President of these United States, expected  to be a reliable standard-bearer of democracy, align himself and as a  result ourselves so closely with our adversaries, even organizing a  sit-down to determine the fate of Ukraine without Ukraine at the table,  and without the input of our European allies at all.

Whatever comes out of these meetings will not be a peace agreement.  It will instead be a Russian power grab and an appeasement of war  criminal Putin facilitated by the United States, an illegitimate peace.  It is all horrifying. It is all infuriating, and it is all antithetical  to our American ideals.

As President Trump and his administration publicly trash our allies,  undermine the strength of NATO, and decimate our international aid  programs, our adversaries are greedily and happily waiting to fill the  gaps that this administration is deliberately creating.

On Monday, the United States joined Russia, North Korea, Belarus,  Sudan, and Hungary--I will name them again: Russia, North Korea,  Belarus, Sudan, and Hungary--a group of countries I never would like us  to be associated with, in voting against the United Nations resolution  condemning Russian aggression and demanding the immediate withdrawal of  Putin's forces from Ukraine.

To quote my Republican colleague and dear friend, Congressman   Don  Bacon: The Trump administration royally screwed up on Ukraine.

Another anniversary is fast approaching. Indeed, on April 20 of last  year, 101 Republicans voted to support Ukraine. I am really glad that  Representative Bacon is speaking out about President Trump's actions,  but I wonder where are the rest of his colleagues?

I hope that the other 100 Members who supported aid to Ukraine in  April will be as brave as Representative Bacon and speak out against  this administration's ridiculous and dangerous actions.

I want to emphasize how important it is that the American people hear  President Trump's own words, see his own actions, and be appropriately  outraged.

President Trump's disavowal of Ukraine and his cozying up to  dictators puts us here in the United States at risk as well. President  Trump's turn towards authoritarianism leaves us exposed politically and  economically.

Scorned allies could pull out or change their free trade agreements,  cause shortages in imported goods, including food and oil,  pharmaceuticals, and more. President Trump campaigned on bringing down  costs, but his very actions right now are indeed undermining the value  of the dollar and driving up inflation.

We have heard over and over again from the American people that the  prices of essential goods are already too high, and President Trump's  actions will only hurt our attempts to bring down these costs.

America's global leadership also helps to keep Americans safe, too.  President Trump turning his back on Ukraine isolates us and undermines  our strength, the strength of international institutions, and the  security networks that work, like NATO.

This encourages NATO allies to question our own alliance and  allegiance. It, in turn, causes our allies worldwide to do the same,  and those who are considering with whom to form alliances, and there  are many, it causes them as well to turn away from us.

It gets worse. With President Trump actually allying himself with  China, Russia, Iran, and North Korea, these countries now seemingly  have America's explicit backing to spread their influence, and in some  cases to spread their force, like we have seen in Ukraine. This will  undoubtedly cause people to flee oppressive regimes and create new  regimes, who will be inspired by this global democratic back slide.

President Trump claimed he was going to reduce this kind of  migration, but the political turmoil he is causing will, in fact, make  it worse, pushing people to seek safety outside of their own home  country.

We can't turn our back on Ukraine and the world, and we cannot expect  that the consequences of that decision will not reach our shores. The  American way of life is reliant on our global reputation and  interconnectivity. President Trump is doing his very best to tear that  all down.

President Trump must reverse his dangerous position. He must stop  this gamesmanship, and he must recommit to our longstanding alliances  instead of realigning ourselves, the United States, with dictators.

I yield now to my esteemed colleague from the great State of Ohio,  the very honorable Marcy Kaptur.

Ms. HOULAHAN. The gentlewoman is very welcome. It is my privilege.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I begin by thanking my friend  and colleague, Representative Houlahan, for convening this Special  Order.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support our ally, Ukraine, and speak up  against the grave threat the Trump administration's support for Russia  poses to democracy at home and abroad.

Yesterday marked 3 years since Russia's unprovoked and brutal  invasion of Ukraine, a sovereign nation. We have since witnessed  incredible bravery from the Ukrainian soldiers on the front lines to  the families who have endured unimaginable loss yet continue to fight  for their homeland.

My community of Buffalo knows what it means to stand together in  times of hardship. We are a city that welcomes, embraces, and lifts up  those in need. I stood arm in arm with western New York's Ukrainian  community in Niagara Square, designated Ukraine Freedom Square, just  outside Buffalo City Hall days after Russia's invasion.

What I said then is just as true today: The United States of America  must always stand with Ukraine against Russian aggression.

Buffalo is known as the City of Good Neighbors, and that spirit has  been evident in the way our community has opened its doors to Ukrainian  refugees, providing shelter, education, and hope for a better future.

Members of this body, both Democrats and Republicans alike,  understand that this is not just Ukraine's fight. This is a battle  between democracy and tyranny, between freedom and oppression.

That is why this body has come together on numerous occasions to pass  legislation to help the people of Ukraine resist the Russian invasion  and defend their homeland. We continue to do this because we know that  if Russia succeeds, it sets a dangerous precedent for dictators around  the world, and it threatens the security of our NATO allies.

When the President of the United States chooses to spread the same  false Russian propaganda as Vladimir Putin, absolving Russia for its  responsibility of starting the war and defaming the democratically  elected President of our ally, we should have the courage to stand up  and call it what it is: a bald-faced lie.

It is shameful when we, the shining city upon a hill, as President  Reagan put it, oppose a United Nations resolution condemning Russia and  supporting Ukraine. The rest of the world should look to us as a model  of democracy. Instead, we are enabling a dictator.

Just think about the company that we are keeping with this U.N. vote.  The only other countries to oppose this resolution were Russia, North  Korea, and Belarus, all dictatorships.

Since when does the United States side with dictators? I suppose when  we have a President who says he wants to be one.

Turning our back on Ukraine goes against everything Americans have  fought and died for since we declared our independence from a monarch  in England. Supporting Russian aggression against Ukraine sends a  dangerous message to our allies around the world: The United States is  no longer a reliable friend. You are on your own.

I have news for you. We are much better than this as a country. This  isn't just about democracy. It is also about our national security and  our credibility on the world stage. The world is a safer place and the  American people are more secure when we stand united with our allies,  uphold our commitments to global peace and stability, and lead with  strength, diplomacy, and integrity.

Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I very much thank all of my colleagues for  joining us and meeting here tonight.

This evening, we heard about the damage that President Trump's  actions have done to our Nation's security. If our Nation turns its  back on Ukraine, we heard about what comes next: Our ally Taiwan left  in greater jeopardy to a Chinese invasion; our allies elsewhere left  looking for security and other  trading opportunities; and worst of all, our enemies worldwide left  emboldened by Trump's isolationist actions.

The American people should be worried tonight. History has shown us  that when America is isolated, we are less safe.

I very much hope that my Republican friends, the 101 of them, now 100  of them, who very recently voted in support of this nation in its fight  for their democracy and, as a consequence, all of our democratic  values, will stand up to our President and will help us, the United  States, change our course and, as a consequence, the world change its  course for safety and freedom, as well.