Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691079/notice-of-intention-to-offer-resolution-raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. THANEDAR. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to clause 2(a)(1) of rule IX, I  rise to give notice of my intention to raise a question of the  privileges of the House.

The form of the resolution is as follows:

H. Res. 353: Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United  States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.

Resolution: Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the United  States, for high crimes and misdemeanors.

Resolved, That Donald John Trump, President of the United States, is  impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors and that the following  Articles of Impeachment be exhibited to the Senate:

Article of Impeachment exhibited by the House of Representatives of  the United States of America in the name of itself and of the people of  the United States of America, against Donald John Trump, President of  the United States of America, in maintenance and support of its  impeachment against him for high crimes and misdemeanors.

Article I: Obstruction of Justice, Violation of Due Process, and a               Breach of the Duty to Faithfully Execute Laws

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from office on impeachment for and conviction of treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. Further, Article II of  the Constitution states that the President shall take care that the  laws be faithfully executed.

The Fourth Amendment of the Constitution states that the right of the  people against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be  violated, and the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution states no person  shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of  the law.

In his conduct of the Office of the President of the United States,  and in violation of his constitutional oath to faithfully execute the  Office of the President of the United States and to the best of his  ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United  States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that  the laws be faithfully executed, Donald John Trump has abused the power  of the Presidency in a manner offensive to and subversive of the  Constitution in that, using the power of his high office, Donald John  Trump has engaged in this scheme or course of conduct through the  following means:

One, by his orders and directions to subordinates, obstructed the  administration of justice and embarked on a scheme to destroy and  corrupt the legal system and the powers of the courts under Article III  of the Constitution.

Specifically, he has done the following:

Directed and permitted his subordinates and attorneys at the  Department of Justice to violate their oath to uphold the Constitution,  laws of the United States, and the rules of professional ethics by  adducing misleading and willfully false representations to the courts  of the United States and to otherwise abuse their official powers.  Specifically, he has sought to dismiss, without prejudice and under  false pretenses, the bribery and fraud charges against New York City  Mayor Eric Adams in an unethical quid pro quo exchange for the  defendant's cooperation with the administration's political priorities,  thus abusing the criminal laws to unconstitutionally commandeer a State  officer and unit of government in violation of the sovereignty thereof;  and terminated and purged career Department of Justice attorneys  without reasonable cause and in violation of the law in retaliation for  their legitimate investigatory and prosecutorial  work under prior administrations, including in relation to the January  6, 2021, attack on the United States Capitol and in retaliation for  attorneys upholding their ethical and legal obligations, including  candor and honesty to the courts.

B. Directed and permitted the evasion and defiance of binding court  orders. Specifically, he has removed persons from the United States to  El Salvador, despite an order from the United States District Court for  the District of Columbia, for which said court has found probable cause  that the government committed acts of criminal contempt; removed Kilmar  Armando Abrego Garcia from the United States to El Salvador, despite a  binding withholding of removal order prohibiting the government from  removing him to El Salvador; defied court orders, upheld by a unanimous  ruling of the Supreme Court, to facilitate the release of Mr. Abrego  Garcia and related orders to provide information to the court and  opposing counsel, while publicly flaunting their refusal; acted in  contempt of court for violating a court-sanctioned settlement  agreement; and conducted enforced disappearances of persons without due  process and without disclosing their fate and location to their  families and legal counsel, in violation of the Constitution and the  rulings of the Supreme Court, as well as the foundational principles of  due process and rule of law.

C. Directed and permitted the deliberate and systematic violation of  laws duly enacted by Congress.

Specifically, he has terminated inspectors general, the officers  responsible for detecting and preventing waste by auditing and  investigating their respective agencies' operations and personnel, in  violation of the process stipulated by the Inspector General Act of  1974, as subsequently amended; terminated a member of the Merit Systems  Protection Board, a tribunal created to address widespread public  concerns about the Federal civil service; and unlawfully transmitted  sensitive personal information of private citizens and government  employees in violation of, among other Federal laws, the Privacy Act  and the Administrative Procedure Act.

In all of this, Donald John Trump has willfully disregarded Federal  laws and the Constitution, imperiled a coequal branch of government,  and threatened the integrity of the democratic system. He thereby  betrayed his trust as President, abused the powers of the Presidency,  acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the  rule of law, and has committed the high crimes and misdemeanors of  obstruction of justice and effecting a wide-ranging scheme to destroy  and corrupt the legal system and the powers of the courts under Article  III of the Constitution.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.              Article II: Usurpation of the Appropriations Power

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.

Further, Section 9 of Article I of the Constitution states that no  money shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of  appropriations made by the law.

In his conduct of the Office of the President of the United States,  and in violation of his constitutional oath to faithfully execute the  Office of the President of the United States, and to the best of his  ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United  States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that  the laws be faithfully executed, Donald John Trump has abused the power  of the Presidency in a manner offensive to, and subversive of, the  Constitution in that using the powers of his high office, Donald John  Trump unlawfully usurped Congress and its power to appropriate funds,  thereby nullifying the Appropriations Clause in the Constitution and  violating the Impoundment Control Act of 1974.

Since taking office, he has signed numerous executive orders  directing agencies to withhold funds appropriated by Congress. The  President does not have the power to override spending laws or impound  appropriated funds, a principle affirmed by numerous Supreme Court  rulings.

Donald John Trump has withheld funds and terminated en masse Federal  employees and numerous Federal agencies and departments, including the  following:

One, directed the dismantling of the Department of Education.                                 Point of Order

Mr. THANEDAR. As enacted in the Department of Education Organization  Act, signed into law by President Jimmy Carter, the Department of  Education was established by Congress to create reform in the education  system throughout the country, distribute Federal aid to students and  places of learning, and prohibit discriminatory practices. The  President does not have the authority to dismantle the Department of  Education, and he signed Executive Order 14242, which aims to  ``Improving Education Outcomes by Empowering Parents, States, and  Communities'' violates the law and the Constitution.

Two, unlawfully directed the elimination of the United States Agency  for International Development, USAID. As enacted in the Foreign  Assistance Act of 1961, signed into law by President John F. Kennedy,  USAID plays a crucial role in delivering foreign assistance worldwide,  including disaster relief, conflict relief, combating global diseases,  promoting educational programs, and enhancing food security in  developing countries. By dismantling USAID and freezing foreign  assistance, he has severed the United States from its humanitarian role  as directed by Congress, leaving other countries and potentially our  adversaries to fill in the role the United States has abandoned.

Three, created the so-called Department of Government Efficiency,  DOGE, which has imposed payment holds and rescinded funds after  disbursement. Donald John Trump has utilized DOGE to unlawfully block  or impound appropriated funds to dozens of Federal agencies, including  the National Institutes of Health, the Federal Aviation Administration,  and the Department of Veterans Affairs. By impounding congressionally  appropriated funds, Donald John Trump and DOGE have not only violated  the law but have negatively impacted the American people by cutting  jobs, halting critical services, and rescinding grants for programs in  defiance of the express constitutionally binding will of Congress.

Using the powers of his high office, Donald John Trump has unlawfully  withheld congressionally appropriated funds and attempted to dismantle  congressionally mandated agencies by withholding funds and crippling  agencies. He has prevented the Federal Government from performing  critical duties here and abroad. He has threatened the well-being of  the United States citizens through the gross misconduct of his office  resulting in dire and life-threatening consequences on the world's most  vulnerable populations.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.       Article III: Abuse of Trade Powers and International Aggression

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have  the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be removed  from office on impeachment for, and conviction of treason, bribery, or  other high crimes and misdemeanors. Further, Section 8 of Article I of  the Constitution States: ``The Congress shall have power to lay and  collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises . . . but all duties,  imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States.''

In his conduct of the Office of the President of the United States,  and in violation of his constitutional oath to faithfully to execute  the Office of the President of the United States, and to the best of  his ability preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the  United States, and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care  that the laws be faithfully executed, Donald John Trump has abused the  powers of the Presidency in a manner offensive to, and subversive of,  the Constitution, in that:

Using the powers of his high office, Donald John Trump abused trade  powers by imposing unjustifiable and unreasonable tariffs on foreign  nations, causing a sharp decline in the United States economy and the  economies of countries around the world, and declaring the false  existence of a national security emergency to justify his actions.  Donald John Trump's tariffs contradicted trade agreements established  by his administration and other administrations, including the duly  ratified and binding treaty obligations of the United States, thereby  breaking international laws and norms, leading to countries around the  world to enact damaging tariffs on goods and services originating from  the United States. His Liberation Day scheme, which imposed 10 percent  tariffs on all countries, as well as additional tariffs based on a  formula for reciprocity widely mocked as nonsensical, led to the most  significant drop in the financial markets since the 2020 crash  triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Additionally, Donald John Trump has threatened foreign nations with  invasion, the annexation of territory, and the occupation of sovereign  territory through the use of military action. By doing this, he has  implicated the United States and himself in violation of  constitutionally binding treaty obligations, to include the North  Atlantic Treaty of 1949, the General Treaty for Renunciation of War as  an Instrument of National Policy of 1928, the Charter of the United  Nations of 1945, and the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance  of 1947. Donald John Trump threatened the following:

One, annexation of the sovereign country of Canada. Donald John Trump  has negatively impacted the deep and historic relationship between the  United States and Canada by stating numerous times that Canada should  become the 51st State, under the threat of both economic coercion and  military force;

Two, unlawful and aggressive military action with Mexico, to include  drone strikes and the use of special operations military personnel,  ostensibly against drug cartels, in violation of the sovereignty and  territorial integrity of that country and without any congressional  authorization to use military force;

Three, annexation of Greenland, an autonomous territory in the  Kingdom of Denmark. Donald John Trump has continued to use hostile  language aimed at taking control of Greenland, stating that the United  States will go as far as we have to go to obtain control of Greenland.  He has refused to rule out military action to gain control of the  territory, in violation of international law and despite Denmark's  longstanding alliance and friendly relations with the United States;

Four, annexation of the Panama Canal, owned and controlled by Panama.  During a joint session speech to Congress, Donald John Trump stated  that his administration will be reclaiming the Panama Canal. He has  refused to rule out military or economic action against the sovereign  country;

Five, annexation of the Gaza Strip, involving the forced resettlement  of the Palestinian population to the surrounding countries. Donald John  Trump has stated that the United States will take over the Gaza Strip  and own it. His proposal of taking over the Gaza Strip and the  expulsion of its population violates international law, including the  Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide,  would be unconstitutional absent the approval of the United States  Congress, and is profoundly unserious in light of the grave  humanitarian situation and ongoing armed conflict in Gaza.

Using the powers of his high office, Donald John Trump has unlawfully  conducted himself, bringing shame and embarrassment to the Office of  the Presidency and the people of the United States. He has betrayed the  trust of the Nation to conduct meaningful diplomatic negotiations as  its chief diplomat and failed to maintain peaceful economic and defense  relations with foreign countries. He has threatened the security of the  United States through gross misconduct of his office, prompting  hostilities towards Americans here and abroad, as well as foreign  nations warning their citizens against visiting the United States,  further harming the Nation's economy.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.               Article IV: Violation of First Amendment Rights

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. Further, the First  Amendment of the Constitution states: Congress shall make no law  respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free  exercise thereof, or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press,  or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the  government for a redress of grievances. In his conduct of the Office of  the President of the United States, and in violation of his  constitutional oath to faithfully execute the Office of the President  of the United States and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect  and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in violation of  his constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully  executed, Donald John Trump has abused the powers of the Presidency in  a manner offensive to, and subversive of, the Constitution, in that:

By his orders and directions to subordinates, retaliated against law  firms and attorneys who have advised or represented, or been associated  with those who advise or represent, litigants who displease him, in  violation of the Constitution's prohibition on retaliation against  individuals for engaging in First Amendment-protected conduct,  including the right to petition the government for redress of  grievances.

Specifically, he has barred attorneys at certain law firms from  access to Federal buildings, arbitrarily revoked security clearances  without a reasonable basis, threatened to cancel Federal contracts with  any entity engaging the targeted attorneys and firms, and demanded pro  bono services from the law firms in exchange for the discontinuation of  the punitive executive orders.

Additionally, Donald John Trump has engaged in a pattern of  unconstitutional, unlawful, and corrupt retaliation against critics and  political opponents, a flagrant violation of constitutional rights  protected by the First Amendment.

He has weaponized the Department of Justice and other agencies to  engage in spurious investigations and harassment, with no basis in law,  of public figures and his perceived political enemies.

Since taking office, Donald John Trump has directed the Department of  Justice to dismiss more than a dozen prosecutors who were involved in  investigations against him after he left office in 2021. The Department  of Justice has subsequently launched investigations into officials  involved in prior probes against Donald John Trump, in some cases  against individuals specifically named and accused in flagrantly  improper executive orders.

Furthermore, he has made direct and unambiguous public statements  threatening media outlets, current and  former officeholders, and advocacy organizations. He has pursued  meritless litigation, leveraged his public office for private gain, and  perverted the course of justice and the integrity of the judicial  system to extract tens of millions of dollars in putative settlements,  effectively acting as a conduit for flagrant bribery and extortion.

He has restricted the access of the Associated Press after they  refused to use the name ``Gulf of America'' in their reporting and has  defied court orders to cease this unconstitutional action.

He has also threatened current and former Members of Congress for the  exercise of their legislative and oversight functions, an attack on the  independence of Congress as a coequal branch of government, as  established by the Constitution's Article I Vesting Clause, and by the  Constitution's Speech or Debate Clause, in addition to the First  Amendment.

For example, Donald John Trump has repeatedly threatened Members of  the House Select Committee on the January 6th attack on the United  States Capitol, which investigated the attack on the Capitol that  Donald John Trump instigated.

Donald John Trump has sought to intimidate the Members and staff of  the United States House Select Committee on the January 6th attack,  stating that they should fully understand that they are subject to  investigation at the highest level and expressing a desire to remove  the pardons they received, stating the pardons that sleepy Joe Biden  gave to the unselect committee of political thugs, and many others, are  hereby declared void, vacant, and of no further force or effect.

Donald John Trump has made it clear that he will not rest until all  of his perceived political enemies are eliminated. In a speech  addressing his Department of Justice subordinates, Donald John Trump  further laid out his fascist vision for the Department of Justice.

He has targeted watchdog organizations like the Citizens for  Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, calling them scum, and  independent media outlets, like CNN and MSNBC, labeling them as  organizations that ``literally write 97.6 percent bad about me,'' are  political arms of the Democratic Party. And in my opinion, they are  really corrupt, and they are illegal. What they do is illegal.

He has stated that newspapers critical of him are really no different  than a highly paid political operative, and it has to stop. It has to  be illegal. It is influencing judges. It just cannot be legal.

By these and many other actions, he has sought to outlaw dissent,  opposition, and criticism of himself and his administration. This  attack on the constitutional rights to the freedom of speech and of  association and of the right to petition the government for redress of  grievances is wholly incompatible with the rights and liberties of the  people of the United States, as well as self-governing people under the  rule of law.

In purpose and effect, he has attempted to suppress dissent and  opposition, casting a chilling effect over the public discourse and  striking at the core freedoms essential to a free society and  Democratic elections under the Constitution.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.                    Article V: Creation of Unlawful Office

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from Office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.

Further, Section 2 of Article II of the Constitution states that the  President shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and  consuls, Judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the  United States, but the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such  inferior officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the  courts of law, or in the heads of departments.

In his conduct of the Office of President of the United States and in  violation of his constitutional oath to faithfully execute the Office  of President of the United States and, to the best of his ability,  preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States,  and in violation of his constitutional duty to take care that the laws  be faithfully executed, Donald John Trump has abused the powers of the  Presidency in a manner offensive to, and subversive of, the  Constitution, in that:

Using the powers of his high office, Donald John Trump has, through  unlawful orders and directives, created an unlawful office, the so- called Department of Government Efficiency, DOGE, and assigned an  extensive range of unlawful powers, effectively granting this  flagrantly unconstitutional creation significant control over the  executive branch.

Donald John Trump has appointed Mr. Elon Musk as the de facto head of  this contrived entity, which was not created or funded by any law,  without a formal title or office. These actions have been in direct  violation of the Constitution's requirement that principal officers of  the United States must be created by law and their appointees confirmed  by the Senate, and that inferior offices must be created by law with  their appointment vested as Congress may determine.

Additionally, he has vested these powers in Mr. Musk without  complying with the constitutional requirement that all officers of the  United States be commissioned by the President and swear an oath of  office to support the Constitution.

Mr. Musk has been designated as a special government employee of the  White House Office, in violation of the statutory authorization and  restrictions of such designations. This false claim has also been used  to commit violations of the ethics, disclosure, and conflict-of- interest laws applicable to government officers and regular employees.

Contrary to the government's claim in court, Mr. Musk has exercised  de facto control over DOGE and, through it, control over a wide range  of government departments and agencies. This unmistakable reality has  been repeatedly and openly stated by the Trump administration,  including by Donald John Trump's own address to Congress on March 4,  2025.

In this capacity, Mr. Musk and his subordinates have undertaken  numerous violations of the Constitution and laws, including by:

One, impoundment of funds appropriated by Congress; two, violations  of privacy and security laws with respect to sensitive information  systems, personally identifiable information, and classified material;  and three, termination of government employees under false pretenses  and in violation of civil service laws.

These actions have vastly exceeded the terms of the formal executive  orders purporting to create DOGE under the direction of a U.S. DOGE  service administrator, an office which remained vacant for several  weeks, and with the government's own attorneys claiming in court that  the official head of DOGE was unknown to them.

Since that time, a nominal administrator has been named, despite the  repeated avowals from the President and his administration that Mr.  Musk controls and directs DOGE, as confirmed by ample public reporting  and Mr. Musk's own statements.

Donald John Trump has abused the powers of his high office and  breached the public trust by establishing the so-called Department of  Government Efficiency and unconstitutionally placing Mr. Musk in  control of this entity, knowingly provided false testimony to the court  regarding the leadership of the said entity, and directing the unlawful  entity to implement his agenda, in violation of the Constitution's  objective of establishing justice and fundamental rules for how the  executive branch of the United States is to be structured and how  persons may be appointed to public office.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.                            Article VI: Bribery and Corruption

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. Further, Section 9 of  Article I of the Constitution states that no person holding any office  of profit or trust under them shall, without the consent of the  Congress, accept of any present, emolument--Donald John Trump has  abused the powers of the Presidency in a manner offensive to, and  subversive of, the Constitution in that Donald John Trump has engaged  in a pattern of unlawful corruption for the personal profit of himself  and his associates, soliciting and accepting bribes in exchange for  official actions, policy influence, and favorable treatment from the  administration. In so doing, he has, beyond a reasonable doubt,  profiteered from public office on a scale unprecedented in American  history.

Donald John Trump has engaged in fraudulent con artist schemes  through pump and dump or rug pull tactics for cryptocurrency tokens he  has created and, at the same time, enabled a direct conduit for bribes  paid to him in exchange for official actions.

Donald John Trump has also leveraged the threat of hostile government  action and the corresponding offer of preferential treatment in order  to extract large payments in the form of settlements for meritless and  vexatious litigation he pursues in his personal capacity, thereby  corrupting both the executive branch and the judiciary. To advance this  end, Donald John Trump solicited and received $940 million in pro bono  services from prominent law firms to help causes he personally  supports.

Donald John Trump has refused to divest himself or take any steps to  prevent conflicts of interest in his substantial personal business  ventures, creating another conduit for the payment of bribes.

Donald John Trump has permitted and encouraged his subordinates to  violate laws regarding ethics, disclosures, and self-dealing, and  through these actions, he has enabled and encouraged corruption and  graft by his relatives, associates, and political allies.

Donald John Trump has, in these ways and others, solicited payments  from foreign governments for corrupt purposes and in flagrant violation  of the Constitution's prohibition on foreign emoluments.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump by such conduct has demonstrated that he  is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.                             Article VII: Tyranny

The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives shall  have the sole power of impeachment and that the President shall be  removed from office on impeachment for, and conviction of, treason,  bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. Further, the system of  checks and balances, as well as separation of powers, as defined in the  Constitution, work to ensure that the Office of the President does not  become tyrannical. In his conduct of the Office of the President of the  United States, and in violation of his constitutional oath to  faithfully execute the Office of the President of the United States  and, to the best of his ability, preserve, protect, and defend the  Constitution of the United States, and in violation of his  constitutional duty to take care that the laws be faithfully executed,  Donald John Trump has abused the powers of the Presidency in a manner  offensive to, and subversive of, the Constitution, in that:

He has, by his actions and statements, sought to establish himself as  tyrant, dictator, and autocrat over the people of the United States,  usurping unto himself the constitutional powers of Congress, the  courts, and the States and powers illegitimate and beyond the scope of  lawful government altogether.

He has claimed for himself absolute and arbitrary power, the ability  to suspend laws at whim, and utterly disregarded and betrayed his oath  to faithfully execute the Office of the President of the United States  and to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United  States.

He has denied and violated the right of the people of the United  States to freedom of speech and of assembly and to petition the  government for redress of grievances.

He has denied and violated the right of the people of the United  States to due process of law and equal protection under laws, to fair  and impartial independent courts, and to legal counsel.

He has sought to intimidate and coerce, by means including the threat  of unlawful prosecutions and by encouraging violence and threats of  violence, the Representatives and Senators in Congress.

He has denied and violated the separation of powers and the  Constitution's system of checks and balances, arrogating unto himself  the legislative and judicial powers, including the power of Congress to  levy taxes, appropriate public funds, direct the organization of  officers and agencies of the executive branch, and to make laws.

He has sought to intimidate, coerce, and extort the officers of the  several States, including those elected by the people thereof, and  thereby sought to commandeer the several States, in violation of their  sovereignty and the system of federalism established by the  Constitution of the United States.

He has sought to abrogate the Citizenship Clause of the 14th  Amendment to the Constitution, by means including the issuance of an  executive order that directs executive departments and agencies to  withhold citizenship from certain classes of persons who are born  within the United States.

He has repeatedly threatened and suggested that he intends to violate  the Presidential term limits established by the 22nd Amendment to the  Constitution and adopted overtly monarchical aspirations and  affectations, including by invoking and endorsing theories that he is  above the law or that his personal will constitutes the law.

In all of this, Donald John Trump has willfully disregarded Federal  laws and the Constitution, imperiled a coequal branch of government,  and threatened the integrity of the democratic system. He thereby  betrayed his trust as President, abused the powers of the Presidency,  acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the  rule of law, and has committed high crimes and misdemeanors in  attempting to establish himself as a lawless tyrant to the manifest  injury of the people of the United States.

Wherefore, Donald John Trump, by such conduct, has demonstrated that  he is unfit to govern a nation by and for the people, has acted in a  manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law,  and will remain a threat to the Constitution if allowed to remain in  office.