Recognizing the Contributions of Rajiv Malhotra and the Infinity Foundation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689467/recognizing-the-contributions-of-rajiv-malhotra-and-the-infinity-foundation


Mr. THANEDAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Rajiv Malhotra  and the Infinity Foundation for their contributions to Hindu American  Civil Rights, interfaith dialogue, and intellectual diversity.

The Infinity Foundation, established by Rajiv Malhotra thirty years  ago, has played a pivotal role in championing the rights of Hindu  Americans, advocating against biases and Hinduphobia, and ensuring  their equal protection under civil rights laws. It has contributed  significantly to intellectual diversity in the United States by  fostering rigorous academic inquiry, research, and dialogue on Indian  philosophy, dharmic traditions, and Hindu contributions to world  civilization, thereby enriching America's multicultural fabric.

I applaud the efforts made by Rajiv Malhotra and the Infinity  Foundation in strengthening the bridge between Hindu Americans and  other faith communities, fostering goodwill, collaboration, and mutual  respect. The Infinity Foundation's tireless work aligns with the  American ideals of justice, equality, and religious freedom, serving as  an exemplary institution that strengthens the Nation's commitment to  these values.

Rajiv Malhotra and the Infinity Foundations efforts can be seen in  their upcoming ``Global Dharma Renaissance'' event, planned for April  2025. This event marks a historic milestone in recognizing the  intellectual and cultural revival of Dharma traditions in the United  States and globally, solidifying its role as a forerunner and a guiding  force akin to a banyan tree that supports and nurtures other Hindu  organizations in the country.

Rajiv Malhotra's scholarship and leadership have significantly  contributed to the empowerment of Hindu Americans, providing them with  a voice in academia, media, and policy discussions. His advocacy has  ensured that Hindu American heritage is accurately represented in  public discourse.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Hindu community, I commend Rajiv  Malhotra and the Infinity Foundation for their outstanding  contributions to Hindus around the world. I thank them for their  exceptional work. We wish them continued success in their quest to  foster better understanding and goodwill between Hindu Americans and  other faith communities.