The Truth Still Matters


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690991/the-truth-still-matters


Mr. THANEDAR. Madam Speaker, when I was sworn into office, I took an  oath to protect the Constitution of this great Nation.

I am an immigrant who came to this country with just $20 in my  pocket. The United States has given me so much. I love America, and I  will do anything to protect our Constitution and our democratic values.

President Donald J. Trump has been committing crimes since day one:  bribery, corruption, taking power from Congress, creating an unlawful  office in DOGE, violating First Amendment rights, ignoring due process,  and, finally, refusing to abide by a unanimous Supreme Court ruling.

Just as I stand here in the House of Representatives, Mr. Trump is  traveling to the Middle East to accept a gift worth $400 million from a  foreign government. I have spoken with Americans all over the country.  They asked me: What will you do as President Trump continues his  unconstitutional activities? Well, Madam Speaker, I rise today to hold  this President accountable.

The fact of the matter is, the President has committed crime after  crime. I am not concerned about whether this is the right time or if  there are enough votes from my colleagues across the aisle. I rise  today to do my duty and uphold my oath to protect the Constitution.

The effort is not about partisanship. It is about principles. If we  don't draw the line now, we risk losing the rule of law entirely. If we  don't act today, we are complicit in letting democracy erode on our  watch.

That is why I introduced H. Res. 353 to impeach Donald J. Trump,  outlining seven Articles of Impeachment because when a President  violates the Constitution, Congress must act.

My seven Articles in H. Res. 353 are as follows:

1. Obstruction of justice and abuse of executive powers. Trump denied  due process and defied Federal court orders.

2. Seizing Congress' power of the purse. He froze funds and  dismantled agencies without congressional approval.

3. Abuse of trade powers and international aggression. His reckless  tariffs hurt American families, and he even threatened military actions  against our allies.

4. Violation of First Amendment rights. Trump retaliated against  journalists and critics for speaking out.

5. Creation of an unlawful office. He gave Elon Musk unconstitutional  control over government agencies and American people's personal data.

6. Bribery and corruption. Trump dismissed criminal cases and  accepted foreign payments for personal gain.

7. Tyrannical overreach. His actions reveal a dangerous attempt to  consolidate unchecked power.

This is not leadership. This is dictatorship. We have Presidents, not  kings. If we allow this to continue, we are telling the American people  that the Presidency is above the law and that the Constitution is  optional.

When Trump ignored Court rulings, we called it out. When he  threatened the peaceful transfer of power, we pushed back. When he  tried to dismantle Federal institutions, we said: No more.

Now we are fighting--in the courts, in Congress, and in the court of  public opinion--because the truth still matters. I call on my  colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, to do what is right: Impeach  Donald J. Trump. Let's keep fighting.