Strengthening Agency Management and Oversight of Software Assets Act


Mr. TIMMONS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5457) to improve the visibility, accountability, and  oversight of agency software asset management practices, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5457

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Agency       Management and Oversight of Software Assets Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the       Administrator of General Services.

(2) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that       term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code, except       that such term does not include an element of the       intelligence community.

(3) Cloud computing.--The term ``cloud computing'' has the       meaning given the term in Special Publication 800-145 of the       National Institute of Standards and Technology, or any       successor document.

(4) Cloud service provider.--The term ``cloud service       provider'' has the meaning given the term in section 3607(b)       of title 44, United States Code.

(5) Comprehensive assessment.--The term ``comprehensive       assessment'' means a comprehensive assessment conducted       pursuant to section 3(a).

(6) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of       the Office of Management and Budget.

(7) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence       community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of       the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

(8) Plan.--The term ``plan'' means the plan developed by a       Chief Information Officer, or equivalent official, pursuant       to section 4(a).

(9) Software entitlement.--The term ``software       entitlement'' means any software that--

(A) has been purchased, leased, or licensed by or billed to       an agency under any contract or other business arrangement;       and

(B) is subject to use limitations.

(10) Software inventory.--The term ``software inventory''       means the software inventory of an agency required pursuant       to--

(A) section 2(b)(2)(A) of the Making Electronic Government       Accountable By Yielding Tangible Efficiencies Act of 2016 (40       U.S.C. 11302 note; Public Law 114-210); or

(B) subsequent guidance issued by the Director pursuant to       that Act.       SEC. 3. SOFTWARE INVENTORY UPDATE AND EXPANSION.

(a) In General.--As soon as practicable, and not later than       18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chief       Information Officer of each agency, in consultation with the       Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Acquisition Officer, the       Chief Data Officer, and General Counsel of the agency, or the       equivalent officials of the agency, shall complete a       comprehensive assessment of the software paid for by, in use       at, or deployed throughout the agency, which shall include--

(1) the current software inventory of the agency, including       software entitlements, contracts and other agreements or       arrangements of the agency, and a list of the largest       software entitlements of the agency separated by provider and       category of software;

(2) a comprehensive, detailed accounting of--

(A) any software used by or deployed within the agency,       including software developed or built by the agency, or by       another agency for use by the agency, including shared       services, as of the date of the comprehensive assessment,       including, to the extent identifiable, the contracts and       other agreements or arrangements used by the agency to       acquire, build, deploy, or use such software;

(B) information and data on software entitlements, which       shall include information on any additional fees or costs,       including fees or costs for the use of cloud services, that       are not included in the initial costs of the contract,       agreement, or arrangement--

(i) for which the agency pays;

(ii) that are not deployed or in use by the agency; and

(iii) that are billed to the agency under any contract or       business arrangement that creates duplication, or are       otherwise determined to be unnecessary by the Chief       Information Officer of the agency, or the equivalent       official, in the deployment or use by the agency; and

(C) the extent--

(i) to which any software paid for, in use, or deployed       throughout the agency is interoperable; and

(ii) of the efforts of the agency to improve       interoperability of software assets throughout the agency       enterprise;

(3) a categorization of software entitlements of the agency       by cost, volume, and type of software;

(4) a list of any provisions in the software entitlements       of the agency that may restrict how the software can be       deployed, accessed, or used, including any such restrictions       on desktop or server hardware, through a cloud service       provider, or on data ownership or access; and

(5) an analysis addressing--

(A) the accuracy and completeness of the comprehensive       assessment;

(B) agency management of and compliance with all contracts       or other agreements or arrangements that include or reference       software entitlements or software management within the       agency;

(C) the extent to which the agency accurately captures the       total cost of software entitlements and related costs,       including the       total cost of upgrades over the life of a contract, cloud       usage costs, and any other cost associated with the       maintenance or servicing of contracts; and

(D) compliance with software license management policies of       the agency.

(b) Contract Support.--

(1) Authority.--The head of an agency may enter into 1 or       more contracts to support the requirements of subsection (a).

(2) No conflict of interest.--Contracts under paragraph (1)       shall not include contractors with organizational conflicts       of interest, within the meaning given that term under subpart       9.5 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

(3) Operational independence.--Over the course of a       comprehensive assessment, contractors hired pursuant to       paragraph (1) shall maintain operational independence from       the integration, management, and operations of the software       inventory and software entitlements of the agency.

(c) Submission.--On the date on which the Chief Information       Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Acquisition Officer,       the Chief Data Officer, and General Counsel of an agency, or       the equivalent officials of the agency, complete the       comprehensive assessment, the Chief Information Officer shall       submit the comprehensive assessment to the head of the       agency.

(d) Subsequent Submission.--Not later than 30 days after       the date on which the head of an agency receives the       comprehensive assessment under subsection (c), the head of       the agency shall submit the comprehensive assessment to--

(1) the Director;

(2) the Administrator;

(3) the Comptroller General of the United States;

(4) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate; and

(5) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the       House of Representatives.

(e) Consultation.--In order to ensure the utility and       standardization of the comprehensive assessment of each       agency, including to support the development of each plan and       the report required under section 4(e)(2), the Director, in       consultation with the Administrator, shall share information,       best practices, and recommendations relating to the       activities performed in the course of a comprehensive       assessment of an agency.

(f) Intelligence Community.--For each element of the       intelligence community, a comprehensive assessment described       under subsection (a) shall be--

(1) conducted separately;

(2) performed only by an entity designated by the head of       the element of the intelligence community, in accordance with       appropriate applicable laws;

(3) performed in such a manner as to ensure appropriate       protection of information which, if disclosed, may adversely       affect national security; and

(4) submitted in summary form, not later than 30 days after       the date on which the head of the element of the intelligence       community receives the assessment, by the head of the element       of the intelligence community to--

(A) the Director;

(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and

(C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the       House of Representatives.       SEC. 4. SOFTWARE MODERNIZATION PLANNING AT AGENCIES.

(a) In General.--The Chief Information Officer of each       agency, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, the       Chief Acquisition Officer, the Chief Data Officer, and the       General Counsel of the agency, or the equivalent officials of       the agency, shall use the information developed pursuant to       the comprehensive assessment of the agency to develop a plan       for the agency--

(1) to consolidate software entitlements of the agency;

(2) to ensure that, in order to improve the performance of,       and reduce unnecessary costs to, the agency, the Chief       Information Officer, Chief Data Officer, and Chief       Acquisition Officer of the agency, or the equivalent       officers, develop criteria and procedures for how the agency       will adopt cost-effective acquisition strategies, including       enterprise licensing, across the agency that reduce costs,       eliminate excess licenses, and improve performance; and

(3) to restrict the ability of a bureau, program,       component, or operational entity within the agency to       acquire, use, develop, or otherwise leverage any software       entitlement (or portion thereof) without the approval of the       Chief Information Officer of the agency, in consultation with       the Chief Acquisition Officer of the agency, or the       equivalent officers of the agency.

(b) Plan Requirements.--The plan of an agency shall--

(1) include a detailed strategy for--

(A) the remediation of any software asset management       deficiencies found during the comprehensive assessment of the       agency;

(B) the ongoing maintenance of software asset management       upon the completion of the remediation;

(C) automation of software license management processes and       incorporation of discovery tools across the agency;

(D) ensuring that officers and employees of the agency are       adequately trained in the policies, procedures, rules,       regulations, and guidance relating to the software       acquisition and development of the agency before entering       into any agreement relating to any software entitlement (or       portion thereof) for the agency, including training on--

(i) negotiating options within contracts to address and       minimize provisions that restrict how the agency may deploy,       access, or use the software, including restrictions on       deployment, access, or use on desktop or server hardware and       restrictions on data ownership or access;

(ii) the differences between acquiring commercial software       products and services and acquiring or building custom       software; and

(iii) determining the costs of different types of licenses       and options for adjusting licenses to meet increasing or       decreasing demand; and

(E) maximizing the effectiveness of software deployed by       the agency, including, to the extent practicable, leveraging       technologies that--

(i) measure actual software usage via analytics that can       identify inefficiencies to assist in rationalizing software       spending;

(ii) allow for segmentation of the user base;

(iii) support effective governance and compliance in the       use of software; and

(iv) support interoperable capabilities between software;

(2) identify categories of software the agency could       prioritize for conversion to more cost-effective software       licenses, including enterprise licenses, as the software       entitlements, contracts, and other agreements or arrangements       come up for renewal or renegotiation;

(3) provide an estimate of the costs to move toward more       enterprise, open-source, or other licenses that do not       restrict the use of software by the agency, and the projected       cost savings, efficiency measures, and improvements to agency       performance throughout the total software lifecycle;

(4) identify potential mitigations to minimize software       license restrictions on how such software can be deployed,       accessed, or used, including any mitigations that would       minimize any such restrictions on desktop or server hardware,       through a cloud service provider, or on data ownership or       access;

(5) ensure that the purchase by the agency of any software       is based on publicly available criteria that are not unduly       structured to favor any specific vendor, unless prohibited by       law (including regulation);

(6) include any estimates for additional resources,       services, or support the agency may need to implement the       plan;

(7) provide information on the prevalence of software       products in use across multiple software categories; and

(8) include any additional information, data, or analysis       determined necessary by the Chief Information Officer, or       other equivalent official, of the agency.

(c) Support.--The Chief Information Officer, or other       equivalent official, of an agency may request support from       the Director and the Administrator for any analysis or       developmental needs to create the plan of the agency.

(d) Agency Submission.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date on       which the head of an agency submits the comprehensive       assessment pursuant to section 3(d), the head of the agency       shall submit to the Director, the Committee on Homeland       Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the       Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of       Representatives the plan of the agency.

(2) Intelligence community.--Not later than 1 year after       the date on which the head of an element of the intelligence       community submits the summary assessment pursuant to section       3(f)(4), the head of the element shall separately submit the       plan of the element to the Director, the Select Committee on       Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select       Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

(e) Consultation and Coordination.--The Director--

(1) in coordination with the Administrator, the Chief       Information Officers Council, the Chief Acquisition Officers       Council, the Chief Data Officers Council, the Chief Financial       Officers Council, and other government and industry       representatives identified by the Director, shall establish       processes, using existing reporting functions, as       appropriate, to identify, define, and harmonize common       definitions, terms and conditions, standardized requirements,       and other information and criteria to support agency heads in       developing and implementing the plans required by this       section; and

(2) in coordination with the Administrator, and not later       than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, submit       to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and       Government Reform of the House of Representatives a report       detailing recommendations to leverage Government procurement       policies and practices with respect to software acquired by,       developed by, deployed within, or in use at 1 or more       agencies to--

(A) increase the interoperability of software licenses,       including software entitlements and software built by       Government agencies;

(B) consolidate licenses, as appropriate;

(C) reduce costs;

(D) improve performance; and

(E) modernize the management and oversight of software       entitlements and software built by Government agencies, as       identified through an analysis of agency plans.            SEC. 5. GAO REPORT.

Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall       submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental       Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and       Government Reform of the House of Representatives a report       on--

(1) Government-wide trends in agency software asset       management practices;

(2) comparisons of software asset management practices       among agencies;

(3) the establishment by the Director of processes to       identify, define, and harmonize common definitions, terms,       and conditions under section 4(e);

(4) agency compliance with the restrictions on contract       support under section 3(b); and

(5) other analyses of and findings regarding the plans of       agencies, as determined by the Comptroller General of the       United States.       SEC. 6. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.

No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for       the purpose of carrying out this Act.

Mr. Speaker, Federal agencies spend billions of dollars a year on  software licenses without a full understanding of what they are  purchasing and how it compares to what they are already paying for. The  result is wasteful spending on duplicative or unnecessary software  licenses.

H.R. 5457 requires Federal agencies to take an inventory of their  software licenses to better understand how it is used, who uses it, and  how many licenses go unused. The bill will also provide Congress with  better insights into how our Federal agencies purchase and use  software.

The text we are considering today is identical to the text we passed  out of the House by voice vote last Congress. This bill improves  government software purchasing without unduly limiting the procurement  options of Federal agencies.

It requires each agency to better manage its software and develop a  plan for addressing any costly, unnecessary licenses. This will reduce  wasteful spending and improve government efficiency.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Brown for bringing this important  legislation back to this Congress. I also thank Mr. Fallon and Ms. Mace  for their early and continued support of this bill.

I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TIMMONS. Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this  commonsense legislation that will reduce wasteful spending and improve  government efficiency.