Ice, Surveillance, and Trump


Ms. OMAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to denounce the Trump  administration's police state tactics in Minneapolis, Los Angeles, New  York City, and so many other cities across the country.

We should speak clearly about what is happening.

Masked agents of the state in unmarked vehicles are terrorizing  communities. They are disappearing people. They are targeting political  opponents of the President.

They are using militarized force to silence, intimidate, and  brutalize not just Americans who are exercising their First Amendment  rights but also members of the press.

They are partnering with Trump's donors, Silicon Valley oligarchs,  for a sinister and deeply un-American agenda of surveillance and  criminalization based on people's political views or, in some cases,  just based on where they live.

There was a story that Trump told during the campaign about the need  to restore law and order, about the need to target criminals. Within  moments of assuming the Presidency for the second time, though, his  true agenda became clear.

The administration has no interest whatsoever in targeting criminals.  What they want is to fulfill Stephen Miller's white nationalist  fantasy. They are targeting law-abiding people.  In fact, they are punishing immigrants who are following the law.

Let me say that again: They are punishing immigrants who are  following the law.

That is what it means to use IRS data to target people. It means  targeting people who are paying their taxes. That is what it means to  send agents, with their faces covered by bandanas, to immigration court  to arrest people while leaving their hearings. They are punishing  people who are doing things the right way by showing up to court and  going through the process.

It can be a little easy in politics to point out the hypocrisy on the  other side and to point out people's inconsistencies when their own  party is in charge. Yet, I can't ignore the irony that the Republican  Party has spent my entire life railing about Big Brother when Democrats  want to put simple things like energy standards on appliances.

For the last 4 years, the majority has gone on and on about the  weaponization of the Federal Government. My Republican colleagues  created a special subcommittee here in the House, which I happily voted  for, to hammer the idea that Americans were being targeted based on  their political views.

I wonder, when the Federal Government is sending marines to break up  protests in Los Angeles, why are we hearing little from that side about  the States' rights.

I wonder, when unaccountable rogue agencies are partnering with tech  companies like Palantir to surveil and profile Americans, why are we  hearing so little from the other side about civil liberties.

I also wonder, when people are being arrested, stripped of their  green cards, and deported because they do not agree with our  government's position on Gaza, why are we hearing so little from that  side about the weaponization of the Federal Government.

The American people are right to be disturbed by these unmistakably  fascist tactics, and they are showing up in numbers to oppose the  militarized raids. They are using their constitutional rights to oppose  the brutality of Trump and Miller's policies.

I stand in solidarity with the people in my district and across this  country who are coming out to peacefully make their voices heard and  demand respect for our constitutional rights and values.

The people who are standing up for their neighbors, standing up for  families, and standing up for communities are showing more patriotism  and more genuine commitment to our founding ideals than the people  running the executive branch. This administration will not last  forever, and the reactions of everyday Americans to this  authoritarianism give me heart.

A couple of weeks ago, after an ICE raid at a pizzeria in Honesdale,  Pennsylvania, two people gave quotes to local news that have been  making the rounds. One of them said: ``It is just made to instill fear,  and I am not sure why we need fear in our communities instead of love  and caring and community.''

That is what we are about in this country, and that is what we will  continue to stand up for.