-9999


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to present a  Congressional Veteran Commendation to Lieutenant Colonel Barbara  MacMillan, U.S. Army, Retired. Her life and career reflect hard work,  selfless service, and dedication to her Nation and Central Texas.

LTC MacMillan served from 1976 to 1999, amassing experience at Fort  Liberty, West Point, Fort Cavazos, and others. As a 1st Lieutenant with  the 2nd Armored Calvary Regiment (2ACR), she managed the operation of a  Top-Secret Telecommunications Center and served as the Communications  Security (COMSEC) Custodian. Her duties took her to the East German  border, where she routinely inspected COMSEC procedures to ensure they  remained uncompromised.

A trailblazer throughout her career, LTC MacMillan became a  jumpmaster at a time when few women served in airborne units. In 1994,  she was deployed to Haiti in support of Operation Uphold Democracy with  the 1st Corps Support Command, XVIII Airborne Corps, as the G1 (Human  Resources Director). She was responsible for theater-wide missions,  including organizing a USO show with the Gatlin Brothers on October 24,  1994. Her exemplary service earned her numerous accolades, including  the Legion of Merit and the Humanitarian Service Medal.

After retiring, LTC MacMillan continued her commitment to service,  joining the Fort Cavazos Retiree Council and working with  The Caring Place, speaking to schools about selfless service and  visiting veterans at homes and local events. LTC MacMillan works  tirelessly for youth in her community, both as a Scout leader for over  21 years and through her involvement with the American Legion's  mentorship, scholarships, and outreach programs. Her efforts continue  to make a lasting impact on the next generation.

LTC MacMillan's determined efforts for veterans and youth are a  powerful reflection of her commitment to selfless service. Her  patriotism, honor, and commitment to excellence reflect the very best  of Central Texas.