Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman  from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole), the chairman of the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman  from California (Mr. Calvert), the chairman of the Defense  Appropriations Subcommittee.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the  gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Mrvan), a member of the Appropriations  Committee. He just joined us, and I am happy to have him.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the  gentleman from California (Mr. Takano), the distinguished ranking  member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee and a champion of our  Nation's veterans.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman  from North Carolina (Mr. Murphy).

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Mr. Chair, I want to add some further information because the  Veterans Crisis Line was referenced by the gentleman from Missouri.

I want to make it very clear that the Secretary of the VA actually  did a YouTube video specifically denying firing anyone from the  Veterans Crisis Line when, in reality, he fired 24 people who worked on  the Veterans Crisis Line.

If there was any improvement to the Veterans Crisis Line in this  bill, it is thanks to my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee,  the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms. Dean), who was successful in  passing an amendment that added $5 million to funding for the Veterans  Crisis Line, and the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. Underwood), who  actually added an amendment that prohibits any further cuts from the  Veterans Crisis Line.

We are certainly appreciative of the bipartisan support for that.  However, I want to make it clear that we need to remain united in  fighting cuts to the Veterans Crisis Line and ensure that veterans have  everything they need and a safety net firmly in place.

With all the issues raised during this debate, Mr. Chair, from the  blatant push toward privatization of VA medical care to the  underfunding of infrastructure and climate resiliency projects and the  harmful poison pill riders, I just cannot in good conscience support  this bill.

It breaks my heart because we do have such a good working  relationship across the aisle with Chairman Carter and myself. I look  forward to working together to improve this bill. I know it is possible  as we move forward, and I am hopeful. I urge my colleagues at this  point to vote against it.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Mr. Chair, I acknowledge and ask my colleagues to support the fiscal  year 2026 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies  Appropriations Act.

This legislation provides critical funding for military bases,  provides housing for our troops and their families, and makes other  investments aimed at improving the quality of life of our  servicemembers. It ensures that our national defense needs are met both  at home and abroad.

We also uphold our pledge to our veterans. This bill fully funds  healthcare and benefits for those who have valiantly served. Again, I  ask my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 530, I  offer amendments en bloc.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I rise in favor of this en bloc  package. It includes bipartisan amendments that both sides have agreed  to.

I appreciate Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz working with us on this  amendment. I ask my colleagues to support it, and I urge its adoption.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this  amendment. This amendment contains noncontroversial amendments that  raise awareness on programs that we all care about. That includes the  need to address a variety of medical care issues at the VA, the need to  build more childcare development centers, construct more State  extended-care facilities, expediting claims processing, and many  others.

Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from New  Jersey (Mr. Gottheimer), a fearless defender of our Nation's veterans.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman  from Guam (Mr. Moylan).

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman  from Colorado (Ms. Boebert).

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman. I yield back the balance of my  time.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I do not have any additional  speakers, and I also yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, pursuant to House Resolution 530,  I offer amendments en bloc as the designee of Chairman Cole.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I rise in favor of the amendment.  It includes various priorities related to veterans' health care and  benefits and calls for improvements to our military bases.

Mr. Chairman, I urge its adoption, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman  from Texas (Mr. Arrington).

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to the  gentleman from Texas.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move the adoption of this en  bloc, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, this en bloc doesn't do a single  thing to improve this bill. In fact, it makes it worse. It cuts the  Veterans Benefits Administration. It discriminates against veterans and  doubles down on privatization of VA medical care.

Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I move that the Committee do now  rise.

The motion was agreed to.

Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.  Alford) having assumed the chair, Mr. Fine, Acting Chair of the  Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that  that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 3944)  making appropriations for military construction, the Department of  Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending  September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution  thereon.