Saluting the Service of Colonel Garry Patterson


Mr. CARTER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I proudly present Colonel Garry  Patterson, U.S. Army, Retired, with a Congressional Veteran  Commendation. A ``Soldier for Life,'' COL Patterson embodies the values  of selfless service and true leadership.

From 1972 to 2003, COL Patterson had an extraordinary 31-year career  serving our Nation in the U.S. Army, holding numerous leadership  positions across every level. As Chief of Staff for the 49th Armored  Division, he played a pivotal role in preparing the unit for deployment  in support of peacekeeping operations in war-torn Bosnia. Once  deployed, he assumed the role of Chief of Staff for the Multi-National  Division (North), leading a diverse team of officers from over ten  nations, including Russia, Turkey, and Norway.

COL Patterson's distinguished military service earned him numerous  accolades, including the Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, the  Army Commendation Medal with oak leaf cluster, and the Meritorious  Service Medal with four oak leaf clusters. He is also a recipient of  the prestigious De Fleury Medal and has been inducted into the Order of  St. George, underscoring his outstanding contributions to both the Army  and his country.

After retirement from the Army, COL Patterson continued serving his  community and the Nation. He leveraged his expertise to improve  efficiency while working with several U.S. Defense Contractors. In  partnership with the University of Texas and the US Army, COL Patterson  assisted soldiers in obtaining the Project Management Professional  (PMP) certification, impacting the lives of more than 800 students. He  serves on the Round Rock Chamber of Commerce Defense Advisory Task  Force Committee and is the current Chapter President of The AUSA  Executive Committee of the Texas Capital Area.

It is with great appreciation that I award COL Patterson with the  Congressional Veteran Commendation. I join his family, friends, and  colleagues in recognizing his profound contributions to Texas and to  our Nation.