Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, after much debate, we can now codify  President Trump's effort to prevent the development of a central bank  digital currency, or CBDC, and ensure that the United States' digital  currency policy remains in the hands of the American people and not the  administrative state.

I am proud to have my legislation, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State  Act, being considered on the House floor for a vote today.

This bill is straightforward. It prevents unelected Washington  bureaucrats from creating a financial surveillance tool that, if not  done correctly, will fundamentally alter the lives of every American.

Unlike decentralized digital assets, a CBDC is a digital form of  sovereign currency that is designed, issued, and monitored by the  Federal Government. It is government-controlled, programmable money  that, if designed without the privacy protections of cash, could give  the Federal Government the ability to surveil and restrict Americans'  transactions and monitor every aspect of our daily lives.

In other words, every dollar you spend, where you spend it, and who  you spend it with would all be visible to and tracked by the watchful  eyes of Washington. There would be no cash, no anonymity, and no space  for private financial decisionmaking.

This isn't an inconceivable concept. We have already seen examples of  governments developing these types of tools and using them to weaponize  their financial systems against their citizens. The Chinese Communist  Party employs a CBDC that is being used to monitor and restrict its  citizens' spending. The data is being used to develop a social credit  system that rewards or punishes individuals based on their spending  behavior.

In Canada, the former Trudeau administration demonstrated the power  of Federal financial surveillance and control when it froze the bank  accounts of hundreds of truckers protesting the COVID vaccine mandate  in 2022.

Surely, this totalitarian surveillance tool would never take root in  the United States. However, that assumption would be wrong. This is not  a theoretical risk. It is a very real and very dangerous precedent.

Under the Biden administration, financial surveillance was a core  tenet of President Biden's policy agenda. In 2022, President Biden  issued an executive order placing urgency on CBDC research and  development.

Moreover, the agency reports created under that executive order made  it clear that the previous administration was eager to create a CBDC  and was willing to trade Americans' right to financial privacy for a  CCP-style surveillance tool.

Our bill, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act, prevents future  administrations from weaponizing this technology against the American  people while ensuring that any development of digital money reflects  our American values of privacy, individual sovereignty, and free market  competitiveness.

If not designed to be open, permissionless, and private--``private''  with a capital p--resembling cash, a government-issued CBDC is nothing  more than an Orwellian surveillance tool that will be used to erode the  American way of life.

The Federal Government has no business monitoring Americans' daily  financial lives. We don't need or want a state-run digital dollar with  Chinese Communist Party characteristics. We need to protect the core  principles that make this country exceptional: liberty,  limited government, and the right to privacy.

We are on the verge of the next game-changing technological  evolution, and we must embrace this push for a more developed digital  economy. In doing so, we cannot jeopardize who we are as Americans, and  this bill is designed to ensure just that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill and Chairman Steil for their  tireless work and advocacy on this issue, in addition to the 135  Members of Congress who have joined as cosponsors of our legislation. I  urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.