Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, the Constitution vests Congress with the  power to declare war and ultimately to authorize the use of military  force in order to provide a critical check on a President's decision to  deploy troops overseas. Congress has for too long abdicated this  responsibility in deference to Presidents from both parties. 

  Presidents have used a broad interpretation of the 2001 and 2002  authorizations for the use of military force to justify American  military interventions in far-flung theaters such as Yemen and North  Africa. I have supported bipartisan efforts to revisit these  authorizations because nearly 20 years later, they are still being used  to justify action unforeseen by the Congress that initially approved  them. 

  This effort has become more urgent as this President's reckless,  impulsive actions are bringing us precipitously close to war with Iran.  Contrary to whatever he says, Donald Trump's Iran policy has not made  us safer. In fact, his Iran policy has undermined America's national  security, isolated the United States from our allies, put the safety of  American troops at risk, and, yes, brought us closer to war. 

  To understand how we arrived at this moment and why Congress needs to  act, we should begin by evaluating the consequences of the President's  misguided and dangerous decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear  deal. 

  By all accounts, the administration inherited a deal that was  working, one painstakingly negotiated over many months with the UK,  France, Germany, Russia, China, and Iran. 

  It bears repeating. The deal explicitly stated in its first paragraph  that ``Iran reaffirms that under no circumstances will Iran ever seek,  develop or acquire any nuclear weapons,'' and it put a comprehensive,  intrusive, and verifiable enforcement mechanism in place to achieve  this objective. It blocks pathways Iran would need to produce the  highly enriched uranium or plutonium it would take to produce a nuclear  weapon. Under the verification regime created by the deal,  international inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency,  the IAEA, were afforded extensive access within Iran to ensure their  compliance. 

  The Iran nuclear deal was reached through tough, principled  diplomacy. These negotiations culminated in an agreement that world  leaders could credibly declare would prevent Iran from ever obtaining  nuclear weapons. 

  In May 2018, President Trump recklessly undermined our credibility  and isolated the United States from our allies by unilaterally  withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal. It is important to emphasize  that Iran was in compliance with the agreement when the President tore  it up. 

  Our unilateral withdrawal from the agreement and the administration's  subsequent so-called maximum pressure campaign has exposed the United  States to enormous risk. We have seen the consequences almost every day  for the past 2 years as Donald Trump has engaged in an escalating and  increasingly violent tit-for-tat with Iran. 

  The President's chaotic escalation culminated with his impulsive and  incredibly risky decision to target and kill high-level Iranian and  Iraqi military officials, including Iranian General Soleimani, on Iraqi  soil. 

  The question before us is not whether General Soleimani deserved this  fate. He was a loathsome figure who was responsible for killing many  U.S. servicemembers and for orchestrating terrorism throughout the  Middle East. The question before us is whether carrying out this risky  and provocative act made the United States and the Middle East safer or  more secure. It has not. 

  Over the past month, the consequences of the President's impulsive  actions have become clearer. We now know President Trump directed the  attack without notifying leaders in Congress or our Iraqi partners or  even our allies who have troops positioned in Iraq. He ordered the  attack without preparing for what came next, exposing the United States  to further hostilities without a plan for how to deescalate tensions. 

  After Iran retaliated with a coordinated missile strike on American  military infrastructure in Iraq, the President was quick to reassure  the public that no American soldiers were harmed in the counterattack.  We now know this was a lie. After weeks of denials--or even comments  from the President that some troops were suffering from ``headaches''-- the Pentagon on Monday finally acknowledged that 109 servicemembers  suffered traumatic brain injuries in the Iranian attack. For the  President of the United States to make light of these serious  injuries--injuries that, in many cases, may impact these soldiers for  the rest of their lives--is unconscionable and dishonors the service  and sacrifices made every day by our men and women in uniform. 

  In a sign that tensions continue to escalate, the President has  deployed more than 14,000 additional servicemembers to the Middle East  in the wake of the strike on General Soleimani, exposing even more  Americans to potential retaliation from Iran or its regional proxies.  These developments further reinforce our conclusion that President  Trump did not give much thought to the consequences of his actions. 

  The administration has provided ever-evolving and very troubling  after-the-fact explanations that fail to assuage our concerns about  this impulsive decision. Only a few weeks ago, the President tweeted in  all caps that ``Iran will never have a nuclear weapon.'' Given that the  President tore up the Iran nuclear deal which would have prevented Iran  from ever getting a nuclear weapon, one cannot help but  question where this bellicose rhetoric is coming from and what it  portends. 

  The American people have made it explicitly clear that they do not  want to go to war with Iran, especially if war is the result of the  President's reckless and impulsive actions. It is therefore imperative  that Congress exercise its exclusive--exclusive--war powers under  article I of the Constitution to prevent this President from launching  a disastrous war with Iran. 

  In normal times, we could have confidence during a crisis like this  that the President of the United States would mobilize a whole-of- government response to this crisis, and in normal times, the President  would lead our allies and the international community in seeking a  diplomatic outcome to our escalating tensions with Iran, but these are  not normal times. 

  Congress must reassert its constitutional authority by demanding the  President seek explicit authorization prior to any military action  against Iran. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting Senator Tim  Kaine's War Powers Resolution tomorrow. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT