Hirono, Klobuchar, Peters, Rosen, Colleagues Introduce Bicameral Bill to Boost High-Speed Internet Access for College Students Completing Coursework During Coronavirus Pandemic


Today, Senators Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), and Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.) introduced a bill to boost access to high-speed internet for college students as they continue their studies remotely during the coronavirus pandemic. The Supporting Connectivity for Higher Education Students in Need Act would invest $1 billion for the creation of the Emergency Higher Education Connectivity Fund at the National Telecommunications Information Administration. The Fund would support college and graduate students now studying from home by providing internet connections and equipment like Wi-Fi hotspots, routers, modems, laptops, tablets and other internet-enabled devices. The bill prioritizes students most likely to lack internet access, including those studying at minority-serving and rural-serving institutions, and students who receive need-based financial aid--like Pell Grants--and other government assistance.

"The COVID-19 pandemic has illuminated the digital divide in America. There are an estimated 14 million households--including more than 52,000 Hawaii households--that don't have any internet," Senator Hirono said. "The Supporting Connectivity for Higher Education Students in Need Act invests in college students who are trying to keep up with their studies by providing internet-connected devices and broadband access to continue their education, even as social distancing continues."

"The Emergency Higher Education Connectivity Fund will provide critically needed support for our students who need us most," said University of Hawaii President David Lassner, who chaired the State of Hawaii Broadband Task Force. "Having adequate equipment and broadband service is now essential for success in higher education, and the students who stand to benefit most from higher education often face the greatest financial and geographic barriers."

Senator Hirono has advocated for additional funding during the pandemic for the Lifeline Program, which boosts internet connectivity for lower-income Americans. She has also introduced legislation to close the digital equity gap, so that students, families, and workers have access to technological resources and information, regardless of income.