Hirono Condemns Trump's Muslim Ban on Third Anniversary


Today, on the third anniversary of the announcement of President Trump's Muslim Ban, U.S. Senator Mazie K. Hirono joined a rally with Congressional Democrats, faith leaders, and civil rights advocates urging swift passage of S. 1123, the National Origin-Based Antidiscrimination for Nonimmigrants (NO BAN) Act. If passed, the legislation would permanently end the Administration's discriminatory policy. 

"The Muslim Ban is sadly only one part of the Trump Administration's virulent and cruel anti-immigrant agenda. In addition to the Muslim Ban, there was the separation of children at the border, the detention of families with no end in sight, and many more harmful policies. Every day, Stephen Miller and others in the Trump Administration find new ways to hurt immigrants in our country. We must stand together in opposing these discriminatory policies," Senator Hirono said.

In addition to Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Representatives Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), André Carson (D-Ind.), and Don Beyer (D-Va.), leaders from Muslim Advocates, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, the National Women's Law Center, Bend the Arc Jewish Action, National Council of Jewish Women, and NAACP Washington Bureau participated in the rally.

The NO BAN Act underscores America's commitment to protecting refugees and asylum-seekers. The bill is supported by more than 250 members of Congress; over 400 national security, civil rights, faith, and community organizations; 19 state attorneys general; and more than 50 immigration law professors.

As the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on The Constitution, Senator Hirono has been a persistent and vocal critic of the Muslim Ban. In 2017, she called for President Trump to rescind the Muslim Ban. In 2018, she joined 30 Senators in signing an amicus brief in support of the state of Hawaii in Trump v. Hawaii, a case challenging the Muslim Ban. Senators Hirono and Ted Cruz (R-Texas) successfully petitioned the Supreme Court to release same-day audio in Trump v. Hawaii.