Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, when the Framers debated whether to  include the power of impeachment in the Constitution, they envisioned a  moment very much like the one we face now. They were fearful of a  corrupt President who would abuse the Presidency for his or her  personal gain, particularly one who would allow any foreign country to  interfere in the affairs of our United States. With this fear in mind,  the Framers directed the Senate to determine whether to ultimately  remove that President from office.  

  In normal times, the Senate--conscious of its awesome  responsibility--would meet this moment with the appropriate sobriety  and responsibility to conduct a full and fair trial. That includes  calling appropriate witnesses and subpoenaing relevant documents, none  of which happened here. 

  In normal times, the Senate would have weighed the evidence presented  by both sides and rendered impartial justice. And in normal times,  having been presented with overwhelming evidence of impeachable acts,  the Senate would have embraced its constitutional responsibility to  convict the President and remove him or her from office. 

  But as we have learned too often over the past 3 years, these are not  normal times. Instead of fulfilling its duty later today, the U.S.  Senate will fail its test at a crucial moment of our country by voting  to acquit Donald J. Trump of abuse of power and obstruction of  Congress. 

  The Senate cannot blame its constitutional failure on the House  managers. They proved their case with overwhelming and compelling  evidence. Manager Jerry Nadler laid out a meticulous case demonstrating  how and why the President's actions rose to the constitutional standard  for impeachment and removal. 

  Manager Hakeem Jeffries explained how Donald Trump ``directly  pressured the Ukrainian leader to commence phony political  investigations as a part of his effort to cheat and solicit foreign  interference in the 2020 election.'' 

  Manager Val Demings walked us through the evidence of how Donald  Trump used $391 million of taxpayer money to pressure Ukraine to  announce politically motivated investigations. She concluded: ``This is  enough to prove extortion in court.'' 

  Manager Sylvia Garcia showed us how Donald Trump's demand for  investigations was purely for his personal, political benefit. She  debunked the conspiracy theories the President's counsel raised against  former Vice President Joe Biden--Donald Trump's political rival and the  true target of his corrupt scheme. 

  Manager Jason Crow described vividly the human costs of withholding  aid from Ukrainian troops fighting a hot war against Russia. 

  Manager Adam Schiff tied together the evidence of Donald Trump's  abuse of power--the most serious of impeachable offenses and one that  includes extortion and bribery. 

  And manager Zoe Lofgren used her extensive experience to provide  perspective on Donald Trump's unprecedented, unilateral, and complete  obstruction of Congress to cover up his corrupt scheme. She is the only  Member of Congress to be involved in three Presidential impeachments. 

  The President's lawyers could not refute the House's case. Instead,  they ultimately resorted to the argument that, even accepting the facts  as presented by the House managers, Donald Trump's conduct is not  impeachable. It is what I have called the ``He did it; so what?''  argument. 

  Many of my Republican colleagues are using the ``So what?'' argument  to justify their votes to let the President off the hook. Yet the  senior Senator from Tennessee said: ``I think he shouldn't have done  it. I think it was wrong.'' He said it was ``inappropriate'' and  ``improper, crossing a line.'' But he refused to hold the President  accountable, arguing that the voters should decide. 

  The junior Senator from Iowa said: ``The President has a lot of  latitude to do what he wants to do'' but he ``did it maybe in the wrong  manner.'' 

  She also said that ``whether you like what the President did or  not,'' the charges didn't rise to the level of an impeachable offense. 

  The junior Senator from Ohio called the President's actions ``wrong  and inappropriate'' but said they did not ``rise to the level of  removing a duly-elected president from office and taking him off the  ballot in the middle of an election.'' 

  And the senior Senator from Florida went so far as to say: ``Just  because actions meet a standard of impeachment does not mean it is in  the best interest of the country to remove a president from office.'' 

  By refusing to hold this President accountable, my Republican  colleagues are reinforcing the President's misguided belief that he can  do whatever he wants under article II of the U.S. Constitution. 

  Donald Trump was already a danger to this country. We have seen it in  his policy decisions--from taking away healthcare from millions of  Americans to threatening painful cuts to Social Security and Medicare,  to engaging in an all-out assault on immigrants in this country. 

  But today, we are called on to confront a completely different type  of danger--one that goes well beyond the significant policy differences  I have with this President. 

  If we let Donald Trump get away with extorting the President of  another country for his own personal, political benefit, the Senate  will be complicit--complicit--in his next corrupt scheme. 

  Which country will he bully or invite to interfere in our elections  next? Which pot of taxpayer money will he use as a bribe to further his  political schemes? 

  Later today, I will vote to convict and remove President Donald Trump  for abusing his power and obstructing Congress. I am under no illusion  that my Republican colleagues will do the same. They have argued it is  up to the American people to decide, as though impeachment were not a  totally separate, constitutional remedy for a lawless President. 

  As I considered my vote, I listened closely to Manager Schiff's  closing statement about why the Senate needs to convict this President.  He said:  

       I do not ask you to convict him because truth or right or       decency matters nothing to him--  

  He is referring to the President--       but because we have proven our case, and it matters to you.       Truth matters to you. Right matters to you. You are decent.       He is not who you are.  

  It is time for the Senate to uphold its constitutional responsibility  by convicting this President and holding him accountable. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT