Letter to Mark Esper, Secretary of Defense - Harris, Warren, Hirono, Colleagues Blast Defense Secretary Esper Over DoD's Failure to Adequately Respond to COVID-19 Pandemic


Dear Secretary Esper:

We write to express our grave concern regarding the Department of Defense's (DoD orthe Department) failure to adequately respond to the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID19) pandemic. Civilian leadership of the Department has failed to act sufficiently quickly, andhas often prioritized readiness at the expense of the health of servicemembers and their families.This failure has adversely affected morale, and, despite the Department's best intentions,undermined readiness.

DoD's Slow and Disjointed Response Put Servicemembers at Risk and UnderminedReadiness

You have said on numerous occasions that your "number one priority remains to protectour forces and their families."1 Your public affairs assistant made a similar statement on March3, 2020, saying: "Since day one of the Department's more than month long response effort tocombat Coronavirus, the Secretary has made clear that force protection is his number onepriority followed by our ability to continue with our national defense missions."2 Yet, as the NewYork Times reported, during a videoconference the last week in February, you "urged Americanmilitary commanders overseas not to make any decisions [] that might surprise the WhiteHouse or run afoul of President Trump's messaging on the growing health challenge" and thatyou also told "commanders deployed overseas that they should check in before making decisionsrelated to protecting their troops."3 Here, you appeared to prioritize political concerns over the health and welfare of servicemembers and their families, even as the first DoD cases wereconfirmed in late February.

Your inability or unwillingness to issue clear, Department-wide guidance has forced theservices and local commanders to make their own decisions on a case-by-case basis.Although local commanders know their units and operating environments better than anyone in thePentagon, they are not public health experts. And they are now left to make decisions theyshould never have to make. This expectation is even more unrealistic given that commandershave not been resourced to make these decisions; in fact, widespread testing still remainsunavailable as a way for military commanders to assess the threat. Due to the lack of resourcesand the lack of guidance, the Department's response has been disjointed and slow, risking thehealth of servicemembers and their families.This all comes at a time when extended deployments, delayed Permanent Change ofStation (PCS) moves, and inability to access services such as child care and mental healthservices are all taking a toll on our military families. Military families are expected to makeremarkable sacrifices under ordinary circumstances, but this crisis is putting an enormous strainon the force--a strain made worse by your disjointed and installation-dependent approach toissuing guidance.

Failed Response to Outbreak Aboard the USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT

The lack of guidance provided by the highest levels of the Department of Defense isobvious in light of the varied responses to coronavirus implemented by different militarycommands. Even components under the same combatant commander responded differently, inabsence of cohesive guidance from leadership.

Some commands recognized the seriousness of the pandemic early and took aggressiveaction to protect their forces. After one of his soldiers tested positive for COVID-19, the U.S.Army Garrison Daegu in South Korea acted quickly to contain the spread of the virus. Thecommander issued guidance to "close the office buildings the infected soldier used. Have "cleanteams' disinfect anywhere the soldier had been. Quarantine whomever he had come in contactwith. At the post gates, screen everyone for fever, troops and civilians alike. Tell many civilianworkers to stay home. Close the post's schools, golf course and bowling alleys. Cancelupcoming social events like the father-daughter dance." This plan appeared to work: in the five weeks after the first U.S. servicemember in Korea tested positive, only one other servicemember was infected.

But other commands -- perhaps influenced by your alleged directive not to take actionsthat might "surprise" the White House -- reacted differently or were possibly prevented fromtaking a more proactive approach. In the most well-known case, the USS THEODOREROOSEVELT proceeded with a five-day port call to conduct a highly anticipated "presencemission" in Da Nang, Vietnam on March 5, 2020, despite risk to sailors' health from thepandemic. United States Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) had "both the time andthe information" to cancel the visit before it happened: the World Health Organization (WHO)had declared a global public health emergency at the end of January,

and the Navy responded tothe potential danger of port calls on February 28, 2020 when then Acting Secretary of the NavyThomas Modly announced the U.S. Pacific Fleet had ordered all ships in the Seventh Fleet'sarea of operations to wait at least 14 days in between port calls.10

After the USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT stopped in Vietnam, sailors became infectedwith COVID-19. The Navy is seeking to determine if the outbreak was the result of the port callin Vietnam or of the ship's continuation of flight operations.Regardless of the source, this failure to act to prevent infection resulted in an unfortunate and counterproductive breakdown inthe chain of command. The Captain of the ship was relieved of command despite having therousing support of his crew and the Acting Navy Secretary resigned after an expensive and illfated trip to Guam during which he made a series of offensive and inaccurate public commentsabout the officer.

The USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT returned to Guam on March 27, 2020 to test theentire crew after discovering 25 cases of COVID-19 on board.13 The commanding officerCaptain Brett Crozier and his superiors "struggle[ed] to reach a consensus on a plan of action,"and did not receive the support of military and civilian superiors for the actions Captain Crozier deemed necessary to protect the health of the sailors under his command. His two immediatesuperiors "favored smaller mitigation efforts than Crozier wanted because of concerns abouttaking the carrier out of action and jeopardizing the mission." As has now been widelyreported, Captain Crozier sent a letter to his superiors pleading for bolder efforts to protect thecrew. At the time the letter was published, less than 100 sailors were confirmed to have COVID19.15 By April 23, 2020, the Navy confirmed 840 cases, almost 20% of the entire crew. Onesailor is dead and another four -- down from eight -- remain in the U.S. Naval Hospital on Guamreceiving treatment.

DoD Still Lacks a Systematic Approach to the Coronavirus Pandemic

Your tentative approach has also resulted in a series of contradictory decisions across theservices. For instance, the services recognized the danger posed by COVID-19 to their recruitersby moving exclusively to virtual recruiting. The Army made this decision on March 20, 2020.The Marine Corps, meanwhile, has emphasized virtual recruiting methods, but has not shut downits recruiting offices and continues to have recruiters meet with prospective recruits, andaccording to a recruiter in Michigan "[r]ecruiters are still expected to do interviews in their officeand drive kids to (Military Entrance Processing Station) where they may not be able to practicepreventive measures for COVID-19."In mid-March, you reportedly rejected proposals for theservices to pause recruit training, in order to allow them time and space to produce plans tominimize the risk, and they continued to ship recruits to basic training through the end ofMarch. This decision put recruits and recruit training staff at risk, as these individuals were allforced into environments without the same ability to follow social distancing guidelines thatmuch of the rest of the country was following at the time. (Ultimately, the services were forcedto pause new recruit training after multiple cases of COVID-19 were confirmed at severaltraining installations.)

In the words of one former senior Navy official, "[f]rom where I'm sitting, it appears likethe level of delegation down to the individual commanding officer about what they are going todo has reached such a level that there has been no uniformity not only across the [DoD] butacross individual commands."22 This would explain why the Marine Corps continues to insistthat Marines get haircuts and maintain grooming standards and has not closed down basebarbershops. Predictably, the results are large groups of Marines standing in line for haircutswithout masks and not abiding by social distancing guidelines.23 The Navy, meanwhile, relaxedgrooming standards for the duration of the pandemic on March 18, 2020.At a recent press conference, General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who is not in the chain of command, interjected when you were discussing the absurdity of the situation. Hecontradicted your suggestion that grooming standards ought to be relaxed saying "don't take that[relaxing grooming standards] as guidance yet." Similarly, the Navy cancelled its annual springfitness test on March 18, 2020, whereas the Marine Corps did not make the same decision untilApril 21, 2020. This level of miscommunication on even relatively simple matters indicatesthat dysfunctional decision-making starts at the top of the Department.Recent Actions Continue to Raise Concerns about DoD's Approach to Coronavirus

Despite the ongoing public health concerns, the COVID-19 response has not preventedthe Department from continuing to deploy active duty servicemembers to the southern border,continuing the military's involvement in the President's unnecessary political exercise to closethe border. On April 1, 2020, multiple outlets reported that the Department had once againassented to a Department of Homeland Security request for troops. Speaking about the 540servicemembers soon to be deployed, U.S. Army North Commander Lieutenant General LauraRichardson said, "We're going to protect our nation from COVID-positive migrants."27 Giventhe fact that as of the same day, there were already more than 213,144 confirmed cases ofcoronavirus already inside the United States, it strains elementary logic to see how thisdeployment serves your own stated goal of protecting the troops.28 Furthermore, given that you issued an overseas stop movement order and significant travel restrictions domestically for alluniformed and civilian personnel, your decision to move forces for this deployment isinexplicable.

We are also particularly concerned about your recent comments that suggest a dangerousmisunderstanding of the nature of COVID-19. During an interview with Today on April 16,2020, you said that the more than 600 positive cases aboard the USS THEODOREROOSEVELT "has revealed a new dynamic of this virus, it can be carried by normal, healthypeople who have no idea whatsoever that they're carrying it. We're learning a lesson there andmaking sure we communicate that to our broader force."30 But asymptomatic transmission wassuspected as early as February31 and evidence continued to build throughout February and Marchthat asymptomatic transmission had occurred. By mid-March it was extremely obvious. It isessential that Department leadership understand and act on the most recent and thoroughunderstanding of the virus.

Finally, your decision not to share installation-specific COVID data34 has sowed fearwithin both military and civilian communities, and made response even more difficult.Installations are integral parts of our communities, and civilian neighbors have a right to knowhow widespread the illness may be in their own backyard. Servicemembers, civilians, andcontractors who work or visit these installations must be told what kind of risks they face at workso that they can make fully-informed decisions about potential exposure to family members whomay be vulnerable to COVID-19, including seniors, those with underlying health conditions, andthose who are immune-compromised. To appropriately address this crisis, the civiliancommunity and military must work together, which cannot happen without clear informationfrom military officials.

The Department's civilian leadership can and must do more to ensure the health ofservicemembers and their families. Immediate and aggressive guidance -- from the top -- isnecessary to protect the health, morale, and readiness of servicemembers and their families. You can and must do better and we hope that you will act quickly in this regard. To that end, werequest answers to the following questions no later than May 11, 2020.1. What is the Department's current plan to address the coronavirus pandemic whilemeeting operational requirements, while ensuring servicemembers' health and safety?2. As of April 24, 2020, the Department had confirmed 3,919 cumulative cases amongservicemembers.35 You have expressed confidence in the readiness of the forcebecause of the extremely low rate of infection among servicemembers.36 However,since the Department has not tested the vast majority of service members, and manypeople are asymptomatic, do you know how many servicemembers actually have thevirus?3. What is the Department's plan to give military commanders the ability to test andscreen their personnel?4. What metrics do you use to decide how to allocate testing resources and medicalequipment in the event of shortages?5. What is your plan to conduct surveillance testing to determine the extent of theoutbreak among the force, and what additional steps are you considering to mitigatefurther spread?6. Many servicemembers and their dependents are likely being tested outside of themilitary laboratory system. Is there a plan to obtain that data to better understand theactual rate of infection?7. DoD reportedly ran a pandemic wargame scenario in 2019, modeling the effects of anoutbreak similar in scope and type to the current coronavirus outbreak.37 Whatlessons were learned from this wargame and how were they incorporated into currentplanning?8. Has the Department conducted any other analyses of a pandemic scenario, and didthey take into consideration the Department's preparedness to not only sustain itsmany missions, but also protect the force from the infection?9. What is the Department's plan to implement long term mitigation tools, to protectservicemembers when there is inevitably another global outbreak?10. What steps is the Department taking to ensure military families' needs are addressedduring the pandemic, particularly when it comes to access to mental health care?

Sincerely