Senators Hirono, Kaine Visit Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard


Yesterday, Senators Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawaii), Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Seapower Subcommittee and Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee, visited Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard (PHNSY) to meet with workers and military leaders, and to present a lei at the memorial for victims of the December shooting at the Shipyard.

During their visit, Senators Hirono and Kaine met with Admiral John Aquilino, Commander of the Navy's Pacific Fleet (PACFLT) and Captain Greg Burton, Commander of PHNSY. The Senators also met with Shipyard union leaders from the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers. 

"Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard is a cornerstone of our community, employing thousands of workers who support our American military forces stationed here in Hawaii and the broader Indo-Pacific Region to advance our strategic interests," Senator Hirono said. "I am grateful that Senator Kaine could join me to see the critical role Hawaii plays in our readiness and national defense, how apprenticeship programs in the Shipyard help meet those needs, and to pay tribute to the victims of December's shooting." 

"Senator Hirono and I work closely together on the Armed Services Committee to make sure our Navy, our sailors, and our civilian shipbuilders and ship repairers have the tools they need to protect our nation. Senator Hirono has visited our shipyard in Virginia and I was glad to accompany her and learn about the great work done in Pearl Harbor," Senator Kaine said.

The Shipyard contributes nearly $1 billion into Hawaii's economy every year, and employs close to 6,500 personnel, including close to 1,000 engineers. PHNSY is the largest employer of engineers in Hawaii. The U.S. Pacific Fleet encompasses 100 million square miles and consists of approximately 200 ships/submarines, nearly 1,200 aircraft, and more than 130,000 sailors and civilians.

In December, Senator Hirono honored victims of the December shooting at PHNSY in a speech on the floor of the United States Senate. 

In September 2019, Senator Hirono hosted Senator David Perdue (R-Ga.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Seapower Subcommitee on a visit to the Shipyard.