Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HIRONO. Madam President, I also want to thank Senators Udall and  Merkley for their extraordinary work on the For the People Act. 

  We are confronting a crisis in our democracy. We have a President who  repeatedly invites foreign intervention in our elections, engages in  widespread corruption, attacks the news media as part of a broader  assault on the truth, and uses false claims of voter fraud to  legitimize voter suppression across the country. 

  These challenges to our democracy are not limited to the Trump  administration, but this President has undoubtedly made things much,  much worse. It is why I joined an overwhelming number of my Democratic  colleagues of both Chambers of Congress in cosponsoring H.R. 1, the For  the People Act. 

  This crucial piece of legislation is the most expansive and serious  attempt to strengthen American democracy in decades. Among its many  provisions, this bill would root out corruption by attacking the dark  money in our politics. The door was opened in the Citizens United  decision by the Supreme Court. This bill would also secure our  elections from foreign interference and restore voter protections that  Republicans have spent decades attacking for their own partisan  political benefit. 

  Like many of my colleagues, I am particularly focused on combating  the Republican Party's efforts to disenfranchise millions of minority  voters. I could spend hours detailing the efforts throughout American  history to make it as difficult as possible--or even impossible--for  people of color to vote. 

  But today I want to focus on the impact of the Supreme Court's 2013  decision in Shelby County. In this 5-to-4 decision, Chief Justice  Roberts and the Court's conservative Justices effectively gutted the  core protections of the Voting Rights Act. They decided that States  with long histories of discrimination no longer had to obtain Federal  approval for voting changes under the Voting Rights Act.  

  As author Carol Anderson explained, Chief Justice Roberts has  ``[l]ong [been] an opponent of the Voting Rights Act,'' and in Shelby  County he used arguments that had been ``carefully crafted'' over  ``several decades'' to eviscerate the Voting Rights Act. 

  Without the constraints of the Voting Rights Act, States with long  histories of discrimination ramped up voter suppression, from racist  voter ID laws to eliminating early voting, to purging voter rolls and  closing polling places. 

  In the 6 years following the Shelby County decision, for example,  States previously subjected to preclearance under the Voting Rights Act  closed at least 1,688 polling sites. Texas alone closed 750 polling  places. 

  The closures had their intended effect. A study at Harvard University  found that minority voters are six times more likely than White voters  to wait longer than an hour to vote. Longer waits impose greater costs  for voting on minorities and deter them from voting in future  elections. We saw the impact of these policies just last week on Super  Tuesday, which saw inordinately long lines in minority precincts in  Texas. 

  Mr. Hervis Rogers waited more than 6 hours to vote, but he was  determined to make his voice heard. So when he got to his polling place  at Texas Southern University, a historically Black college in Houston,  he patiently waited in line until he could cast his vote at 1:30 in the  morning. 

  Mr. Rogers's experience last week speaks to one part of a broader  problem. The Republican Party is so invested in voter suppression  because they view it as an effective tool to win elections, and these  efforts had devastating consequences for our country in the 2016  Presidential election--the first Presidential election held in 50 years  that did not have the protections of the Voting Rights Act. 

  We saw plummeting minority turnout across the country, including in  the key swing States of Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Wisconsin. 

  Carol Anderson observed that in 2016, 50,000 fewer people voted in  1--just 1--overwhelmingly African-American county in Wisconsin. Donald  Trump, by comparison, won Wisconsin by only 27,000 votes. 

  Efforts to further suppress the minority vote in swing States  continue to date. Last year, for example, a conservative interest group  sued Wisconsin's State Elections Commission to force a purge of 209,000  infrequent voters from the voter rolls. Although a lower State court  granted the conservative group's request, a Wisconsin appeals court put  the voter purge on hold while the fight in court continues. 

  These ongoing voter suppression efforts serve as stark reminders of  why we need to pass the For the People Act. This bill not only blocks  common strategies Republicans have used to make it harder for  minorities to vote, but it also includes critical democracy reforms to  make their votes count. 

  This legislation would also set strong national standards to protect  voting access that reflect and improve upon steps that have already  been taken by States like Hawaii. Last year, for example, Hawaii became  the fourth State in the country to provide mail-in ballots to all  voters. Our State also has same-day voter registration, preregistration  for residents under the age of 18, and a 10-day early voting period. 

  While some States are stepping up to protect voting rights, Congress  needs to take strong and decisive action to restore voting rights and  end voter suppression across the country. 

  We also need to take an equally strong stand against Donald Trump's  efforts to pack our Federal courts with judges who have dedicated their  careers to undermining the voting rights of minorities. 

  At the Supreme Court, where Donald Trump has appointed two Justices,  there have been a number of cases attacking the voting rights of  minority communities, and there are real concerns that the Roberts  Court will continue to uphold these voter suppression efforts. 

  In the lower courts, Trump judges include Andrew Brasher, now an  Eleventh Circuit judge, who argued in support of gutting the Voting  Rights Act in the Shelby County case; and Kyle Duncan, now a Fifth  Circuit judge, who defended North Carolina's discriminatory voting law  that the Fourth Circuit found--and I quote the Fourth Circuit-- ``target[ed] African Americans with almost surgical precision.'' These  are overt acts to suppress voting. 

  President Trump's hostility to voting rights is so extreme. He is  appointing anti-voting rights advocates even to courts that do not  handle voting issues, such as Stephen Schwartz for the Court of Federal  Claims and Stephen Vaden for the Court of International Trade. Both  have no experience with these courts, but both have defended North  Carolina's discriminatory voting law. 

  The right to vote is one of our most sacred rights, and we must do  all that we can to protect it for all Americans. That is why I will  continue to fight back against Donald Trump's court packing and fight  for the passage of critical legislation like the For the People Act. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT