-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698736/9999


Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, there were few people in the Congress that  tangled with Doug LaMalfa more than me. There is probably some  competition for that honor among House Democrats, but I was certainly  right up there.

Yet, I can tell you as we honor Doug today, I know plenty of people  who disagreed with him, but I don't know anyone that disliked him. When  you hear these qualities about his authenticity, his warm sense of  humor, just how relatable he was, that is all very, very true.

I go back almost 20 years with Doug because we were in the State  legislature together. A lot has been said about his sense of humor,  which is also very, very true. I want to just share something that I  always think of with Doug because it speaks to the type of humor which  is really, I think, something that tells you about the man. There are  plenty of people who have a great sense of humor at other people's  expense. Doug LaMalfa had a very gentle and disarming sense of humor.

One of our colleagues together in the State assembly was our former  colleague and the current mayor of Los Angeles, Karen Bass. I will  always remember how Doug used to crack her and me up by calling her  Bassomatic. That was the nickname. His staffers back here are far too  young to remember the ``Saturday Night Live'' skit in which Dan Aykroyd  puts a bass in a blender and makes this gross smoothie and drinks it.  It was funny, and that is the kind of thing that Doug would pull up  spontaneously and crack everyone up. I loved that.

I will tell you, Karen Bass loved it too. She liked it so much that  she went up to Doug's district when she became speaker of the assembly,  and I remember he just not only welcomed her there--this is a person he  had very little in common with, a southern California urban African- American member that voted together with him almost never, but Doug  gave her the VIP tour of his farm and of the Sacramento Valley and rice  country. He got her up in a combine and had her do things that I am  sure she will never forget. I think he loved every minute of that.

That is how I am going remember Doug. He was a great guy. I am  certainly thinking and sending best wishes to his family and everyone  who loved him.