Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

In just 4 weeks, Donald Trump has sown chaos all over this country.  His administration is defying court orders, firing Federal workers,  freezing vital funding that our constituents depend on, impacting  everything from wildfire preparations to water security, health and  housing programs, and a lot more. All of this is under the guise of  cost savings, but the reality is there are no meaningful savings or  other benefits for average taxpayers.

Real people's lives are being turned upside down: our National Park  Service and workers at a number of Federal agencies, farmers, and  firefighters. Everyone who depends on Federal services is feeling the  squeeze of this reckless agenda. Meanwhile, Republicans are preparing  their budget reconciliation bill, which is going to cost at least $4  trillion.

Mr. Chairman, our Republican colleagues are being coy about the  specifics, but Americans can connect the dots. There can't be a tax cut  for billionaires of that magnitude without either dramatically slashing  Medicaid and maybe Social Security and Medicare while you are at it, or  dramatically exploding the deficit.

Just like every other action before us, the Republicans' budget is a  betrayal of the American people. The majority is choosing billionaires  over programs that everyday people depend on.

In my district alone, hundreds of thousands of people will lose  Medicaid. Tens of thousands will lose SNAP benefits that help put food  on the table. The Natural Resources Committee is tasked with finding at  least $1 billion of these savings, $1 billion for their billionaire  joyride. Their plan is to sell off public lands and do more favors for  Big Oil.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Chairman, Republicans plan to do more favors for Big  Oil even though they are rolling in record profits and even though we  are already producing and exporting record amounts of oil and gas. Of  course, their old favorite is to open up the Arctic Refuge for drilling  and pretend that that will bring in money, as well. Last time, it  brought in zero dollars when they did that in 2017.

Mr. Chairman, I am going to vote ``no.'' I urge my colleagues to vote  ``no.''