Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act--Veto Message From the President of the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698699/finish-the-arkansas-valley-conduit-act-veto-message-from-the-president-of-the-united-states


Mr. Speaker, in 1962, Congress authorized a 130-mile pipeline, known  as the Arkansas Valley Conduit, to deliver clean, reliable water to  communities in southeastern Colorado. More than 60 years later, the  project remains uncompleted, while communities in the region continue  to face unreliable water supplies and serious water quality challenges.

The drinking water sources they rely on are often contaminated with  unsafe levels of radium, uranium, and other pollutants. Treating these  contaminants places a significant burden on rural communities and  forces many families to rely on bottled water or expensive filtration  systems to meet basic needs that we all take for granted.

The Arkansas Valley Conduit was designed to address these challenges,  but the project is still not completed largely because the communities  that it will serve do not have the financial capacity to meet the  traditional repayment obligations. They need our help.

For over a decade, the Colorado delegation has worked to advance this  project so that families in southeastern Colorado can finally have  access to clean, safe drinking water. Senators Bennet and Hickenlooper  helped secure $500 million through the Infrastructure Investment and  Jobs Act for this project that was a major step toward completion.

Last year, this body worked in a bipartisan manner to pass H.R. 131.  Now, as introduced, Representative Boebert's bill did raise some  concerns about removing interest payments and extending the repayment  period, but our colleagues in the Senate worked to address these shared  concerns, and we in the Natural Resources Committee came together to  build on that work to ensure that this legislation addresses the real  water reliability challenges facing the people of southeastern Colorado  while remaining consistent with core reclamation law principles.

Together, Congress sent the President a carefully negotiated and  narrowly tailored bipartisan bill to support the completion of this  project.

The administration has no problem subsidizing water for certain  stakeholders, including large-scale agricultural projects, yet when it  comes to a tailored bill to ensure access to safe drinking water for  rural communities, unfortunately, the President has taken a different  path.

Now, we are going to talk about the merits of this bill today, I am  sure, but we all know that this veto has nothing to do with fiscal  policy, nothing to do with the merits. There has been extensive  reporting that raises broader concerns about the administration's  posture toward the State of Colorado and even toward the sponsor of  this bill.

We know what this veto was about, and the message that that sends to  Colorado and communities awaiting the  completion of the Arkansas Valley Conduit is deeply troubling.

Meanwhile, and the good news, is that this Congress has kept working  to find a solution, and the legislation before us today is reasonably  negotiated and bipartisan. It is going to help communities who have  waited too long to finally have clean water.

I thank my colleagues for their commitment to working with us to  reach the language before us today. I am deeply disappointed that the  President chose to veto a bill that would help communities gain access  to clean drinking water. The communities of southeastern Colorado  deserve better, and today we have a bipartisan opportunity to do that  for them.

I really, in this moment, could care less about Ms. Boebert's  politics or Mr. Hurd's politics. What I see before us is a piece of  legislation that does an awful lot of good for people, a bill that was  carefully negotiated, is bipartisan, and is common sense.

It is a water infrastructure bill, and every Member of this House  looked past their political differences and did the right thing when we  passed this unanimously out of the House of Representatives. That was  Congress just doing its job.

If a noncontroversial, bipartisan, good bill like this can be taken  hostage and become a weapon for settling political scores, well, it may  not be in your State, it may not be in your district, but that could  happen and will happen to any of us.

Mr. Speaker, this may seem like a little water infrastructure bill,  but this is a bigger moment than that. This is a bit of a Spartacus  moment for the Members of this body because any of us could face this,  and we are about to find out.

I hope the people of this country are watching. I know history is  actually going to be watching what happens here because if Congress is  able to override this veto, it is a statement that even in a moment of  extreme polarization, dysfunction, and conflict, we were able to get  some work done. That would be Congress doing its job. If we fail to  override this veto, that would say something much, much more troubling.

I urge my colleagues to do the right thing, and I yield back the  balance of my time.