Gulf of America Act


Mr. Speaker, when I call this a deeply unserious bill, I think I am  probably being charitable. It is unserious, and it comes from a  Republican majority that is either unable or unwilling to do the real  work of Congress.

In the first disastrous 100 days of President Trump's second term in  office, we have seen him sow chaos and distraction in every direction.

This deeply corrupt and unhinged leader has put his biggest campaign  donor and the wealthiest man in the world in charge of slashing  programs that millions of Americans depend on, from food assistance to  nuclear safety to disaster response, all in the name of ``efficiency.''  They have indiscriminately fired thousands of Federal workers, like  this is some dystopian reboot of ``The Apprentice,'' except in this  episode, they are filling the government with unqualified sycophants,  who are running around firing meteorologists, health experts, and  emergency responders, people who keep our government running.

Today, in the face of all of that, all of this chaos that our  Republican colleagues don't want to talk about, at least we are hearing  them engage in some debate over this unserious bill  about renaming the Gulf of Mexico, which I suppose is an improvement  because for the past couple of weeks in the markup hearings on their  disastrous budget reconciliation bill, they have been unwilling to  debate at all. It has just been silence from Republicans as they move  through one of the most reckless bills in American history, the same  silence as they duck their constituents by canceling townhalls and  avoiding media inquiries.

Instead of debating that very important and destructive legislation,  they are speaking up today about this deeply unserious bill to rename a  body of water. We wish that our Republican colleagues would join us in  asking the question that is on more and more Americans' minds: What the  heck is going on?

This administration is not draining the swamp. They are torching the  country. The global economy is in chaos. We are teetering on the brink  of recession. Administration officials are telling us we should perhaps  prepare to ration dolls and toys this Christmas. Yet, they want to  debate renaming the Gulf of Mexico.

Congress, which more and more appears to just be a joke, is now  advancing a bill that literally started off as a joke. That is right.  The first person to publicly suggest the name change was not Donald  Trump or the author of this bill. It was comedian Stephen Colbert on  ``Comedy Central.'' It was a joke back when the Deepwater Horizon oil  spill was happening.

Eleven people died in that disaster. Entire ecosystems collapsed. The  Louisiana coast was wrecked, along with industries and livelihoods that  depend on that Gulf Coast ecosystem. It was all devastated, and Colbert  used the fake name ``Gulf of America'' to satirize the absurdity of  oil-soaked nationalism.

Now, here we are, 15 years later, in a Congress that apparently  thinks they have no real work to do, turning a late-night punch line  into the legislative business of the United States House.

I would love to say this is just a one-off, but it fits a disturbing  trend. Again and again, this majority keeps replacing science with  slogans, governance with grievance, and policymaking with cheap  performance art.

The truth is, this bill won't fix a single problem. It does  absolutely nothing to help the Gulf Coast. It won't create a single  job. It is not going to fix our climate crisis. It is just dumb.

The only thing this bill will do is waste time and taxpayer dollars  to stroke the ego of a guy who Sharpied a hurricane map on live TV.

In committee, I offered an amendment that would actually advance the  value of efficiency because if this is all about stroking the ego of  one man, if it is all about cultish sycophancy, why do it in a  piecemeal way with all these individual bills to put his face on Mount  Rushmore and the $100 bill?

We actually have legislation from folks across the aisle to do all  these things: to rename Dulles Airport, to do national holidays. Why  not go all the way? We know that is where this is all heading anyway  since everything is in service of one man's fragile ego.

Why not rename the entire planet ``planet Trump''? At least that  would be efficient. We would hurry up and get to the inevitable outcome  of where this Republican Congress is taking us.

If you like this unserious bill, there is another deal for you  because Eric and Don Jr. are selling Gulf of America hats on their  website for 50 bucks a pop. One hat even says: ``Gulf of America, Yet  Another Trump Development.'' The sales pitch for one includes ``as seen  on President Donald J. Trump,'' and get your meme coin while you are at  it.

Remember, all of these grifts are for a limited time. They won't last  much longer.

The American people deserve much better. A recent FOX News poll--yes,  FOX--showed that a big majority opposes the name change for the Gulf of  Mexico: 67 percent. Americans know a joke when they see one, even if  this Republican Congress doesn't.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman is right about one thing:  Democrats are outraged because as this President is crashing the global  economy, careening us into recession, destroying retirement plans and  401(k)'s, driving up costs for American families on everything from  cars to eggs to now us being told we may have to ration toys and dolls  this Christmas, as all of that is happening, he is using Congress'  Article I trade and commerce authority to do it.

What do you hear from Republicans across the aisle about this thing  that is wrecking the lives of so many American families? Nothing. Worse  than nothing, they have tied their own hands with a gimmicky bill that  they passed to create a false legislative day that never ends so that  they can't even invoke Congress' Article I trade authority and put some  sensible sideboards on this trade and tariff policy.

It is madness, and the gentlewoman is right. We are outraged.

Mr. HUFFMAN.  Castor), who represents the Gulf and may have some wisdom  to share with us about this subject.

Mr. HUFFMAN.  Rivas).

Mr. Speaker, the most encouraging thing so far in the debate on this  bill is that the only speaker that the Republicans have offered in  support of it is the gentlewoman from Georgia. That is it.

I think that is hopeful. It suggests that maybe there is still a  little bit of dignity somewhere in the Republican Conference. I guess  we will see in a few minutes when we start voting on this bill that is  an insult to any serious Member of Congress. It is certainly an insult  to the American people and a giant middle finger to the rest of the  world.

Mr. HUFFMAN.  Dexter).

Mr. Speaker, I think it says a lot that as we have wasted the last  hour of Congress' time on a deeply unserious bill to rename the Gulf of  Mexico, and while Republicans have offered just one speaker in support  of this preposterous piece of legislation--this monumental disaster,  this insult to the American people, and this giant middle finger to the  rest of the world--the only speaker to speak in support of this was the  gentlewoman from Georgia. I think that just tells us an awful lot  today.

The American people think that Congress should do real work, and  there is plenty of real work to be done. Americans are watching their  401(k)'s in free fall from this President's reckless tariff games,  tariff chaos that is happening by using Congress' Article I trade and  commerce authority.

What is this Congress doing about it? They are doing worse than  nothing. They have tied their own hands because, in their government  funding bill, they have created the gimmick of a never-ending  legislative day to prevent them from using their emergency authorities  to put some sensible sideboards on Donald Trump's tariff madness.

In the district right next to mine in Napa County, the Trump  administration abruptly canceled a $50 million wildfire prevention  grant just 4 months after one of the deadliest wildfires in California  history. That has been the story throughout the West. Critical funding  for a critical need for firefighters and for projects that make us  safer from wildfire is in total chaos or canceled because of this  madness with Elon Musk, DOGE, and an unhinged President.

What do we hear from our colleagues across the aisle? Nothing. We get  bills like this to rename the Gulf of Mexico.

Tribal communities are being hammered around the country. Food  insecurity programs are being defunded. Education programs are being  frozen. Healthcare resources are being slashed. All the while, the  administration continues to fire essential agency scientists and public  servants en masse as this Republican Congress shrugs.

The majority is wasting time on an ego-driven rebrand, a performative  stunt rooted in President Trump's imperial edict absurdly titled:  ``Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness.''

Mr. Speaker, this is so obviously what authoritarians through history  have done. They do things like call for parades on their own birthday,  or rename things, or do other stunts to distract the American people  from the way they are lining their own pockets and taking away  fundamental rights.

This Republican Congress appears to be perfectly fine with that.

A new CNN national poll shows that the majority of Americans believe  Congress is not doing enough to check this  President's actions. Nearly one-half say that the current  administration is weakening our democracy, our economy, and our global  standing. This bill really is Exhibit A.

We are not just renaming a gulf. We are drowning public trust in what  this institution is supposed to do: serve the people, solve problems,  and defend democracy.

Yes, this bill has been called a joke more than once. In committee, I  even offered an amendment to rename the entire planet ``Trump'' just to  underscore the absurdity of their sycophantic bootlicking.

Now, after seeing this bill advance not only through committee but  all the way through to the House floor for a final vote, it is getting  a little bit harder to laugh. That is because it is not a joke anymore.  It is a case study in misplaced priorities.

Mr. Speaker, when you start erasing or changing phrases like  ``climate change,'' ``equity,'' or ``disadvantaged communities'' from  government websites, when you ban them from scientific reports, then  you are not just playing word games. You are dismantling our capacity  to even name the problems we face, let alone fix them, but we are  renaming bodies of water.

Mr. Speaker, we are about to open the roll, and as we watch the red  and green light up on the big board, I think it is going to be a pretty  good proxy for which Members of Congress still think that we should be  doing serious work, that we should be reclaiming our Article I  responsibilities under the Constitution, that we should have a little  bit of dignity in the face of a deeply unserious bill that has wasted  our time, and to see which Members of Congress are simply bending the  knee to Donald Trump and stroking one man's ego in everything they do.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 203,  nays 213, not voting 16, as follows:                               [Roll No. 121]                                 YEAS--203       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Crockett      Crow      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Davis (NC)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      LaHood      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perez      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Vindman      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                                 NAYS--213       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Davidson      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Green (TN)      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Meuser      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)        Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Van Orden      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                               NOT VOTING--16       Carter (LA)      Connolly      Craig      Dunn (FL)      Gottheimer      Ivey      Keating      Massie      McIver      Norcross      Norman      Rutherford      Sherrill      Stefanik      Trahan      Velazquez

Messrs. GROTHMAN, VAN DREW, BRESNAHAN, McGUIRE, BAIRD, FITZGERALD,  COLLINS, KEAN, FULCHER, PALMER, OBERNOLTE, HARIDOPOLOS, Mrs. KIGGANS of  Virginia, Messrs. JOYCE of Ohio, and LAWLER changed their vote from  ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Messrs. GRAY, GOLDMAN of New York, GARCIA of Illinois, and Mrs.  McCLAIN DELANEY changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the motion to recommit was rejected.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.