Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702171/harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of geothermal energy, we are  sure hearing a lot of hot air from the other side with this fantastical  narrative that Republicans, I guess, are now lowering costs and saving  healthcare.

The American people can decide whether they want to believe those  whoppers, but today it is at least refreshing to see our colleagues  across the aisle tiptoeing back in the direction of this all-of-the- above energy policy that they always swore they supported. Yet, for the  past year-plus they have been cheerleaders for Donald Trump's insane  war on clean energy that is trying to destroy an entire sector, to  surrender American leadership to China and others, and drive up utility  bills for the American people.

Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that we are talking today about  geothermal energy. Like the gentlewoman from Arizona, the ranking  member, I like geothermal energy a lot. This is something that we  should be working on together in a bipartisan way. I represent the  largest geothermal energy plant in America in my district, and I am  proud of it. I want to see more of it.

Good geothermal energy projects can move forward with bipartisan  support and with very expeditious permitting, but good geothermal  energy projects don't need the kind of sweeping waiver that is proposed  in this legislation, which simply misses the mark.

Let's talk about that. Under this bill, a geothermal project would no  longer require a Federal drilling permit if it is on land where the  surface is not federally owned, but the subsurface is significantly, up  to 50 percent of the acreage.

While this may sound innocuous--oh, it is just subsurface; it is  below what we can see with our eyes--without a Federal permit, the core  safeguards for development affecting Federal resources would totally  disappear. That includes protections under the National Environmental  Policy Act, the National Historic Preservation Act, and the Endangered  Species Act.

All of it would be waived for geothermal exploration, development,  and the production activities that would be covered under this bill.  That goes entirely too far. It is bad news for Tribes, communities, and  property owners on the ground. Again, good projects don't need this  kind of sweeping free pass from environmental review.

Under the circumstances laid out in this bill, all Federal oversight  goes away, along with public input and consultation requirements, and  that includes Tribal consultation. It takes away opportunities for  public involvement that can make projects better. It takes away the  convening process that brings Federal, Tribal, State, and local  entities to the table so they can identify basic health and safety  risks, flag concerns, and work through conflicts and impacts to protect  the resources that are owned by the American people, even if they are  below the ground, even if they are not something you can see with the  naked eye.

This public input and compliance with Federal laws, like NEPA and  others, is essential to building a solid foundation for our clean  energy future.

We need these types of energy projects, but we need to do them right  because, let's be clear, underground drilling can still have impacts  above the ground, like sinking, subsidence, settlement of lands,  earthquakes, and on other resources like groundwater.

Geothermal development is a lot safer than oil and gas, but there  still are some risks--it is not zero--and the public deserves the  opportunity to engage.

I will say that this bill is also playing games with percentages. The  threshold is set at 50 percent Federal subsurface ownership, and that  may sound trivial. It may sound reasonable, but even my rudimentary  math skills tell me that 50 percent of a project that might be 2,000  acres is 1,000 acres. That is a lot of land. That is a lot of potential  impacts. It is not insignificant.

Another alarming point about this bill, without a Federal drilling  permit, it creates a gray area for underground injection control  permits, which allow for the assessment of potential seismic activity.  How could we not look at that?

These injection control permits aren't in our Natural Resources  Committee's jurisdiction. This is something that I brought up in the  markup. I urged the majority to consider working with the Energy and  Commerce Committee to add clarifying language to make sure those  permits would still be required. Unfortunately, the majority failed to  address that concern.

There is no clear opportunity to require bonds if this legislation  passes that would otherwise need to happen because we are talking about  Federal resources. What happens if there is a subsidence event within  the Federal resource? States and property owners would be on the hook.

We are talking about publicly owned resources here, even if you can't  see them, and the Federal Government has an obligation to steward them  responsibly.

The last thing I will emphasize is that this bill is clearly not just  about geothermal energy. This is the proverbial camel's nose under the  tent. The oil and gas industry has been trying to get this same policy,  this same broad waiver, for subsurface Federal lands for years.

This is a precedent we should not set. Mark my words: If this  legislation advances before this sputtering Congress comes to an end  later this year, you will see another bill where the oil and gas  industry is seeking the same treatment.

To deploy clean energy, we don't need to create shortcuts and  exemptions from oversight. What we need is to fully fund our agencies  so that they can have the capacity for thorough, efficient, and timely  reviews. I would be happy to work with my colleagues across the aisle  to advance responsible and well-balanced geothermal and other renewable  energy development on Federal lands, but I have to urge my colleagues  to vote ``no'' on this poorly drafted legislation.