Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690601/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt


This resolution, H.J. Res. 78, continues a very familiar pattern that  we are seeing from this Republican majority: distractions and  scapegoats instead of dealing with real crises, real  problems, and solutions to the challenges that are facing working  families, including American farmers and rural communities all over  this country.

Today, they are bringing us a resolution that tries to blame an  endangered fish, the bay-delta longfin smelt, for California's water  problems and shortages. They are doing that instead of addressing major  problems that are actually impacting farmers in rural communities.

Let's be clear. Removing protections for the longfin smelt will not  make it rain. It will not rebuild California's snowpack. It won't  refill our reservoirs, not even the reservoir that President Trump  recently drained in a public relations stunt that had nothing to do  with fighting fires or water supply.

California's water shortage is driven by climate change and also  prolonged drought, aging and outdated infrastructure, and  overallocation. It is not the fault of some tiny fish.

Meanwhile, farmers, including those in my district, are grappling  with worsening droughts, wildfires, floods, extreme weather, and now  the fallout from President Trump's disastrous trade policies for  agriculture.

All the while, Republicans won't talk about any of those things.  Instead, they bring us here to debate whether a small fish should be  allowed to go extinct or be protected under the Endangered Species Act.  All the while, the significant damage that their policies are causing  continue to pile up in rural America, including President Trump's  tariffs.

Trump is treating not just our adversaries, but some of our neighbors  and our best friends in the world, like they are enemies. He is turning  them into adversaries. Tariffs on key trading partners have already  cost farmers tens of billions of dollars in lost exports. Markets are  shrinking. Input costs are soaring, making it hard for farms to stay in  business.

We see the sweeping budget cuts and mass layoffs at critical agencies  like NOAA and the Bureau of Reclamation, threatening the services that  farmers depend on: water deliveries, weather forecasting, climate data,  and much more. Farmers need that stuff. They don't want to go back to  the ``Farmers' Almanac'' in order to make key business decisions.

We see hundreds of millions of dollars in water supply infrastructure  projects suddenly in limbo because of DOGE, while our colleagues across  the aisle say nothing.

We see the entire rural healthcare safety net, including nursing home  care, including services that anyone who has a person with disabilities  in their family, depend on. All of that is in limbo as we brace for  catastrophic cuts from Republicans as they try to fund their tax cuts  for billionaires.

If this Republican majority were serious about helping farmers and  rural communities, they would be working to reverse these harmful  policies. They would be standing up for rural America right now.  Instead, they are wasting our time. Just because we are debating a 3- inch fish today doesn't mean we need to think like one.

Now, about the impacts of these policies that my friends don't want  to talk about. You don't have to take my word for it, you can listen to  farmers across America.

Here is Caleb Ragland, president of the American Soybean Association,  who says: ``Our grave concern is we could permanently lose another big  chunk of our export market that we are dependent on for our production.  . . . And the U.S. farm economy is in a tough spot, and we just don't  have any room for error right now.''

Here is Chris Harner, owner of Harner Farm in Centre County,  Pennsylvania: ``We did get a letter from our one supplier that once the  tariffs kick in, they will be passing on the costs.''

Paul Krueger, a corn and soybean farmer from Bladen, Nebraska, says:  ``Any time our country gets involved with any sort of tariffs that  affect the agriculture industry, every farmer just kind of groans about  that. We're powerless to do anything except take what comes out in the  wash.''

Here is Travis Johnson, who farms cotton, sorghum, and corn in Texas'  Rio Grande Valley. He says: ``There's a lot of uncertainty around, and  I hate to be used as a bargaining chip. I am definitely worried.''

Moving to California, here is Ryan Talley, vice president of Talley  Farms in San Luis Obispo: ``We don't have months to wait something out.  We have to continue our operations at the intensity that we currently  farm. We're going to have to take those rising prices and deal with it  the best we can.''

This is what Republican agriculture policy is doing right now: losing  export markets, raising costs, telling farmers to just deal with it.  They are complicit in the dismantling of rural healthcare, in the  freezing of funding for rural infrastructure, in the threat to programs  like SNAP that many families across rural America depend on.

It gets worse. President Trump, Elon Musk, and their enablers are  gutting critical Federal services that include scientists. They are  hollowing out NOAA and weakening the Bureau of Reclamation. They should  listen to the people that these decisions are actually hurting.

I know I am quoting a lot right now, Mr. Speaker, but I want to make  sure my colleagues across the aisle are listening, since they are not  having any townhalls these days. They need to hear from farmers and the  folks in these rural communities that their policies are hurting.

In response to mass firings at NOAA and the National Weather Service,  Andrea Young of Hidden Creek Farm in Fauquier County, Virginia, said  this: ``I cannot bring the animals to safety. I cannot cover up those  tender plants. I cannot know that a rainstorm is coming and so I  shouldn't water. I cannot function as a farmer in an indoor  environment.''

The general manager of 14 California Central Valley Project  irrigation districts, in a recent letter to the President about layoffs  at the Bureau of Reclamation, said this: ``That elimination of  Reclamation staff will not further the goal of achieving significant  cost savings to the American people.''

In other words, they are harming the agency that these irrigators  depend on, and they are not even saving money for the budget.

Mr. Speaker, the damage from all of this is real. There are real  farmers, real communities, and this is real harm caused by failed  leadership. While all that is happening, we are here debating whether  to strip protections from an endangered fish. They are turning a small  fish into a very large scapegoat, pretending it will somehow provide  real support to farmers.

The truth is, the listing of the bay-delta longfin under the ESA is  both scientifically and legally sound. The longfin population has  declined over 99 percent since the 1980s. Think about that. In just a  few decades, only about 1 percent of the population is left. That is  like the number of environmentalists left in the Republican Party these  days.

The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service followed the law, the data, and  the science, just as a bipartisan Congress intended when they passed  the ESA back in the 1970s, just as Republican President Richard Nixon  intended when he signed it into law. The system is supposed to work  that way.

Protecting species like the longfin is not just about a single fish,  but it is about protecting the ecological health of the entire bay- delta, the largest estuary on the West Coast of the Americas. This  delta is the heart of California's water system. Its health underpins  clean drinking water for millions, healthy soil for agriculture, and  waterfowl populations that hunters depend on.

It is so important, and it requires a broad ecological balance to  sustain the farms, fisheries, entire ecosystems, and so many  communities and millions of people that depend on it. You can't destroy  an ecosystem and expect farms, cities, and wildlife to just thrive.  These things rise or fall together.

This resolution takes us in the wrong direction. Let's actually do  something real for farmers instead of deflecting and debating  distractions. Let's repeal the mindless tariffs on our allies and top  trading partners. Let's protect the Bureau of Reclamation and NOAA from  these disastrous sabotage cuts. Let's protect rural families and  communities by opposing cuts to Medicaid and SNAP.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this resolution that  merely distracts and deflects and scapegoats instead of solving the  pressing challenges facing farmers and the rest of rural America.

Mr. Speaker, the question has been posed about whether this ESA  listing of the longfin smelt is supported by science. I guess this  Congress, in all of its infinite mastery of science, has decided to  superimpose itself over the scientists at the Fish and Wildlife Service  who went through a very public and deliberative process to reach this  determination. We are going to now get, I guess, a different scientific  interpretation from the great minds across the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, the first Trump administration, back when there was  still at least a few people around who followed the law and told the  truth, agreed that the longfin smelt was a candidate species for  listing under the Endangered Species Act.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans slow walked that listing because of  politics. That is why the administration was sued. That is why the  Biden administration had to comply with the law and follow through with  that science-based process. That is how we got a listing.

Let's not pretend that there is no scientific foundation for this  listing. Even my friends across the aisle know better than that.

Mr. Speaker, my friend from the Sacramento Valley has suggested that  we live in parallel universes. If that is the case, I will choose the  universe where Members of Congress face their constituents and answer  hard questions instead of running off to Mar-a-Lago or other people's  districts or having distractions about fish in the delta and  scapegoating them as the cause for all of our problems.

Answer some hard questions from constituents. Talk about facts and  reality of California water instead of all of this scapegoating.

With California water, it is always a challenge not to break the  fact-check machine across the aisle. It has been suggested that all of  this water is wasted out to the ocean for fish, and you have to explain  again how the delta system works. That water that flows out to the  ocean, almost all of it, the vast majority of it, is for one reason: to  make sure that the saltwater in the Pacific Ocean does not intrude far  enough into the estuary that the whole system that tens of millions of  Californians depend on and that all the farmers in my friend's district  depend on doesn't salt up and cease to function.

The Speaker doesn't have to believe me about it or choose between two  parallel universes. Ask any California water manager how this works.  This is basic stuff, but we have to explain it over and over again  because of the fog of political theater that we always hear across the  aisle.

It is a little bit like the President of the United States right now  who says that there is a magic spigot in the northwest and in Canada  that, if we could get past all of the radical environmentalists and  just open up this spigot, unlimited water would flow to southern  California, and they would always be able to fight fires.

It is absolute nonsense. Then he pretended to open a magic spigot,  and he dumped and wasted a bunch of water a couple of months ago into a  dry lakebed.

Our friends across the aisle retweeted all of these totally fake  narratives, and now half the world, the world in that other parallel  universe, believes this stuff.

It is a constant challenge just to bring the subject back to facts  and reality. Talk to water managers. Do a little bit of basic research.  This is how the California water system, especially the delta estuary,  actually works. Politics is a poor substitute for understanding basic  hydrology and facts.

Mr. Speaker, President Trump, Elon Musk, and DOGE continue  dismantling Federal agencies, shredding constitutional norms.  Meanwhile, House Republicans refuse to lift a finger to rein in rogue  actors or defend the rule of law.

In the face of all of this, American farmers and rural America are  paying the price for all of this chaos.

Right now, the real threats to rural America and to water security  and the livelihoods of America's farmers are trade wars that are  hammering agricultural exports. It is not this endangered fish.

They face a shrinking Federal workforce hollowed out. The very  agencies responsible for permitting and delivering water to farmers and  communities are being dismantled.

Congressional Republicans are threatening to rescind critical  Inflation Reduction Act investments in drought resilience and water  delivery.

We also are facing this administration's efforts to block and cancel  key funding that Congress has already approved to support drought  resilience and repair vital water infrastructure, support that rural  America needs right now in the face of extreme heat and weather from  the climate crisis and the burning of fossil fuels.

These are the urgent challenges that farmers and communities are  actually facing. Instead of confronting them, House Republican  leadership devoted this entire week to voting on performative  Congressional Review Act resolutions that are meant to deflect and  distract from the real problems created by this administration and the  complicity of this Congress.

Passing a rule to actually abdicate Congress' own oversight powers  when it comes to our Article I trade authority all the way through the  rest of this fiscal year is shameful.

Let's be honest. The longfin smelt didn't cause California's water  challenges. This resolution won't solve them. It won't improve drought  conditions. It won't help farmers one bit.

Yet, here we are, debating a symbolic resolution that is designed to  distract, deflect, and scapegoat rather than talking about and trying  to solve real problems affecting farmers and rural communities.

This isn't legislating. It is grievance politics.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this resolution, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.                   Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore