Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 140, a  resolution that would threaten America's beloved Boundary Waters Canoe  Area Wilderness in northern Minnesota.

Mr. Speaker, Boundary Waters draws more visitors than any other  wilderness in the country. Millions of Americans have paddled, fished,  swum, and found solace among its pristine lakes and forests. It  supports a multibillion-dollar outdoor economy, thousands of jobs, and  a way of life that has been passed down for generations.

It is an area that Presidents, reaching back to Teddy Roosevelt, and  Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle have long recognized in  terms of its value, and we have protected it as part of our American  heritage.

Yet, the Boundary Waters have been under threat for years. Twin  Metals, owned by Antofagasta, a Chilean mining company with close ties  to China, has been lobbying for years to set up a mine just outside the  wilderness area, along the banks of waters that flow north, directly  into the wilderness.

The type of mining that Twin Metals has proposed has a 100 percent  track record of toxic pollution. There has never been a mine of this  kind that did not leach toxic pollution.

Despite what the other side of the aisle might say, there is no  guarantee that the precious minerals that were just talked about  produced from this mine would actually stay in the U.S. and benefit the  American economy or American national security at all.

Antofagasta sends most of its minerals to China, where they are then  sold on the global market, likely the same fate for these minerals if  this mine is allowed to happen.

All of this is why, nearly 3 years ago, Secretary of the Interior Deb  Haaland protected the lands surrounding the Boundary Waters and its  headwaters from mining for 20 years through a public land order, a  standard tool and process backed by peer-reviewed science and extensive  public engagement.

The Congressional Review Act resolution on the floor today would  overturn those protections, once again putting our beloved Boundary  Waters at risk of toxic pollution from a foreign-owned mine.

If that weren't enough to convince my colleagues that this resolution  is a terrible idea, I will briefly touch on the abuse of the  Congressional Review Act itself that this resolution represents.

The Congressional Review Act, or CRA, has been used to overturn rules  finalized by administrations of both parties since it was signed into  law in 1996.

This Congress, the Trump administration and Republicans in both  Chambers have been using the CRA to overturn public lands protections  that have never been considered rules in the past. In an entirely  unprecedented move, they are moving forward, even though the Government  Accountability Office hasn't yet ruled on whether they believe this  public land order constitutes a rule that would be subject to the CRA.

This administration and its allies in Congress have just unilaterally  decided that they can do this, despite the fact that the Department of  the Interior has never before considered a land withdrawal like this to  be a rule.

Congress received notice of this withdrawal 3 years ago. If the  resolution's sponsor wanted to pursue a CRA, he should have inquired  then.

If this CRA succeeds, it won't just open the Boundary Waters to  pollution but would set a terrible and dangerous precedent for Congress  to roll back protections for any of our treasured public lands with  little oversight or notice, just because Republicans have decided they  would rather pillage them for profit.

Some places are just worth protecting, and this pristine, one-of-a- kind place is one of those incredible places.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this  backdoor attempt to open our public lands to foreign mining, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, to the claim that Secretary Haaland failed to notify  Congress as required by law, I am holding the notification that went  out 3 years ago to the gentleman from Minnesota, personally, from the  Secretary of the Interior. Maybe there is a misunderstanding there, but  we have the receipts on that one.

McCollum).

I appreciate that the gentleman from Montana is suddenly so  forthcoming about all of the analysis that has gone into this  particular mining project because that wasn't always the case. When he  was Secretary, we asked to see that analysis, and what we got back was  page after page of redaction. We got zero information.

I appreciate the newfound candor from the gentleman, but I have to  question his scientific credentials when he assures us that this will  be the first ever copper mine of its kind to have no toxic pollution,  even though 100 percent of mines using this particular method have  leeched toxic pollution. Somehow, we are told this will be the first  one to not do that because of all the extra scrutiny it has received.

Well, this series of black pages tells you a lot about the  transparency and the scrutiny we have come to expect from the folks  across the aisle.

Morrison).

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, just for clarification, we are well aware  that the Twin Metals mine is proposed just  outside of the border of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. We  have been very clear on that. However, it is very much within the  watershed of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. In fact, it is  right on the edge. It is just a couple of miles upstream on a river  that flows right into this area. Let's stop kidding ourselves. To try  to say that it is outside the border on this map and, therefore, the  Boundary Waters have nothing to worry about when this mine leaks-- because it will, because every mine of this kind, 100 percent in the  past, have leaked and have caused toxic pollution--when it happens,  that pollution is going straight into America's most popular  wilderness. That is a fact.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, now we hear about a gold mine on the  Canadian side of the Boundary Waters watershed that has been producing  minerals without incident. I am beginning to worry that my colleagues  don't understand basic hydrology and how water flows and moves. To  begin rebuttal, I include in the Record two articles on New Gold:

https://www.northernontariobusiness.com/ industry-news/mining/new-gold-fined- for-2016-discharge-772366

https://www.tbnewswatch.com/local-news/new-gold-inc-fined-100000- after-sediment-spill-from-dam-988742

Mr. Speaker, the mine was fined nearly $200,000 for discharging 19  million liters of pollution into the watershed. New Gold was fined  again in 2018 after a sediment spill from a dam.

The only reason that that wasn't catastrophic for the Boundary Waters  is because that mine is on the north side of the wilderness, where the  water flows away from the protected areas.

That is how it works: Water in a watershed flows downhill in whatever  direction that watershed takes it. I don't know why that basic  principle seems so hard to understand, but apparently we have some  hydrology problems across the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, we have been told time and again by our friends across  the aisle that we have nothing to worry about here because this mine,  even though it is proposed right next to the Boundary Waters wilderness  on a river that flows directly into the wilderness with a type of  mining that has a 100 percent track record of leaching toxic pollution,  that, in spite of all that, we have all these wonderful environmental  standards that will protect America's most popular wilderness.

That is pretty cold comfort, Mr. Speaker, coming from lawmakers who  are working overtime to gut every single one of those bedrock  environmental protections.

It may not be in this particular bill, but do I have to remind my  colleagues that, just a few weeks ago, we were here on the floor  debating their legislation to gut the National Environmental Policy  Act. In our markup the same week, Republicans led the charge to  eviscerate the Endangered Species Act. Separately, in other committees,  they are going after the Clean Water Act.

Every one of these safeguards that we are told will be a backstop  against anything going wrong in the Boundary Waters is under  unprecedented attack  from the same folks who are pushing this legislation right now.

Don't be fooled that everything will be fine because of our  environmental laws and standards. Those are under an unprecedented  attack.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this resolution for both the extreme  danger that it poses to the Boundary Waters and the outrageous abuse of  the Congressional Review Act that it represents.

As you have heard today, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness is  an American treasure with a strong, nonpartisan history of protection,  dating back to 1909 through treaties with Canada and to 1964 with the  Wilderness Act, which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support back  when we had great conservation champions in both parties.

Americans from across the country who have experienced the serenity  of this wilderness know exactly what is at stake. Passing this  resolution would pave the way for toxic mining that would, without a  doubt, cause permanent and irreparable harm, mining that wouldn't even  benefit the U.S. economy.

This move is deeply unpopular in Minnesota and does not put American  critical mineral security first. This material will go to China.

It would also have far-reaching consequences for the future of public  lands management, making beloved, protected lands across the country  vulnerable to exploitation with very little oversight.

At the end of the day, some places really are worth protecting, and  this is one of those places. I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on  H.J. Res. 140, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.