Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696832/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-coastal-plain-oil-and-gas-leasing-program-record-of-decision


Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose H.J. Res. 131. The Congressional  Review Act resolution here would overturn BLM's Coastal Plain Oil and  Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision.

My Republican colleagues are, once again, pursuing policies that  expand our Nation's carbon pollution and expose our communities to  future disasters. Not only would this legislation grant access to one  of the most ecologically sensitive and, yes, incredibly difficult  regions to drill but it would reverse significant strides that  Democrats have made to protect lands that Tribal Nations have occupied  since time immemorial.

This misguided bill would lock in oil and gas development in the  Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, an area known to the Gwich'in people  as the sacred place where life begins. The Coastal Plain is the heart  of the Porcupine caribou's calving grounds. It hosts nearly 200  migratory bird species annually, connecting the rest of the United  States and also the world to this cradle of our natural heritage.

Equally vital, the 9,000-strong Gwich'in Nation, whose subsistence  and culture depend on the caribou herd, reside along the herd's  migratory route, making any disruption not only a threat to  biodiversity but also an assault on indigenous livelihoods and  traditions.

Let me read a quote from the Executive Director of the Gwich'in  Steering Committee, Kristen Moreland. She says: ``It is unthinkable  that our congressional decisionmakers continue to push to exploit the  Coastal Plain of the Arctic Refuge for oil and gas drilling.''

She continues: ``We rely on the caribou, not only spiritually and  culturally, but for our survival and subsistence. This action from D.C.  is an insult to the Gwich'in people and ignores those realities.''

Sovereign Inupiat for a Living Arctic also oppose this proposal. They  said:

Many Alaska Native communities are already facing negative       health impacts from oil and gas development on their lands       and are struggling to provide for their families due to       impacts on the local fish and wildlife populations.

Mr. Speaker, these words remind us that the climate crisis is here,  it is real, and it is exacerbated by this administration's relentless  push toward fossil fuels.

In the Arctic, temperatures are rising four times faster than the  global average.

It is the indigenous communities in northern Alaska and in the refuge  that are disproportionately feeling the devastating impacts of the  climate crisis. Melting permafrost and changing species migration  patterns are threatening food security, cultural traditions, and their  ways of life.

Mr. Speaker, you will hear my Republican colleagues argue that  increased oil and gas development in the Arctic will be good for  America's bottom line, but that is patently false. Let me take you back  to 2017 when Republicans cut a backroom deal to help pay for Trump's  billionaire tax cuts the first time around by drilling in the Arctic  Refuge.

Two Arctic Refuge lease sales were included, in part, to offset the  cost of those tax giveaways for the wealthy. Republicans in Congress  and the Trump administration promised that these lease sales would  bring in $1.8 billion in revenue for the Federal Government and the  State of Alaska.

Well, when the first lease sale finally took place in 2021, guess  what happened, Mr. Speaker?

It generated less than $15 million, that is around 2 percent, of what  the CBO had estimated. In 2022, two of those lessees actually asked BLM  to cancel and refund their leases.

Separately, in 2021, two development companies actually paid $10  million to walk away from their legacy leases in the Arctic Refuge.  That is about the only revenue we have been able to generate in this  spectacularly difficult place to drill.

Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group focused on deficit  reduction, recently said that drilling in the refuge has never be a  credible revenue offset, and it isn't now. They even found that new  leasing in the area would only raise, at most, $30 million. That is a  drop in the bucket, Mr. Speaker, when you consider my Republican  colleagues' big, ugly bill will cost American taxpayers $3.4 trillion.

This resolution is the latest attack from my Republican colleagues to  undercut our public lands, to prop up fossil fuel polluters, and the  expensive energy sources that they peddle and leave people out of the  decisionmaking process, all while driving up energy prices for the  American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in the longstanding,  bipartisan support for protecting the Arctic Refuge by opposing H.J.  Res.

In closing, I strongly oppose this resolution. It would open up  ecologically sensitive, culturally important, and incredibly remote  regions of the Arctic to oil and gas drilling.

Drilling proponents have grossly overstated how much oil industry  interest there is in drilling in the Coastal Plain of the Arctic  refuge. The Arctic is an extremely remote and harsh environment  requiring specialized equipment and infrastructure, making it one of  the costliest places to drill in the entire world.

There have been multiple lease sales held in the Arctic National  Wildlife Refuge, which I want to emphasize is a wildlife refuge, and  still no legitimate oil and gas company currently holds a lease there.

Even during President Trump's first term, no oil and gas company kept  their leases. In fact, a recent report from Taxpayers for Common Sense  outlined the lack of economic viability for any oil and gas development  there, citing astronomically high costs in this remote region.

Let me be clear. House Republicans' actions today will do absolutely  nothing to lower your energy bills, but it will allow for the sell-off  of some of our most special and sacred public lands. That is why I  oppose H.J. Res. 131 and all the CRA resolutions on the floor today.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting no, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.