Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699276/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-public-land-order-no-7917-for-withdrawal-of-federal-lands-cook-lake-and-saint-louis-counties-mn


Mr. ZINKE. Mr. Speaker, as a former Secretary, I don't think anyone  in this body has spent more time on Twin Metals reviewing the science  than I have, so I think we should separate the hype from the science  and the bull from fact.

First of all, why are we here and why is it important at all?

Well, this behind me are a few things we need critical minerals for:  particularly our military, medical, and supply chain.

What do all these have in common? The MQ-9 Reaper, the Javelin  missile system, the Virginia-class submarine, the Tomahawk, the night  vision, and Amron, what do they have in common? Those minerals are  found in Twin Metals in the great State of Minnesota.

Now, is it in the boundary waters? Is it in the area that is  protected around it? No, it is not.

I have seen these wonderful pictures of canoeing, of waters, of  streams, of lakes, and they are absolutely beautiful. The problem is  that is in the boundary waters. That is not where the mine is.

Then, oh, Deb Haaland--I respect Deb Haaland. I had her in committee,  Mr. Speaker. I asked her one question after a few: What minerals were  in the mine area which she rescinded and put a moratorium on? I was  amazed at her answer. She couldn't name one. So let's follow the  science.

I agree. There is a place to mine, and there is a place not to mine.  I think probably I stand on the conservation side as much as any  Member, but I have actually read the documentation. I have actually  read the mining plans. I have a degree in geology and looked closely at  it. Do you know what. There are good projects, and there are bad  projects. We don't mine like we used to.

In Montana we have Virginia City. They took a paddleboard up the  river stream, took everything, turned it around. We don't mine like  that anymore.

We use science now, and when you look at the science and  documentation on this mine, it uses the best technology.

Oh, by the way, water, it is a closed-circuit. What does that mean?  That means effluent doesn't travel outside. Its reuse is compressed.  When you do mine, what you do is you put core samples in. That core  sample will tell you how much overburden you have to remove. After the  core samples, then you have a mining plan that tells you where the  material is moved. In this case it is not an open-pit mine. It is  subsurface.

I would invite my colleagues to look at the science and look at the  water tables. They say 100 percent of the mines in the past were  pollutants. They are not pollutants if you have a mining plan that  undergoes the scrutiny that this one has.

Lastly, I will speak about the law. Notification and memo are not the  same thing as a rule. Mr. Speaker, I would suggest that people actually  look at the mining plan and read it, just like reading the law, what  the law says. It is not a trick. I am not here tricking anyone.

What I am saying is this: Once again there are good places to mine,  and  there are bad places to mine, but you have got to go with the science  and not the hype. When a mine is not located in the wilderness, it is  not located in the buffer, it is located in a Forest Service holding,  which by nature, which by law is multiple use, then mining is an  appropriate use in it.

Mr. Speaker, on the basis of this, we are facing a crisis in our  country because foreign adversaries hold our critical minerals, which  are critical to everything we do in medical and in our military.

Secondly, follow the science and not the hype. I understand political  gerrymandering and fundraising and showing pictures of wonderful canoes  going across, and, oh, we are going to mine right in the middle of the  wilderness area, but that is not the case.

Mr. Speaker, I ask and I urge my colleagues to support this. It is a  good mine. It is a good project.

By the way, it doesn't approve anything. You still have to go through  the process. So approving this act today you are not going to start the  mine tomorrow. They still have to go through the process. It is about  process, and that is what makes decisions good or bad is going through  the process.