Recognizing Artemis II Mission Engineers Daniel Baca and Jeremiah Hall


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701774/recognizing-artemis-ii-mission-engineers-daniel-baca-and-jeremiah-hall


Mr. ZINKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate the  achievements of Daniel Baca and Jeremiah Hall from Montana's Flathead  Valley, who both played key roles in NASA's historic Artemis II  mission.

On April 1, 2026, the Artemis II mission sent four astronauts on a  journey around the moon and back, marking our Nation's first crewed  return to the Moon in more than half a century. This mission is testing  critical systems that will eventually pave the way for future lunar  landing and an eventual mission to Mars.

For the first time since the Apollo era, astronauts are venturing  beyond our planet. The Artemis II mission is a symbol of American  leadership in space and a bold step toward the future. Among those  contributing to this historic effort are Flathead Valley natives Daniel  Baca and Jeremiah Hall. Working as aerospace engineers they help ensure  the performance and success of this mission, showing the talent and  determination that is found in Montana.

Jeremiah Hall works within the thermophysics group on the spacecraft  and Daniel Baca is the lead for the European Service Module, the  spacecrafts powerhouse. Both Montanan's work with essential systems  that keep the astronauts aboard alive in the harsh environments of  space and their contributions are the foundation to the mission's  success.

For the Flathead Valley, this achievement is a source of immense  pride. These two engineers' journeys from local schools in Montana to  the forefront of space exploration prove that no dream is too big.  Their success serves as an inspiration to the next generation of  scientists and engineers across Montana.

Mr. Speaker, as we celebrate this historic mission, I ask we also  honor the hardworking Americans behind it. The West has always been  home to pioneers and adventurers. From those who risked everything to  homestead in the Dakota Territory to those pushing the frontier today,  that spirit of exploration and willingness to brave the unknown still  lives in our communities. Daniel and Jeremiah embody that tradition and  have made Montana proud.