Recognizing the Grant-Kohrs Ranch National Historic Site in Deer Lodge, Montana in Celebration of America's 250th


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701501/recognizing-the-grant-kohrs-ranch-national-historic-site-in-deer-lodge-montana-in-celebration-of-americas-250th


Mr. ZINKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 250th year since  our Nation's founding by recognizing the legacy of Conrad Kohrs and the  Grant-Kohrs Ranch National Historic Site in Deer Lodge, Montana for  their historical impact on the American West.

Grant-Kohrs Ranch was established as a unit of the National Park  Service in 1972; the ranch preserves the story of the frontier cattle  industry and the people whose determination and grit helped to shape  the American West. What began as a modest ranch in 1862, founded by  John Francis Grant, was later purchased and expanded by Conrad Kohrs in  1866. Through vision and hard work, Kohrs transformed the property into  one of the largest open-range cattle empires in the country, operating  over 10 million acres and earning him the nickname ``the Cattle King of  Montana.''

Conrad Kohrs became a United States citizen in 1857 after years of  travelling and working in the American south. Conrad made his way to  the Montana Territory in 1862 looking for gold and found it not in the  mines, but in cattle. Kohrs recognized the growing demand for beef  among miners and settlers. Conrad purchased the ranch in 1867 and by  the 1880's held fifty-thousand grazing cattle.

Today, the ranch still stands as a museum that tells the story of a  different era when millions of cattle roamed freely across the western  plains. The historical site spans more than  1,600 acres and contains over 90 historic structures from preserved  barns and blacksmith shops to the grand ranch house that once served as  the center of a thriving cattle empire. Visitors can walk the same  grounds where cowpunchers once saddled their horses, tended livestock,  and prepared cattle drives that helped supply a growing nation with  beef and agricultural prosperity.

Grant-Kohrs Ranch offers an immersive look into daily life on the  frontier. Guests can watch a range of ranching traditions like cattle  drives, roping, branding, blacksmithing, and haying. Observing these  once daily tasks shows how generations of ranch hands and families  sustained a way of life built on perseverance and responsibility. These  traditions highlight the ingenuity and work ethic that defined the  American frontier and contributed to the development of the West and  still does.

Mr. Speaker, places like Grant-Kohrs Ranch National Historic Site  remind us that America's history was not built solely in cities, but  also on wide open landscapes where hard work and resilience shaped the  future of our country. By preserving the story of the frontier cattle  era, this historic site ensures that future generations can learn from  and appreciate the people who helped define the American West.

Mr. Speaker, on the 250th anniversary of the United States, it is  important to look back at our country's history and the people who  shaped it. The story of the Grant-Kohrs Ranch shows us the true  American spirit and the idea of the American dream.