Recognizing the World Museum of Mining in Butte, Montana in Celebration of America's 250th


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700162/recognizing-the-world-museum-of-mining-in-butte-montana-in-celebration-of-americas-250th


Mr. ZINKE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 250th year since  our Nation's founding by recognizing the legacy of the World Museum of  Mining in Butte, Montana.

The World Museum of Mining has been in operation since 1956 and is  one of the world's only museums that sits on a former mine. For seven  decades, it has preserved and shared the remarkable story of Butte's  mining heritage, offering visitors an immersive experience into the  lives of the men and women who shaped the American West.

The museum brings history to life with exhibits that put visitors in  the shoes of miners during the late 19th and early 20th-century mining  boom. This includes exploring ``Hell Roarin' Gulch,'' a replica town  from the 1890s when Butte was known as the ``richest hill on earth.''  Guests can step into shops and saloons of the era before heading  underground to experience the realities of a miner's daily work.

On the underground tour, you descend 100 feet into the Orphan Girl  Mine, a cornerstone of Butte's mining legacy. Established in 1875, the  mine eventually reached 3,200 feet and produced silver, lead, and zinc  that powered America's industrial rise. During the Copper Boom, Butte  became the largest city between Chicago and San Francisco and one of  the world's most important mining centers, representing half of all  copper mined in America and a quarter of the world's copper. That  copper wired cities, energized factories, and connected the Nation  through telegraph and telephone lines. Decades of mining fueled the  U.S. war effort in both World Wars, supplying the munitions, equipment,  and power that helped secure victory from tyranny and fascism. Walking  through the tunnels, it is impossible not to reflect on the generations  of workers who built this backbone of industry and defense.

Like the town it belongs to, the World Museum of Mining has a long  and rich history. In 2024, the museum became the official home of the  Montana Mining Hall of Fame, further cementing its role in honoring the  industry's legacy and protecting the artifacts and structures of an  area that featured nearly 10,000 miles of tunnels.

Mr. Speaker, on the 250th anniversary of the United States, it is  important to look back at our country's history and the people who  built it. The World Museum of Mining has preserved the stories of  America's biggest strength: hardworking people willing to risk  everything in the pursuit of opportunity and freedom.