National Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689380/national-taxpayer-advocate-enhancement-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 997, the National Taxpayer  Advocate Enhancement Act. I am pleased to lead this bill with my  colleague, Representative Feenstra from Iowa.

The National Taxpayer Advocate is the independent advocate working to  assist taxpayers. I am deeply grateful to her and her team for their  outstanding work to identify tax policy improvements, to help taxpayers  at large, and for their work to help individual taxpayers when they  need assistance with a specific problem.

The bill makes a small but important statutory clarification that the  National Taxpayer Advocate may appoint and supervise her own legal  counsel, rather than only using attorneys that report to the IRS chief  counsel.

Being able to appoint independent counsel is an essential step to  preserving the independence of the National Taxpayer Advocate Office,  as required under section 7803(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.

Given her independent role, the National Taxpayer Advocate often  takes positions contrary to the positions of the IRS and the Office of  Chief Counsel. As a result, the National Taxpayer Advocate needs her  own independent counsel to advise and adopt legal positions so that she  can effectively advocate for taxpayers and to advise Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the committee is marking up the  National Taxpayer Advocate Enhancement Act today to protect the  independence of the National Taxpayer Advocate, and I hope that this  bipartisan effort will extend to dealing with the threat of data  privacy that the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service currently are  experiencing.

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 997 is a commonsense,  bipartisan piece of legislation and is the product of a recommendation  made by the Taxpayer Advocate. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge its  passage, and I yield back the balance of my time.