One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693186/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition and  can never vote for this big, bad, inhumane, and ugly bill because it  will wreck healthcare delivery. It takes food from hungry children. It  sentences seniors to early deaths. It eliminates jobs and destabilizes  our economy just to give the superrich and wealthy more influence, more  power, and more wealth.

It takes from the poor, from the disabled, from the sick, from the  hungry, and gives to the wealthy. This bill is cruel. It is immoral. It  is a crime about to happen. It is draconian. It is dangerous. It is  criminal. If you want to stop crime, vote ``no,'' as I will.

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition and  could never vote for this Big, Bad, Inhumane, and Ugly bill because it  will wreck health care delivery, take food from hungry children,  sentence seniors to early deaths, eliminate jobs, and destabilize our  economy just to give the super rich and wealthy more influence, more  power, more wealth. It takes from the poor, from the disabled, from the  sick, and from the hungry and gives to the wealthy.

As our country prepares to celebrate its independence, the extremist  Republican Congress and Trump Administration enact the most cruel,  draconian, inhumane legislation that I've voted on since I've been  here. Government, I seriously believe, should help people and not hurt  them. At a time to celebrate that people from diverse backgrounds  worked together to create a new country, the Republican Congress and  Trump Administration advance hate and brutality to divide our great  nation.

I reject this bill that makes poor people poorer, sick people sicker,  and hungry people hungrier.

I reject this bill that bill rips health care from 17 million  Americans, with over 535,840 Illinoisans expected to lose their health  insurance, including 102,174 children and 27,000 seniors in my District  alone.

I reject this bill that will close hospitals and kick people out of  their nursing homes--not only in my district but across the country,  especially in urban inner-city communities and rural communities for  sure.

I reject this bill that explodes poverty and suffering while giving  the wealthy trillions in tax cuts.

I reject this bill's irresponsible explosion of the deficit that  triggers statutory cuts to critical programs supporting children and  families. These Paygo reductions would eliminate funding for the  Maternal Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting program--known as  MIECHV--that is proven to improve mother and child health, family  safety, and child development. It would eliminate the guaranteed  funding for the MaryLee Allen Promoting Safe and Stable Families  program that we know helps prevent child maltreatment and strengthen  families. It would eradicate the Social Services Block Grant that  provides substantial investment in childcare, child welfare, and adult  protective services. These egregious cuts alone will cost Illinois over  $72 million dollars and hurt Illinois' children, seniors, and families.

I reject this bill that gifts tax cuts to the wealthy, paid for by  denying and depriving low-income, poor people, senior citizens, and  sick people, the health care, food assistance, housing assistance, and  economic development opportunities that they need.

There is a fundamental flaw in the thinking that brings this bill  before us. It is Robinhood in Reverse. It takes from those who have the  least--the poor, the disabled, the sick, and the hungry--only to give  to those who already have the most, the wealthy. This bill is cruel. It  is immoral. It is a crime about to happen. It is draconian. It is  dangerous. It is criminal. So,  if my colleagues want to stop crime, vote no as I will.