Opposing the Chaotic and Harmful Trade Policies of President Trump


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I am deeply concerned by  President Trump's chaotic, contradictory, and harmful trade policy that  affect American families and my state of Illinois. His emergency powers  to impose tariffs have disrupted business and commerce to operate  successfully during a time of inconsistent policy initiatives with  major trading partners like Canada, China, and Mexico.

What is more alarming is that this trade policy also undermines the  Republican Party's historic commitment to free markets and open trade.  It is not based on a clear, comprehensive, well-balanced and measured  policy vision, but rather on arbitrary decisions that seem to reflect  the preferences of a single individual--or a small group--more than the  American people. We've now reached a point where this `` America  First'' trade policy is now delivering real economic damage across the  country.

I want to emphasize that this is not an isolated concern. My  constituents, as well as economists, academicians, and policy experts  across the country have echoed the same worries. The Administration's  recent approach to tariffs has created serious uncertainty for U.S.  businesses, workers, and consumers. This is not just a matter of  opinion, it is supported by data and economic analysis.

Economic experts estimate that the 2025 tariffs will raise overall  prices by 2.3 percent, costing the average household $3,800 annually,  with even greater burdens on working-class families. Clothing prices  are expected to jump by 33 percent, and food prices by 4.5 percent.  These are not abstract numbers, they represent real consequences for  real people: higher grocery bills and more expensive everyday  essentials.

For instance, Canada, Illinois's top export market for oil, vehicles  parts, and agricultural products, has already signaled retaliation,  threatening our supply chains and manufacturing sectors. A similar  pattern occurs with China, where Illinois sends substantial volumes of  agricultural products and electronics. Mexico is another major trading  partner in auto parts, machinery, and food products. Disrupting the  supply chains through tariffs or threats to pull out of trade deals  like the USMCA could destabilize job-creating industries within  Illinois.

Moreover, this trade strategy is not only economically damaging, but  also unconstitutional. Congress, not the President, holds the exclusive  authority to regulate foreign commerce. The Administration's abuse of  emergency powers to give himself authority to regulate foreign trade  and impose tariffs on the entire world bypasses the legislative  process, undermines transparency, and strips away the opportunity for  public accountability.

This is why, I urge my colleagues, especially Republican Members of  Congress, to approach this trade policy in a joint and measured manner  for our constituents. When Congress gives away its capacity to question  and dialogue with the other branch, we weaken our position and risk  deals that don't reflect all American values or economic priorities.