Recognizing the Month of April As Sarcoidosis Awareness Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689983/recognizing-the-month-of-april-as-sarcoidosis-awareness-month


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  month of April as Sarcoidosis Awareness Month.

Sarcoidosis is a rare inflammatory disease characterized by the  formation of granulomas--tiny clumps of inflammatory cells--in one or  more organs of the body. When the immune system goes into overdrive and  too many of these clumps form, they can interfere with an organ's  structure and function. When left unchecked, chronic inflammation can  lead to fibrosis, which is the permanent scarring of organ tissue. This  disorder affects the lungs in approximately 90 percent of cases, but it  can affect almost any organ in the body.

Despite increasing advances in research, sarcoidosis remains  difficult to diagnose with limited treatment options and no known cure.  Sarcoidosis is considered chronic in people whose disease remains  active for more than 2 to 5 years; in this population sarcoidosis can  be debilitating and life-threatening. It's estimated that the  prevalence of sarcoidosis in the U.S. ranges between 150,000 and  200,000 with an estimated 1.2 million individuals with sarcoidosis  worldwide.

I am proud to have the Foundation for Sarcoidosis Research (FSR)  based in my district, in the city of Chicago. I've had the chance to  meet wonderful patient advocates and hear their stories. FSR is  committed to advancing pivotal research and improving the lives of all  impacted by sarcoidosis and has funded over 7 million dollars to  support academic research to better understand the cause, mechanisms of  progression, and the effective and efficient path to better patient  outcomes.

Most recently, I worked with FSR to address a lack of clarity from  the Department of Labor regarding whether or not clinical trial  participation was a permissible use of leave under the Family and  Medical Leave Act (FMLA). Like other chronic and rare disease patient  populations, clinical trial access is critically important for patients  with sarcoidosis, as there is no cure and there is a lack of treatment  options. When requesting time off to participate in clinical trials,  some patients have been denied as HR departments have not interpreted  clinical trial participation as a permissible use of leave under FMLA.  I, along with other Congress members and leading stakeholder  organizations such as FSR, reached out to the DOL to get this  clarification. Fortunately, the DOL responded confirming that they  interpret clinical trial participation, when medically necessary, is a  permissible use of leave under FMLA. It further clarified that both  patients and caregivers are guaranteed job protection under FMLA, when  meeting the necessary requirements and choosing to participate in  clinical trials. This effort extends beyond sarcoidosis and extends to  all those seeking to participate in clinical trials. I am now working  to spread awareness of this finding, so employers, employees, HR  departments and patients are aware of proper use of leave under FMLA.

This year marks the 25th Anniversary of the establishment of the  Foundation for Sarcoidosis Research. In celebration of this  accomplishment and years of innovation, empowerment and progress, I  call on my colleagues to recognize the goals and ideals of Sarcoidosis  Awareness Month by supporting federal activities that improve the lives  of patients impacted by Sarcoidosis, and to raise awareness and shine a  light on the 1.2 million people living with Sarcoidosis.