Recognizing April As Second Chance Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701874/recognizing-april-as-second-chance-month


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize April  as Second Chance Month, a time to reflect on and celebrate the growth  and successes that emerge from giving people with records new  opportunities. Second chances help justice-involved individuals better  themselves, reduce recidivism, make communities safer, and grow the  economy.

As I prepare to retire at the end of 2026, I am deeply proud of my  work to advance opportunities for people with records, be the reforms  in the areas of criminal justice, health, tax, or education. Today, I  wish to focus on how giving second chances by expanding access to  higher education makes our country stronger. We know that education is  one of the most effective ways to support reentry--strengthening  communities, closing racial and economic equity gaps in postsecondary  education and workforce participation, and disrupting the cycle of  incarceration that continues to target and limit opportunity for people  of color and those from low-income backgrounds.

For decades, I worked to expand educational opportunities to those  with criminal records, with two key bills becoming law in 2020 as part  of P.L. 116-260, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. The  Restoring Education and Learning (REAL) Act restored Federal Pell Grant  eligibility for incarcerated individuals for the first time in nearly  30 years. Research clearly demonstrates that individuals who enroll in  postsecondary prison programs see higher earnings and reduced  recidivism when they return home. After Congress stripped Pell Grants  from incarcerated students in 1994, correctional education plummeted,  directly hurting the ability of incarcerated individuals to gain the  skills and education needed to secure quality employment post-release.  I support and applaud the Northwestern Prison Education Program that  offers undergraduate degrees to men incarcerated at Sheridan prison in  Illinois. I am proud that my work helps these students get Pell grants  so that they can earn a bachelor's degree from a top university.

The FAFSA Act removed the prohibition on federal student aid for  people with felony drug convictions--a policy that inappropriately  applied a mandatory minimum sentence beyond that deemed appropriate by  the judicial system. Removing financial aid from students forces low- income students to leave or forego higher education, undermining  economic security. Further, given that African Americans account for  only 13 percent of drug users but 55 percent of drug convictions, the  prohibition unfairly targeted poor and minority students. Now, students  can attend higher education and complete the FAFSA without fear of  losing eligibility due to a past drug conviction.

Unfortunately, more still needs to be done to improve educational  access for incarcerated individuals. My Eliminating Discrimination and  Creating Corridors to Expand Student Success Act (ED ACCESS) would help  remove the lifetime ban on the American Opportunity Tax Credit for  individuals with felony drug convictions. This ban actively makes it  harder for these individuals to afford higher education and get their  lives back on track. Similarly, my Demonstrating that Empowerment Makes  Opportunities (DEMO) Act would help those with a record obtain  successful health careers. This bill is modeled on the amazing work of  John Hopkins and the Safer Foundation that created intensive training  programs for workers in hospitals coupled with legal services, support  services, technical assistance for businesses, and job placement  services.

The value of higher education is clear: it increases employment  rates; decreases reliance on public assistance; strengthens  communities; reduces taxpayer dollars spent on prisons; and reduces  recidivism. In today's society, where postsecondary credentials are  necessary to access well-paying jobs, helping those with criminal  justice involvement earn credentials and degrees which improves their  lives as well as their communities.

As we celebrate Second Chance Month, I recognize our successes and  commit myself to continuing to help those who have made mistakes get  the opportunities to turn their lives around.