Recruiting Families Using Data Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688406/recruiting-families-using-data-act-of-2025


Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 579,  the Recruiting Families Using Data Act.

This legislation is a good example of Congress doing the work our  constituents sent us here to do. Last Congress, my former colleague,  Dan Kildee, worked closely with Representative Feenstra to introduce  this bipartisan bill, which is based on solid research and the  fundamental principle that if we want to know what is best for foster  youth and their families, we should ask them.

The result was this bill, which would require States to create a new  family partnership plan to explain how they are identifying, screening,  engaging, and supporting foster and adoptive families, in consultation  with people with lived experience.

To me, one of the most critical aspects of this will be engaging with  the child's family, whether it is by placing foster children with  family members directly or making space for kin who can't be foster  parents to still support the child and the foster parents.

Last Congress, we marked up this bill in the Ways and Means Committee  and sent it to the floor with our unanimous consent. While it passed  the House on a strong bipartisan vote, I was disappointed that the bill  did not become law. I am glad to support it again. I believe it is a  strong complement to the  bipartisan legislation we enacted last year reauthorizing child welfare  services, which included many good ideas from both sides of the aisle.

As we continue to hear that Elon Musk and his band of hackers are  rampaging through Federal agencies, including the Department of Health  and Human Services, firing policy experts, falsely accusing Americans  of fraud, freezing and terminating investments that were directed by  Congress, I hope we can return to the kind of partnership and genuine  concern for vulnerable Americans that sparked both bills.

Move fast and break stuff might be a good model for technology  companies, but it is wrong for the programs we have created to protect  children.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to  support this good bill to help ensure that children in foster care are  in safe, appropriate homes.

I further urge my colleagues to work with us to stop these  indiscriminate, illegal layoffs and funding cuts which threaten to  undermine the good bipartisan work we have done on behalf of vulnerable  children.