Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700670/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I rise today in support of the 21st  Century ROAD to Housing Act--a bipartisan, bicameral effort to address  one of the most pressing challenges facing families across the country:  the cost and availability of housing.

Housing affordability is not just an issue in major metropolitan  areas; it is a challenge in small towns, farming communities, and rural  counties across America.

In my home State of South Dakota, communities are growing, but the  housing supply has not kept pace with demand. Whether it is young  families trying to purchase their first home or workers moving into our  communities, the shortage of available housing is becoming a serious  challenge.

I want to thank Chairman Scott and Ranking Member Warren for their  leadership in bringing members together to incorporate priorities from  both sides of the committee. Their efforts resulted in a strong  consensus-driven package that addresses housing challenges in both  rural and urban areas.

We will be voting final passage on that act yet this afternoon.

I am proud that several provisions I have authored are included in  this legislation, each focused on cutting unnecessary redtape,  modernizing outdated Federal programs, and giving State and local  partners the flexibility they need to address housing challenges on the  ground.

First, the bill includes the Rural Housing Service Reform Act that I  introduced with Senator Smith from Minnesota. Senator Smith has been a  great partner as we developed this legislation over the past several  years, working together to address the unique housing challenges facing  rural communities across the country.

This bill provides the first comprehensive update to USDA's rural  housing programs in more than a decade. Across rural America, thousands  of affordable housing units financed through USDA's Section 515 Program  are reaching the end of their mortgage terms.

When these mortgages mature, the rental assistance, which is tied to  them, often disappears. That means that rents can increase sharply or  properties can leave the program entirely.

Without congressional action, up to 400,000 Americans nationwide  could face rent increases or displacement as these mortgages mature.  The impact will fall hardest on the Midwest and the south regions that  serve as the backbone of American ag, manufacturing, and energy  production. We are already seeing the effects.

Since 2016, more than 900 properties with over 20,000 units have left  USDA's  Multifamily Housing Program. On average, about 80 properties per year  will mature through 2028. After that, the pace accelerates dramatically  with hundreds of properties expected to mature each year in the  following decade.

In rural housing markets, once these units disappear, they are almost  never replaced. Many rural counties already face vacancy rates below 1  percent, and in more than half of rural counties across the country,  there is little or no new housing construction at all.

The Rural Housing Service Reform Act addresses this challenge  directly. It allows rental assistance to be decoupled from expiring  mortgages, preserving affordability for the families who rely on these  homes. It also modernizes the USDA housing programs by allowing income  calculations with HUD standards, streamlining loan approval and  foreclosure processes, updating outdated information technology  systems, and expanding eligibility for loan guarantees to include  properties with a small additional home on the property and in-home  daycare services.

These are practical reforms that strengthen the rural housing safety  net while helping communities maintain a stable workforce and local  economy.

The bill also incorporates two additional pieces of legislation I  introduced with Senator Kim to streamline housing development to bring  new units online faster.

The Unlocking Housing Supply Through Streamlined and Modernized  Reviews Act modernizes the environmental review process under the  National Environmental Policy Act for HUD-funded housing projects.

And the BUILD Housing Act strengthens coordination between HUD and  State and local units of government by expanding the ability of the  local partners to participate in environmental review and developmental  processes.

These reforms address a simple, but persistent problem: Too often  housing projects face duplicative or overlapping review processes that  delay construction without improving outcomes.

By aligning Federal standards and allowing greater collaboration with  State and local partners, these provisions will help move housing  projects forward more efficiently. We are cutting the redtape.

Taken together, these reforms represent a commonsense approach to  housing policy. They do not rely on sweeping new Federal mandates.  Instead, they focus on removing barriers, modernizing outdated systems,  and empowering the communities closest to the problem.

For States like South Dakota, these changes matter. Housing shortages  in rural communities can affect everything from workforce recruitment  to economic development. Employers across the State--from schools to  healthcare providers to ag businesses--regularly tell me that housing  availability is one of the biggest obstacles to expanding their  workforce and building their businesses.

When workers cannot find a place to live, communities struggle to  grow and local economies suffer. The Housing for the 21st Century Act  takes meaningful steps toward addressing these challenges.

I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation and help  put our Nation on a stronger path toward expanding housing  opportunities for families in South Dakota and across the country.