MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, first let me say thank you to my  colleague, the former Governor of Virginia, the Senator from Virginia  now. As a former Governor, we have a real interest in making sure that  there is a good, cooperative spirit between the Federal Government and  State governments. 

  But this evening, as we have gone through an entire day--which is  rather unusual in the Senate to have one Senator speaking after another  with others here--at a time in which we should be exercising  separation, as they say, to have had so many colleagues on the floor  shows just how seriously the U.S. Senate is taking this issue. 

  Perhaps the frustration laid out by Members of my conference is that  we really want this to move forward as quickly as possible, and we  understand that it is very difficult to put together the resources in  order to buy those additional pieces of equipment that our friend from  Colorado laid out unless we have a long-term plan here in which to also  pay for it. 

  So what I would like to do is to share a little bit of what is in  this just in terms of a summary of what is in the proposal right now  and that we believe is an appropriate, major step in taking care of  funding to respond not just to the medical emergency but also to the  economic emergency that we have in front of us right now for men and  women who are worried about where they are going to get the next  paycheck. 

  First of all, under the appropriations section, we have $75 billion  for hospitals that is included in the proposal; $20 billion additional  for veterans' health that is included; $11 billion more for vaccines,  therapeutics, diagnostics and other preparedness needs. 

  There is an additional $4.5 billion for the CDC--the Centers for  Disease Control, or CDC. The reason we have put that in there is we  want to be ahead of the game when it comes to making sure they have the  resources to take care of the emergency needs that we know are showing  up right now 

  There is also an additional $1.7 billion to add new medical equipment  to the strategic national stockpile. As my colleague from Colorado was  suggesting, this is an area where we need to beef it up, and we need to  be able to provide that additional equipment. That is included in this  bill that, right now, has been here for 2 days. 

  Also, we understand that at the State level there are other needs as  well. There is $20 billion in here for public transportation emergency  relief. There is $10 billion built into the bill right now for block  grants to the States. That is the broadest type of resources that we  provide to the States today. 

  There is an additional $5 billion to be added to FEMA's Disaster  Relief Fund. Remember that FEMA is now at a level 1, which is basically  their highest level. They are coordinating now on a 24-hour basis with  every single State in the Nation directly, back and forth, to provide  an avenue of communication and  logistics so that when parts are found or equipment is found in one  area, it can be coordinated to get to an area where it is needed--not  so much because we always have all the supplies that we need available  right now but because we want the supplies that we do have to get to  where they are needed as quickly as possible. That is in operation  today. 

  Now, there are other pieces to this that are also really important.  One of the reasons you have seen the frustration on the Republican side  of this discussion is that there are men and women right now who don't  have a paycheck coming in; they have been laid off through no fault of  their own. They are being laid off because of COVID-19 and because  their businesses have been asked--or in some cases, directed--to close.  And when that happens, we feel an obligation to try to at least allow  them the opportunity to make it through the next few months, to get  ready for the recovery that we are convinced can happen if we properly  manage the emergency before us. 

  I would like to just go through them briefly so that after an entire  day of discussion, there is at least an understanding of what is in the  bill today just for men and women who are hurting today. 

  On a per-person basis, we are offering about $250 billion in  additional resources. For a child, there is $500 for every child in a  family, but that is on top of $1,200 for a mother and a father. What we  are suggesting with that is, it doesn't mean that you have to have made  that much. This is a refundable tax credit, and it is available to  individuals regardless of if they even made that much or paid taxes on  that in the last couple of years. 

  This is really important because this is an immediate, upfront  payment from the Internal Revenue Service, the IRS, back to  individuals. And the sooner we pass this legislation, the sooner those  dollars can get out to people who, right now, are hurting, and they  need this additional assistance at this time, not a month and a half or  2 months from now, but as soon as we can get it to them. 

  Additionally, we have an unemployment proposal that increases the  amount of money that goes into the unemployment funds in the amount of  about $250 billion as well. 

  How does that break out and what does that mean to an individual? If  an individual is on unemployment today, what we are offering, besides  what they are getting from the State is, first of all, first dollar  coverage with no 1-week wait period. Second of all, we are adding an  additional $600 per week--per week--for the first 9 weeks that they are  eligible for. 

  Now, that doesn't mean that unemployment stops at that point, but  there is $600 additional during that 9-week period of time. This is  very important for individuals who have no place else to go and have  already been laid off of work because we have told those businesses  that they have to shut down. 

  Another piece of this product right now I think is an excellent  piece, one that not only offers emotional support for men and women who  are struggling, but it also shares through small businesses an amount-- about $350 billion--that goes to small businesses, businesses that are  under--that are under--500 employees in size. When we define an  employee, we are talking about an FTE or full-time equivalent of 40  hours. So if you have two half-times, you have one FTE. 

  But what we have offered to small businesses in this is a very simple  loan and loan forgiveness program for which they can go down to their  local lender and apply. The local lender is the person who puts the  papers together and so forth, but what it allows them to do is to go  down and say: Look, I have just been told that my business is shut  down. I don't want to lose my employees. What they can do is borrow the  money to continue to pay the payroll and benefits for those individuals  they would be laying off otherwise. And if they keep them on for a  period of up to 8 weeks, we forgive the loan. It becomes a grant. But  the reason for that is if we don't do that, those same individuals are  going to be on the unemployment rolls, so why make them go through that  emotional distress and why have them in such a position that they may  not get the benefits back that the small business is offering today. 

  We have done something else as well. We have said for that small  business owner: We know many of you have mortgages; you have ongoing  payments. So we will also let you include your mortgage payments, as  well, and your ongoing rent, lights, and so forth. And if you keep  open, you can also apply to have that part forgiven, as well, up to a  grand total of $10 million per business. Why? Because we want stability  in the marketplace, and we think that is what a lot of employees want. 

  We would like to have that out this week. That is one of the reasons  you see the frustrations and the irritation on the Republican side of  the aisle here--because we really thought we were negotiating on these  items in good faith with Members of the other side in working groups  that had both included in such a fashion that we could move through  this fairly quickly. In fact, I think you have heard Members on the  other side of the aisle talk about the fact that they are not  disagreeing with those things.  

  There is another part too. There are the larger businesses, over 500  in size. When we have businesses that are bigger than 500 in size, what  we have said is: Look, we are not going to give you a grant program. We  are not going to be in the position of bailing you out. But what we do  want to do is to make liquidity and loans available to you--loans that  you can afford. 

  We are going to ask for some conditions on that, yes, but the idea  here is to allow them to survive and to be ready to go back into  business. 

  This seems to be the place where we have the most dissension and  disagreement between the two parties because, while we are proposing  that they can't use this to buy stock back, I think some of our  Democratic colleagues thought we had to strengthen it. Fine. That  shouldn't take 2 days to work out. They think we should have some more  guidelines. Fine. But that shouldn't take 2 days to work out. 

  The goal here is to keep as many people employed and to keep those  businesses operational so that as we move through this health  emergency, those businesses continue to do business in the future. 

  There is a larger portion in this that we also talk about, which is  for the airlines and so forth. We have a frustration, as well, with our  Democratic colleagues because of some of the suggestions that have been  made. We don't think they should have to remake their board of  directors if they are going to get a loan. 

  We think the airlines are critical--not just to save the airlines but  because business relies on airlines and people rely on airlines now to  get from one place to another throughout the United States. 

  We have also included about $17 billion to take care of those  separate industries on which we have national defense-specific issues.  We think this has been well thought out. 

  It doesn't mean that there isn't room for more negotiations, but time  is of the essence. As we sit here this evening, more people will die;  more people will get sick; more men and women will find themselves  wondering where they are going to get their next paycheck. Every single  day matters. 

  So our request to the Members on the other side of the aisle, who  have twice now said ``No, we don't want to take the first procedural  step to get onto the bill,'' what we say is: Look, you have to push  hard on your leadership to come to a consensus. And, please, this is  emergency legislation. This should not be a Christmas tree. It should  not be a piece of legislation that, since it needs to pass, we can now  put a wish list of other things that one party or the other has been  trying to get into law but does not have consensus on. This is where  the areas of contention are this evening. 

  So to the men and women who are out there and are concerned, I can  share with you that I think we have a very good plan, one that will  come close to $1.9 trillion dollars in terms of what we are offering.  But at the same time, it needs to get out as quickly as possible, and  it has to be as simple as possible for those men and women to be able  to apply for in an unemployment line or the businesses to apply through  a local bank so that they can keep people employed or for that larger  business to understand that liquidity is  available to get them through a very difficult time, but it is not  going to be a grant; it is going to be a loan. 

  Finally, there is an area which is important that perhaps can have  some additional thought put into it, and that is that not just the  hospitals at the local level need our support and our assistance right  now because they can't do this by themselves, but we are going to find  that State after State is going to be knocking on our door, saying: You  shut down businesses in our State. You have told us that we need to in  order to quell this emergency, but in doing so, the revenues that were  generated because of those business activities we don't have. 

  So you are going to find State revenues that are down significantly,  and they are going to be coming in, and they are going to be visiting.  I am convinced that between this package and perhaps the next package  we have to also recognize the impact to State governments that provide  so many of the services that men and women rely on on a daily basis. 

  So I would like to thank you for your time, Mr. President. I think  this is important, and I think the message that we have to have as  responsible individuals, Members of this body in which today we truly  did have debate and discussion on the floor--we have to finish this,  and we have to do it in such a fashion that it reaches men and women  who are counting on us as soon as possible. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT