Rounds, 17 Colleagues Reintroduce Bill to Protect Military Families' Second Amendment Rights


U.S. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) today reintroduced the Protect our Military Families' 2nd Amendment Rights Act. This legislation would allow military spouses to purchase handguns in the state where their husband or wife is permanently stationed for duty, or in a neighboring state if the military spouse commutes across state borders to their duty installation.

"Our military personnel and their families make incredible sacrifices to keep our country safe," said Rounds. "Allowing them to keep their families safe is the least we can do. Our legislation makes certain that the Second Amendment rights of military spouses are protected no matter where their family is stationed."

Current law restricts citizens from legally purchasing a handgun in any state other than the one in which they reside. An exception to this law was made for active duty service members who are on permanent duty station orders, so that they can be considered a resident of the state in which they are assigned. The Protect Our Military Families' 2nd Amendment Rights Act extends that exemption to their spouses as well.

This bill would amend the current federal criminal code, allowing a licensed gun dealer, importer or manufacturer to sell or ship a firearm to the spouse of a member of the U.S. armed forces on active duty. It will allow spouses to be residents of states where they maintain legal residence, where the military member is permanently stationed, or where they maintain a home that they travel to and from the permanent station.

It is cosponsored by U.S. Sens. Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Mike Braun (R-Ind.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.).  

Companion legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Gregory Murphy (R-N.C.). The Protect Our Military Families' 2nd Amendment Rights Act is supported by the National Rifle Association and the National Shooting Sports Foundation.