Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697458/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Ms. SALINAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to call out the inhumane treatment  of immigrants and people living on American soil.

Individuals are missing from work, children are skipping school, and  people are too afraid to leave their own homes because Trump has  ordered his administration to arrest immigrants at any cost.

This manufactured chaos has resulted in ICE vigilantes arresting U.S.  citizens, even children. My own constituents have had to endure this  horrific trauma across Oregon's Willamette Valley.

Last week, I visited the Tacoma, Washington, ICE detention facility  to visit constituents and to conduct oversight. I wanted the  opportunity to see for myself the facility, to understand what my  constituents are being put through. I gave ICE their 7-day notice of my  arrival, as they had requested, but I knew I would get a sanitized  version of the privatized prison I would be shown. But the alternative  would be to drive 3 hours, and then they would turn me away. The goal  was to meet with my constituents and their attorney and get a tour of  the facility.

When I asked about the detainees not being able to access medication,  facility officials told me that detainees often lie about the lack of  access to medical care. They claimed anyone could get access to the  medical care that they need.

However, I know at least one of my constituents who was detained and  was not able to access the heart medication he needed. He went 2 weeks  without his lifesaving heart medicine.

Why would anybody lie about that, their heart medicine? He had no  reason to lie. But he did get it 2 weeks later when he was sent down to  Texas.

When I asked about the tuberculosis outbreak in the Alaska detention  facility, ICE claimed the news reports got it wrong. I questioned if  similar outbreaks happened in the Tacoma facility, and, again, was told  flatout lies. The attorney I spoke to afterward told me, yes, there  were outbreaks in the Tacoma facility.

When I asked about detainees not being able to access their  attorneys, facility officials told me, oh, there are tablets that they  can access and there are lots of rooms.

When I was supposed to meet with my constituents on that same day, I  was refused access to my own constituents and so was their attorney.

Even with a full 7-day notice, the Tacoma ICE detention facility, the  Department of Homeland Security, and the GEO Group couldn't get their  story straight. They raised more questions than they could answer. The  questions that they did answer were lies, half-truths, and misleading  at best.

We should all be holding ICE, Homeland Security, and this  administration accountable. It may start at our local or regional  detention facilities, but it does not stop there.

We must hold Tom Homan, Kristi Noem, and Donald Trump accountable.  They must tell me why a 17-year-old U.S. citizen was arrested,  traumatized, and suffered shards of glass in his eye when an ICE  vigilante smashed in his driver's side window and arrested him,  detained him first, and asked questions later.

This is not justice. This is terror, but I have a voice. I have a  voice for the people in my district. I have a voice for those who still  believe that the United States is the land of opportunity, just as the  Salinas family did in 1945.

I will continue to conduct oversight and publicize the horrific acts  of ICE. They cannot continue to operate in the shadows. We must all  continue to speak out and hold those who have raised their hands and  pledged their oath to the Constitution accountable, but they are  failing miserably today.