In Memory of Colonel Phan Van Huxn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701030/in-memory-of-colonel-phan-van-huxn


Mr. TRAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with solemn remembrance that I rise  today to pay tribute to a renowned commander, distinguished veteran,  and principled hero, Colonel Phan Van HuMn of the Army of the Republic  of Vietnam. Colonel HuMn, a fixture in the Orange County Vietnamese  American community, passed away on March 10, 2026, in Santa Ana,  California at the age of 96.

Colonel Phan Van HuMn was born in 1930 in Thura Thien, HuI, Vietnam.  On October 1, 1953, following a national mobilization order, he  enlisted in the military and attended Class 10 at the Vietnam National  Military Academy in Da LAt. Following his graduation, he quickly  established himself as a capable leader, eventually becoming commander  of the 81st Airborne Ranger Group (Lien Doan 81 Bist Kich Nhay Du). The  81st Airborne Ranger Group was one of the Republic of Vietnam's elite  special operations formations, and specialized in small-team airborne  insertions, reconnaissance, intelligence gathering, and deep- penetration missions behind enemy lines.

During Colonel HuMn's time as commander, the 81st Airborne Ranger  Group earned a reputation as one of the most effective fighting units  of the South Vietnamese military. The unit played important roles in  several major campaigns, including the 1968 Tet Offensive, and at both  An Lrc and QuVng TrG during the North Vietnam's 1972 Easter Offensive.  Colonel HuMn's courageous leadership at the siege of An Lrc earned him  a promotion to the distinguished rank of Colonel.

Colonel HuMn was widely respected as an honest and principled officer  who simultaneously placed great importance on discipline while caring  deeply about the welfare of his soldiers. He was known for paying close  attention to his soldiers' living conditions, morale, and recovery  after combat operations, and it was his dedication that allowed the  81st Airborne Ranger Group to become known as a highly capable and  battle-hardened unit.

In 1975, when President DUTng Van Minh ordered the South Vietnamese  Armed Forces to surrender, Colonel HuMn remained with his soldiers and  was imprisoned for 13 years in hard-labor reeducation camps in Northern  Vietnam. In 1988, he was released from prison in poor health due to the  harsh conditions of imprisonment and lingering wounds from his military  service. For the next four years, Colonel HuMn and his family lived in  hardship in Ap TMn Thai STn near TMn Phu, TMn Binh District, before  resettling in the United States under the Humanitarian Operation  program in 1992.

Colonel Phan Van HuMn is survived by his wife, Le Thi Thanh Nguyet,  and their children, Dinh Van Phan, Andy Loc Phan, Son Van Phan, My Van  Phan, Kevin Phan, Mimi Phan, Ann Phan, and Kristin Thuy Phan. Colonel  HuMn's life remains a testament to dedication, sacrifice, and  leadership in the service of his country. He will be dearly missed by  his friends and family, and his legacy and service will continue to  live on in the minds of everyone who has met him.