Providing for Consideration of H.R. Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act; Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Esa Amendments Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701979/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-reliable-federal-infrastructure-act-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-esa-amendments-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Mr. TRAN. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Colorado for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, the Department of Homeland Security has been shut down  for 66 days, the longest shutdown in history. Yet, this shutdown is  solely the choice of the House majority, my Republican colleagues.

Madam Speaker, 1 month ago, the Senate passed a bill that funded TSA  agents responsible for security at our airports, the cybersecurity  officers who protect us from online threats, the servicemembers in our  Coast Guard, and FEMA disaster assistance as we get closer to hurricane  and wildfire seasons.

This bill will also give us time to continue negotiating much-needed  reforms to ICE and border protection. Americans from New York to  Minneapolis to L.A. have watched as their neighbors have been wrongly  arrested, beaten, and even killed in broad daylight.

ICE agents need to be held accountable and focus on deporting violent  criminals, not creating terror in our schools, hospitals, or our places  of worship.

While the Senate continues to make progress, my Republican colleagues  have been sitting on their hands, ignoring the fears and suffering of  our constituents.

How does that even serve the American people? Being stubborn in the  face of terror does not serve the American people.

It is past time for this body to take action to fund our public  safety infrastructure and get back to work for the people. Let's pass  this DHS funding bill, and I urge all of my colleagues to  defeat the previous question so that we can bring it to the floor.