Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''; and Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Relating to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological Resources''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688466/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-national-emission-standards-for-hazardous-air-pollutants-rubber-tire-manufacturing-and-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-ocean-energy-management-relating-to-protection-of-marine-archaeological-resources


Mr. TRAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Colorado for  yielding. I rise to urge my colleagues across the aisle to show some  humanity and compassion to the thousands of veterans who have been  recklessly dismissed from their civil service jobs at the political  whim of this administration.

The men and women who serve our country deserve our unwavering  support, not broken promises. The indiscriminate firing of veterans by  the Trump administration and Elon Musk dishonors the unwavering  commitment that these public servants have dedicated to our country.  These heroes stepped up for us, and now we must stand up for them.

This issue is deeply personal to me. I am the son of Vietnamese  refugees who fled war and persecution in search of safety and a better  life in America. This country welcomed them and gave me the chance to  succeed. I joined the Army out of a sense of duty to my country because  I wanted to give back to the country that gave me so much. I wanted to  protect the very principles of freedom, justice, and decency that we  hold dear.

However, I don't see these values in the actions by the Trump  administration. I see only chaos, fear, and cruelty.

I have a duty as a Congressman, a veteran, and a proud American to  stand up for those who made the highest commitment to us. That is why  last week I introduced my first bill, the Protect Veteran Jobs Act, to  reinstate veterans who were recklessly terminated without cause under  the Trump administration's purge of the Federal workplace. My bill will  also hold the executive branch accountable for any future terminations  that may occur.

This isn't about politics. This is about basic decency. This is about  treating our veterans with the dignity they deserve. Veterans make up  over 30 percent of the Federal workforce, and when they are unjustly  removed, it impacts all of us. From delays in healthcare services and  disability claims to staffing shortages at the VA, the consequences for  American families and servicemembers are dire.

Veterans have always had our backs. It is time we step up to have  theirs. I urge my Republican colleagues to join us in opposing the  previous question so that we can take up this important measure to  restore the livelihoods of veterans who have served our country  honorably and who have continued to do so through civilian service.  Let's reverse course immediately and get these veterans their jobs  back.