Recognizing Black April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690347/recognizing-black-april


Mr. TRAN. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today to mark the most solemn  time of the year for the people of the Vietnamese diaspora. ``Black  April,'' ``Thang Tu Den,'' is not just a solemn day in history, but it  is a reminder of the day when we lost everything: our homes, our  livelihoods, and our beloved country.

It was 50 years ago, on April 30, 1975, that South Vietnam fell to  the Communist regime. American troops airlifted 6,000 American and  Vietnamese people to safety. Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese  refugees would follow, most of them boarding boats on uncharted waters,  not knowing what awaited them on the other side of the journey.

In Vietnam, the conditions under the Communist regime grew more  brutal. Many were imprisoned in concentration camps, losing not just  their homes but their freedom, their dignity, and, in too many cases,  their lives.

This is a painful day, a day for reflection, for remembrance, and for  mourning. Over 58,000 United States soldiers and more than 250,000  South Vietnamese soldiers gave their lives in service. These brave men  and women made the ultimate sacrifice, and they deserve our continued  and unwavering gratitude.

We mourn not only those who fought for freedom but the countless  innocent lives lost during the war, those who perished at the hands of  the Communist regime and the aftermath and the brave souls who were  lost fleeing repression on boats. We have no choice but to honor those  precious souls who were lost by giving the most we can to this life  that we have been blessed with.

I share my own story with hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese  Americans born to parents who fled our homeland with nothing. Boat  people did not let the hardship of the journey define the life that  they built in America. We have built communities that are unparalleled  in strength, prosperity, and commitment to preserving our history.

Mr. Speaker, as we reflect on the past 50 years since the fall of  Saigon, we do so in solemn remembrance but in celebration of what we  have built together. From the ashes of war, we have risen.

We celebrate today the trailblazers who have risen from this legacy:  generals and admirals in the U.S. military, award-winning scientists,  titans of business, educators, doctors, and artists. Our community has  nurtured leaders in all walks of life, turning adversity into  opportunity in just five short decades.

Many of these people are children of refugees or refugees themselves,  and they represent just a few of the countless contributions that  Vietnamese Americans continue to make across every sector of society.  Our journey from tragedy to triumph has only just begun, and the story  of our people will continue to inspire generations to come.

As the first Vietnamese American to represent Orange County's Little  Saigon community in Congress, I am humbled by the responsibility to  carry this history forward. Little Saigon, home to the largest  Vietnamese diaspora in the world, is a beacon of hope and a reminder of  the resilience that has defined our community.

I stand on the shoulders of the Vietnamese leaders in California and  across the country who have paved the way for future generations to  succeed. I am proud to be the third Vietnamese American ever elected to  Congress, following Congressman Joseph Cao of Louisiana and  Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy of Florida.

I am reminded every day of our strength, our determination, and our  unyielding commitment to preserving our history and to ensuring that no  Communist regime can rewrite our history.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in not only remembering  the hardships we face, but also in celebrating the incredible  resilience of the Vietnamese people. Let us honor the lives of those  who sacrificed everything for freedom: The United States Army veterans  and the veterans of the former Republic of Vietnam. As we commemorate  this solemn milestone, let us reaffirm our commitment to the values  that matter most: democracy, human rights, and our unshakeable will to  be free.