American Water Stewardship Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701217/american-water-stewardship-act


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of  legislation before the House today reauthorizing the Great Lakes  Restoration Initiative or GLRI.

The Great Lakes form the largest surface freshwater system on Earth.  More than 30 million people live in the Great Lakes basin and their  daily activities directly affect these bodies of water.

One of my top priorities as a member of Congress has been, and  remains, ensuring that we protect the Great Lakes. The Great Lakes face  numerous challenges, including the growing threat from invasive  species, ongoing development, and pollution of the waters by toxic  chemicals.

That is why I have consistently supported programs like the GLRI  which address some of the most pressing issues facing the Great Lakes.  Created by President Obama, the GLRI has helped focus federal efforts  and funds on the threats facing the Great Lakes. Just in my home state  of Wisconsin, more than $962 million through the GLRI, has made over  1,300 projects possible throughout the Great Lakes basin.

The GLRI is helping protect our environment while driving our  economy. Businesses are opening up again along or near waterways  that have long been neglected. The reduction of beneficial use  impairments are allowing fisherman and others to return to areas that  for a long time have been off limits.

Among the greatest strengths of this initiative has been its strong  bipartisan support. Members of the region from both sides of the aisle  have rallied to this program. And it has been effective. For example,  since its creation, work around the U.S. Areas of Concerns--or AOC's-- has accelerated. These areas are the focus of comprehensive cleanup and  restoration efforts because they have been seriously degraded by  pollution and contaminants.

As of October 2025, eight AOCs have been delisted and an additional  nine AOCs have completed all management actions necessary for  delisting. I know that work is happening at the AOC in my district, the  Milwaukee Estuary, which I hope will soon join that list. Industrial  activities have caused toxic pollution to accumulate in the sediments  at the bottom of over 12 miles of Milwaukee's rivers and the Lake  Michigan harbor. The GLRI supported cleanup will improve public health  and safety, provide clean water, bring back healthy fish and wildlife,  and enhance economic and recreational opportunities for residents and  visitors alike.

The GLRI is scheduled to expire at the end of 2026 and it is clear  that we can't afford to lose the progress or stop the momentum it has  unleashed across the Great Lakes region.

I support the reauthorization of this program through FY 2031.

I am disappointed that this legislation does not, however, include an  increase in the authorized funding level to $500 million. Failing to  make the necessary investments in restoring and protecting the Great  Lakes will cost us much more in the long run. Trust me.

I know that this oversight doesn't signal a lack of resolve on my  part to keep fighting for the highest possible funding for this program  each year.

I urge support of this legislation.