Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701793/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  California for yielding.

I will tell you, I have never celebrated tax day until today because  I have the distinguished opportunity to comment on the one big, ugly  billionaire's bill. It is the gift that keeps on giving because I get  to talk about how much this tax bill fails to deliver on its promises.

Most glaringly, Republicans have promised that the average tax refund  would increase by over $1,000. Not so much. In fact, refunds are 65  percent less than promised. Refunds are nowhere near enough to cover  the additional costs that Americans are facing because of other failed  Republican policies.

Even considering the crumbs from the American table that Republicans  have tossed to working families, this pales in comparison to the  increased costs of healthcare, food, utilities, gasoline, and almost  every product.

Then, on top of all of this, Americans are facing the $1.2 trillion  cuts in Medicaid. They see their hospitals in urban areas and rural  areas closing because of it. Food assistance has been cut by $187  billion.

As we mark tax day this year, one thing is really clear: Republicans  have oversold their legislative accomplishment and riddled it with  gimmicks for working-class Americans while brandishing massive  giveaways to millionaires and billionaires.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans gave millionaires a tax cut that is 390  times the size of what they gave to workers and families making less  than $50,000.

What about the no tax on tips and no tax on overtime, they say?  Number one, it is a temporary benefit that is going to expire as soon  as you reelect them. Secondly, it is a gimmick because it is not a  total exemption. It phases out, and there are much smaller redemptions  in tax liability than people are expecting.

Let's be clear. The people who benefited most from the Republican tax  bill do not get tips. The one big, beautiful bill for billionaires made  the benefits for billionaires permanent and made no tax on tips  temporary.

Republicans are so well known to be good at messaging, but this time,  they can't message their way out of reality. American families are  feeling the pain every single day.