Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697187/improving-social-securitys-service-to-victims-of-identity-theft-act


I certainly support H.R. 5345, the Improving Social Security's  Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act, and of course, this passed  the Ways and Means Committee with overwhelming bipartisan support.

I think having a single person to deal with at the Social Security  office is common sense, and it will enable a victim to unravel their  problems a lot sooner.

I just want to make note of the fact that, like some other Social  Security bills that are under consideration today, this bill does not  fix the crisis that this Trump administration has inflicted on Social  Security when it comes to data privacy and customer service. Thumb  drives went into our central data computers by DOGE employees, people  who had not been confirmed by any Senate or anything else, and our  Social Security information was captured--captured indeed--on thumb  drives.

Democrats are going to continue to fight to protect Americans from  having their personal Social Security information politicized or bought  and sold to the highest bidder or their Social Security benefits put at  risk. It is very, very frightening, so frightening, Mr. Speaker, that  as soon as our current Treasury Secretary was brought into office, I  wanted to know what DOGE was doing and where the information was going.  I don't think we have had any conversations of any substance regarding  the location of that data.

While this bill will have a modest but meaningful improvement to  Social Security's customer service to the victims of identity theft,  and I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote for this  legislation, I want them to think more deeply about what we need to do  in the atmosphere that we are in now to protect Americans' Social  Security data that was mined by DOGE.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and  I yield myself the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to thank my colleague for introducing this  very important piece of legislation. I am always happy, as are other  Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee, for any initiative to  protect our data, to protect and secure it, to protect people's  privacy, and to streamline their ability to resolve their problem.

I would hope that the authors of this legislation and the chairman of  the committee would recognize that this will mean that they will have  to stop taking the appropriations away from the Social Security  Administration. We have shut down scores of offices. Many people have  been fired, and that data and AI will not resolve the issue of having a  single point of contact or a person to deal with.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. It did  pass out of committee with a strong bipartisan vote. I hope that there  is bipartisan interest in protecting our data which, like I said, has  been DOGE'd and stored somewhere in the cloud. I hope that this urgency  around protecting data will continue to be a priority of the committee.