Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699222/supporting-pregnant-and-parenting-women-and-families-act


Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a news  article titled: ``Child care providers reporting unnerving stakeouts''  by Kristen Taketa.                  [From the Union-Tribune, Jan. 21, 2026]             Child Care Providers Reporting Unnerving Stakeouts                            (By Kristen Taketa)

Some San Diego child care providers say they are being       harassed and fear for their safety amid a campaign by       conservative activists and the Trump administration over       broad but unsubstantiated suggestions of fraud.

Meanwhile, billions of dollars in child care funding is up       in the air after the Trump administration last week moved to       freeze $10 billion in funding for social services, including       child care and cash assistance for low-income families, in       five Democratic-led states until it investigates.

A New York federal judge temporarily halted the freeze on       Friday, a day after the five states challenged the freeze in       court.

The states called it a politically motivated,       ``extraordinary and cruel action'' and said the       administration has shown neither evidence of fraud nor the       legal authority to withhold mandated program funding.

The freeze could affect $5 billion in funding due to       California that helps pay for state child care subsidy       programs serving more than 300,000 children of low-income       families. The subsidies come in the form of vouchers that       families use to pay child care providers.

In the past week, conservative activists have been posting       on social media the names and phone numbers of child care       providers, including in San Diego County, suggesting without       evidence that they are benefiting from public funding but not       actually providing child care.

Several local providers say that since then, they have       begun seeing people loitering outside their homes or sitting       in parked cars with cameras, watching them.

One San Diego child care provider whose name and phone       number were posted online by a local activist said that ever       since then, her phone has been ``flooded'' with calls, and       she has seen people loitering around her home with recording       devices. The San Diego Union-Tribune is not identifying her       due to safety concerns.

``This has raised serious safety concerns for my family and       my business. It's not right!'' she wrote in a text message.

The harassment is also racist, providers say--those in San       Diego who have been targeted are overwhelmingly of African or       Middle Eastern descent.

Samsam Khalif, a Somali American who has been a family       child care provider in San Diego for 18 years, was frightened       last week when, as she was driving children to her home for a       day of child care, she saw two men with a camera sitting in a       car outside her home.

She circled the block a few times, but they didn't leave       until she got out of her car and walked the children to her       home. They drove away, she said, after they saw her with the       children.

Khalif said she is so scared that she avoids going out       unless she has to go shopping. She reactivated her home       security system last week.

The safety concerns are especially acute for family child       care providers, who run child care businesses out of their       own homes. Some providers have their own children or other       family members living at their place of business.

Yessika Magdaleno, a family child care provider of 25       years, said last week she hasn't faced harassment yet but       worries she will, considering she is an officer with a child       care providers union.

She counseled her young-adult children last week on safety,       telling them to look out for anybody who may be watching or       following them, and to be ready to call 911 if anyone       threatens them.

``You do your work with fear. You don't know who's going to       show up at your place, and you have all of these little       children in your care,'' said Magdaleno, who lives in Orange       County and is the United Domestic Workers union president for       the district that includes San Diego County.

``They're doing things that, as a child care provider, you       will never think will happen to you. Because all you're doing       is taking care of the children and educating them, right?''

The harassment has drawn attention from local Democratic       leaders.

``What the hell are we doing here where children, at day       care, might be subjected to extremists showing up at the door       of the home that they're receiving care, to investigate       whether or not there's actually child care happening?'' San       Diego City Councilmember Sean Elo-Rivera said at a UDW news       conference Thursday. ``Child care should be universal and       should be affordable for everyone, and it sure as hell should       be saved from extremists.''

The targeting--plus the potential loss of funding--has       shaken an industry in California that has been historically       underpaid, understaffed and run almost entirely by women,       most of them women of color and many immigrants.

Government subsidies for child care cover only some of the       cost of care, despite California's recent additional       increases in subsidy rates for providers and funded child       care slots.

Child care providers frequently make personal sacrifices to       run their businesses, often putting in long days, enlisting       family members to work unpaid or forgoing adequate pay and       benefits, such as time off for themselves.

In 2024, the median annual wage for a child care worker in       California was $38,220, according to the Bureau of Labor       Statistics.

``Child care providers are some of the most hardworking,       selfless, incredible humans that are raising our future       generation,'' said Kimberly McDougal, senior vice president       at YMCA Childcare Resource Service in San Diego County. ``The       fact that they're even having to go through this is sad.''

Child care leaders now worry that losing funding could       force some child care providers to close their doors, which       would exacerbate California's child care shortage.

``It's very fragile. Child care providers operate . . . on       a very, very razor-thin line, subsidies being so low,'' said       Max Arias, chair of Child Care Providers United, a union that       represents more than 40,000 family child care providers in       California.

The harassment comes as the White House targets child care       providers and Somali communities, part of a growing       conservative focus following years of state and federal       investigations into allegations of fraud in Minnesota's child       care system and social services, some involving Somali       American business owners.

That has culminated in what the Trump administration has       called its largest immigration enforcement action, with       thousands of officers deployed last month to Minnesota in       part to investigate the child care fraud allegations.

That crackdown led to last week's killing of Renee Good by       an ICE officer Wednesday.

In early December, Trump shocked observers with his       comments during a Cabinet meeting in which he called Somali       people ``garbage'' and said, ``They contribute nothing. I       don't want them in our country.''

Weeks later, a conservative YouTuber named Nick Shirley       posted a video in which he recorded Minneapolis Somali-run       child care businesses and accused them of fraud, claiming       they got public funding but did not serve children.

Afterward, Minnesota investigators visited 10 businesses he       identified and found that nine were operating normally; the       10th had not yet opened for the day when officials arrived.

Shirley's video prompted other conservative activists       around the country, including in San Diego, to follow his       lead.

In San Diego, one proponent of unfounded fraud allegations       has been activist Amy Reichert, who founded Restore San Diego       in 2020, an organization whose stated goal is to ``get the       government out of our lives.''

In the past week, Reichert has promoted her claims on Fox       News and identified by name more than a dozen San Diego       County family child care providers on the social media       platform X, saying they do not actually serve children.

Her posts contained excerpts from publicly available state       reports, with providers' names and phone numbers listed, that       noted if there were no children present at the time of their       unannounced visits; some reports also noted violations of       state regulations, such as missing child or employee records.

Child care providers have called the claims reckless and       based on false assumptions. ``There are many reasons why       children may not be present when an inspector is on-site,''       said McDougal of YMCA's Childcare Resource Service.

Providers identified on social media said children weren't       there at the time of inspection because they serve children       after school or at night; others had kids absent due to       illness.

Not all children who are enrolled are present in child care       at the same time, depending on their families' schedules.

``They (are) just accusing us. And that's lying. And that's       wrong for you to put lie(s) out there,'' Khalif said.

Reichert told the Union-Tribune she had not contacted any       of the providers; she said she ``didn't want to give any       appearance of harassment.''

The child care subsidy system has several procedures in       place to protect against fraud, McDougal said. Her       organization and Child Development Associates are the two       nonprofits that administer subsidies to providers in San       Diego County.

The nonprofits check providers' enrollment with their       licensed capacity, review thousands of monthly attendance       sheets, validate signatures and verifications of employment       and eligibility and compare providers' rate sheets to       invoices, among other things, McDougal said.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R.  6945.

Despite the grandiose title, Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women  and Families Act, this bill carves out--let's keep the main thing to  main thing. What it does, it carves out an earmark for an industry with  a narrow ideological mission to provide, I guess what I call anti- abortion, but Mr. Chairman over there, he called it pro-life counseling  services.

Actually, this just does not fit within the four core purposes of the  TANF bill, which is why the Biden administration prohibited this. No  more that we provide moneys for abortion counseling, which if you stop  and think about it, it would fit more neatly into the core provisions  of the TANF bill, and that is to prevent unwanted pregnancies. We don't  provide abortion clinics with TANF moneys nor should we provide it to  these clinics.

Mr. Speaker, I hear the tortured explanation of how this fits into  the core duties of the TANF bill, and I hear them talking about the  diapers and the formula and all the wonderful things. The March of  Dimes provides all that stuff, too, but we don't provide them with TANF  funds.

No. This is a diversion from the already underfunded TANF program  which has been flat funded for 30 years at $16.5 billion and now we  have, according to the chairman, millions of women, 2 million, and  7,000 centers that are now going to be able to access TANF dollars.

These TANF dollars were meant not to provide baby wipes and diapers  for babies up to 6 months old, but to help a woman navigate her way  into the workforce to get job training, to have cash assistance until  she can get on her feet, not to provide moneys to stand up this  ideological and, quite frankly, religious organization.

That is why I oppose this bill. Mr. Speaker, I am going to later on  offer an amendment that would allow States to use TANF dollars, again,  not undermining this bill, but adding a section that would allow States  to use TANF dollars for security at childcare facilities and to be able  to gather evidence of harassment of childcare providers and to give  local law enforcement the ability to secure a place for children  because one of the core responsibilities of the TANF funding is to  provide childcare.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. This all comes because there have been  vigilantes showing up at childcare centers.

These are people who are not Health Department officials, not  auditors showing up and harassing TANF recipients who need childcare as  we deny  States' moneys for childcare, but we have vigilantes, right-wingers  that are showing up and they are creating safety concerns in our  daycares.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record my amendment.

Ms. Moore of Wisconsin moves to recommit the bill H.R. 6945       to the Committee on Ways and Means with instructions to       report the same back to the House forthwith with the       following amendment:

Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the       following:       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Supporting Pregnant and       Parenting Women and Families Act''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON DISCRIMINATION AGAINST PREGNANCY                     CENTERS.

Section 404 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 604) is       amended by adding at the end the following:

``(l) Use of Funds for Pregnancy Centers.--

``(1) In general.--Nothing in this part shall be construed       to prohibit a State from using a grant made under section 403       to support pregnancy centers.

``(2) Safety.--Nothing in this part shall be construed to       prohibit a State from using funds from a grant made under       section 403 to provide security for child care facilities or       to obtain information about harassment of child care       facilities for law enforcement purposes.

``(3) Definition of pregnancy center.--In paragraph (1),       the term `pregnancy center' means any organization, such as a       pregnancy resource center, pregnancy help center or       organization, or pregnancy medical center, that--

``(A) supports protecting the life of the mother and the       unborn child; and

``(B) offers resources and services to mothers, fathers,       and families, including but not limited to relationship       counseling, prenatal and pregnancy education, pregnancy       testing, diapers, baby clothes, or other material       supports.''.

Mr. Speaker, let the record reflect that this bill maintains the  status quo of funding. Right now, people can use TANF dollars for  funding. That is how it has always been. This is just protecting that  it continues to do so because the prior President, President Biden,  decided to try to eliminate it for the first time in history. We are  trying to prevent it so that no future administration can do that. Mr.  Speaker, I do want to talk about one individual. We hear all kinds of  examples over here.

Let me talk about a 21-year-old named Faith who found out she was  pregnant. While driving down the highway, she saw a sign for a  pregnancy resource center in Rolla, Missouri, my congressional  district.

While sharing her initial visit, Faith said that the center  specifically told her: ``Anything you need, we will help you get it.''  She was shunned by her family and pressured by her fiance to abort  their unborn child.

After being shunned, Faith decided to return to the pregnancy  resource center in Rolla, Missouri. Through talking with those at the  center, Faith realized that she ultimately did want to have her child.  She gave birth to her son, Noah. Now, years later, Faith volunteers at  the very center that helped her life and protected her son, Noah.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion at the desk. I  am closing.

As I indicated, my amendment, Mr. Speaker, would be added onto  section 2 of the bill and would just enable childcare centers--TANF to  fund childcare centers, which are now under siege and really  compromising the security of our children.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Yes, Mr. Speaker, I ask for unanimous  consent.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at  the desk.

Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.