Nomination of Frank Bisignano


Ms. WARREN. Madam President, Donald Trump and Elon Musk are taking a  chain saw to Social Security.

For nearly a century, Social Security has been there for tens of  millions of Americans. But now, Trump and Musk are threatening to tear  all of that down. They are firing staff. They are plotting to close  down offices. They are making it harder for people to get help over the  telephone.

Trump's pick to head up Social Security, Frank Bisignano, will  rubberstamp Trump and Musk's attack on Social Security. He will let  them keep slashing services. He will let them keep threatening  benefits. That is going to hurt people everywhere, from seniors who  count on their monthly checks right now to the parents of kids with  disabilities supported by Social Security, to every American who is  paying into the program now for results later on down the line.

Social Security, by the way, is more than just a retirement program.  It is insurance. If you are 30 years old today and you get in an  accident and become disabled, Social Security has you covered. If you  have a child and something happens to you, that kid will get Social  Security benefits.

Donald Trump and Elon Musk want to rip that protection away. Two  people who don't have the slightest clue how much Social Security means  to families are now threatening Americans' benefits in order to pay for  giant tax cuts for billionaires, and since those two cannot begin to  imagine what it means for working people, let's tell them what Social  Security does.

A few weeks ago, I posted a video explaining what Trump and Musk were  doing to Social Security, and I asked people: Just tell your stories.  And the stories came flooding in, and here are just a few:

I'm on Social Security disability--it's about 95 percent of       my total income. Every month since Trump took office this       year, I've worried about whether or not my [Social Security]       payment will come as usual.

Yes, there are millions of people out there who are worried about  getting their Social Security payments on time because Trump and Musk  are out there with that famous chain saw, doing what they can to make  it harder for people to get the benefits that they have earned.

Or here is another:

I've had Medicare medication coverage for around 20 years,       and all of [a] sudden, with Musk's appearance, I've had to       fight to keep it.

Here is someone who has a legal right--a benefit--and now, thanks to  Elon Musk, has to be in the fight in order to keep what this person is  entitled to.

Or another:

I've been getting my Social Security check with zero       problems for 15 years. Last night, I was so worried about me       not getting a check [that] I stayed up to the early morning       hours, to make sure it was in my account. Thanks to Trump and       Musk, I worry if I will be able to pay my rent every month.       Since Trump has been in office, it's been extremely       stressful.

Yes, that is the stress people are feeling about whether or not they  will have access to the money that they invested year after year when  they were working, the money that they earned--their Social Security  benefits.

Or another:

We have a son born with Down syndrome and we are now       retired, depending on our Social Security for the three of       us--for food, utilities, clothing, medical services, things       that we worked [for] all our lives, only to have billionaires       come in and take what little we have to live on away.

Yes, the billionaires may not care about Social Security, but here is  someone who depends on it every day.

Or another:

I'm about to turn 65 and have had a nightmare of a time       trying to even talk to a real human being at the Social       Security office. It's been just a series of dead ends and       mistakes piled atop confusion.

And, boy, there is the heart of it. Donald Trump and Elon Musk can't  legally cut Social Security benefits, but what Trump and Musk are now  doing is cutting access to being able to get your Social Security  benefits started, which has a very similar effect for people who don't  get what they earned all their lives.

Or here is another:

I had cancer at 52 years old--stage 4 uterine cancer. I       spent more than a year fighting cancer. I am currently 66       years old and fighting the chronic pain from the chemicals       they used to treat the cancer. I rely on my Social Security       to survive. What am I going to do?

This is what is happening in America now because Donald Trump and  Elon Musk are taking a chain saw to Social Security.

Or another:

I'm 71 years old and work part time as a data technician in       dementia research, so my [Social Security benefits]       supplement my income. I'm anxious that eventually I, too,       will have my Social Security check delayed or stopped       altogether.

Or another:

We all need Social Security to survive, as a nation. I       myself have been having it drawn out of my paychecks for over       40 years but haven't retired yet and will need it shortly. My       only hope is that it is still there when I need it. We earned       that right to collect this money and [will] not let a bunch       of billionaires take it from us.

Amen.

I have worked since I was 16 years old and now I'm 71 but I       still work part-time. It goes without saying that I need my       [Social Security] benefits to survive and since Trump and       Musk took over I don't know from one month to the next what       might happen. So scary now!

This is what Donald Trump and Elon Musk are doing to people who are  counting on Social Security.

Or another:

I only get $25,000 yearly from Social Security, and it       constitutes more than half of my income. I have a small       pension from the company where I worked for 40 years. If I       lose my Social Security, I'll have to support myself and my       sister (who cannot work) . . . I don't have much in savings       due to continuing medical expenses over the years. [We] need       my Social Security to survive.

I will say that again.

[We] need my Social Security to survive.

Or another:

I'm a [Social Security] employee and I just want to say       thank you for standing up for the programs SSA runs and the       beneficiaries. It is true it's been becoming harder for       people to access their benefits but also for other services       such as getting their Social Security card replaced. There       [are] some days where people are waiting for 8 hours just to       talk to a customer service representative or they don't even       get the call back and have to call again the next day to have       an issue resolved--that's if they have the time [to call] the       next day.

That is testimony from the frontlines, from one who works at the  Social Security Administration--lines that are 8 hours long.

Or another:

I went to a [Social Security] office yesterday because I       need[ed] to change my direct deposit for my monthly benefits.       The doors were locked . . . All the booths were shuttered.       Sign on the door said ``by appointment only'' and there was a       number to call, which I did. The automated system put me on       hold, and the recording said 15-minute wait, and after time       passed, the recording said I would be helped as soon as       possible, then said they were receiving higher than normal       call volumes . . . After several rings, the recording said .       . . leave [a] message (which I did) and someone will return       your call, but that hasn't happened yet. As I sat outside       that office, another person walked up and said he heard that       we have to go into the office in person to show our ID or       lose our benefits--then realized the door was locked . . .       Now I am very concerned that I might not get my benefits in       the future.

So, Donald Trump and Elon Musk, that is what your attack on Social  Security means for Americans: more problems and fewer people to fix  them; hours on the phone or hours waiting in line at an office, trying  to get help--all to get the benefits that people have  paid into their entire working lives. That is money they have earned  and money they are owed.

Frank Bisignano has made clear he will not stop the chaos. He will  not stop the harm. That is wrong. On behalf of every single American  who counts on Social Security, I am voting no on this appointment, and  I encourage all of my colleagues--Democrat and Republican--to do the  same.