After Gardner's TAIPEI Act Becomes Law, U.S. Supports Taiwan's Participation in the WHO


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement today regarding Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's comments that the United States will "do our best to assist" Taiwan's "appropriate role" in the World Health Organization (WHO). The move is consistent with Gardner's Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act, which was signed into law on March 26 and Pompeo pledged to "fully comply" with the new law.

"I applaud Secretary Pompeo's remarks about Taiwan's role in the WHO and the implementation of the TAIPEI Act," said Senator Gardner. "Taiwan's participation in the WHO is more important today than ever as the Chinese Communist Party (CPP) hides the truth about COVID-19 and seeks to isolate Taiwan globally from other international organizations. The United States must use every available policy tool to ensure that the CCP never has veto power over Taiwan's important role as global force for good."

China is placing unprecedented pressure on international organizations to exclude Taiwan from organizations, including the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL), and the WHO.

The TAIPEI Act requires a U.S. strategy to engage with governments around the world to support Taiwan's diplomatic recognition or to strengthen unofficial ties with Taiwan, calls on the U.S. Department of State to exercise a range of diplomatic and assistance options with regard to any government that takes adverse actions with regard to Taiwan, and articulates a clear U.S. policy to support Taiwan's participation in appropriate international organizations like the World Health Organization, which would help Taiwan respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and be able to share globally its expertise and knowledge in handling this crisis. The bill also calls on the Administration to enhance economic cooperation with Taiwan.