Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, early last December or at least sometime  later last year, people in Wuhan, China, began showing symptoms of what  was at that time an unidentifiable respiratory disease in increasing  numbers. We now know that virus as COVID-19, and it has completely  upended our way of life in the United States and around the globe. This  virus has infected over 3.5 million people around the world and killed,  tragically, over 68,000 people in the United States, and that includes  over 900 incredible and great Coloradans, my home State. We certainly  mourn with those families who have lost loved ones, and we will keep  fighting for a path forward as we get through this together. 

  I want to commend in the strongest terms possible our frontline  workers, whether it has been our first responders, our healthcare  professionals, or those who have allowed us to continue to enjoy a safe  and secure food supply; people in the essential businesses who each and  every day don't complain but go to work to help make sure our  communities can get back to work. The list of heroes in our  communities, those who have given so much, goes on and on and on. 

  I think it is important to recognize that as we have addressed the  coronavirus challenge in this country--the measures we have taken, the  steps that have been laid out by mayors and governors and the  President--they have been to comply with guidances and health  directives and to comply with the best science and scientists our  country has, not out of fear of the coronavirus, not because people are  afraid of COVID-19, but they have done it out of love--love for their  community; love for their parents and grandparents, whom they hope to  keep safe and healthy; love for our country, to stop the spread and  flatten the curve. 

  So to all of our incredible healthcare workers, the frontline  workers, essential workers, grocery store clerks and gas station  workers, mechanics at farm equipment dealerships that have remained  open to keep tractors running during planting, to our ranchers and  farmers who have kept our food supply flowing: Thank you. 

  People everywhere across Colorado are hurting, obviously, because of  this pandemic. I have heard numerous stories across our great State. I  have held telephone townhalls in every congressional district in  Colorado, speaking directly with Coloradans who have lost their jobs,  who are unsure about how they will feed their family, and who have  endless questions about what the future holds for them. 

  I have heard from restaurant workers in Denver who were laid off when  their restaurant closed. I have heard from restaurant owners who have  done everything they can to keep their restaurant workers employed-- preparing meals and providing them to the hungry and the homeless. 

  A small business owner in Monument, CO, shared with me how difficult  it was to lay off 35 dedicated staff members but not having a choice. 

  I have talked to businesses in El Paso County near Colorado Springs  who used the last prepaid minutes on a cell phone to participate in our  townhall to try to figure out where they could get food. 

  I have talked to elderly Coloradans who were afraid to go to the  grocery store because they didn't know if they had special hours. They  had an underlying condition, and they didn't know if they could go  safely. Our staff was able to help this person get the groceries they  needed and the disinfectant they had requested and leave some  information about the special hours that grocery stores around the town  were holding for people who needed a little bit more social  distancing--more space, more time, a safer environment to go out. 

  But the effects of the coronavirus aren't because somebody  intentionally decided to hurt our economy, but they are hurting because  of the necessary public health actions their government has taken. It  is in large part the government's responsibility to help get them  through this because it was the government that said to them: Stay at  home. Close your doors. Don't go to work. 

  It is our responsibility to provide the help that our economy needs  to get  moving again, to get people back to work, because it was the advice of  governments, from the local levels to the Federal level, that said:  These are the things you need to do to stop the spread and flatten the  curve. 

  Throughout this entire health epidemic, I have approached it with a  three-prong strategy. Throughout this process, this three-prong  strategy has been the focus I have used to approach what we as a  country must do to get through. These are not steps that should be  taken one at a time. You don't accomplish step 1 and then attempt to  accomplish step 2 and then maybe get to step 3. These are things that  need to be done all at the same time as we move on our path to  recovery. 

  First, we must obviously address the immediate health crisis. The  second prong is, we must make sure we are providing real-time  assistance to real individuals who are really hurting across the State  of Colorado and the country. The third prong is to make sure that we  are supporting our businesses through this crisis, to make sure that  when the health emergency is over, we have an economy that is able to  snap back and run strong. 

  These steps have to be done all at the same time--not step 1, then 2,  then 3--but the first prong, the steps taken to flatten the curve and  stop the spread, has been absolutely critical and will continue to be  critical. 

  Congress has taken many steps to support the health response,  including $175 billion to support healthcare providers, $17 billion to  the Strategic National Stockpile for medical equipment and supplies,  and a recent infusion of $25 billion to support testing, including  dedicated funding for States and Tribes. We have also spent money to  support scientists as they rapidly developed and produced new testing  technologies and worked to get them to the market as quickly as  possible. But it is going back to that bravery of our frontline  healthcare workers, our first responders, our public health experts, as  well as the innovation of our scientists who have served as beacons of  light during this difficult time and will help us get through this  health emergency.  

  On prong 2, providing individuals with the assistance they need, we  have continued to do that and must continue to do that to address this  health emergency because when we started the very first steps, we said  to every American: Please stay home. Figure out how to socially  distance. 

  As a result, unemployment claims have skyrocketed to record numbers  as Americans grappled with work reductions, job loss, and overall  changes to our daily lives. 

  It is important that Congress acted quickly to provide individuals  with immediate assistance. In the CARES Act, we provided direct  individual assistance to millions of individuals and married couples  across the State and across the country. We allowed Federal student  loan borrowers to defer payments for 6 months without interest or  penalties. We established a temporary Pandemic Unemployment Assistance  Program for those who are self-employed or independent contractors  whose livelihoods have been impacted by the pandemic--people who  otherwise might not have had a place to go. 

  One consistent message I have heard from countless Coloradans as I  have spoken with them during the pandemic is that they appreciate our  bipartisan efforts. It is beyond that. It is not simply a bipartisan  effort where Republicans and Democrats are working together; it is  actually nonpartisan because Republicans and Democrats realize there is  no reason to bear that mantle of ``party'' because so many people are  hurting, and we know what needs to be done for the country to work  together, to be nonpartisan, and to provide the relief real individuals  need in real time. 

  We have to keep fighting in this nonpartisan way and this bipartisan  way to make testing more widely available, to support State and local  governments, to advocate for frontline and essential workers, and to  set up our economy to return as strong as it was before the pandemic.  Thank goodness our economy was as strong as it was when we went into  this. Imagine where we would be if we had a weak or struggling economy  as we entered the health emergency. 

  Prong 3 requires support for businesses. The economic relief that was  provided through the Paycheck Protection Program under the CARES Act  continues to be an essential tool for our small businesses and families  across all four corners of Colorado. Over $10 billion in round 1 and  round 2 of the Paycheck Protection Program has been delivered to keep  people on the payroll in Colorado. The Paycheck Protection Program was  created to keep employees on the payroll and to help keep bills paid so  that workers can keep their jobs, salaries, and benefits--they can keep  them--and so small businesses can hit the ground running when they are  able to resume operations. Think about the millions of small businesses  in our country responsible for over $6 trillion in salary every year in  this country. 

  We often talk about small businesses being the backbone, the  foundation, and the bedrock of our economy, and it is absolutely true.  Small businesses employ nearly half of all American workers, and they  make up 99.5 percent of all Colorado businesses, employing more than  1.1 million Coloradans. 

  Because of clarifications to the program I fought for, just last week  I heard from three rural hospitals in Colorado that received Paycheck  Protection Program loans through their local community bank. They were  within a matter of a week or weeks of having to lay off employees and  in some cases, shut down. The access to the Paycheck Protection Program  was an absolute game changer for these critical and vital rural  hospitals. Now these hospitals can continue to provide both critical  healthcare services to their communities and jobs for their employees,  and in many communities, these rural hospitals are the largest employer  in that community. 

  These actions and programs are essential cornerstones to our  recovery, but we must finish laying the foundation to ensure our  economy snaps back and runs strong. While governments can allow  businesses to open, the American people simply won't return--they won't  fully return to the economy until they have confidence that the virus  is under control. 

  The first step to tackling any problem, of course, is seeing it, and  that is especially true with COVID-19. How do we see it? Through  widespread testing. Widespread testing is key to seeing the bigger  picture in the fight against this virus. Our country's well-being both  medically and financially relies on our ability to see where the  illness is and where it is not and where it is spreading and where it  is declining. That, in turn, depends on our ability to ramp up testing  capacity. 

  Rapid testing for COVID-19 and further research into the benefits,  applications, and development of that body of testing will help show  which Coloradans have been exposed to COVID-19 and the percentage of  our population that has already recovered. This will better inform  local schools, businesses, and governments as they make their own  determinations about the path forward. It will help provide peace of  mind for Coloradans as they start to visit their families, reschedule  doctors' appointments for routine preventative services, and return to  their jobs. It will also help States and local health departments  decide what type of other responsive measures are necessary. 

  My approach to this pandemic has been an all-hands-on-deck approach.  When the Governor calls me and says our State needs more tests, more  masks, or more equipment, I get to work fighting to find that  assistance. Working together with the Governor, leaders at the Federal  level, and our allies abroad, we have been able to secure hundreds of  thousands of masks and tests for our State, and we are working around  the clock for more.  

  Without effective widespread testing and a corresponding strategy  that leverages and improves public health infrastructure to support  monitoring, we cannot have a real-time response to the virus. Rapid  testing and the ability of public health departments to inform  individuals with positive cases quickly so they can take appropriate  action and further prevent the spread is critical to making sure our  entire economy is not forced to shut down in the future. 

  The dollars we have provided through various phases of action as it  relates to the health emergency will help provide  that testing to help mobilize new testing, to invent the kind of  testing we need--an antigen-based test, an antibodies test--the  opportunities we have to rapidly let the people of this country know  what is happening, what is not happening, and how we should tailor our  public policies to fit the spread of the virus and the decline of the  virus and the reopening of our economy. 

  We need a test that is so ubiquitous that people can buy a Big Gulp  at 7-Eleven and buy a COVID-19 test and keep it in their car or keep it  in their first aid kit so that if they wake up in the morning with a  sore throat, they can test and they can have the actual results.  Instead of shutting down a household or a community or a country, we  can get the results to implement better public policies then and there. 

  Congress must also make sure that the Paycheck Protection Program  continues to be funded and improved where needed to better support  America's small businesses and the employees they are able to keep on  the payroll as a result. We must make the program flexible enough to be  effective, and we must make the rules so clear--so clear--that people  will be competent that they can use it. 

  I have seen the headlines about big businesses taking this money when  they might not really need it, but I have also talked to 15-employee  companies that have needed $30,000 or $40,000 to pay their workers and  that are now terrified of crossing Federal prosecutors. 

  I heard from a Coloradan I have known my entire life who is working  with her son's business. This is an essential business that has  remained open because of the role they play in our food supply. They  went to the bank, and they got a loan under the Paycheck Protection  Program. They were very excited that they would be able to keep their  doors open, and then they received a letter that said: Hey, are you  sure you needed this loan? Maybe you didn't. Now they don't know  whether they should keep it. They are terrified to use it. 

  While we have to make sure our programs aren't abused, we also have  to make sure we don't create a chilling effect on businesses that truly  need it. I understand the need to be careful about who gets this money,  but when we are scaring businesses that we all agree need assistance  the most, maybe things have gone too far and Congress is no longer  helping. 

  Congress should act to make rules that are clear. We should help  guide those rules to be clear and bring confidence to the program to  make sure that people can be at work, keep their jobs, and keep their  benefits. 

  When the foundation is secure and we have this foundation secure, we  should then explore the immediate opportunities for economic activity  and employment--the opportunities that will benefit every American and  create the conditions for a quicker recovery. Until the American  consumer is fully back, with confidence in our economy, we need to look  for ways to fill the gap. 

  We have long talked about the need to refurbish our infrastructure.  Now is the time to do it. 

  This health crisis has laid bare the cyber desert that exists in many  of our rural communities. We should make a concentrated effort to make  rural broadband a reality. 

  We should fully and permanently fund the Land and Water Conservation  Fund and put funding towards our deferred maintenance projects across  our Federal lands that we all cherish so much. That will create  immediate jobs building roads and maintaining trails and creating the  kinds of job opportunities that many of our high mountain towns  desperately need as a result of this health emergency and now economic  emergency. 

  I have introduced a bill that has the President's support and both  sides of the aisle, and certainly the ideas are supported across both  Chambers of Congress--the Great American Outdoors Act. Communities  throughout the Nation would benefit, and these funds would help  contribute to a strong and growing outdoor recreation economy--one of  the largest drivers of our economy in Colorado and in many States. 

  In short, we need to take some big and bold steps to make sure that  our economy is back on track and to help accelerate it once again. We  need these big steps because we have taken a hard shot in the last  couple of months. 

  We also need to support mental health efforts. Prior to the pandemic,  70 percent of Colorado's mental health need was unmet, and on average,  one Coloradoan died by suicide every 7 hours. Before COVID-19, I was  working on a number of legislative efforts to improve mental health  support, and COVID-19 has only underscored just how time-sensitive  these matters are--particularly my legislation, the National Suicide  Hotline Designation Act. 

  In a mental health emergency, it is almost impossible to remember the  current 10-digit hotline. Sometimes there is more than one 10-digit  hotline. So establishing 9-8-8 as a national suicide prevention hotline  will save lives and help more Americans in need to access critical  mental health support. 

  S. 2661, the National Suicide Hotline Designation Act, is more than  smart policy that will help save lives; it is a statement that our  government recognizes the crisis and is working across party lines to  address it. Establishing 9-8-8 as a national suicide prevention hotline  will save lives and help more Americans who need access to critical  mental health support. 

  I have been proud to push for this three-digit hotline and funding  for the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, and I will keep fighting  to make suicide prevention services more accessible. Let's come  together, and let's get this done. 

  Access to mental health care is especially important during this  trying time filled with grief and uncertainty for so many people, and  we must ensure we are doing everything we can to prevent these  devastating outcomes from occurring. 

  But no matter how bleak our situation looks, it is important to  remember that America has faced its fair share of challenges. Together,  we have persevered and persisted through world wars, economic  disasters, the September 11 terrorist attacks, and much, much more.  While this virus will not be the last challenge our country faces, we  know that this, too, shall pass, and together, we will make it to the  other side stronger than ever. I have faith and confidence in the  American people and in our ability to pull together and to continue to  meet this challenge head-on. Colorado has been that shining example of  resiliency in so many instances, and it will continue to be.  

  Over these last several months, I have spoken directly to countless  Coloradans, all unsure of what the future holds, but they are certain  we will get through this by looking up to that great Rocky Mountain  horizon. Coloradans everywhere are stepping up and meeting this  challenge in the spirit of our great country. They are donating food,  they are donating personal protective equipment, and they are donating  time, talents, and their blood. Individuals and businesses across  Colorado and across the country are seeing needs and responding to  those in need. 

  To the brave healthcare providers fighting around the clock, the  reliable farmers and ranchers working day in and day out to keep food  on the table, and all the essential workers who continue to selflessly  put themselves at risk to ensure others are taken care of first, I give  my deepest thanks and praise. 

  In Colorado, we have lost two first responders on the frontlines in  the fight against COVID-19. 

  Deputy Jeff Hopkins served in the El Paso County Sheriff's Office,  and he had been serving there since 2001. On April 1, he passed away  from COVID-19 at the age of 41--1 day after he was diagnosed with  COVID-19. His death was determined to be a line-of-duty death, which is  a reminder to all of us that our brave first responders are in harm's  way every day but especially during this pandemic. 

  We also recently lost Paul Cary, who worked as a firefighter and  paramedic in Aurora for more than 30 years. Paul was 66 years old, and  he selflessly drove--selflessly drove--27 hours straight to New York in  an ambulance to help out in the battle against COVID-19. While there,  he was tending to patients and transporting them to hospitals. After  falling ill with the virus, Paul died on April 30. Coloradans lined the  streets to give him a hero's farewell. 

  To Deputy Hopkins, to Paul Cary, and to the countless heroes like  them  who are risking their own lives for our health and safety every day,  thank you. 

  First responders and medical professionals all across our State  continue to make countless sacrifices on our behalf. 

  The long hours and time away from family and loved ones, the  undeniable mental toll this pandemic takes on those on the frontlines  and the health risks--these sacrifices don't go unnoticed. We must do  everything we can to make sure the first responders of COVID-19 have  the resources, the support, and the personal protective equipment  needed to fight this pandemic. 

  We will never be able to fully show our deep appreciation for our  healthcare providers, frontline employees, and first responders who are  working to keep vital parts of our country moving. We have to do  everything we can to try to make up what they have done for us in big  ways and small ways every day. 

  In Colorado, we don't look back; we look forward. We look out across  the Great Plains, the Great High Plains, up to that majestic Rocky  Mountain horizon for that next optimistic day. 

  In the middle of the health emergency, a couple of weeks ago, I  received a letter in the mail, and it had a pair of pliers in this  letter, and I really didn't know what it was. It sat on my desk, and I  opened it up not knowing what it was. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, in the letter, this pair of pliers came,  and I opened it up, and here is what it said:  

       Senator Gardner, I want to thank you and everyone at your       office profusely for everything that you have done for me.       You have allowed for me to continue receiving uninterrupted       benefits and care for combat injuries I have sustained while       serving as an Officer in the U.S. Army. 

       In 2014, you came to visit me in the Ward of Walter Reed,       while I was still bandaged and pretty beat up, missing my       dominant hand and looking overall pretty haggard. You told me       a story about the Korfs (My Mom's side) [of the family] in       Yuma County.  

  At this point, I realized who the letter was from, and I remembered  very clearly the story I had told this young soldier.  

       You told me a story about the Korfs (My Mom's side) in Yuma       County walking into your family's hardware store and stress-      testing pliers.  

  It was a story I had received from my granddad about these two  brothers who would come in years and years ago--decades ago. They would  grab a pair of pliers on the parts counter, and they would squeeze  them, and they were so strong that they would snap the pin in the  pliers. I told him that story. 

  He wrote in his letter:  

       Apparently my ancestors wouldn't buy a pair if they didn't       stand up to the grip of the man that I can only imagine was       pretty strong in the arms. While I'm sure they only broke a       few sets and got away with it by being [expletive], I've       enclosed a pair as recompense. 

       After you visited, I took that story with me. After 5 years       as an amputee, I've been an Infantry Officer and I spent       years training as a Special Forces Officer--the only amputee       to ever pass Assessment and Selection. It's been inspiring to       grip this set of pliers and try to snap them.  

  And then he wrote:  

       Sometimes our tools break, sometimes it's our fault,       sometimes they're not flat sturdy to begin with, sometimes       these tools have just been used to the point of failure.       Every time, though, what really matters is what we do once       that tool is broken. We fix it, get a new one, or we       improvise something better. Either way, we figure out how to       finish the job, because people are depending on us to get it       done. 

       Carey G. DuVall, CPT U.S. Army, Ft. Bragg, NC.  

  We face a tremendous challenge unlike we have ever faced in our  lifetimes, and, while we are going to use every tool we have to help  fix what has happened, we know that every one is not going to be  perfect. But we have to keep trying because that is what the American  people do every day. They make it work. They fight. They get back on  their feet. We have to be in this fight with them. 

  Thank you. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT