Gardner, Coons Praise President Signing TAIPEI Act Into Law


Today the President signed the Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act into law, authored by U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE). This bipartisan legislation is intended to strengthen Taiwan's standing around the world and comes in response to increased Chinese pressure and bullying tactics intended to restrict Taiwan's international space and global diplomatic recognition.

"The United States should use every tool to support Taiwan's standing on the international stage," said Senator Gardner. "This bipartisan legislation demands a whole-of-government approach to ramp up our support for Taiwan, and will send a strong message to nations that there will be consequences for supporting Chinese actions that undermine Taiwan. I applaud the President for signing this critical bipartisan legislation, and I will continue to advocate on behalf of Taiwan and the Taiwanese people, as guided by United States law."

"I'm pleased the President signed this bill into law," said Senator Coons. "The TAIPEI Act sends a clear message that the United States stands with Taiwan's free-market democracy. I look forward to finding additional ways to support the positive role Taiwan plays in international affairs."

The TAIPEI Act requires a U.S. strategy to engage with governments around the world to support Taiwan's diplomatic recognition or to strengthen unofficial ties with Taiwan, calls on the State Department to exercise a range of diplomatic and assistance options with regard to any government that takes adverse actions with regard to Taiwan, and articulates a clear U.S. policy to support Taiwan's participation in appropriate international organizations like the World Health Organization, which would help Taiwan respond to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, and be able to share globally its expertise and knowledge in handling this crisis. The bill also calls on the Administration to enhance economic cooperation with Taiwan.