Gardner Cheers Enrollment of United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) released the following statement today after Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA), as president pro tempore of the United States Senate, led a bill enrollment ceremony to sign the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act. This is the final step before it goes to the president for his signature to become law.

"A great portion of our economy and nearly a quarter million jobs in Colorado are dependent on trade with Canada and Mexico, and I'm proud to have supported the USMCA for more jobs, economic growth, and opportunity in Colorado," said Senator Gardner. "Today Congress finally sent the USMCA to the President's desk, which is welcome news for Colorado's workers, our agriculture industry, and our economy."

Colorado exported $2.7 billion in goods to Canada and Mexico in 2018, making them Colorado's largest trading partners. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Colorado exported more than $165 million of electronic machinery, $74 million worth of beverages, $47 million of dairy products, $33 million of cereals, and $28 million of sugar and confectionary exports to Canada and Mexico in 2018. Colorado's biggest export, beef, accounts for more than $880 million worth of goods shipped to Mexico and Canada.

Background:

In January 2020, the Senate passed the USMCA with Gardner's support. Gardner said of passage "Colorado's workforce stands to benefit from the USMCA, as roughly a quarter million jobs exist in the Centennial State because of our trade relationships with our North American neighbors."In January 2020, Gardner voted for the USMCA in both the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. He then urged his colleagues to support the USMCA on the floor of the Senate.In October 2019, Gardner recapped his annual Colorado Farm Tour on the Senate floor and spoke about why the USMCA is important to Colorado's agriculture industry.In September 2019, Gardner authored an op-ed in the Greeley Tribune calling on Congress to "Bring the most important trade agreement for Colorado into the modern era and pass the USMCA."In July 2019, Gardner took to the Senate floor and urged swift ratification of the USMCA.