Gardner, Collins Bill to Reauthorize Older Americans Act Passes Senate Unanimously


This week the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Supporting Older Americans Act. The bipartisan legislation, led by U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Chairman of the Aging Committee, and Bob Casey (D-PA), Ranking Member of the Aging Committee, would reauthorize and strengthen the Older Americans Act (OAA), the nation's preeminent law focused on the wellbeing of seniors. The legislation also fixes a harmful funding formula issue that impacts states like Colorado with fast growing senior populations. The bill has now been sent to the House for its consideration before heading to the President's desk to be signed into law. In the last year alone, OAA programs served more than 700,000 caregivers and provided seniors across the country with 358 million meals. In 2017, OAA programs served more than 54,000 seniors in Colorado, with 28 percent of registered service clients in rural areas and 26 percent below the poverty level. 

"Today I'm proud to announce I've secured an increase of funding authorization for critical services that roughly 54,000 seniors in Colorado rely on, like meals-on-wheels, family caregiver support, transportation, legal assistance, and more," said Senator Gardner. "The Senate unanimously passed the Supporting Older Americans Act with my support, which fixes a flawed 2006 law that unfairly underfunded services for Colorado's seniors. Caring for our nation's seniors is critical, and this funding fix will deliver not only a wide range of services to seniors in need of assistance, but also peace of mind for our nation's seniors and their loved ones that these critical services will be available to those who need it most."

"For more than half a century, the Older Americans Act has served as a lifeline for millions of seniors by enriching their lives and improving their overall health," said Senator Collins. "This bipartisan legislation will help ensure that the OAA continues to match the goals we set to permit seniors to age with dignity, respect, and community. As Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee, it is one of my highest priorities to get this bill across the finish line to strengthen the OAA's programs while providing more flexibility for states to meet local needs. I am pleased that the Senate unanimously passed our legislation, and I urge the House to approve it swiftly so that it can be enacted into law."

"The Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) has worked with Senator Gardner for many years to eliminate the hold harmless provision which prevented Colorado seniors from receiving equitable funding in the Older Americans Act," said Doug Rex, Executive Director of DRCOG. "With the elimination of this provision, Colorado should receive one of the nation's largest increases in Older Americans Act funding."

"On behalf of the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations (LCAO), we appreciate the bipartisan, and bicameral proposal to reauthorize the Older Americans Act (OAA)," said Debra Whitman, Chair of LCAO, the coalition of national nonprofit organizations working on behalf of America's older adults. "We enthusiastically endorse the Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020, H.R. 4334, and look forward to its passage to support our growing aging population and help assure their healthy longevity." 

"n4a is thrilled that the Senate has passed the Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020," said n4a CEO Sandy Markwood. "This bill is the result of months of negotiations among Senate and House leadership, as well as aging policy advocates and n4a members here in Washington and around the country. For more than 50 years, the Older Americans Act has funded services that support older adults and enhance their ability to continue living in the community. These programs reduce the likelihood that older adults will experience hunger, malnutrition, social isolation and elder abuse. The Older Americans Act also supports the continued ability of older adults and their caregivers to access services that provide transportation, caregiver supports, meals, in-home services and so many more programs that are essential to community living."

When Congress reauthorized the Older Americans Act in 2006, there was a change to the funding formula called the "hold harmless" provision, which set a minimum funding amount based on 2006 funding levels. This provision was detrimental to states like Colorado with quickly growing senior populations because funding for services did not keep pace with the rising senior population. 

The OAA supports and improves the lives of seniors--particularly those who are low-income--through programs and services that promote nutrition (e.g. Meals on Wheels), improve transportation options, support caregivers, offer employment and community service opportunities, and prevent abuse and neglect. Specifically, the bipartisan Supporting Older American Act reauthorizes the Older Americans Act for five years with funding levels that better meet growing needs, improves the availability of transportation resources to seniors, ensures that those living with younger onset Alzheimer's disease are included in key OAA services, and enhances elder abuse prevention activities through increased outreach and education activities.