Gardner Calls for Return to Maximum Pressure Policy on North Korea


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, held a hearing today titled "North Korea Policy One Year After Hanoi," examining next steps to effectively deter Pyongyang's illicit weapons programs and gross human rights abuses against its people.

"It should now be abundantly clear to even a casual observer that "summit diplomacy' over the past 18 months has failed to convince Kim Jong Un to abide by international law, but has only lessened the pressure on Pyongyang to denuclearize. Our sanctions policy has been inconsistent, which has left significant enforcement gaps that North Korea and its enablers continue to exploit. The cancellation and downgrading of our military exercises have weakened our defense posture in East Asia, which has only emboldened the madman in Pyongyang," said Senator Gardner. "It is time to go back to Plan A on North Korea: the successful policy of "maximum pressure' that was adopted early in the Trump Administration, but since abandoned in an earnest effort of diplomatic engagement with Pyongyang." 

Gardner called on Congress to pass the Gardner-Markey Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy (LEED) Act, comprehensive bipartisan legislation to economically and diplomatically pressure North Korea and its enablers through the imposition of sanctions and other policy measures. The legislation also calls on North Korea to immediately return the USS Pueblo, a US Navy research ship illegally seized in international waters in January 1968 and is currently displayed in Pyongyang as an anti-American propaganda attraction.

Background:

In January 2020, Gardner welcomed new sanctions against entities that participate in North Korea's supply of slave labor abroad, as mandated by Gardner's North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (NKSPEA) and the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act.In December 2019, Gardner urged U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelly Craft to make clear the Trump administration intends to fully implement the "maximum pressure" policy on North Korea and impose sanctions as required by law.Gardner's provision to recommit the United States to a policy of maximum pressure on North Korea and enforce mandatory sanctions under Gardner's NKSPEA was included in the National Defense Authorization Act andsigned into law in December 2019.In September 2019, Gardner commended new sanctions placed on North Korea, which were mandated by his 2016 North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act.Gardner introduced the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy (LEED) Act, comprehensive bipartisan legislation to economically and diplomatically pressure North Korea and its enablers in June 2019.