Gardner Statement on Reelection of President of Taiwan


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement on Tsai Ing-wen's reelection as President of Taiwan.

"I extend my warmest congratulations to Tsai Ing-wen, Taiwan's fourth democratically elected leader, on winning a second presidential term. It was an honor to host President Tsai in Denver last year, and it's been a privilege working closely with her to advance the friendship between our nations during my multiple visits to Taipei," said Senator Gardner. "As China continues its aggressive campaign to delegitimize Taiwan, it's critically important for the United States to reaffirm our support for Taiwan's resilient and vibrant democracy, and to further grow the bonds of friendship between the people of Taiwan and the United States." 

Standing with the People of Taiwan:

Senator Gardner authored the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act (ARIA) of 2018, which was signed into law on December 31, 2018, and represents a generational policy framework to enhance U.S. leadership in the Indo-Pacific region and to demonstrate a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. Among its key provisions is a requirement to significantly enhance U.S. support for Taiwan, through regular arms sales and high-level visits.In May of 2019, the U.S. Senate passed Senator Gardner's resolution commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Taiwan Relations Act and reaffirming the U.S.-Taiwan relationship. Senator Gardner also introduced the bipartisan Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act, which requires a U.S. strategy to engage with governments around the world to support Taiwan's diplomatic recognition and participation in appropriate international organizations. In October of 2019, the U.S. Senate passed Senator Gardner's TAIPEI Act.In February of 2019, Senators Gardner, Rubio (R-FL), Cotton (R-AR), Cornyn (R-TX), and Cruz (R-TX) wrote to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi urging her to invite President Tsai Ing-wen to address a joint session of Congress.In August of 2019, Senator Gardner hosted President of Taiwan Tsai and high-ranking Taiwanese officials in Colorado. President Tsai's visit marked the first time a sitting president of Taiwan has visited the state of Colorado.