Gardner Statement on National Emergency Declaration


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) today released the following statement regarding President Trump's national emergency declaration in response to the ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Under the emergency declaration, Senator Gardner sent a letter to the U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma requesting immediate consideration for 1135 Waiver requests to help the state of Colorado respond to the outbreak. 

"Last week Congress approved $8.3 billion for the United States to combat the spread of COVID-19 and today's national emergency declaration under the Stafford Act will free up additional aid and critical flexibility to respond to this outbreak. With the new declaration, I immediately requested new waivers from HHS and CMS to help Colorado respond," said Senator Gardner. "Accurate and widely available testing will be critical to help slow this outbreak, and working to increase access to COVID-19 test kits is a top priority. I want to thank the public health officials in Colorado and across the country for the work they have been doing to protect the American people from the COVID-19 outbreak."

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that individuals take everyday precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including cleaning hands often, washing hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, using hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol, and avoiding touching high-touch surfaces in public places such as elevator buttons, door handles, handrails, handshaking with people, etc. More guidance from the CDC on preventing the spread of COVID-19 is available here.

Senator Gardner is taking action to protect Coloradans from the coronavirus outbreak:

Congress approved $8.3 billion for the United States to prepare for and respond to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak on March 5,with Gardner's support.At Gardner's urging, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Robert Lighthizer removed tariffs on certain medical productsthat are necessary for the U.S. to prepare for the COVID-19 outbreak.On March 4, Gardner pressed Senate witnesses about the United States' preparedness for the COVID-19 outbreak at a hearing held by the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Aviation and Space's hearing titled "From SARS to Coronavirus: Examining the Role of Global Aviation in Containing the Spread of Infectious Disease."Gardner and the entire Colorado congressional delegation sent a letter to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Wellness and Response on March 4 in support of the State of Colorado's grant request to ensure preparedness for the novel coronavirus outbreak.  On February 28, Gardner wrote to United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Robert Lighthizer requesting USTR remove section 301 import tariffs on medical products that are necessary for the U.S. to prepare for the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.On February 27, Gardner wrote to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Robert Redfield, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and Federal Aviation Administrator Steve Dickson requesting information regarding the United States' domestic and international screening and prevention practices for the coronavirus with regard to countries with a growing number of hotspots.On February 6, Gardner wrote to Senate Appropriations leaders requesting that they work with the Department of Health and Human Services to ensure robust funding for the outbreak response.On January 31, Gardner wrote to World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros concerning Taiwan's exclusion from the WHO and WHO-sponsored emergency briefings regarding the coronavirus.Also on January 31, Gardner wrote to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Azar requesting that the novel coronavirus taskforce coordinate with medical supply manufacturers to ensure that the U.S. has a medical supply strategy in place to address possible shortages in light of potential further spread of the virus.In January after the first reports of the coronavirus were confirmed in the U.S., Gardner contacted the CDC to inquire about steps that they plan to take to contain the outbreak and work with other domestic and international agencies to develop screening practices and treatments.Gardner also contacted the State Department with concerns about the coronavirus and its implication for global health, and China's handling of the outbreak.At Gardner's urging on January 24, the U.S. Senate Committees on Foreign Relations and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions held a briefing from top U.S. officials regarding the coronavirus.