Gardner Secures Senate Action on the Great American Outdoors Act


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), a member of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, released the following statement today regarding the announcement that the Senate will consider S. 3422, his bipartisan Great American Outdoors Act, in June. 

"Our mountain towns were hit hard by COVID-19. The ski season ended early, restaurants closed, and hotels emptied. Now is the time to pass this bill that will provide billions of dollars in funding for new jobs across Colorado and the country while protecting our public lands," said Senator Gardner. "I look forward to the Senate passing this legislation quickly and I call on the House of Representatives to be prepared to take it up in short order. Now is the time for bold, bipartisan action to create immediate job opportunities, and the President has already called for this legislation to be sent to his desk for his signature."

Gardner is a champion for the Land and Water Conservation Fund in the U.S. Senate:

In May 2020, more than 800 conservation groups sent a letter to congressional leadership supporting the passage of Gardner's Great American Outdoors Act.In April 2020, Gardner and other members of the Colorado congressional delegation called on leaders of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House to consider including Gardner's Great American Outdoors Act in future COVID-19 legislation.In March 2020, Gardner introduced the Great American Outdoors Act to fully and permanently fund the LWCF and immediately address the nearly $20 billion in maintenance backlog at our public lands.In March 2020, Colorado-based businesses and organizations called on Congress to pass Gardner's legislation to fully and permanently fund the LWCF.Senators Gardner and Daines held a bipartisan press conference in March 2020 announcing they secured President Trump's support for bipartisan legislation to provide full and permanent funding for the LWCF and address the $12 billion maintenance backlog in our national parks.In 2019, Gardner led the fight to pass and have signed into law by the President S. 47, the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, which included a Gardner-sponsored bill to permanently reauthorize the LWCF, which Gardner has been pushing for since his first month in the Senate.Conservation groups in Colorado and across the country praised Gardner's efforts to secure full and permanent funding for the LWCF in November 2019.The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources passed S. 1081, the bipartisan Land and Water Conservation Fund Permanent Funding Act in November 2019, a bill introduced by Gardner that will make the full funding of LWCF mandatory every fiscal year.In October 2019, Gardner and a bipartisan group of Senators introduced an amendment to the appropriations bill to fully fund the LWCF.Senators Gardner and Michael Bennet (D-CO) called on the leaders of the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives to include full, permanent funding for the LWCF in the fiscal year 2020 funding agreement in September 2019.In April 2019, Gardner received the 2019 National Park Heritage Award from the National Parks Conservation Association for his leadership in the signing into law of S. 47, which included permanent reauthorization of the LWCF.