Gardner Statement on Treasury Sanctions on North Korea


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, released the following statement today regarding the U.S. Department of the Treasury's announcement of sanctions against two Chinese nationals who laundered cryptocurrency for Lazarus Group, a U.S.-designated North Korean state-sponsored malicious cyber group. The designations were made pursuant to Executive Order 13694, which was codified into law by the Gardner-authored North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (NKSPEA) and the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (ARIA).

Yesterday North Korea launched its first two missiles of 2020, in violation of 11 United Nations Security Council Resolutions that prohibit the regime from launches of any type and range. According to experts that testified before Gardner's subcommittee last week, in 2019 North Korea launched 26 missiles -- the highest-ever number of violations of UN resolutions in one year -- and also unveiled five new short-range ballistic missiles that threaten South Korea, Japan, and U.S. forces stationed in both countries.

"Consistent with United States law, I commend the Treasury Department for sanctioning two Chinese nationals for violating U.S. law and supporting the Kim Jong Un regime," said Senator Gardner. "As made clear by yesterday's illegal missile launches, the madman in Pyongyang has no intention of following the path of diplomacy. Through bipartisan legislation like NSKPEA and ARIA, Congress has spoken loud and clear that the goal of any negotiation with Pyongyang should be the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of North Korea. I call on the Administration and the international community to immediately increase the pressure on North Korea to force this rogue regime to comply with international law."

Background:

Gardner held a hearing titled "North Korea Policy One Year After Hanoi" in February 2020, examining next steps to effectively deter Pyongyang's illicit weapons programs and gross human rights abuses against its people.In January 2020, Gardner welcomed new sanctions against entities that participate in North Korea's supply of slave labor abroad, as mandated by Gardner's North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016 (NKSPEA) and the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act.In December 2019, Gardner urged U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kelly Craft to make clear the Trump administration intends to fully implement the "maximum pressure" policy on North Korea and impose sanctions as required by law.Gardner's provision to recommit the United States to a policy of maximum pressure on North Korea and enforce mandatory sanctions under Gardner's NKSPEA was included in the National Defense Authorization Act and signed into law in December 2019.In September 2019, Gardner commended new sanctions placed on North Korea, which were mandated by his 2016 North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act.Gardner introduced the Leverage to Enhance Effective Diplomacy (LEED) Act, comprehensive bipartisan legislation to economically and diplomatically pressure North Korea and its enablers in June 2019.