Gardner Applauds Taiwan for Donating Millions of Masks to U.S.


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO), Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy, applauded Taiwan's commitment today to donate two million masks to the United States in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Colorado will receive 100,000 masks, which should arrive next week.

"It has been an honor to work with President Tsai to advance the friendship between the U.S. and Taiwan, and I would like to thank all of Taiwan on behalf of the medical professionals in Colorado who desperately need the masks that Taiwan is graciously donating," said Senator Gardner. "Taiwan is more than willing to help the world beat the COVID-19 pandemic, and this incredible act of generosity is further reason that Taiwan should be granted observer status at the World Health Organization." 

Of the two million masks pledged by Taiwan, one million will be donated to the federal government's response to COVID-19 and one million to individual states. The state of Colorado will receive one-tenth of the masks donated to individual states.

On March 26, the President signed Gardner's TAIPEI Act, which requires a U.S. strategy to engage with governments around the world to support Taiwan's diplomatic recognition or to strengthen unofficial ties with Taiwan, calls on the U.S. Department of State to exercise a range of diplomatic and assistance options with regard to any government that takes adverse actions with regard to Taiwan, and articulates a clear U.S. policy to support Taiwan's participation in appropriate international organizations like the World Health Organization, which would help Taiwan respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and be able to share globally its expertise and knowledge in handling this crisis. The bill also calls on the Administration to enhance economic cooperation with Taiwan.

This week U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo pledged to fully comply with Gardner's TAIPEI Act and support Taiwan's participation in the World Health Organization.