ICYMI: Sen. Gardner on Fox News to Discuss the 100 Ventilators Secured for Colorado


U.S. Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO) joined Fox News today to discuss the news that the federal government will immediately provide 100 ventilators to the state of Colorado to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. Gardner also discussed providing additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program created under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act.

NOTE: Click here or the picture above to watch Senator Gardner's full interview.

On the 100 Ventilators Secured for Colorado:

"The Governor has been searching for ventilators and FEMA has also been searching for ventilators. I talked to the President last night about the Colorado need for ventilators, and of course I'm very thankful that he provided that last night. We're going to continue to work with the President for more and continue to meet Colorado's needs, but I think it's just a sign that we are fighting for Colorado and we're standing up for all of our states in this COVID-19 response."

On Providing Additional Funds for the Paycheck Protection Program:

"I think this is one of the most important aspects of the CARES Act. Nearly 200,000 loans have been issued and over $30 billion worth of loans approved. That's putting over a million people back onto or keeping them on payroll. This is incredibly important, so I support putting whatever is necessary into this fund to keep our economy moving and keep people on payroll, and to make sure that Colorado remains strong. I did a town hall where I spoke to a gentleman named Gene from Colorado Springs. He worked in a business with 16 employees -- 15 of them have been laid off and he was wondering about unemployment insurance. I said well yes, that's probably an option, but what about having your employer go to the Paycheck Protection Program where you can get a loan and keep everybody on payroll? This will make a huge difference, this is going to be something that really makes a difference when this economy can snap back after the COVID-19 emergency is over."

You can watch Senator Gardner's full interview by clicking here.