Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, over the last several months and last  several weeks, the American people have watched Washington convulse in  partisan accusations, investigations, and endless acrimony. That  division reached its high watermark as the U.S. Senate carried out the  third Presidential impeachment trial in our Nation's history. 

  We saw, over the last 2 weeks, an impeachment process that included  the testimony of 17 witnesses, more than 100 hours of testimony, and  tens of thousands of pages of evidence, records, and documents, which I  successfully fought to make part of the record. I fought hard to extend  the duration of testimony to ensure that each side could be heard over  6 days instead of just 4. But what we did not see over the last 2 weeks  was a conclusive reason to remove the President of the United States-- an act which would nullify the 2016 election and rob roughly half the  country of their preferred candidate for the 2020 elections.  

  House managers repeatedly stated that they had established  ``overwhelming evidence'' and an ``airtight'' case to remove the  President. Yet they also repeatedly claimed they needed additional  investigation and testimony. A case cannot be both ``overwhelming'' and  ``airtight'' and yet incomplete at the same time. That contradiction is  not mere semantics. 

  In their partisan--their partisan--race to impeach, the House failed  to do the fundamental work required to prove its case, to meet the  heavy burden. For the Senate to ignore this deficiency and conduct its  own investigation would weaponize the impeachment power. A House  majority could simply short-circuit an investigation, impeach, and  demand the Senate complete the House's work--what they were asking us  to do. 

  The Founders were concerned about this very point. Alexander Hamilton  wrote, regarding impeachments: ``[T]here will always be the greatest  danger that the decision will be regulated more by the comparative  strength of parties, than by real demonstrations of innocence or  guilt.'' 

  More recently, Congressman Jerry Nadler, one of the House managers in  the trial, said:  

       There must never be a narrowly voted impeachment or an       impeachment substantially supported by one of our major       political parties and largely opposed by the other. Such an       impeachment will lack legitimacy.  

  Last March, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said: ``Impeachment is so divisive  to the country that unless there's something so compelling and  overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that path,  because it divides the country.'' 

  The Framers knew that partisan impeachments could lead to  impeachments over policy disagreements. Legal scholars like Charles  Black have written that policy differences are not grounds for  impeachment. But policy differences about corruption and the proper use  of tax dollars are at the very heart of this impeachment. Nevertheless,  that disagreement led the House to deploy this most serious of  constitutional remedies. 

  The reason the Framers were concerned about partisan or policy  impeachments was their concern for the American people. Removing a  President disenfranchises the American people. For a Senate of only 100  people, to do that requires a genuine, bipartisan, national consensus.  Here, especially only 9 months before an election, I cannot pretend the  people will accept this body removing a President who received nearly  63 million votes without meeting that high burden. 

  The House managers' other argument to remove the President-- obstruction of Congress--is an affront to the Constitution. The Framers  created a system of government in which the legislative, executive, and  the judiciary are evenly balanced. The Framers consciously diluted each  branch's power, making all three separate but equal and empowered to  check each other. 

  The obstruction charge assumes the House is superior to the executive  branch. In their zeal, the House managers would disempower the  judiciary and demand that the House's interpretation of the sole power  of impeachment be accepted by the Senate and the other branches without  question. They claim no constitutional privilege exists to protect the  executive branch against the legislature seeking impeachment. They go  further and claim that a single Justice--a single Justice--exercising  the Senate's sole power to try impeachments, can actually strip the  executive of its constitutional protections with a simple decree. 

  In Federalist 78, Hamilton wrote: ``[L]iberty can have nothing to  fear from the judiciary alone, but would have everything to fear from  its union with either of the other departments.'' 

  If the House managers prevail, the House would have destroyed our  constitutional balance, declaring itself the arbiter of constitutional  rights and conscripting the Chief Justice to do it. 

  To be clear, the executive branch is not immune from legislative  oversight or impeachment and trial, but that cannot come at the expense  of constitutional rights--certainly not without input from the  judiciary. After all, since Marbury v. Madison, ``[i]t is emphatically  the duty of the Judicial Department to say what the law is.'' Without  this separation, nothing stops the House from seeking privileged  information under the guise of an impeachment inquiry. 

  But the House managers say that no matter how flimsy the House's  case, if the Executive tries to protect that information  constitutionally, that itself is an impeachable offense. That dangerous  precedent would weaken the stability of government--constantly  threatening the President with removal and setting the stage for a  constitutional crisis without recourse to the courts. With that  precedent set, the separation of powers would simply cease to exist. 

  Over the 244-year history of our country, no President has been  removed from office. The first Presidential impeachment occurred in  1868. The next was more than 100 years later. Now, 50 percent of  Presidents have been impeached in the last 25 years alone. A tool so  rarely used in the past is now being used more frequently. It is a  dangerous development, and the Senate stands as the safeguard as  passions grow even more heated. 

  These defective articles and the defective process leading to them  allow the House to muddy things and claim we are setting a destructive  precedent for the future. 

  Of course, bad cases make bad law. The House's decision to short- circuit the investigation--moving faster than any Presidential  impeachment ever, and a wholly partisan one at that--certainly makes  for a bad case. 

  So, again, let me be clear about what this precedent does not do. At  the outset, this case does not set the precedent that a President can  do anything as long as he believes it to be in his electoral interest.  I also reject the claim that impeachment requires criminal conduct.  Rather, this shows, first, that House committees cannot simply assume  the impeachment power to compel evidence without express authority from  the full body and corresponding political accountability. 

  Second, the House should work in good faith with the Executive  through the accommodation process. If that process reaches an impasse,  the House should seek the assistance of the judicial branch before  turning to impeachment.  

  Finally, when Articles of Impeachment come to the Senate along  partisan lines, when nearly half of the people appear unmoved and  maintain adamant support for the President and when the country is just  months away from an election, in these circumstances, the American  people would likely not accept removing the President, and the Senate  can wisely decline to usurp the people's power to elect their own  President. 

  It has been said in this trial that the American people cannot make  that decision for themselves. I couldn't disagree more. I believe in  the American people. I believe in the power of our people to evaluate  the President, to make their decision in November, and to move forward  in our enduring effort to form a more perfect union. I do not believe a  Senate nullification of two elections over defective Impeachment  Articles is in the Nation's best interest. 

  So let's move forward with the people's business and bring this  Nation back together. Let's rise up together, not fight each other. Not  all of us voted for President Trump. Not all of us voted for the last  President or the one before him. Yet we should work to make our Nation  successful regardless of partisan passions. Passion, positively placed,  will provide our Nation with the prosperity it has always been blessed  with. Partisan poison will prove devastating to our Nation's long-term  prosperity. 

  We must not allow our fractures to destroy our national fabric or  partisanship to destroy our friendships. If we come together, we will  succeed together, for surely we are bound together in this, the great  United States of America. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT