Letter to Steve Mnuchin, Department of the Treasury Secretary, and Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration Administrator - Congressmen Neguse and Crow Lead Colorado Delegation Letter Calling for Regulatory Flexibility for Veteran Service Organizations


Dear Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Carranza:

Thank you for your continuing efforts to implement the small business relief programs providedin the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and the PaycheckProtection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act. We write to bring your attention to thechallenges facing Veterans Service Organizations (VSOs) and ask that you providethe regulatory flexibility needed so that non-profits, to include VSOs, are able in the bestposition to continue serving their communities during this crisis and after it subsides.

For over a century, VSOs have provided a unique and essential service to thousands of Veterans,military personnel, their families and communities. In several locations, Posts serve as thelifeblood of their surrounding community, offering social and community service programs andassisting veterans and their dependents in obtaining the benefits they rightfully deserve.

The economic survival of VSOs is critical to our nation's rich veteran community. Without thesePosts, veterans and their families will lose out on benefits assistance, career and job trainingevents, financial services, volunteer opportunities, mentoring, and much more. In order to ensureVSOs can continue serving their communities, we respectfully request you provide the necessaryflexibility and remove the payroll threshold for PPP loan forgiveness specifically for VSOs,allowing these organization to use other expenses instead of payroll costs to compute themaximum loan amount. This will enable these critical organizations to address their high fixedcosts, support their small number of employees, and better protect long-term viability.

Additionally, once VSOs receive PPP funds, there are issues with the current requirements forhow funds must be used to make them forgivable. As you know, Section 1106 of the CARESAct allows for loan forgiveness, a critical aspect of the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) forAmerica's struggling small businesses and tax-exempt organizations, including 501(c)(3) and501(c)(19) organizations. While the CARES Act laid out four allowable uses of PPP loans --payroll, mortgage or rent payments, and utility costs -- it did not stipulate a fixed allocation offunds among those four uses. However, the Small Business Administration's Interim Final Rulerequires that 75% of PPP funds be used on payroll costs. We appreciate the policy goal behindthis regulation, but it poses a particular challenge for organizations relying on volunteerswith only a small number of employees, like VSOs. These organizations are essentially shut outof realizing full loan forgiveness, and therefore are at greater risk of having to close theirdoors. We request flexibility on this policy to support organizations like VSOs with their highfixed costs. 

Thank you for your consideration of this request. We look forward to working with you toprovide the necessary flexibility to VSOs across the country.