TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, as we continue our debate today on the  Great American Outdoors Act, I thought I would come to the floor one  more time to talk about the benefits of this historic conservation  package and what it means for the great State and the people of  Colorado. 

  Several years back, this Congress worked in a bipartisan fashion to  pass legislation by Senator Shaheen and me that required the Commerce  Department, for the first time in our country's history, to break out  the outdoor economy as a part of our economic numbers, to determine how  many jobs this country had in the outdoor industry in recreation, and  to determine the overall revenues generated by the recreation economy.  What we discovered was what we knew intuitively: that the recreation  economy is a huge part of jobs in this country, with over 5 million  jobs. 

  In Colorado, you are looking at about a $28 billion part of our  economy. If I could, I just want to talk a little bit more about what  that means for Colorado and what this bill means as applied to our  State, the benefits environmentally of this legislation and the  economic impact it will have. 

  I talked on the floor about the Great Sand Dunes National Park. Right  around the year 2000, this legislation turned this national monument  into a national park. Hundreds of thousands of people come to the  valley to visit every year. What is neat about this is that it is not  just a national park, the Great Sand Dunes National Park, but it is  also an example of how the Land and Water Conservation Fund works  together because it established the Great Sand Dunes National Park to  make sure that the water resource was protected that is so instrumental  to keeping the sand dunes in place. We used the Land and Water  Conservation Fund to purchase elements of land around it, like the Baca  Ranch and Zapata Ranch and other areas, to make sure we had this great  resource maintained for future generations to come. 

  Of course, Rocky Mountain National Park is the third most heavily  visited park in the Nation. Almost 5 million visitors come to Rocky  Mountain National Park every year. A few years back, there were 2.8, 3  million people. We have almost doubled the visitors in recent times,  which has caused a lot of challenges for Rocky Mountain National Park.  It has benefited as well from the Land and Water Conservation Fund  because some of the last remaining inholdings within Rocky Mountain  National Park have been purchased using the Land and Water Conservation  Fund. 

  If you look at the Restore Our Parks Act, the money in the Great  American Outdoors Act that will go toward catching up with the  maintenance backlog, this park has about $85 million worth of needs in  terms of that backlog. It has $85 million worth of projects, from  visitors centers to roads and trails. 

  Let me show you one of those trails right here. You can see this is  what it looked like. You can see the erosion and washouts. This is what  happens over time with heavy use and weather. 

  You can see the work we have been able to do to maintain and to catch  up with the needs in Rocky Mountain National Park. We can do this  across our Park System thanks to the Restore Our Parks Act. We will put  $1.9 billion a year--paid for by oil and gas revenues--into our  national parks to catch up with the maintenance and backlog needs at  places like Rocky Mountain National Park. 

  It is $85 million in Rocky Mountain National Park. It is $7 to $8  million in the Great Sand Dunes National Park. In Mesa Verde National  Park, it is almost $75 million. I will show you Black Canyon of the  Gunnison right now. Black Canyon of the Gunnison is in need of nearly  $7 to $8 million as well for its backlog needs. 

  This is a picture I actually took on my iPhone. This is a picture I  had taken while attending a press conference to celebrate a Land and  Water Conservation Fund purchase. You can see Park Superintendent Noble  is pointing across the canyon to the land that was purchased using the  Land and Water Conservation Fund. The canyon is right here. It is not  over the horizon; it is right here. This land was on the rim of the  canyon. It was not a part of the park. You can imagine, if somebody had  decided to build something there and said ``Why don't we develop that?  Why don't we do something else?'' what that would have meant to the  national park and enjoyment of that park. Using this, they were able to  get the entire rim of the canyon for the National Park System. That is  where that is. 

  If you go to this next picture, you see it is not just about national  parks. The Great American Outdoors Act is not just about Land and Water  Conservation Fund. It is about our forests. It is about our national  forests, our Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife, and it is  about the Bureau of Indian Education. 

  This is actually a national monument. This is Dinosaur National  Monument. If you go to Northern Colorado, Dinosaur National Monument  straddles both the State of Colorado and the State of Utah. Some of the  best white water rafting in the country goes through Dinosaur National  Monument. This is amazing. This is absolutely cool. 

  You can see these archaeologists who are actually hanging on to a  wall as they do their work. This is known as the fossil wall. Hundreds  of millions of years' worth of fossils are in this long wall at  Dinosaur National Monument. You can see the fossils and the bones in  this picture, layer after layer. It is a remarkable resource in one of  the most truly unique areas of Colorado. The needs here are tremendous,  too, as they face erosion and challenges from visitors and access needs  to some of these resources. 

  If you go to Mesa Verde National Park, this is truly spectacular. If  you look at Mesa Verde--for those who never had a chance to go there, I  hope people will have a chance to visit. This park was established in  1906. Look at this beautiful ridge. Look at the plateau. Look at the  cliff dwellings. It is remarkable. It was established in 1906 to  preserve and interpret the archaeological heritage of the ancestral  Pueblo people who made it their home for over 700 years. The park  protects nearly 5,000 known archaeological sites, including 600 cliff  dwellings--some of the best and most notable preserved dwellings in the  United States. 

  In 2019, they had about 556,000 visitors. This is in the Four Corners  area of the State, surrounded by towns like Cortez, CO; Mancas, CO;  Durango, CO--areas that rely on tourism and recreation and farming and  ranching for their jobs. 

  In 2018, visitors spent about $58 million in these local gateway  regions. This supported nearly 1,000 jobs, $22 million in labor income,  $40 million in value added, and about $72 million in economic help in  the gateway economy surrounding the Mesa Verde National Park. They  operate about $700 million worth of facilities, and they have about 10  percent of that in need of deferred maintenance. So $76 million is  their total deferred maintenance needs.  

  They need to rehabilitate the Chapin Mesa Civilian Conservation  Corps. They need to replace the water, electric, information, and sewer  systems. They need to replace the campground, water, and road systems.  They need to improve the historic maintenance operations buildings.  That is just some of the need at Mesa Verde National Park. 

  When we talk about the Great American Outdoors Act, we talk about  national parks, national forests, and BLM land and monuments, but we  should also talk about recreation, because so many times this gets lost  in our conversation on the floor, because it is not only recreation in  terms of parks and the National Forest Service, but it is sports  complexes, baseball fields, soccer fields, tennis courts--the ability  for  States to determine how to use these dollars. It is not just the  Federal Government that takes all of this money; 40 percent goes back  to the States. 

  This is in Runyon Park in Pueblo, CO, another southern Colorado city.  Look how beautiful that is and the work we can do with the Land and  Water Conservation Fund. 

  Look at the total economic impact. I think it is important that we  recognize that before coronavirus, we were working on the Great  American Outdoors Act, this package that presented two great American  values: the crown jewel of our conservation program, the Restore Our  Parks Act, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund, to catch up with  our maintenance backlog, both of which are paid for by oil and gas  revenues. We talked about them, and we talked about how good it would  be for our environment and the conservation and preservation for future  generations. We also acknowledged, then, that there was a great  economic benefit. We talked about the numbers. We talked about the  recreation economy. But now that economic benefit becomes even more  important because the first industries that were hit by the shelter-in- place orders and the economic shutdowns were the travel industry,  hotels, restaurants, tourism, outfitters, and ski areas. In Colorado,  they closed down the ski areas months ahead of time. The summer  recreation start has been delayed because of lingering effects of  phases in restoring our economy. So the economic benefits of the Great  American Outdoors Act become all the more important. 

  Some of the hardest hit communities by the coronavirus in Colorado in  the first wave have some of the highest unemployment levels in the  State. Hotels emptied early, and restaurants emptied early. But this  bill will create thousands and thousands of jobs, according to a report  that was just released by the National Park Service. In Colorado,  thousands of jobs will be created--in Colorado alone. 

  Look at the Land and Water Conservation Fund. For every $1 million  spent in the Land and Water Conservation Fund, it supports between 16  and 30 jobs. Support for 16 to 30 jobs--do you know what that means in  a community that may have 20 to 22 percent unemployment? Surrounded by  public lands, the Great American Outdoors Act will help to put them to  work while doing what we love in Colorado, and that is protecting our  environment. If you look at the overall numbers that the National Park  Service provided, we are going to create and help to support over  100,000 jobs through this legislation, and, again, this is legislation  that is paid for through oil and gas revenues. 

  It was a commonsense approach back in 1965 when the Land and Water  Conservation Fund was put together so that we access one resource. We  deplete a resource in oil and gas. They pay a severance tax and royalty  to the Federal Government, and the Federal Government turns around and  uses that to protect our other resources in other areas, national parks  and national forests. That is what the bill does through the Great  American Outdoors Act. It creates opportunity. 

  John Gayle, conservation director of the Backcountry Hunters &  Anglers and a Colorado resident says: ``The Great American Outdoors Act  not only creates permanent certainty for the Land and Water  Conservation Fund, America's most successful conservation and access  program, it also ensures sound stewardship of our public lands and  waters.'' 

  Carlos Fernandez, Colorado State director of the Nature Conservancy  says:  

       The Great American Outdoors Act is critical to Colorado's       recovery from this crisis.  

  Of course, he is talking about COVID-19.  

       Our mountains, trails, fields and streams have been a       welcome respite for many during the pandemic, but local       economies have struggled. Fully funding the Land and Water       Conservation Fund and investing in our national parks will       put Coloradans back to work, protecting important landscapes,       investing in their care, and creating more outdoor recreation       opportunities throughout the State. These are time-tested,       effective investments in conservation that will strengthen       Colorado's economy and amazing outdoors.  

  Larry Selzer, the president and CEO of the Conservation Fund said  that the ``momentum to bring a vote on the Great American Outdoors Act  to the Senate floor is critical to the future vitality of America.  Advancing legislation in both houses to fully fund LWCF, as well as to  address the maintenance backlog on our public lands, is a huge step to  support our public lands and rekindle and grow local outdoors and  recreation economies.'' 

  Will Shafroth, president and CEO of the National Park Foundation-- Will's family is legendary in Colorado politics--says this:  

       The National Park Foundation is thrilled that the Great       American Outdoors Act is moving closer to becoming law. Years       in the making, this bipartisan bill would go a long way       toward addressing the critical maintenance needs of our       national parks. With the funds made available through this       bill, we will ensure that these special places are even more       special, remain accessible to all Americans, and continue to       serve as economic engines for local communities.  

  Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership:  

       The Great American Outdoors Act is smart conservation.       Senate passage of this historic and bipartisan bill will       improve our natural resources and enhance access for American       hunters and anglers. It also makes lasting investments in our       outdoor recreation economy at a time when we need to get       Americans back to work.  

  Benji Backer, president and founder of the American Conservation  Coalition:  

       Our national parks and public lands are part of our       heritage as Americans. By protecting and investing in them we       will ensure that generations to come will benefit from       America's best idea. The American Conservation Coalition is       proud to support the Great American Outdoors Act because it       will protect this heritage and support the hundreds of       thousands of Americans whose livelihoods are connected to our       national parks.  

  This list goes on and on, from the Archery Trade Association to the  Outdoor Industry Association. The Outdoor Industry Association said:  

       The outdoor industry applauds the U.S. Senate for seizing       the opportunity to pass the Great American Outdoors Act, a       landmark piece of bipartisan legislation. Along with the       social and health benefits that being outdoors provides,       there is also a strong economic case for doing this now. The       outdoors are bipartisan, and investing in LWCF means       investing in local economies and creating thousands of jobs,       both of which we desperately need right now to help the       country bounce back from COVID-19.  

  There is the Corps Network, the Outdoor Recreation Roundtable, and  the RV industry also. The Presiding Officer has a significant RV  industry in the great State of Indiana. 

  The National Marine Manufacturers Association--believe it or not, we  have marine manufacturing in Colorado, even though we are a pretty dry,  landlocked State. 

  Look at the Motorcycle Industry Council, the Specialty Vehicle  Institutes of America, the Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle  Association, and the Congressional Sportsmen's Foundation. Jeff Crane  said: ``The Great American Outdoors Act represents the largest  commitment to public lands in our lifetime.'' 

  ``The Great American Outdoors Act represents the largest commitment  to conservation and public lands in our lifetime.'' 

  The National Wildlife Federation: ``Now when we need it most, the  Great American Outdoors Act will put hundreds of thousands of Americans  to work restoring public lands infrastructure, expanding healthy  outdoor experiences, and restoring wildlife habitat, all of which will  help local economies recover across the country.'' 

  Suzanne O'Neal--I know Suzanne well--the executive director of the  Colorado Wildlife Federation, said: ``This commonsense legislation is  long overdue to help our national parks and other public lands meet the  burgeoning demand of increased numbers of hikers, anglers, campers, and  wildlife watchers who have been flocking to Colorado's outdoor spaces  in recent years.'' 

  I talked about that, the fact that Rocky Mountain National Park has  gone from 2.8 million to nearly 5 million visitors. It is the third- most visited national park in the country. 

  What happens when one area of the State gets heavily visited? It is  not like they just stay in one area. They actually start going to other  areas of the State. For instance, if you are in Colorado, you go to the  national park, and maybe it is busy one day. So you decide to go a  little bit farther. You go over toward Walden or you go over to the  North Sand Dunes area or maybe  you spend a little bit of time in the White River National Forest, one  of the most heavily visited forests in our State. The Arapaho and  Roosevelt National Forest and the Pike and San Isabel National Forests  are also some of the most heavily visited forests in the country. They  are seeing more and more visitors because all of the other public lands  are under pressure. When they are under pressure, that means they are  more used, and when they are more used, they are experiencing more wear  and tear and they are being loved to death. So we need to provide a way  to fund it. That is what the Great American Outdoors Act does. 

  There is the National Parks Conservation Association, the American  Horse Council, and the Trust for Public Lands. 

  Teresa Martinez, the executive director of the Continental Divide  Trail Coalition, said: ``In the Rocky Mountain West, public lands and  trails are vital to our region's economy and our quality of life.'' 

  The Nature Conservancy's Sally Jewell, former Secretary of the  Interior, signed a letter with six other Secretaries of the Interior to  talk about the importance of this bill. Two of them are from  Colorado. Secretary Ken Salazar and Secretary Gale Norton are talking  about the need for this legislation.  

  The American Society of Landscape Architects--the list goes on and on  of people who support this legislation. They support it because we  value the outdoors. We value our environment, and we value our public  lands. 

  Colorado has long been the gateway to public lands in this country,  but now it is the headquarters to our Nation's public lands with the  Bureau of Land Management headquartered in Grand Junction, CO. 

  So these two bills put together represent that chance in a lifetime,  as we have heard from many of the supporters of this legislation. In  Colorado it was called ``the holy grail of conservation legislation''  by the Durango Herald this morning. 

  It is an opportunity for every State to benefit. I have a list of  every State in the country right here and the work they have done. I  will just pull one out. In Alabama, if you look at Alabama, the  national parks backlog is nearly $30 million. The Land and Water  Conservation Fund has provided Alabama with $165 million in funding  over the last five decades. Alabama National Forest, Blowing Wind Cave  National Wildlife Refuge, Clear Creek Recreation Area--that is just  Alabama. 

  Let's just pull another one out and see: Florida. Florida has  received $1.06 billion in funding from the Land and Water Conservation  Fund over the last five decades. There is the Big Cypress National  Preserve, Everglades Headwater National Wildlife Refuge, Apalachicola  National Forest--I hope I got that one right--and the Canaveral  National Seashore, plus 27 other areas. They have a $240 million  backlog in deferred maintenance projects, with $75 million in the  Everglades National Park. The Dry Tortugas National Park is $63 million  in need. Gulf Islands National Seashore is $60.6 million in needs. 

  All of these States have benefited from coast-to-coast, from sea to  shining sea, from Hawaii to Maine and Florida to Alaska. Those are the  States that have benefited from the legislation covered by the Great  American Outdoors Act. 

  In Colorado alone, the popularity of our outdoor recreation and  public lands continues to grow. Over the last 5 years, visitation  numbers in national parks has continued to increase. National park  visitation in 2019 overall surpassed 2018 visits by more than 9 million  visits. That is 327 million recreation visits across the country, over  1.4 billion recreation visitor hours, 13.8 million over the United  States. That is 2019. 

  And 2020, of course, is going to look a little different. Some of our  national parks are not opened yet. Some of them are staging their  openings. Rocky Mountain National Park is open, but its reservations  are reduced, and the entries are reduced to accommodate the need to  protect people during this pandemic. These numbers are going to be  different. 

  So that means that places like Estes Park are going to have fewer  people in their restaurants and fewer people in their hotels. Fewer  people are stopping at the saltwater taffy shop on Main Street in  Estes, and fewer people are doing things like bumper boats and putt- putt golf along the way. 

  The Great American Outdoors Act is one of those pieces of legislation  that brings everybody in the Chamber together for a bipartisan  opportunity to help these communities at a time that they need it the  most. By helping the land, we are helping the communities, because it  is there for future generations and because it belongs to future  generations. 

  This really is an opportunity for this Nation to come together at a  time of great need economically and spiritually, and, quite frankly, to  succeed. 

  I am reminded also at this time about something I read on the floor  earlier this week by one of the moving leaders of Rocky Mountain  National Park. He talked about how in our national parks and trails and  forests, we find the space we need to think, the space we need to hope,  to provide courage, and that they can provide a little bit more  kindness, that what they give to us is a little bit more kindness. I  said often throughout the COVID-19 experience that we have to keep in  mind, as we learned in Sunday school, that our struggles and  tribulations give us perseverance, and that perseverance leads to  courage, and courage leads to hope. 

  So as we think about what Enos Mills, the father of national parks,  said about the trails bringing back kindness that we all need, I think  about other areas of our National Park System and some of our land  areas and our national historic sites that maybe someday can benefit  from the Great American Outdoors Act. I think about a specific site in  southeastern Colorado known as Amache. I have legislation in that is a  resource study on whether or not Amache, CO, should be considered as  part of the national park system. 

  Let me tell you the history about Amache. There is a monument down  the road from this building, just a couple blocks away from here. It  was the site in 1943 of a Japanese-American internment camp. With  Executive order 9066, Franklin Delano Roosevelt said that Japanese  people would be ripped from their homes unconstitutionally and put into  these camps. 

  In 1943, there was a high school established at Amache, and a woman  by the name of Marion Konishi Takehara became a valedictorian of the  high school that they had created. In the speech she wrote for her  valedictorian speech, she talked about what the country meant to her  today. Did the country mean the same things it meant to her before she  was behind the searchlights, removed from her home? Did it mean justice  and equality and fairness? Did she believe in America? She went on to  talk about all of the challenges and struggles and things in our  history that we know are the darkest moments of our Nation--the  original sin of slavery, the continued discrimination faced by African  Americans in our communities, the treatment of others in our society,  waves of immigrants. She talked about how the United States has learned  from every one of those moments, and we can overcome them all because  America is where we learn from our mistakes in the past, and we take  the actions to correct them, and we get back to the idea of justice and  fairness and equality. 

  I don't know about you, but I think that is the kind of spirit and  the kind of hope and the kind of belief and faith in this country that  we need right now as we face some of the biggest challenges this  generation has ever seen, confronting the issues of racism, confronting  the issues of inequality. 

  Our national parks, our historic areas, and our public lands provide  us with one more opportunity, one more chance to not forget the dark  moments as we look for greater inspiration ahead, as we use this to  learn from the past, to reach our highest peaks as a nation. That is  the inspiration of the Great American Outdoors Act--the work we can do  with the Land and Water Conservation Fund to bring our parks up to  snuff for future generations. 

  I know my colleague from the great State of Iowa is on the Senate  floor. I thank him for his support in the work we have been doing. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I just want to make sure that people  understand we are tracking a 1 a.m. vote before I get into some of  these bills. Again, we are tracking a 1 a.m. vote.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT