Tipton, Gardner Effort on Yucca House National Monument Passes House


Today, Congressman Scott Tipton (CO-03) and Senator Cory Gardner's (R-CO) effort to increase access to the Yucca House National Monument in Montezuma County, Colorado, passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote.

Urging his colleagues to support the bill during a speech on the House floor, Tipton said, "The Yucca House National Monument is one of the largest archaeological sites in Southwest Colorado, preserving a Montezuma Valley Ancestral Pueblo site that is unexcavated. If you were to look at it quickly, it might just look like several mounds of rocks, but it contains invaluable information and answers to questions we have about the large and active farming community that existed in the area centuries ago."

The Yucca House National Monument Boundary Revision Act (H.R. 1492) would allow for a private land donation to the monument that would resolve current challenges with public access and further preserve sites of archaeological significance.

Gardner, who is leading the effort to expand the monument in the Senate, said "Protecting Colorado's public lands for our future generations is one of my top priorities, and I'm excited that the House passed our legislation that will provide additional safeguards for Yucca House National Monument, one of the most well-preserved ancient dwellings in the country. This bill will help preserve these Ancestral Pueblo sites and protect a piece of our state's great history so Coloradans can continue to benefit from our public lands." 

The Montezuma County Board of County Commissioners offered its support for H.R. 1492, waiving its "no net loss" of private land policy and asked Tipton to work to help release several Wilderness Study Areas (WSA) in the county that have been studied by the Bureau of Land Management and been found to be unsuitable for a Wilderness designation. Tipton's discussion draft of the Colorado Recreation Enhancement and Conservation Act includes those WSA releases.

"The Yucca House National Monument is one of the most significant archaeological sites in the country and stands as a reminder of how the ancient Pueblo used to live hundreds of years ago. I am glad my colleagues joined me in supporting this bill, so future generations can continue to experience the monument," Tipton added.