United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, over the last several years, Congress has  had significant debates on trade--the  importance of trade, what it means to our markets, what it means to  exports, and what it means to States like mine, that being Colorado.  The USMCA is incredibly important as we turn to that debate this week. 

  NAFTA and what it meant to Colorado was incredibly significant and  the number of jobs that it created as was the United States-Korea Free  Trade Agreement and the number of jobs that its agreement created. We  have seen the benefits of trade in a State like Colorado for a number  of years, and we see the opportunity for additional trade agreements in  the future. This past year and this past Congress, we adopted the Asia  Reassurance Initiative Act, which created U.S.-Asia trade partnership  opportunities in energy--renewable energy and traditional energy. 

  This week, Congress turns its entire focus to the USMCA and its  modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement. We have to  continue looking for new trade opportunities--ways to open up trade  around the globe. It is vitally important to agriculture, to our  electronic sector, and to our service sector. People of all walks of  life and business in Colorado understand the importance of trade and  what it means to our industry. If we don't seek out new trade  opportunities--it is not like we operate just by ourselves--we know  what will happen. We will see China, India, and other countries  displace us. We will see them build new supply chains and go around the  United States, and we will end up losing those market opportunities,  those investment opportunities, and the jobs that go along with them. 

  If we don't open up new trade opportunities, farmers and ranchers in  my home State will suffer. We have already seen incredibly low  commodity prices hurt our agricultural communities. One way to overcome  that is to open up new markets and create value-added opportunities in  those new markets. That is how we can add one more potential tool to  our ag economy to help make it survive and thrive. We have new product  flows all the time out of our State, and this USMCA agreement is one  more way we can create that new flow of opportunity. The North American  Free Trade Agreement supports, really, 14 million jobs around the  United States. Those are thousands of jobs in all 50 States. 

  Despite its benefits, however, we can always do a better job of  making sure it meets the needs of our modern-day economy by modernizing  NAFTA. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, to expand energy  exports, to maximize domestic energy production, including having  provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce, will make this  agreement even more beneficial to the United States. If you think back  to 1994 and the timeframe of pre-iPhones and pre-iPads and of so much  of the technology that we have today, this agreement was in place  before that. That is why modernizing this agreement makes sense. 

  As I mentioned, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is  incredibly important to the State of Colorado. Out of 750,000 trade- related jobs, there are nearly 220,000 jobs in Colorado--a great pro- trade State--that are directly related to the USMCA. Canada and Mexico  are our State's largest trading partners. Obviously, that makes sense,  for right in the middle is our State. Amongst Colorado, Canada, and  Mexico, we trade more than $2.7 billion worth of goods and support the  220,000 jobs that I just talked about. 

  Colorado's farmers produce nearly half of all of the potatoes that  Mexico imports from the United States. We also supply about 97 percent  of all U.S. beverages to Mexico. Mexico has certainly been able to tap  the Rockies when it comes to our beverage production in Colorado. Our  biggest export--beef--accounts for more than $880 million worth of  goods that are shipped to Mexico and Canada. 

  In 2018, Colorado exported to Mexico more than $45 million worth of  milk, cream, cheese, and related dairy products. Meanwhile, we have  exported about $2.2 million worth of those products to Canada. The  USMCA will reform Canada's protectionist dairy policies and help  American dairy farmers access the dairy markets in Canada so that we  can increase our exports to Canada in cream, milk, cheese, and other  dairy areas. We sent more than $31 million worth of cereals, like  wheat, to Mexico in 2018 and more than $2 million worth to Canada. 

  Even our sugar and candy manufacturers benefit from trade with Mexico  and Canada. I just had a meeting with the Western Sugar Cooperative of  Colorado. We talked about the importance of trade and about getting  this trade agreement right. Both countries have received more than $14  million a piece worth of Colorado's sugar and confectionery exports. 

  Increased trade with these countries will also benefit the beverage  industry in Colorado. As I mentioned, 97 percent of the beverages that  Mexico imports are from Colorado, and we shipped more than $63 million  worth of beverages to Canada in 2018. Beyond commodities like wheat,  dairy, and sugar, Colorado's electronic manufacturers shipped to Canada  more than $105 million worth of its goods in 2018, and Mexico received  about $60 million worth of our electronic goods. 

  The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement includes new digital  provisions to account for our changing landscape of new technologies,  advanced manufacturing products, and it tackles the issue of cross- border dataflow, which is something that was just, basically, in its  very infancy when NAFTA was enacted. 

  We know that the USMCA is a better opportunity for us to gain even  more jobs, more income, and more opportunity for the State of Colorado.  We know that these trade agreements add to the household incomes across  our State and that it benefits our economy. This agreement brings  opportunity to all four corners of our State. 

  New customs and trade rules will cut redtape and make it easier for  Colorado's startups and entrepreneurs to sell their products into  Canada and Mexico. U.S. agricultural and food exports are expected to  rise more than $2 billion every year if the USMCA is adopted. So many  goods in Colorado that are in our top 10 exported items are ag related.  This $2 billion-a-year increase will mean there will be significant  opportunities for Colorado's agriculture. 

  Obviously, I am very encouraged by the Senate Committee on Finance in  its reporting the agreement out favorably last week. I was honored to  support the USMCA this morning by voting for the agreement--voting it  out of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and out  of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, which are two of the  committees on which I serve. I look forward to its expeditious passage  here in the U.S. Senate. 

  I live in rural Colorado. I am surrounded by wheat farms, corn farms,  hog producers, feed lots, and I know how important trade is to our  State. This agreement to modernize and continue our agreement with  Canada and Mexico is critical to the survival of agriculture in  Colorado and this country. I know, with new markets opening around the  world, this agreement will continue to be the keystone of Colorado's  trade. We stand to benefit tremendously, enormously from this update.  Our farmers and ranchers are counting on us to get this done, and our  manufacturers are counting on us to get this done. Our economy depends  on our getting this done. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT