Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, we find ourselves celebrating National  Police Week this year in a very unique and troubling time in our  country's history. This is a week for our Nation to recognize the  valiant service of police officers in every community and the  sacrifices they make day in and day out. Particularly now, in the midst  of this COVID-19 pandemic, such service has taken on new significance. 

  Local police officers regularly put their personal safety at risk to  protect our friends and families. Whether they are stopping armed  robberies or helping someone change a tire, these officers go above and  beyond in their duties each and every day. Today, police officers face  a new risk in the line of duty, an infectious novel coronavirus that is  unpredictable and deadly. 

  Despite the unseen danger of this new threat, police officers and law  enforcement officers around the country continue to go into our  communities and perform their duties to protect and to serve. Sadly,  too many have already seen their watches end because of this disease. 

  In Colorado, one El Paso County sheriff's deputy made such a  sacrifice. Deputy Jeff Hopkins contracted COVID-19 serving his  community as he had done since 2001. Ultimately, the disease would take  his life on April 1 of this year, merely 1 day after he was diagnosed. 

  This tragedy was determined to be a death in the line of duty. It is  a poignant reminder of the increased risk that our local police  officers face during this global pandemic. It is a stark new reality  for law enforcement that we must remember, as so many of us shelter in  our homes free from such danger. 

  Normally, thousands of police officers and their families would  travel to Washington, DC, this week to participate in the annual police  officers memorial service, a gathering to commemorate and honor the  officers who made the ultimate sacrifice. I enjoyed attending many of  these events and memorials to visit with the police officers from  Denver, Weld County, Douglas County, and Jefferson County--officers,  sheriff officers, and law enforcement from around the State of Colorado  love them. 

  While this memorial service is meant to honor more than 21,000 names  engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, it is a  solemn event to commemorate those who sacrificed their lives in the  line of duty in the previous year. Currently, more than 320 of the  names engraved on that memorial are from Colorado. This year, they will  be joined by three more: Colorado State Patrol Corporal Daniel Groves,  Colorado State Patrol Master Trooper William Moden, and Colorado  Department of Corrections Sergeant Joshua Voth. 

  We will not have an opportunity to participate in the usual  ceremonies to honor these fallen heroes this year. Due to COVID-19  concerns, the 39th annual memorial service had to be canceled. It is an  unfortunate development to be sure, but I know that none of us are  waiting for an annual gathering to honor these fallen officers. These  are men and women who deserve to be honored each and every day. 

  National Police Week is intended to serve as an important reminder.  It reminds the Nation that police officers and law enforcement are an  important part of our communities who give so much of themselves to  keep us safe, and their families also give so much to all of us to keep  us safe. It reminds law enforcement officers that they have not been  forgotten and that we indeed have their backs. 

  Throughout this week we have heard and will continue to hear about  the brave men and women and their families who sacrificed not just  their lives but also their physical and mental health, their personal  safety, and their time and energy to keep all of us safe and secure.  Needless to say, as the current pandemic lingers, such stories will  become ever more startling and take on renewed importance. We must not  forget these stories. Instead, we must use them as stark reminders to  provide our law enforcement officers with immediate and long-term  support to do their jobs safely and effectively. This is especially  true as police officers play an ever more critical role in the fight  against COVID-19. Examples of such support include better body armor to  defend against ever-evolving weapons on the street; bolstering mental  health care for the officers and their families, because it is not just  the officer who goes through the mental anguish of service; and now the  training and equipment they need to protect their physical health from  deadly diseases like COVID-19. 

  As we continue to design policies that address the pandemic, we must  not forget these essential workers. Our cities, our neighborhoods, and  our families depend on the dedicated work of their local police  officers and police force--a work that is too often taken for granted,  that is too often thankless. 

  This week should encourage all of us to think about the sacrifices  made by those who have sworn to protect us. It  should give us renewed motivation to support them and help them return  safely to home every night. 

  Additionally, I hope this week will encourage all of us to reach out  to those officers and to their families to ensure they are getting the  support they need from Congress. 

  To all of those who defend that thin blue line, thank you. Thank you  and God bless. You have my enduring support and that of a grateful  nation. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I wish to congratulate my colleague from  Utah for his extraordinary work to continue to protect the civil  liberties of the people of this country.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT