Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


Mr. Speaker, more coal, more coal. That is their answer again, for  the third time. Their answer, apparently, to every question is more  coal. Frustrated with energy costs going up across the board, State to  State, community to community, more coal is their answer. Health  insurance costs going up, grocery prices going up, and the economy in  free fall? More coal.

I don't know what piece of legislation we are going to be debating  tomorrow, but I suspect it will involve coal production.

It is bordering on obsession for the House Republican Conference, and  it would be comical if not for the real-world consequences for my  constituents and your constituents, Mr. Speaker, and for Americans  across the country who are dealing with the real cost-of-living crisis  and who expect more from this Congress than yet another disapproval  resolution 10 months into the Trump Presidency, laser focused on  passing resolutions of disapproval of agency actions by the Biden  administration--real sense of priorities. It is disappointing, Mr.  Speaker, deeply disappointing.

If one digs into this particular resource management plan, I think  you will find that using this blunt instrument, as I have called it  during our prior debate, in this instance is probably the most  insidious of all.

There are a couple of reasons why. One, the resource management plan  that was adopted replaced a plan that was nearly 40 years old. This  resource management plan provided a modern framework that balances  responsible energy and mineral development with the protection of  wildlife habitat, water resources, cultural sites, and recreational  opportunities. It provides a stable and predictable framework to guide  and balance the multiple uses of our public lands and resources based  on the needs of today and into the future.

It is important to recognize that even if one disagrees with the way  in which this resource management plan balances public land uses--and I  understand there are good faith disagreements with the resource  management plan. The chairman mentioned our mutual good friend, my dear  friend, Kelly Armstrong, now the Governor of North Dakota. I recognize  we may disagree with the nuances of the resource management plan, but,  again, the broader point here is that the CRA is not the proper vehicle  for registering one's objection to a resource management plan.

Why is that? It is because using the CRA does not return the resource  management plan to the status quo.

The Federal Land Policy and Management Act outlines the proper  process for updating a resource management plan. That is a process that  centers on the voices and needs of local land users, while preserving  regulatory certainty.

By contrast, the CRA strips the public out of the process, and it  throws public lands into chaos. What do I mean by that, Mr. Speaker?  Here is what I mean. If Congress passes this resolution, if the  President signs this resolution into law, it will call into question  all the leases, all the permits, and any other related authorizations  that stem from the resource management plan. Grazing permits, resource  development projects, transmission rights-of-way, all of those leases  and permits, and so on, will be tied up in litigation if this  resolution is passed.

It makes no sense to me why my colleagues have chosen to take this  approach and endanger grazing permits in North Dakota when there is a  much easier way to do this.

Interestingly enough, Mr. Speaker, the Secretary of the Interior is  the former Governor of North Dakota. It is true that he could simply  change this. He could, through administrative fiat, modify the resource  management plan for the State for which he served as the chief  executive. He could do that now, and it would not call into question  any of the permits or leases.

Instead, House Republicans have taken this approach, and I don't  think it is going to achieve the stated objective of my colleagues on  the other side of the aisle--far from it.

Again, I hope my colleagues might reconsider. I don't have the  Secretary of the Interior's phone number, but I suspect my colleagues  do. They can call him. I am sure they can get this worked out, and we  can save you, Mr.  Speaker, and the few Americans watching on C-SPAN from this stale  debate over yet another resolution of disapproval.

Mr. Speaker, I understand that my colleague from North Dakota  disagrees with the resource management plan. As I said, there are good  faith reasons my colleagues have in opposition to the resource  management plan.

There is a way to register that opposition. Change the plan. Modify  it. Amend it. Edit it. Call the former Governor of North Dakota.  Chairman Westerman noted he objected to this plan when he was Governor.  Give him a call. He is now the Secretary of the Interior. Ask him to  modify this plan. That would be the way for one to register their  objections.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have chosen a very  different approach. Again, I am just leveling with my colleagues. They  are putting at great risk grazing permits and leases that have been  issued pursuant to that resource management plan.

This story is not going to end with the President's signature on the  CRA. Litigation will immediately follow. It is unclear to me why House  Republicans would prefer that outcome, unless, of course, they are  bereft of substantive ideas and an affirmative vision for solving the  cost-of-living crisis that so many of our constituents are facing that  they have made the decision that it is better to spend their time on  disapproval of Biden administration-era rules.

That is the only conclusion I am left with.  Dexter).

Mr. Speaker, unless I can convince the chairman to have a final  colloquy, I suppose I will conclude as well.

Mr. Speaker, using the CRA to overturn land use plans, as I have said  previously, does take us into uncharted territory. It is not, as some  have suggested, a way to return us to the way that we used to manage  public lands in North Dakota or elsewhere.

The resolution pulls the rug out from under all public land users. It  calls into question the validity of grazing rights, permits,  transmission rights-of-way, and other permits and authorizations that  are premised on the land use plan being nullified.

It disregards the Tribes, local land users, communities, and  businesses who provided input over years to craft a modern plan to  guide land and resource management for these respective States.

Instead, it puts the courts in charge of deciding the day-to-day  management of lands and minerals in North Dakota and beyond. Mr.  Speaker, even if one disagrees with the resource management plan for  North Dakota, Montana, and Alaska, the way to change it is through an  administrative review and a public process and not through a blunt and  inflexible tool like the CRA.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to keep local voices and land  managers in the driver's seat by voting ``no'' on this CRA resolution,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.