Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


Mr. Speaker, I listened to every word of my colleague from New York's  very long speech regarding the bills that the House is considering  today. I might perhaps offer a different picture that I think the  American people ought to consider.

I think, as you know, Mr. Speaker, last month the U.S. economy shed  over 100,000 jobs--100,000. It was the worst month with respect to job  losses since the Great Recession in 2009.

Prices are going up across the board. Everything is getting more  expensive. Orange juice is more expensive. Ground beef is more  expensive. Countless Americans across our country are struggling.

Last year, we experienced a 46 percent jump in farm-related  bankruptcies. Rural America is struggling under this President's  reckless policies. Americans across the country are struggling  economically because of House Republicans' reckless policies.

For all those who wonder whether politicians in Washington might  offer a solution to what ails our country economically, have no fear.  House Republicans have come up with an answer. This week, they are  focused on what really matters to the American people: Cutting taxes  for tasers and making it easier for multinational tech companies,  monopolies, to build undersea cables through marine sanctuaries.

Those are the bills that we are considering today on the floor. That  is their answer to the economic crisis that has befallen the people of  our great country.

It is absurd. It is absurd. It begs the question: Why? Why would  House Republicans choose this course, again, given all of the  challenges that I know that their constituents face, as mine do?

Unfortunately, it is a reflection of the core values of just too many  of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, who invariably,  incessantly, and inherently have a predisposition to favor the  ultrarich and the biggest corporations on planet Earth. Anyone who  doubts it should consider the bills that we are debating today.

I have to tell you that I do a lot of townhalls in my district. I  represent the great State of Colorado. I know the Speaker, being from  Nevada, knows my State quite well. I represent a large district in  western Colorado and northern Colorado. It is bigger than eight States,  with no offense to my colleagues from New Jersey, Maryland, or Rhode  Island. It is a huge district, which means that I am on the road a lot.  I do a lot of townhalls.

A lot of issues come up at these townhalls. There are a lot of  obstacles that Coloradans and Americans are facing that they would like  to see their elected leaders help to solve.

I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, the one topic that has never come up at  a single townhall that I have held in my career: undersea cables. It  just hasn't come up.

Maybe my colleague in New York has a different experience. I don't  know. I don't know if he hosts townhalls. I would encourage him to do  it. Maybe undersea fiber optic cables are a big deal in his district. I  can tell you that they are not in mine.

My constituents aren't really concerned with slashing permitting fees  so that the largest technology companies on planet Earth can build  fiber optic cables through marine animal sanctuaries. That just isn't  something that they are spending a lot of time thinking about.

Who could blame them given all of the concerns that they have in  light of the economic conditions that they are experiencing by virtue  of this administration's cruel policies that the House Republican  Conference has abetted at every turn.

Mr. Speaker, one could ask, as I suspect you would: What is the  gentleman from Colorado's suggestion? Lucky for you, Mr. Speaker, I  have one, because we know that one of the reasons that prices are going  up across the board in the United States are tariffs. It is this  President's reckless policies with respect to tariffs. We have some  solutions in that regard. They are ways that Congress can finally stop  abdicating its authority and exercise its powers with respect to  tariffs.

I think the Speaker knows that because Speaker Johnson decided to  tuck into the rule that we are considering today a measure that would  prevent the House from considering any changes to the President's  tariff policies for yet another 6 months.

I am going to read you a quote: ``It will be the fourth time this  rule vote putting a gag on tariff debates has been done. I don't think  tariffs are good for the economy, manufacturing jobs, and ag industry.  American consumers pay the tariffs and thus it is a big tax. I support  giving these authorities back to Congress.''

These aren't my words. These are Republican Congressman   Don Bacon's  words, your colleague, who agrees that what Speaker Johnson is trying  to do is to, yet again, gag the United States Congress.

To Mr. Bacon, I say: Thank you for your honesty.

To the rest of my colleagues, I say: Where is your backbone? Where is  your spine? Stand up for the Constitution, as your colleague is doing.  Stand up for the House of Representatives. Stand up for your  constituents.

Shameful, Mr. Speaker.

I am hopeful that perhaps that political courage that Mr. Bacon is  showing will be contagious. Maybe a few more of my colleagues will join  him.

In any event, I know that we have a lot of speakers who are eager to  talk on this subject.

Mr. Speaker, whenever I have an opportunity to listen to one of my  colleagues' speeches in this august body, I can always count on them to  do three things: to say a noun, a verb, and ``Joe Biden.'' My colleague  from New York does not disappoint with this myopic obsession that they  have with Joe Biden.

Facts are facts. The price of beef has risen 16.4 percent since last  year. The price of coffee is up 19.8 percent. The price of lettuce is  up 7.3 percent. Frozen fish is up 8.6 percent. In total, families paid  $310 more for groceries during President Trump's first year in office  compared to 2024, so spare us these ruminations about Joe Biden.

If they want to get serious about doing something about the cost  crisis in our country, making life more affordable for Americans, there  is an easy way to do it: Don't sneak in procedural roadblocks to  considering tariff policies by the House.

DelBene), who has been a principled leader on this issue with  respect to tariffs.

Mr. Speaker, again, I am not going to dispute my colleague from  Wisconsin's sentiment here. If people are looking to not pay taxes on  tasers, he has them covered. The Republican Conference has them  covered.

If people are struggling to pay for their groceries or their rent,  they are out of luck as far as the House Republican Conference is  concerned. Taxes on tasers, don't worry. They have a plan for that.  They are working really hard to solve that existential challenge facing  the country as we speak.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to strike section 4, which would stop an attempt  by Republican leadership to block the House from taking up-or-down  votes on President Trump's disastrous tariff policies through the end  of July.

As the country knows, since March of last year, Speaker Johnson and  the Republican majority have blocked up-or-down votes on these  policies. Our view is that these policies have been a disaster for the  American people, and everyone knows it.

We all remember, with great fanfare, President Trump announcing  liberation day. The only liberation that any of our constituents have  felt is the money departing from their wallets as this President  increases prices on everyday consumers.

It is wrong, and the Congress has a constitutional duty and  responsibility to act. We know that these tariffs have cost the  American people trillions of dollars. We know that according to the  Joint Economic Committee, the average American family now pays an extra  $1,625 in basic expenses thanks to the economic policies of this  administration.

The question is why are Republicans hiding from an up-or-down vote on  these tariff policies?

In the Senate, multiple votes have been held on these policies. Joint  resolutions to terminate the tariffs have been sent to the House, to  the Clerk here on a bipartisan basis from the United States Senate four  different times. But Republicans, four different times, have done the  opposite. Republicans have delayed votes on these tariffs, essentially  surrendering one of Congress' main functions to one man, one man in the  White House.

During the September vote, several Republicans were apparently so  frustrated by the process that they actually held out for about 45  minutes before they, of course, did what we all expect them to do: fold  and strike a deal.

One of them--and I will quote from one of my Republican colleagues.  One of the temporary holdouts said that under the Constitution, the  power to impose tariffs is a congressional power and needs to be  restored to Congress. Apparently, he switched his vote after issuing  that statement because he got a commitment from the Speaker that this  House would only block votes on tariffs until the end of January.

Well, here we are back again with the Republican Conference springing  into action to do Donald Trump's bidding. He says: ``Jump.'' Our  colleagues say: ``How high?'' Well, not all of our colleagues say that.  Maybe one of one or two of them, as I said, may show the courage  tonight to vote their conscience.

Republicans are trying to ram through yet another rule to hide from  taking up-or-down votes this time until the end of July. It is  outrageous, outrageous, and it is why we are offering this amendment.  Before yielding to the distinguished ranking member who has been a  leader in this regard, I want to quote my colleague  Tom Massie from  Kentucky, a Republican, who I think said it best. ``Why haven't we  voted on tariffs in the House of Representatives?'' This is a  Republican who said this. ``Because Speaker Johnson is using Rules  Committee Resolutions, consummated by majority votes of the whole  House, to declare that `a day is not a day' in order to AVOID THE U.S.  LAW that requires Congress to vote.'' These are Republican Members of  Congress,  Tom Massie,   Don Bacon, all saying what we know to be true,  which is that the House is abdicating its duty.

I would encourage my colleagues, those of whom may find some  semblance of backbone, to defeat the previous question, and we can  finally have an up-or-down vote in this body on whether to terminate  President Trump's disastrous tariffs starting this week with Canada, my  colleague from New York's neighbor to the north.

Mr. Speaker, I would ask for unanimous consent to include the text of  my amendment in the Record along with any extraneous material  immediately prior to the vote on the previous question.

Mr. Speaker, I hesitate to respond to my colleague from New York  because, again, I think this rule is largely a smokescreen to just  avoid a discussion on the President's reckless tariff policies.

However, insofar as my colleague is obsessed with cutting taxes on  tasers, I suppose I am compelled to respond to simply say that what was  just stated with respect to violent felons not being able to access  tasers by virtue of this legislation, that is untrue. It is just  untrue.

Clearly, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are seeking to  remove these particular weapons from the definition of firearm under  Federal law, and as a result, the various protections and safeguards  that exist under Federal law. They can make the argument that in  certain States there may be protections. That is not true of every  State.

In any event, the larger question that every American who is watching  C-SPAN now ought to ask themselves is: Why is the U.S. House of  Representatives spending so much time on debating cutting taxes for  tasers?

How did that manage to become the top priority of the House  Republicans in Washington, D.C.?

Inquiring minds would like to know.

Mr. NEGUSE.  Sanchez).

``U.S. Manufacturing Is in Retreat and Trump's Tariffs Aren't  Helping,'' February 2, 2026, headline, The Wall Street Journal.

Apparently, The Wall Street Journal has Trump derangement syndrome,  too, according to my colleague from New York. American consumers must  also. Everyone apparently has it except for House Republicans.

By the way, my Republican colleagues talk enough about Joe Biden, one  would be forgiven for thinking they miss him. As I said, noun, verb,  ``Joe Biden,'' effectively the answer and retort on my colleague's part  to every question.

The reality is that my Republican colleagues, as has been displayed  and demonstrated time and time again, work tragically for one person,  and that person is Donald Trump. Lest anyone doubt that, let's see if a  few of them will have the audacity, the courage, to vote against the  rule today.

I will say, it bears repeating. I have quoted a lot of   Don Bacon on  the floor today. If he is watching, I hope he will forgive me in  advance. I will read again this tweet, this post on X, from John  Bresnahan of Punchbowl News, who quoted Mr. Bacon: ``It will be the  fourth time this rule vote putting a gag on tariff debates has been  done. I don't think tariffs are good for the economy, manufacturing  jobs, and the ag industry. American consumers pay the tariffs and thus  it is a big tax. I support giving these authorities back to Congress.''

That is from Republican U.S. Congressman   Don Bacon, so spare us the  stale and tired attacks about Trump derangement syndrome. These are  your colleagues saying it, not me.

My colleagues ought to do the right thing: vote against this rule so  that we can have an up-or-down vote on the disastrous Trump tariffs  that are inflicting pain on the people who I represent in the great  State of Colorado and across the country.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.