American Economy Gaining Momentum


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, the American economy is gaining momentum,  but the independent Federal Reserve is, regrettably, not adding the  energy needed to abet this growth potential.

After 4 years of inflation caused by excessive government spending  and an all-out assault on U.S. energy, our private-sector economy is  now in significant recovery, and it truly is only the beginning.

Tariffs are realigning supply chains here at home. By supply meeting  and exceeding demand, this will continue to lower inflation.

Additionally, the OBBB makes bonus depreciation, the small-business  deduction, and the R&D tax credits permanent, sharpening our  competitive edge and incentivizing capital investment.

The table is set for growth. However, nearly $1 trillion in annual  interest payments hang over our heads.

Here is where the Fed's actions can make an enormous difference. Due  to the Biden administration's highly inflationary policies, we saw  inflation soar to over 9 percent, 20 percent over the 4-year period.  Those policies and inflationary rates that came from them forced the  higher interest rates by the Fed to as high as 5.5 percent.

The recent CPI report, however, has inflation at 2.4 percent, and  PCE, personal consumption expenditures, the Fed's favorite indicator,  at only 2.1  percent. Yet, the Fed has not moved much and has left interest rates as  high as where they currently are, 4.5 percent.

Mr. Speaker, a 1 percent reduction of interest rates to 3.5 percent  would add $290 billion in GDP growth while also delivering $200 billion  of savings in the service we pay on our debt. That is an improvement of  $490 billion to boost our economy.

Lower rates today will advance housing, an industry with a 3-to-1  multiplier, spur capital investment, and unlock durable good purchases,  including cars and household appliances. Unfortunately, fear-mongering  by the media drove consumer sentiment down despite, in fact, the lower  inflationary data.

Mr. Speaker, I call upon the Fed to choose growth over apprehension,  as the President is urging.                 Continue Building World's Strongest Military

Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as we are voting on the fiscal  2026 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies  Appropriations Act, an essential bill that demonstrates our unwavering  commitment to our veterans, military families, and national security.

This is a major piece of legislation, totaling $453 billion, that  ensures we support those who have worn the uniform and continue  building the strongest military in the world. This bill fully funds  veterans' medical care, backing up the words we often say on this floor  and throughout our districts that we support our veterans and thank  them for their service.

Let me quickly walk through what is in this bill: $453 billion in  total funding, $150 billion in discretionary funding, $300 billion for  mandatory programs, $131 billion to fully fund veterans' medical care,  $2 billion for military family housing, and over $1.2 billion for Guard  and Reserve construction facilities.

This supports President Trump's initiative to end veteran  homelessness through the Bridging Rental Assistance for Veteran  Empowerment program, protects veterans' Second Amendment rights, and  invests heavily in general military construction.

I proudly represent more than 45,000 veterans in Pennsylvania's Ninth  Congressional District. When I include their families, many of whom  have served or are preparing to serve, well over 100,000 Pennsylvanians  just in my district alone will be directly impacted by what we do  today. We also have 800,000 veterans throughout the Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, our Lebanon VA in my district was ranked among the top  VAs in the Nation for many years in a row. That is something we  certainly take pride in and something this bill supports.

I am also proud to represent Fort Indiantown Gap, the second largest  Army helicopter training facility in the U.S. In total, the Gap trains  more than 130,000 military personnel each year.

This bill not only honors our past military heroes, but it also helps  inspire the next generation to serve. We are seeing that patriotism  grow. Recruitment is way up, thanks in part to the new culture of  strength and support for our military under President Trump's  leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this critical  appropriations bill. It reflects our values, strengthens our defense,  and ensures we never waver in our duty to those who have sacrificed for  our freedom.