National Small Business Week


Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, this week we recognize National Small  Business Week and, with it, the incredible contributions of our many  small business owners, workers, and entrepreneurs across Pennsylvania  and the United States.

These individuals, Mr. Speaker, deserve more than recognition; they  deserve our support and applause. Small businesses aren't just a line  in an economic report; they are the lifeblood. They are the employers,  the mentors, and the community leaders, and they are the ones giving to  local charities and sponsoring youth sports, putting their names on the  back of Little League jerseys in communities across our Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania.

We also recognize the critical role of our local chambers of commerce  in assisting small businesses. Throughout Pennsylvania's Ninth  Congressional District, we are blessed with some of the best chambers  in Pennsylvania, if not the country.

Throughout my district and Pennsylvania, from Schuylkill County to  Wyoming County, to the Susquehanna Valley to Lebanon, from Luzerne to  Lycoming, these chambers are working every day to support job creators  and bring small businesses together. They serve as a bridge between the  private sector and government, and they help ensure that entrepreneurs  have a voice. Their efforts deserve our thanks.

As someone who worked in small business, I understand the challenges  entrepreneurs face, and while I was fortunate to help grow a small  business into a larger business, I never lost that small business  mindset. That mentality, grounded in what we call the WIT principle,  Whatever It Takes, is built on hard work, results, teamwork, and  customer service. It continues to guide my work here in Congress.

Mr. Speaker, that work, on behalf of small businesses, starts with  regulatory relief. Small businesses don't have compliance departments  or teams of lawyers. Every hour spent on paperwork is an hour not spent  on growing their business.

That is why House Republicans and the Trump administration have taken  important steps to roll back burdensome regulations that never should  have applied to small employers in the first place. We fought to  eliminate the Biden administration's imposed Beneficial Ownership Rule,  which would have forced small businesses to submit sensitive ownership  information to FinCEN, adding compliance burdens and creating legal  risk with little benefit.

We pushed back against the CFPB's 1071 rule, which mandated that  lenders collect and report demographic and financial data on small  business loan applications, raising costs and potentially limiting  access to capital.

To ensure we are hearing directly from those affected, the Small  Business Administration has also now launched recently a red tape  hotline, giving small business owners and manufacturers a direct  channel to report excessive or unworkable Federal regulation so we can  act on them. As a matter of fact, their hotline phone number at the SBA  is 1-800-827-5722.

Beyond regulatory relief, we are advancing smart legislation to  support growth and innovation. I introduced the Investing in All of  America Act, which expands access to capital for small manufacturers  and startups in economically underserved and rural areas by raising the  leverage cap on small business investment companies.

My 7(a) Loan Agent Oversight Act improves transparency and  accountability in the SBA's most widely used lending program by  requiring annual reports on loan agent activity. This bill ensures  Congress has the data needed to provide proper oversight, protect  taxpayer dollars, and keep the program strong for small businesses that  rely on it.

The Regulatory Review Improvement Act, which I also introduced,  ensures that Federal agencies take into account the real-world impact  of their rules on small businesses. It requires agencies to regularly  review existing regulations already on the books and evaluate whether  they should remain in place based upon their effect on small  businesses. That and ensuring access to capital are some of our major  focuses here in Congress.

Finally, through reconciliation--also known as the one big, beautiful  bill--we are committed to extending the provisions of President Trump's  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which helped countless small businesses invest,  expand, and hire.

Provisions like section 199A, bonus depreciation, and the R&D tax  credit have had a direct, positive impact on small businesses. These  provisions, and the broader income tax reductions, must be extended to  maintain growth and protect jobs.

By voting for this plan, we are simply continuing the tax plan that  stimulated the strongest economy in the past 50 to 100 years. A ``no''  vote on this plan is a ``no'' vote for small business. Anyone who says  this reconciliation package doesn't help small businesses either  doesn't understand it or is choosing to ignore what is in it. This  legislation is progrowth, proinvestment and pro-small business.

Separate from the small business provisions, if the individual tax  cuts are allowed to expire, the average Pennsylvania family, Mr.  Speaker, will face a tax hike of over $2,500. If my Democratic  colleagues oppose this bill, they are voting in favor of the largest  tax increase on working families in American history, plain and simple.

Frankly, we need Pennsylvania's executive office and State agencies  to get on board with this progrowth initiative, as well. Mr. Speaker,  let's thank every entrepreneur, employer, team member, and small  business for all they do to deliver for America.