-9999


Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I join my colleague Senator Roger  Wicker to draw the attention of the American people to the widespread  devastation caused by Winter Storm Fern. This powerful storm has  affected millions of Americans across the country, but its effects were  especially severe in the South, a region not typically equipped to  manage prolonged snow, ice, sleet, and dangerous winter conditions.

This storm was particularly devastating in Mississippi, a State that  simply lacks the infrastructure and equipment necessary to respond to a  storm of this magnitude. We are just not prepared, and certainly don't  know how to drive on the roads during this time.

Tragically, Winter Storm Fern has claimed the lives of at least 26  Mississippians as of February 2. Each loss is heartbreaking and comes  with so many stories, as Senator Wicker reflected upon.

The breadth and severity of this disaster have left swaths of the  Delta and north Mississippi with landscapes littered with shattered  trees and downed power lines. Line crews in this bitter cold from  Mississippi and other States are making steady progress in restoring  power to nearly 200,000 families and businesses that lost power. While  we applaud that progress, it may still take another week to fully  connect everyone, especially in more rural counties that lack  resources. Long-term recovery, of course, will take much longer than  that.

I am grateful for the strong response from our State and Federal  partners. More than 600 Mississippi National Guard soldiers are on  extended deployment after performing critical missions, including road  clearance, refueling operations, distribution of goods, and conducting  welfare checks.

The Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and Parks is  assisting with welfare checks and emergency calls in Alcorn and Tippah  Counties that were hit so hard.

Numerous State agencies are playing vital roles in the response,  including the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency, Mississippi  Department of Public Safety, the Mississippi Department of  Transportation headed by Brad White, Mississippi State Department of  Health, and Mississippi Forestry Commission. FEMA has also been on the  ground, providing $3.75 million in rapid emergency funding from  generators to tree removal and other urgent needs.

I want to also recognize the extraordinary contributions of volunteer  organizations--we certainly feel better when we see them pull up-- including national groups like the Salvation Army, the American Red  Cross, Samaritan's Purse, and Christ In Action, as well as countless  local organizations whose help has been invaluable to our State.

These accolades cannot overshadow the resiliency and kindness of  individual Mississippians who are simply looking out for each other to  overcome yet another natural disaster.

Still, the work is far from finished. I, along with fellow members of  the Mississippi congressional delegation, strongly support Governor  Reeves' request for a major disaster declaration, and we encourage  President Trump to approve it swiftly.

I ask my colleagues and the American people to keep the people of my  State and everyone harmed by Winter Storm Fern in your prayers.