Commercial Driver's License System


Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I rise to call attention to a  critical safety issue that affects every American who travels our roads  and highways.

Across the country, we are seeing a disturbing rise in deadly  accidents involving large commercial trucks driven by individuals who  should have never been behind the wheel to begin with, often foreign  nationals in the country illegally who exploited weaknesses in our  commercial driver's license or CDL system.

We have seen the video of the horrific crash in Florida where an  undocumented immigrant driving an 18-wheeler made an illegal U-turn on  the interstate, killing three Americans who should be with us here  today.

In mid-October, a semi-truck driver in California, in the United  States illegally, with an immigration detainer notice, was accused of  being intoxicated when he slammed into multiple vehicles, killing three  people and injuring several more.

Sadly, incidents like this are becoming far too common, and we must  ask why. The answer lies in failed policies.

Under previous Democratic administrations, safety enforcement was  weakened, loopholes were opened, and fraudulent CDL issuance went  unchecked. Under the Obama administration, inspectors were directed to  issue citations rather than take unsafe commercial vehicle drivers  completely off the road--a policy decision that has resulted in loss of  life.

Meanwhile, open border policies of prior administrations would have  allowed illegal immigrants to enter the United States freely which,  combined with lax Federal oversight, has let some States issue CDLs  without proper language or competency testing.

A Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration audit prompted by  President Trump found that multiple States issued nondomiciled CDLs  improperly to unqualified, often foreign drivers, even in some  instances allowing them to keep licenses after their legal status  expired.

In the Florida case, the FMCSA investigation revealed that the driver  had failed the English language proficiency test, answering only 2 out  of the 12 verbal questions correctly. Yet multiple States still allowed  him to hold a valid CDL and operate a commercial vehicle on our roads.

The ongoing FMCSA audit revealed systemic violations by many States-- including California, Washington, and New Mexico--that simply fail to  follow Federal laws and regulations as they issue CDLs, which has  resulted in greater threats to public safety.

After Secretary Duffy's criticism about California's lack of policy  enforcement and threat to revoke Federal funding, California announced  the revocation of 17,000 CDLs that were given to immigrants without  valid visas. This means California has been allowing thousands of  unqualified drivers to  operate throughout the country. I thank this administration and  Secretary Duffy for taking action to hold States accountable for their  mistakes.

While some States look the other way, my home State of Mississippi  has tried to rein in this abuse in the trucking industry. Mississippi  has taken decisive action and, in just the last 3 months alone, has  identified 85 illegal drivers and referred them to Immigration and  Customs Enforcement.

The State of Mississippi does not issue nondomiciled licenses and  strictly enforces English language proficiency testing to keep our  roads safe. My State is doing its part, but States cannot do this  alone. The Federal Government must close these loopholes and enforce  the law.

As chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation,  Housing, and Urban Development, I successfully included language in the  fiscal year 2026 bill and report that builds upon the President's  Executive order to strengthen English proficiency requirements for  commercial drivers.

I am also a proud cosponsor of Senator Marshall's Commercial Motor  Vehicle English Proficiency Act to ensure all applicants for CDLs must  pass the English proficiency test in English and not in any other  language.

This commonsense measure would help guarantee that all truckdrivers  can read traffic signs, communicate with law enforcement, and  understand directions clearly and safely.

In addition, I cosponsored Senator Moody's Safer Truckers Act, which  restricts the issuance of CDLs to only U.S. citizens, lawful permanent  residents, and individuals who are authorized for employment by U.S.  Citizenship and Immigration services.

These are commonsense reforms to restore integrity, accountability,  and safety to our highways. At the same time, I commend the Trump  administration for taking action on this front, particularly Secretary  Noem and law enforcement officials who recently carried out Operation  Midway Blitz.

This enforcement action led to the arrest of 223 illegal aliens, 146  of whom were truckdrivers. And just a few weeks ago, ICE announced the  arrest of a man from Uzbekistan with a Pennsylvania CDL who was allowed  in our country by the Biden administration even though he was wanted by  the Government of Uzbekistan because of his links to a terrorist  organization.

Needless to say, seeing ICE and State law enforcement come together  to make America's roads safer is a step in the right direction.  Republicans in the Senate and this administration remain committed to  protecting American lives and keeping our roads safe. One key to do  that is to ensure CDL holders are here legally and are proficient in  the English language and can actually read road signs.