Letter to the Hon. Roy Blunt, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education and the Hon. Patty Murray, Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education - Wicker, Stabenow Lead Bipartisan Push for Community Health Center Funding to Help American Families


Dear Chairman Blunt and Ranking Member Murray:

We write to express our support for additional emergency funding for community health centers in the nextCOVID-19 relief package. Community health centers are vital to our response to the coronavirus pandemic andneed appropriate funding to continue their front-line health care work.Community health centers provide affordable care to more than 29 million patients, including 385,000 veterans and8.7 million children nationwide. These centers play a critical role in responding to the pandemic, offeringcoronavirus testing, primary care, dental care, behavioral health care, and other services to our nation's mostvulnerable patients. This care helps keep individuals out of emergency rooms, where beds are currently inparticularly high need. It also helps manage chronic conditions that may exacerbate the symptoms of COVID-19.Over the next six months, community health centers will see 34 million fewer appointments as Americans cancelprimary and preventive care appointments or delay non-essential care. Health centers are anticipating $7.6 billionin lost revenue and 105,000 lost jobs. Over 2,000 centers have already had to close their doors and many moreremain concerned about how long they will be able to stay open.

We appreciate the additional $2 billion in emergency funding provided to community health centers in recentCOVID-19 response and relief packages, including $600 million dedicated to testing. However, despite thisfunding, health centers are still worried about how to keep their doors open to serve their patients. These valuableproviders will continue to lose more revenue as the pandemic continues. Additional funding is critical for thesecenters to continue providing quality, affordable health care and front-line response efforts.

We look forward to working with you to reach a bipartisan agreement to enact legislation and ensure communityhealth centers can continue to provide high quality and affordable care to those in need.