National Police Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, our Nation commemorates National  Police Week in May, bringing together law enforcement officers,  families, and public safety advocates from across the country to the  Nation's Capital to pay respect to law enforcement officers who lost  their lives in the line of duty last year. 

  The coronavirus outbreak in our country has disrupted the public  tributes in Washington and in communities across the country. However,  COVID-19 will not diminish our heartfelt gratitude to the fallen and  those they left behind. This year, an online virtual candlelight vigil  has replaced an in-person national ceremony to honor fallen officers  from across the Nation. 

  Sadly, the State of Mississippi lost four officers in the line of  duty last year. These brave men are being recognized this week, and  their names have been added to the National Law Enforcement Memorial  here in Washington, DC. 

  On May 5, 2019, Officer Robert McKeithen, 58, of Biloxi, was ambushed  and tragically murdered. An Air Force veteran, Office McKeithen served  with the Biloxi Police Department for 24 years and planned on retiring  by the end of the year. He was dearly loved by his family, friends, and  fellow officers. 

  Constable Willie West, known as Hoot, was first elected in 1971 as  constable of Lowndes County District 1 and was serving his 13th  consecutive term. He had previously served with the Columbus Police  Department and Lowndes County Sheriff's Office. He had a total of 52  years of law enforcement service and was a founding member and first  president of the Mississippi Constables Association. On May 6, 2019,  Constable West was serving civil papers when his vehicle struck a tree.  He succumbed to his injuries a few days later at the age of 81, leaving  behind a son, two daughters, five grandchildren, five great- grandchildren, his mother, brother, and two sisters. 

  Chickasaw County Deputy Sheriff Jeremy Voyles died in a single  automobile crash while conducting an investigation on August 27, 2019.  He was assigned to the North Mississippi Narcotics Unit. Prior to  joining the sheriff's department, Voyles served as a law enforcement  officer with the Mississippi Department of Transportation. He is  survived by his wife, two young children, and his parents. 

  On December 12, 2019, Panola County Constable Eula Ray ``Raye''  Hawkins, 57, was killed when his vehicle was struck by a stolen pickup  truck being pursued by other officers. Constable Hawkins served in law  enforcement for 29 years. He is survived by his son, who serves with  the Batesville Police Department, a daughter, one grandson, and two  sisters. 

  I join the families, fellow officers, and communities of these four  Mississippi officers, who dedicated themselves to bravely serving the  people of my State, honoring their lives with a deep sense of gratitude  for their service. 

  My heart aches any time a law enforcement officer is lost, whether it  is in the line of duty or not. Their names may not grace a national  memorial, but their service still merits recognition. 

  For instance, long-time Lawrence County Deputy Sheriff Robert  Ainsworth and his wife, Paula, were among the 14 Mississippians who  lost their lives in terrible tornadoes that hit my State on Easter  Sunday. In his last act, Deputy Ainsworth, a Marine Corps veteran who  died trying to shield his wife from harm, demonstrated the selflessness  and bravery that is characteristic of so many in law enforcement. 

  Law enforcement officers risk their lives daily to help keep us safe,  and any loss of an officer profoundly affects entire communities. My  admiration for the law enforcement community, who remain deeply  dedicated despite the dangers of their noble profession, knows no  bounds. We acknowledge their brave service and fortify our support of  their work to serve and protect our families and our communities.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT