Scott Applauds Passage of National School Choice Week Resolution


U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC), Congressional School Choice Caucus co-chair, introduced a resolution declaring this week as National School Choice Week. Senator Scott was joined by Senate Education Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). The resolution was agreed to by the Senate.

"As someone who was raised in a single-parent household in a distressed community, I know all too well what it's like to feel overlooked. I firmly believe that a child's zip code should not affect his or her access to quality education nor should it affect the child's future, which is why I proudly support National School Choice Week," said Senator Tim Scott. "We must ensure that our children have access to all paths to assure that they are receiving the education that will lead to success in the future."

"The real answer to inequality in America is giving low-income families more of the same choices of schools that wealthier families already have for their children. The tax reform bill--signed by President Trump in 2018--has opened the door for families to use the tax code to exercise school choice through 529 savings accounts, which was previously only available to help pay for college, to help pay for tuition at an accredited religious or private school. I will continue my work to give more children more opportunities to attend a better school," said Chairman Lamar Alexander. 

"I have long believed that parents should have an informed and meaningful choice in their children's education. A one-size-fits-all approach to our children's education does not always work and different school models may work better for different students. That's why I'm pleased to join my colleagues on a resolution highlighting the importance of school choice for parents and children," said Senator Dianne Feinstein.

Senator Rick Scott said, "I'm proud to join Senator Tim Scott and my colleagues to recognize National School Choice Week. As a father and grandfather, I know firsthand that every child learns differently and should have the opportunity to attend a school that best fits their needs. That's why, throughout my time as Governor, I worked to make Florida a national leader in school choice, and as Senator, I'm working to build on these efforts to help our students succeed."

"Every child deserves access to a quality education," said Senator Perdue. "Parents and teachers should make decisions about a child's education, not bureaucrats in Washington. As the son of two schoolteachers, I'm proud to support National School Choice Week and all types of schools that help prepare students for the future."

"As a former local school board member, I know decisions about our students' education are best handled at the state and local level. School choice provides flexibility to families in Arkansas and across America, empowering them to choose the option that meets each child's specific needs. I'm proud to support the School Choice movement and help preserve families' confidence in the learning process for every student," Boozman said.

"School Choice Week gives us a chance to recognize the importance of parents being empowered to make the best choices possible to benefit their children's education." -- U.S. Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith 

"No one knows a child better than his or her parents. Enabling Tennessee moms and dads to choose the best schools for their children gives them the power to set them up for success." -- Senator Marsha Blackburn

"Access to a quality education unfortunately remains one of the biggest roadblocks to ensuring that every child in the nation has an opportunity to succeed," said Senator Tillis. "School choice is helping to break that barrier by allowing families to make decisions that work best for their children, and I'm proud to support National School Choice Week to help students receive the best education possible."