Abortion


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, today, every Senator will be able to  take a clear moral stand. We will have the chance to proceed to  commonsense legislation that will move our Nation closer to the  international mainstream with respect to defending innocent human life.  There are only seven nations left in the entire world where an unborn  child can be killed by elective abortion after 20 weeks, and the United  States of America, unfortunately, is one of them. 

  Set aside all of the far-left rhetoric that will greet Senator  Graham's straightforward legislation and consider this simple fact: Do  our Democratic colleagues really believe that what our country needs is  a radical fringe position on elective abortion that we only share with  China, North Korea, and four other countries in the entire world? 

  The American people don't seem to think that is what we need. One  recent survey found that 70 percent of all Americans believe that at a  minimum--at a minimum--elective abortion should be limited to the first  3 months of pregnancy. That even includes about half of the respondents  who self-identify as pro-choice. 

  I hope this body will proceed to Senator Graham's Pain-Capable Unborn  Child Protection Act later today. I see no reason why at the very least  our Democratic colleagues should vote against even proceeding to this  legislation and having a debate. If there is a persuasive and  principled case why America should remain on the radical international  fringe on this subject, let us hear it. Let us have the debate. Few  Americans agree with that radical position, but let's have the debate. 

  If my Democratic colleagues block the Senate from even proceeding to  consider this legislation here today, the message they will send will  be chilling and clear. The radical demands of the far left will  drown out common sense and the views of most Americans.  

  The same goes for Senator Sasse's legislation, the Born-Alive  Survivors Protection Act. Even if most Washington Democrats persist in  their resistance to any commonsense protections for the unborn, surely,  we must  be able to agree that children who are born deserve protection. Surely,  that much cannot be controversial. 

  There is currently no Federal mandate that children who are delivered  alive following an attempted abortion should receive medical care.  There is no clear guarantee that every child born alive in the United  States, whether they were intended to be or not, is entitled to the  same life-giving medical attention. 

  The Kentuckians whom I speak with cannot comprehend why this could be  some hotly debated proposition. It almost defies belief that an entire  political party can find cause to object to this basic protection for  babies. Yet, today, we will see if our Democratic colleagues will even  permit the Senate to proceed to this legislation. We will see whether  even something this simple and this morally straightforward is a bridge  too far for the far left. 

  I would urge all of my colleagues: Let's advance these bills. Let's  take these modest steps. Let's have the courage to say that the right  to life must not exclude the most vulnerable among us.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT