Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the new coronavirus, or COVID-19,  continued to capture headlines over the weekend. News of the first  American deaths related to the disease confirm this is a public health  challenge that is upon us. 

  The Senate's immediate role is clear: We need to support the Federal,  State,  and local public health officials and healthcare professionals who are  working overtime to blunt, delay, and mitigate the spread of the virus.  I am grateful that our colleagues Chairman Shelby and Senator Leahy,  along with their appropriations counterparts in the House, worked  through the weekend on a bipartisan, bicameral agreement to provide  supplemental appropriations for the coordinated response. 

  It goes without saying that a challenge like this leaves no time for  moving goalposts or performative outrage. The American people deserve  for their Congress to meet this subject head-on, with a bipartisan and  collaborative approach, and I am confident that is exactly what can and  will happen. 

  I am glad our prospects for supplemental appropriations rest in the  hands of a bipartisan group of negotiators. I would encourage my  Democratic colleagues in both Houses to let them do their work. It will  be important to pass this first benchmark and supply these important  funds within the next 2 weeks.                                   Taliban  

  Mr. President, on another matter, on Saturday, President Trump  announced a new agreement with the Taliban that is designed to promote  a peaceful end to the civil war in Afghanistan. 

  First and foremost, we must recognize the brave men and women of the  U.S. Armed Forces. Hundreds of thousands of U.S. troops have deployed  to Afghanistan since our national security compelled us in 2001 to  confront the terrorist threats emanating from that failed state that  Afghanistan had become. More than 2,400 American servicemembers have  given their lives in Afghanistan. More than 20,000 have been wounded.  Our coalition partners, such as the United Kingdom and Canada,  sustained casualties as well. 

  Obviously the worst burden of all has fallen on the Afghan people.  Tens of thousands of Afghan security forces and civilians have been  killed during this long, long war. 

  It is largely due to these brave, heroic, and sustained efforts to  keep pressure on the terrorists that Afghanistan has not come roaring  back as an international headquarters for terrorists. Thanks to these  efforts, the United States and its Afghan partners are hopefully in a  position to bring about a negotiated end to the conflict. 

  After nearly 20 years, two basic principles are clear: No. 1, we  should welcome any serious opportunity to bring greater stability to  that land, but, No. 2, we must make certain that the progress won  through great sacrifice by Afghans and Americans is not undermined by a  precipitous rush for the exits. 

  I do not trust the Taliban, so I am grateful the linchpin of the  agreement is a conditions-based approach that will provide our  commanders with leverage to test the will and the capacity of the  Taliban to abide by the agreement. If all goes well at first, our  American presence would stabilize with 8,600 troops for the time being.  Having heard from our commanders, I agree that presence will remain an  important tool as we combat the ongoing threats posed by the likes of  al-Qaida and ISIS and support for the Afghans' ability to fight  terrorism themselves. 

  Since further drawdowns would require even further progress and  cooperation from the Taliban, I look forward to hearing from  administration officials, intelligence analysts, and military officers  about how they will judge compliance and determine whether the  conditions are, in fact, met. For my part, I believe the intra-Afghan  negotiations are especially critical to the future of that country and  to our own significant security interests over there. We should do what  we can to help the Afghans achieve a peaceful solution to their  conflict. 

  I am glad to hear there are no secret annexes to this agreement which  Congress will be denied, as there were with President Obama's Iran  deal. The secret documents detailing implementation arrangements are  available for the review of all Senators in Senate Security, and I  encourage our colleagues to review the full details. 

  Republicans spent much of the Obama administration reminding our  colleagues that hope--hope--is not a strategy. We argued President  Obama's reckless withdrawal from Iraq would set the stage for chaos and  a resurgence of terrorism. Unfortunately, the rise of ISIS proved us  correct. 

  That is why, more than a year ago, I offered an amendment so the  Senate could affirm that withdrawing from Syria or Afghanistan the  wrong way could strengthen the hand of terrorists and competitors such  as Russia and Iran while weakening our own vital interests. 

  I believe from my conversations with senior administration officials  that they went into these negotiations with their eyes wide open about  the Taliban's duplicitous nature. I expect Members of both parties will  have many questions about this agreement and look forward to briefings  from the administration about the path forward to protect American  interests in Afghanistan and ensure this war ends on terms favorable to  those interests. 

  Our fight against ISIS, al-Qaida, and other radical Islamic  terrorists is not over. As my colleagues and I have said for years,  even if the United States were to choose to walk away from the  conflict, the conflict would not walk away from us. We learned that on  September 11. We relearned it with the rise of ISIS. I hope we never  need to learn it again. 

  So the war is not over, but this agreement may foster the  negotiations and discussions within Afghanistan that would be necessary  to bring it to a close.                                 John Ratcliffe  

  Mr. President, on one final matter, on Friday, President Trump  announced he intends to nominate Representative   John Ratcliffe of  Texas to serve as Director of National Intelligence. I am glad the  President has elected to nominate a permanent DNI so the Senate can  provide our advice and consent on this crucial position. 

  As I mentioned last week, the men and women of the intelligence  community fulfill a wide array of sensitive and critically important  missions. The Office of the DNI is central to coordinating these  efforts in a strong fashion. It gives no quarter to politicization or  partisan bias. I am glad the administration will seek Senate  confirmation for the position. 

  President Trump has a strong track record of sending the Senate  impressive nominees for national security posts who are well prepared  to protect our Nation and defend our interests. 

  The impressive leadership of Secretary Esper at the Department of  Defense, Director Haspel at the CIA, General Nakasone at the National  Security Agency, and other leaders have proven that President Trump has  an eye for talent and confirms that the Senate's trust in each of them  was well placed. 

  I hope Congressman Ratcliffe will impress Senators just as did the  other members of the President's team and earn a bipartisan  confirmation vote. I trust Chairman Burr and our colleagues on the  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence will oversee a prompt and  fair confirmation process, and I look forward to meeting the nominee  myself. 

  The Trump administration has worked overtime to unwind the failures  of the 8 years that preceded it. We have taken big strides to renew  America's national security and our strength on the world stage. We  must keep up this crucial work. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT