Afghanistan


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, make no mistake, the foreign actors  who seek to harm the United States have not let up while we have  attended to other problems. For example, in Afghanistan, despite  agreeing just months ago to engage in further peace negotiations with  the Afghan Government and sever its ties with al-Qaida, the Taliban  has, instead, continued its violent campaign against the Afghan people. 

  President Trump has expressed frustration with the Taliban's failures  and is reportedly considering withdrawing from Afghanistan even more  rapidly. Yet, as we weigh our options, we must not forget the painful  lessons of the last administration's mistakes. 

  Former President Obama and Vice President Biden were intent on  beating a hasty retreat from Iraq, conditions on the ground  notwithstanding. Just as many of us warned at the time, their  recklessness left a vacuum that terrorists and Iran readily filled.  ISIS flourished. Tragically, the rest is history. The resulting chaos  threatened our interests and drew American efforts back into the  region. 

  By contrast, the Trump administration has seen a number of successes  in this difficult region. The President's strategy has secured a  territorial defeat of ISIS. It has put new pressure on Iran and given  the Iraqi people a fighting chance, which their new government seems  inclined to take. 

  Yet helping Iraq stand up to Iranian influence will not be an  overnight project. Iran wants to drive the United States from the  region. China and Russia would also be thrilled with a reduction of  American presence and influence there. So, as we struggle to clean up  the broken pieces of one rushed withdrawal, we need to avoid repeating  those mistakes somewhere else. 

  I applaud the Trump administration for its approach thus far in  Afghanistan. The President has taken constraints off U.S. forces. We  have helped Afghan forces go after the terrorists. We have ratcheted up  the costs on the Taliban, bolstered the Afghan forces that bear the  brunt of the violence, and won international support for our mission  there. We have done all of this with fewer resources and fewer  personnel than during the previous two administrations. The President's  strategy and diplomacy have helped create a path for discussions among  Afghans--the only thing that could actually secure the country's  future. 

  If these qualified successes continue, it would be appropriate to  further reduce our American presence as certain conditions are met, but  we must retain enough forces and influence to maintain our  counterterrorism capabilities. Given recent reports and our  longstanding experience, we cannot just trust the Taliban will sever  ties to al-Qaida and other terrorist networks. We need to be vigilant.  We need to maintain enough presence to judge whether the Taliban  complies with agreements and help the Afghan Government impose  consequences if it does not. We need to maintain enough presence to  preserve our strategic foothold against ISIS, the Haqqani Network, and  al-Qaida. We should also maintain enough presence to help prevent a  full replay of Iraq or Syria--a bloodbath and a human rights collapse,  particularly for generations of Afghan women. 

  Last year, a bipartisan supermajority in the Senate voted for an  amendment I authored, which warned against precipitous withdrawals from  Afghanistan and Syria in ways that could jeopardize the hard-won  progress we have attained, embolden Iran and Russia, and create more  pain for us and everyone else in the future. 

  Our enemies would be thrilled if the United States would grow too  tired to continue the hard work of standing with our partners,  confronting our adversaries, and maintaining measured leadership that  projects our security around the world. Our enemies would be delighted  if we would grow too weary to act in our own long-term interest. We  must not give them that satisfaction.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT