Business Before the Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. All month, the Senate has been on the job attending to  the needs of our country. We legislated, we confirmed nominees, we held  major hearings, and conducted oversight on the historic response to  COVID-19. 

  Yesterday, we learned that our Senate action will continue to  contrast with our absentee neighbors across the Rotunda. While  essential workers across the country continue to clock in, the  Democratic House of Representatives has essentially put itself on paid  leave for months. Since the early days of this crisis, the self- described ``People's House'' has been suspiciously empty of people. I  understand they have convened for legislative session a grand total of  2 days in the last 8 weeks. At this point, I am wondering if we should  send Senators over there to collect their newspaper and water the  plants. 

  It is not just their physical absence; it is House Democrats absent  from any serious discussions at all. About the only product to emerge  from their lengthy sabbatical has been a 1,800-page, $3 trillion  messaging bill that couldn't even unite their own conference. 

  Yesterday, the Speaker announced this arrangement will continue for  another 45 days at least, but there is a new wrinkle. House Democrats  jammed through a precedent-breaking remote voting scheme that will let  1 Member cast 10 additional votes--1 Member cast 10 additional votes.  Actually, 1 person, 11 votes. Remember, these are the people who want  to remake every State's election laws. 

  There are several problems with this. One of them happens to be  article I, section 5 of the U.S. Constitution,  which says a majority of each House shall constitute a quorum to do  business. For about 231 years, Congress has managed to fulfill this job  requirement. They worked through a Civil War, two World Wars, terrorist  threats, and a major pandemic without trying to shirk this duty. The  12th Congress endured the War of 1812, including the occupation of  Washington and the burning of this very building that we are in right  now without abandoning in-person meetings. 

  The Constitution requires a physical quorum to do business. Normally,  both Chambers may presume one. But any House Member has a right to  demand an in-person attendance check. The Democrats' new rule says one  person may mark himself and 10 others present, even if they are nowhere  in sight, which is a flatout lie. 

  There will be enormous constitutional questions around anything the  House does if they fail to demonstrate a real quorum, but plow ahead  anyhow. They have had 2 normal workdays in 8 weeks and one absurd,  unserious proposal. And now they are playing games with the  Constitution so they can continue their never-ending spring break well  into July. 

  Let's come over here to the Senate. In the past 3 weeks, we have  filled crucial posts at the National Counterintelligence and Security  Center, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Department of  Homeland Security. 

  Today, we will confirm the next Director of National Intelligence.    John Ratcliffe will lead the intelligence community in countering  threats from great powers, rogue nations, and terrorists, and ensuring  that work is untainted by political bias. 

  The Banking Committee heard from Chairman Powell and Secretary  Mnuchin on the workings of the CARES Act and the state of our economy.  The Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee has reported the  nominee to be Special Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery Programs. 

  The Special Committee on Aging is examining all the ways this crisis  has hurt America's seniors. 

  The HELP Committee has discussed with top experts like Dr. Fauci and  Admiral Giroir how schools, universities, and businesses will begin to  reopen. 

  Senator Cornyn and I are working on legal protections that our  healthcare workers deserve and institutions will need if they want to  return to anything reassembling normal. 

  On the floor, we have passed major bills, renewing key national  security tools and dialing up the consequences for Communist China's  abuse of human rights. 

  In short, the Senate has just followed the lead of the American  people. For months now, healthcare workers have been clocking in to  help and heal strangers. Every minute on the job is an act of  selflessness and bravery. Families have forged new routines and set up  home offices and home schools overnight. Community volunteers have  found new ways to pitch in and help the vulnerable from 6 feet apart. 

  Tens of millions of workers have kept collecting paychecks instead of  pink slips because of our Paycheck Protection Program, which sent  hundreds of billions of dollars to keep small businesses alive. 

  COVID-19 has killed nearly 100,000 Americans. It has cost tens of  millions their jobs. This is a generational tragedy. But in the midst  of it, our country is pulling together. 

  My home State of Kentucky is showing us how it is done. A glass  producer transformed its operation to make protective shields for  businesses. A high school principal, Evan Jackson, invented a virtual  commencement so graduates didn't go uncelebrated. Dr. Erin Frazier, a  pediatrician, somehow found the spare time to stand up brandnew food  pantries. Restaurants are spreading hope and hospitality by donating  meals to first responders. 

  And one group of restaurants headquartered in Louisville called Texas  Roadhouse has gone to great lengths to avoid layoffs. The founder gave  up his salary and put his own money into a worker assistance fund. So  far they have spent $17 million on their workers, covering everything  from healthcare premiums to bonuses. 

  These past few months have been trying indeed, but the American  people have been truly inspiring. This spring, the Senate wrote and  passed the largest rescue package in American history to try to help  bridge this period. This Nation of nearly 330 million people put their  lives on pause to protect our medical system, and it worked. 

  The American people did what Americans do: They got it done. We kept  our healthcare system intact; we did not let this virus break us; and  as far as we know, not one single American who needed a ventilator  could not get one. We have not yet won the war, but the citizens of  this Nation have won an important battle. 

  What comes next? Sustaining this flattened curve will take vigilance.  Safely reopening schools, universities, and businesses will take care  and leadership. The race for even more testing, therapeutics, and of  course a vaccine will be one great national project. 

  Rebuilding the prosperity we had just a few months ago will be  another. Life will not go right back to normal. Repairing the damage  will take creativity. But the greatest country in world history will  find a more sustainable middle ground. 

  Every one of my Senate colleagues should be proud of how we helped  our Nation win this battle. Every day, our historic rescue package has  continued to push out money and aid. Every day, we are working on ways  to smooth the road toward reopening that lies before us. 

  The American people have already been heroes. It is our honor as  Senators to stand with them    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT