Business Before the Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, our Nation is caught within a number  of grave problems at the same time. 

  This week, in cities all across America, the pain of racial injustice  has been compounded by violent riots that have drowned out peaceful  protests and hurt innocent people. Millions of working families  continue to face the historic economic fallout from the coronavirus  pandemic, including unemployment levels not seen in decades, and, lest  we forget, the actual pandemic itself is still with us. The virus  continues to claim hundreds of American lives every day, challenge  healthcare professionals, and paralyze schools, universities, and  employers that are eager to reopen. Of course, there is also the  important business we would have needed to have addressed even before  the pandemic. 

  So, for all of these reasons and more, while the Democratic House of  Representatives may be absent--with no plans to return for weeks and  weeks--the U.S. Senate is here and working for the American people. 

  This week, we are filling more critical vacancies throughout our  government. Yesterday, we confirmed the Special Inspector General for  Pandemic Response. This is a brandnew position born of immediate  necessity and goals shared by Members of both parties. Yet, though our  Democratic colleagues said for weeks that CARES Act oversight was a top  priority, our colleagues chose to delay this nomination for as long as  possible. When the rubber met the road, yet again, picking small fights  with President Trump took precedence over urgent work for the common  good. 

  At the same time, we also hear from the very same Democratic  colleagues that they wish the Senate would spend less time on  nominations. Well, the good news is that the Senate Democrats can  change that whenever they want, but as long as they continue to visit  delays and obstruction on even these lower level executive branch  appointments, just for the sake of irritating the White House, the  Senate will continue to do our job the hard way. 

  Of course, in the weeks ahead, we will also tackle significant  legislation  for our country. We will turn to legislation to strengthen the  implementation of the Paycheck Protection Program for the workers and  small businesses that are struggling to weather this storm. We will  consider a bipartisan bill from Senators Daines and Gardner to  safeguard America's abundant public lands. For the 60th consecutive  year, we will also take up the National Defense Authorization Act to  help guide the strategic and operational priorities of our Nation's  Armed Forces in the face of evolving threats    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT