Business Before the Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, week after week, this Capitol has  been a study in contrasts. Call it the tale of two Chambers. Over here  in the Senate, the lights are on, the doors are open, and we are  working for the American people. All month, we have been in session,  passing national security legislation, confirming key nominees, and  holding hearings on the coronavirus crisis and the effectiveness of the  historic rescue package the Senate wrote and the Senate passed. 

  We are heeding medical guidance and taking new precautions, but we  are showing up and getting things done. 

  Over across the Rotunda, in the House, crickets--their lights are  off. The doors are locked. The people's House has shown up for a grand  total of 2 legislative session days since March. Well, 2 days in 8  weeks is a blistering pace. 

  Last week, they flew into town to pass Speaker Pelosi's latest 1,800- page liberal wish list. Diversity and inclusion in the marijuana  industry wasn't going to study itself, after all. That had to be an A-1  priority during this crisis. The Speaker's proposal was so unserious  and so far left that it could not even unite her own conference. Even  after a 2-month sabbatical, House Democrats could not contribute  anything serious. 

  Yet they did find the time to keep fishing for another impeachment.  More than a year after the Mueller report thoroughly debunked the  collusion conspiracy theory, Democrats are still pursuing the  administration in court over that document. In a new Supreme Court  brief the day before yesterday, House Democrats said they have the  right to continue because--listen to this--the President's impeachment  did not actually end with his acquittal.  

  The House Democrats are now claiming the impeachment that ended in  February is not really over. Their brief says they are weighing  ``whether to recommend new articles of impeachment.'' And referring to  Chairman Nadler's Judiciary Committee, ``the Committee's investigation  did not cease with the conclusion of the impeachment trial.'' That is  Chairman Nadler's argument in a court case. 

  Perpetual investigation and perpetual impeachment--if only someone  could have predicted this. If only anyone had warned that House  Democrats' opening the Pandora's box of weak impeachments would affect  our country into the future. Of course, Senate and House Republicans  warned precisely that, and here we are. 

  It is a suitable complement to the other ongoing incident, where a  Federal judge has taken it upon himself to prolong a case that the  actual prosecutors want to drop. 

  These are fascinating legal standards. Investigations no longer end  when a jury acquits someone and prosecutions no longer end when charges  are dropped. The House Democrats would rather spend a fourth  consecutive year trying to cram their politics into the legal system  than actually govern the country during a pandemic 

  Fortunately, as I laid out, the Senate is up to the job. Every single  day, the historic CARES Act that we wrote and passed to fight this  pandemic continues to come online. Direct payments hit families'  accounts. Support for major industries helps to prevent mass layoffs.  Resources for doctors, nurses, hospitals, and healthcare providers help  to stabilize the system from coast to coast. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program has saved tens of millions of jobs  for American workers. From big cities to small towns, to industrial  suburbs, to farm country, Senate Republicans' bold program is turning  potential pink slips into paychecks every single day. 

  To be sure, the program is imperfect. That was guaranteed when banks  had to cram multiple years' worth of lending into a few weeks.  Yesterday, we saw a glaring example of that imperfection. The  legislation we passed contains specific eligibility requirements. One  rule said affiliates of national nonprofits could not pose as small  nonprofits and ask for money. But because time was and is of the  essence, the legislation set up a process of initial self-certification  with review to follow, rather than lengthy vetting upfront that would  have slowed the emergency money for rightful recipients. 

  We learned yesterday that the Nation's largest abortion provider,  Planned Parenthood, abused this emergency process and grabbed tens of  millions of dollars of taxpayer money for which they were completely  ineligible. This is the organization that fired its new president last  year because she was too focused on broader health issues and not  sufficiently fixated on abortion above all else. Disrespecting human  life is their central mission, and they just took advantage of a  national crisis and helped themselves to tens of millions of taxpayer  dollars they were clearly forbidden from taking. 

  It goes without saying that the money must be sent back immediately-- right now. As we shine a light on Planned Parenthood's  misrepresentations, we cannot let their actions jeopardize this  important program with the tens of millions of Americans who are  benefiting from it rightly. 

  Remember, the PPP has pushed $500 billion into the economy across  more than 4 million loans. The average loan size is just $118,000,  giving paychecks instead of pink slips for tens of millions of  Americans. 

  My hometown of Louisville, KY, is home to the baseball bat factory  that makes the world-famous Louisville Slugger. For a few months, the  bat factory was a temporary casualty of COVID-19. This month, the  manufacturer secured a PPP loan, and 171 employees were pulled off  furlough and put right back on the payroll. So 171 family stories went  from pain and chaos back to stability because of this program. That is  just one business in one city in one State. 

  There is also an automotive parts supplier and a hoagie shop in  Michigan, a fresh flower shop in Arizona, a burger joint and a  community nonprofit in North Carolina, and on and on and on. Four  million loans across all 50 States and new loans are still being issued  as we speak. This is what serious legislation looks like. This is what  serious solutions can accomplish. 

  Every day, the Senate's work is paying dividends to working families  all across our country. 

  The pandemic is not all we are working on. The Senate is also staying  on top of foreign relations, national security, and the personnel  business. 

  Yesterday, the Intelligence Committee reported out the nomination of  the next Director of the National Intelligence. The Armed Services  Committee reported out nominations for Secretary of the Navy, Chief of  Staff of the Air Force, and Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for  Policy. 

  I hope our Democratic colleagues will not block the Senate from  filling these key national security vacancies before we adjourn later  this week.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT