Business Before the Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on a totally different matter,  obviously and unfortunately, this turmoil is not the only great  challenge before us. Lest we forget, the healthcare fight against the  worst viral pandemic in a century is still upon us. Our Nation is  trying to smartly and safely reopen. Just as small businesses in some  cities are sweeping up broken glass, American workers and entrepreneurs  across the Nation are trying to rebuild the shattered prosperity our  Nation was experiencing just a few months ago. Meanwhile, beyond our  shores, our enemies and adversaries would be only too eager to catch  the United States with our guard down. 

  So there is plenty of work before the Senate, and unlike the  Democratic House of Representatives, which I understand may next appear  here in Washington in about a month--in about a month--the Senate is  present and working. 

  We are continuing to conduct oversight of our historic rescue  package, the CARES Act, as it continues taking effect. I expect we will  soon consider further bipartisan legislation to help the Paycheck  Protection Program--the signature policy from Senators Rubio and  Collins that has kept tens of millions of Americans employed--continue  to work for our country. 

  As we pivot toward reopening, the Senate is also working on  significant COVID-related legal protection so our Nation's schools,  healthcare workers, and employers are not swamped with frivolous  lawsuits and taxpayer dollars do not just stimulate the pockets of  trial lawyers. 

  At the same time, critical vacancies remain throughout the Federal  Government, and qualified nominees stand ready to fill them. So the  Senate will work through two nominees to the Federal district courts  and a number of important executive branch positions, including  Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities;  Deputy Under Secretary of Defense; and the new Special Inspector  General for Pandemic Recovery. 

  What is more, we also have all the important legislation that needed  to get done before the pandemic arrived in the first place. This month,  we will turn to bipartisan legislation led by Senators Gardner and  Daines to provide stable support for the Land and Water Conservation  Fund and lasting stewardship of our natural resources. Their bill will  safeguard our Nation's public lands for recreation and conservation and  help generations of Americans continue to access and enjoy these  treasures. 

  In the coming weeks, our colleagues on the Armed Services Committee  will begin marking up the 60th consecutive, annual National Defense  Authorization Act. I know our colleagues need no reminder of how  important that task is; neither do our men and women in uniform. The  COVID-19 crisis makes it more urgent, not less urgent, that we continue  to authorize investments in our servicemembers and their families and  in advancing and accelerating our national defense strategy. From  honing our competitive edge against would-be rivals on land and sea to  expanding our reach in the air and space, achieving our Nation's  strategic priorities begins right here this month with the NDAA. 

  So Congress's to-do list is clear, and the Senate is manning its  essential post, working to get the American people's business done.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT