Business Before the Senate


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Over the last several weeks, major challenges have  dominated the headlines on a daily basis. Following the sacrifices  Americans have made to fight the coronavirus, our Nation is gradually  beginning to reopen. Our economy has started adding back jobs. But as  some States are seeing their numbers increase, the fallout for American  workers remains historic, and schools, universities, and employers are  still looking for smart and safe ways to step back toward normal. 

  The Senate is working to ensure that our efforts to treat, contain,  and recover from the pandemic can succeed. We have confirmed a Special  Inspector General for Pandemic Recovery. Committees are overseeing the  CARES Act, and Senator Cornyn is crafting measures to make sure a  second epidemic of frivolous lawsuits does not block schools and  colleges from reopening or employers from rehiring workers. 

  At the same time, the killings of Black Americans like George Floyd  and Breonna Taylor have accelerated important conversations. With the  leadership of Senator Scott of South Carolina, the Senate is preparing  to add to the conversations surrounding law enforcement with our own  serious proposal--policies that would take smart steps without  attacking the vast majority of police officers who bravely do their  jobs the right way. 

  Of course there is also a long list of legislative priorities which  the Senate was going to tackle before these new issues materialized.  This week, Chairman Inhofe and the Armed Services Committee have been  marking up the 60th consecutive National Defense Authorization Act,  which I hope the full Senate will be voting on later this month. 

  Here on the floor, we have also been considering a landmark bill to  protect and preserve our Nation's public lands for future generations 

  In my home State of Kentucky, we know all about the important role  that public lands play in preserving our physical heritage, providing  access for outdoor recreation, and sustaining jobs and prosperity in  the process. Across the Commonwealth, outdoor recreation supports  120,000 jobs and drives nearly $13 billion in consumer spending. From  natural wonders like Red River Gorge and Mammoth Cave National Park to  historic sites like Mill Springs Battlefield and Camp Nelson,  Kentuckians have grown up enjoying our public lands, and we intend to  protect them for future generations. 

  Let me give just one example. As I mentioned yesterday, when I came  to  the Senate, Kentucky was the only State without its own national  wildlife refuge. We had plenty of history and heritage. We just needed  a little help to preserve it. 

  With the support of hunters, boaters, and outdoorsmen in the Jackson  Purchase region, I led the establishment of the Clarks River National  Wildlife Refuge. It was a huge step to protect local species and our  treasured Kentucky pastimes. This refuge has continued to grow over the  years. Thanks to the Land and Water Conservation Fund and many willing  sellers, it now makes thousands of acres available for appreciation,  recreation, and tourism. 

  Like many public lands, these wildlife areas make great neighbors. In  a single year, more than 50 million visitors come to America's wildlife  refuges nationwide and spend billions in nearby communities. 

  Decades later, another Kentucky community was looking to safeguard  its own natural treasure. The Green River, which flows through Kentucky  and meets the Ohio River near Henderson County, is one of the most  biodiverse waterways on the entire continent. I was proud to take the  lead once again, and alongside strong local supporters and a broad  coalition of groups, we sent a bill to President Trump, and he signed  it into law. We welcomed the Interior Secretary to Western Kentucky  last year to cut the ribbon on the Green River National Wildlife  Refuge. 

  But Kentuckians know that ribbon cuttings are just the beginning. Our  State has newly designated public lands that need attention to get off  the ground. We have well-established public lands that have  opportunities to grow and improve, and we have places like the Daniel  Boone National Forest, established more than 80 years ago, that need  our careful attention and upkeep. 

  This legislation before the Senate will help all of them. It will  help us repair levees at the Clarks River National Wildlife Refuge. It  will also help our two wildlife refuges continue to grow. It will help  Mill Springs Battlefield and Camp Nelson continue to teach the history  of emancipation and the Civil War to new generations. It will help us  make infrastructure upgrades at Mammoth Cave National Park for the  safety of 2 million annual visitors. It will help enhance the Land  Between the Lakes and its $600 million economic impact. It will fund  transportation and structural maintenance in the Daniel Boone National  Forest, which supports more than 900 jobs. It will help us rehabilitate  the Cumberland Gap and give future Americans the opportunity to  literally follow in the footsteps of our early explorers. 

  Kentucky is proud of our public lands. We are proud of the role our  natural inheritance plays in our vibrant present and our promising  future. Of course, we are only just one State. Every one of my Senate  colleagues has parks, forests, refuges, and historic sites they are  equally proud of that are equally central in their communities. That is  why we voted to advance this legislation earlier this week by an  overwhelming bipartisan margin. 

  President Teddy Roosevelt once said this about our Nation's national  treasures: ``We have fallen heirs to the most glorious heritage people  ever received, and each one must do his part if we wish to show that  the Nation is worthy of its good fortune.'' 

  I want to thank Senator Daines and Senator Gardner for their  leadership in making sure that we keep up our end of the bargain with  the generations of Americans who came before us and those yet to come.  I am also grateful for Senator Alexander, Senator Portman, and our  Democratic colleagues, Senators Manchin and Warner, for helping to  assemble this bipartisan bill. I will be proud to speak for Kentucky  and to vote for it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT