China


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on an entirely different matter,  today marks the 31st anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre in  Beijing. 

  Because of China's censorship and disinformation, we still do not  know how many brave Chinese people were killed by their own government  on June 4, 1989. Conservative estimates say hundreds. Others say  thousands--a burst of violence against peaceful democracy protesters,  weeks of arrests, roundups, and executions, and then total silence. 

  Never since have the Chinese people been able to freely and openly  remember the atrocity. Never outside the oasis of Hong Kong has a  single formal gathering on Chinese soil been permitted to commemorate  the victims. Now even that oasis of freedom is at risk. We learned this  week that, under new pressure from Beijing, Hong Kong is refusing to  permit the annual candlelight vigil for the first time ever. This year,  the Chinese Communist Party wants no candles lit even in Hong Kong-- just more darkness. 

  It was 31 years ago that brave Chinese flooded that public square and  others across their nation in the fervent hope that economic  liberalization would also lead to a less authoritarian, more open  society. What they got were bodies littering the ground. 

  A shocked world sanctioned the PRC, but as time passed, the world  relaxed somewhat and returned to a strategy of welcoming China into our  global public square, bringing the PRC into international institutions  in the hope that an included China would actually play by the rules.  Time and again, those  hopes have been dashed. The last few months have been their own tidy  case study in what kind of global actor the so-called People's Republic  has chosen to be. 

  Their response to the coronavirus pandemic that started in their own  country was to silence their own doctors, imprison their own people,  shut down important research, and lie to the rest of the world while  hoarding supplies for themselves. The CCP's selfishness and failures  fueled a worldwide catastrophe, and, ever since, they have tried to use  that catastrophe as a smokescreen for other aggression. 

  While they thought the rest of the world was distracted, China has  cracked down on Hong Kong; conducted provocative military exercises  near Taiwan; expanded its bullying into the South China Sea; pressured  the Philippines; and literally initiated physical fighting with India  in the Himalayas. 

  Oh, and according to press reports, China has also found the time to  mount online disinformation campaigns to hurt America and divide us  among ourselves. Bad actors linked to Beijing have reportedly flooded  Twitter to exploit the death of George Floyd and increase hostility  among Americans. Even in official channels, CCP leaders mock America  and imply our society is no better than their tyranny. 

  Now, as an aside, some Democrats here in Washington seem to have  swallowed the Chinese propaganda and set out to amplify it themselves,  including from right here on the Senate floor. 

  Yesterday, right here in the Senate Chamber, the Democratic leader  explicitly compared America men and women in uniform to the Chinese  murderers who committed the massacre in Tiananmen Square. Leader  Schumer said that, when he saw images of American men and women in  uniform standing near the recently defaced Lincoln Memorial and  protecting the right to peaceful protest, ``You cannot help but think  of Tiananmen Square.'' That is what he said. 

  I am sure Beijing was thrilled with this shameful comparison. A  propaganda victory for Communist China, gift-wrapped with the  compliments of the Democratic Party, delivered just in time for this  bloody anniversary. 

  Imagine being so consumed by partisanship that you deliberately link  the brave American men and women who stop violence, protect peaceful  protests, defend citizens' constitutional liberties, and defend against  violent riots to the Chinese butchers who gunned down crowds of  peaceful dissenters who were begging for the same rights our military  defends. 

  In America, the police help peaceful marchers march. Over there, they  gun them down. If anyone is having trouble distinguishing these things,  the problem is not with our Nation--it is with them. 

  Now, these recent examples of Chinese hostility are just symptoms of  a fundamental problem that has come into focus. Decades ago, the United  States and the rest of the world made a calculated bet that welcoming  China into the fold would cause it to mend its ways. 

  It was 20 years ago that President Clinton argued for admitting China  into the WTO because ``economic innovation and political empowerment .  . . will inevitably go hand in hand.'' Many smart people made that  wager--in both parties--but we should never have used words like  ``inevitable.'' 

  President Clinton also said: ``China has been trying to crack down on  the internet. . . . Good luck!'' Back in the year 2000, the transcript  says, that was greeted with laughter. Well, no one is laughing now.  

  China's leaders have pounced on every inch of economic space the  world has afforded them--and then some. They have cheated on trade and  have stolen foreign technology. They have executed on long-term plans  to dominate key global industries. They have weaponized foreign aid to  bring developing countries under their thrall. So the Chinese economy  has leapt forward. The Chinese people enjoy greater prosperity, which  they sorely need after decades of Communist mismanagement, but all of  this money and innovation have not brought the people any more freedom.  They have given CCP elites better high-tech tools with which to oppress  their own people and more leverage with which to undermine the  international system. 

  Rather than importing liberty into China, this economic integration  seems to have been rather more successful at exporting its  authoritarian preferences to the rest of us. Right here in the United  States, we have seen Hollywood make a gross habit of self-censoring  films to avoid offending the Chinese Communist Party. We have seen the  NBA prioritize its profits in China and throw an employee under the bus  who spoke out for Hong Kong. The same elites, institutions, and  businesses that feel totally free to critique our own society--and  rightly so--increasingly walk on eggshells around President Xi and his  cronies. 

  And free speech is hardly the only front where China poses an  international threat. A recent major report from an interagency task  force found that China's deliberate economic aggression and targeting  of our industrial base is a significant national security vulnerability  for the United States, and many other nations are awakening to that  same reality. 

  Back in March, a CCP-controlled newspaper threatened to cut off  pharmaceutical exports to the United States and ``plunge'' Americans  ``into the mighty sea of coronavirus'' if we did not play more nicely  with Beijing. One month later, Chinese officials threatened a boycott  of Australia because our Australian friends wanted to investigate the  origins of the pandemic. 

  Earlier this year, the Director of the FBI explained that China's  criminal conspiracies against the United States and our companies make  the CCP the ``greatest long-term threat'' to America's information  security, intellectual property, and, by extension, our ``economic  vitality.'' Once again, our allies and partners are being victimized by  the very same tactics. 

  One outside report found that the ``United States is losing between  $400 billion and $600 billion per year in intellectual property theft  as a matter of provable losses, and that figure does not account for  second-order losses such as jobs and infrastructure.'' Let's put that  in perspective. Congress has been working hard on the huge, historic  Paycheck Protection Program. It has pushed out a half a trillion  dollars for American workers. Well, by this estimate, China reaches  into our country and steals the equivalent of that entire program every  single year. 

  China does not play by the rules, not in Hong Kong, not in the WHO,  not in the WTO, not in international trade. Year after year, on issue  over issue, it has chosen the path of aggression. So there will be  consequences. 

  Just this week, the U.K. is reportedly continuing to back away from  plans to work with Huawei, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson is  impressively preparing to offer visas so that Hongkongers who want to  know their freedoms and liberties are secure can take refuge in the  United Kingdom instead. In Japan, Prime Minister Abe is taking major  steps to strengthen Japan and check China's economic aggression. It is  a good thing, too, because defending American security, American  interests, American prosperity, and the international system cannot be  a go-it-alone operation. 

  There will be steps the United States will take on our own, but just  as the entire free world stands united today to remember Tiananmen  Square, so we will need to stand together to prevent the world's public  square from heading toward a similar domination by China. We will need  to keep our friends and partners close. China can try to repress its  own people, but the United States of America will never fall silent. We  will never go dark. We will keep the candles lit. We will protect our  people and their bright future.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT