Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, as the global outbreak of the new  coronavirus continues to grow, its impact on American families and  small businesses is continuing to scale up. School closures are  challenging both parents and teachers. Childcare closures are  complicating family life even further. Main Street small businesses and  their employees are grappling with an unprecedented situation, where  their local leaders are effectively winding down their businesses for a  period of time through no fault of their own. Major industries that our  Nation relies on have seen businesses virtually dry up overnight-- again, not due to any business decision they made but because of  appropriate directives from public health experts. And most important  of all, our healthcare system and our doctors, nurses, and other  frontline professionals are gearing up for what seems very likely to be  the most significant nationwide challenge they have faced in  generations. At every level, this new challenge is testing or Nation  and our institutions. 

  Yesterday, my home State of Kentucky reported its first coronavirus- related death. Our thoughts are with the family, friends, and neighbors  in Bourbon County, who are mourning. 

  I spoke with Governor Beshear yesterday, and we are continuing to  stay in close touch. The Bluegrass has now confirmed 25 total cases to  date. 

  And we are heeding the sober warning of Dr. Fauci. This is what Dr.  Fauci said: ``Things will get worse before they get better.''  

  It is abundantly clear that our Nation cannot afford partisan  politics as usual. This is a moment for bold and bipartisan action.  That is what the Senate did earlier this month when we passed billions  of dollars in targeted funding to assist medical professionals and  responders in every State and to ease the initial shock to small  businesses. And that is what the Senate needs to expand on this week-- bold and bipartisan action. 

  Yesterday evening, the House finally completed its work on their  coronavirus relief proposal, made a number of changes, and sent the  paperwork over here to the Senate. 

  I know Senators on both sides are eager to assist workers, families,  and small businesses with the financial fallout of this extraordinary  period. So, as I said yesterday afternoon, Senate Republicans are  convinced that the House's noncomprehensive bill can only be the  beginning--the beginning--of our efforts to support our health system,  assist individual Americans and families, as well as stabilize the U.S.  economy. 

  So, last night, a group of Republican Senators conferred with  Secretary Mnuchin. He is returning to the Capitol to meet with our  entire conference today. We are continuing urgent talks on further  legislation that will address head-on the three major priorities we  have spent the last several days discussing in depth. 

  No. 1, we need to provide more direct assistance for American workers  and families. 

  No. 2, we need further strong steps to secure our economic  foundation, most especially our small businesses. In particular, it  seems increasingly clear that the House's effort to mandate that small  businesses provide new worker benefits, just as many small businesses  themselves are in significant jeopardy, might even be actually harmful  unless we urgently address a broader package that includes more and  broader small business relief. 

  And, No. 3, of course, the foundational priority is to continue  providing all the support that our medical professionals need as they  fight this new virus on the frontlines. 

  These conversations are ongoing. We are making progress. The House of  Representatives may have left town, but the Senate is right here at  work. We are crafting the major legislation that the American people  deserve in the face of this major challenge. It is my intention that  the Senate will not adjourn until we have passed significant and bold  new steps--above and beyond what the House has passed--to help our  strong Nation and our strong underlying economy weather this storm. 

  Now, before I conclude this morning, I wanted to take a moment to  echo and amplify the updated guidance that our public health experts  and the White House rolled out yesterday. As President Trump said  yesterday, the next 2 weeks are an important opportunity. Our Nation  will have a major say in how long the virus will spread within the  United States before it is contained. 

  Following the commonsense steps laid out by the White House  Coronavirus Task Force can significantly reduce each American's risk of  being exposed or spreading the virus within communities. 

  First, obviously, those who feel sick, stay home. Those who feel  sick, stay home. Unwell children should be kept at home. And anyone  with questions about their symptoms should contact their medical  provider. 

  Wherever possible, Americans should engage in work or school from  home. Those who cannot, including those whose in-person job functions  are central to our government or our Nation, must take especially  seriously the CDC's guidelines for health and hygiene, especially  washing hands and social distancing. 

  All Americans have been strongly urged to avoid eating or drinking  out, to avoid discretionary travel, and to avoid visiting nursing homes  or retirement facilities unless--unless--it is to provide critical  assistance. 

  Some of these recommendations sound like basic common sense. Others  of them would have sounded almost unthinkable just a few weeks ago. 

  It is almost impossible to exaggerate the pace of change over the  past weeks and days, but Americans are strong. We are resilient. This  is a proud Nation with a world-changing history, and we have come  through far greater challenges than this. This is not a time for fear  or panic. It is a time to follow the facts, listen carefully to the  experts, and take precautions to protect not only ourselves but the  most vulnerable in our society. Every single one of us can do our part.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT