Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this morning, the Senate and House  Sergeants at Arms announced the suspension of public tours and  nonofficial access to the Capitol Complex beginning at the close of  business today and running through the end of March. Their decision was  made in close consultation with the Attending Physician of the U.S.  Congress, Dr. Brian Monahan. 

  I support the decision of these nonpartisan officers. It follows new  guidance from the Washington, DC, Department of Health encouraging that  all nonessential mass gatherings of more than 1,000 people be  postponed. The Capitol Complex welcomes many times that many visitors  on a typical day, particularly at this time of year. 

  Congress will continue to do our work. Offices will be able to  welcome constituents and visitors for meetings and official business by  appointment, but in deference to the experts and to protect the health  of many Americans who travel to our Nation's Capital, tourism and  nonofficial access to the Capitol and the complex will be put on pause. 

  This virus is challenging our Nation in ways that feel unfamiliar to  us, but our great country is strong, we are equipped, and we have  overcome far greater challenges before. I know the entire Congress will  look forward to welcoming all Americans back to visit their beautiful  Capitol as soon as possible. 

  In the meantime, we continue to encourage everyone to follow the  facts, listen to the experts, and take smart and calm precautions as  appropriate. Every American can access up-to-date recommendations for  their own personal circumstances at www.coronavirus.gov. 

  Last night, President Trump addressed the Nation on the broader,  ongoing effort to slow and mitigate the spread of the virus here on  American soil. As I have noted before, the administration's early  proactive measures to repatriate U.S. citizens and restrict travel from  China bought more time for public health professionals to prepare our  response, and the funding measure that Congress passed last week is  sending an infusion of new funding into laboratory research, frontline  medical care, and everything in between.  

  With those critical steps already taken, this week brought a further  opportunity to help communities and families face the economic effects  of the virus spread. Unfortunately, it appears at this hour that the  Speaker and House Democrats instead chose to produce an ideological  wish list that was not tailored closely to the circumstances. One is  reminded of the famous comment from President Obama's first Chief of  Staff: ``You never want a serious crisis to go to waste.'' Instead of  focusing on immediate relief to affected individuals, families, and  businesses, the House Democrats chose to wander into various areas of  policy that are barely related, if at all, to the issue before us. 

  Instead of working within existing law and within existing systems to  deliver targeted relief as officially and effectively as possible, the  Speaker's proposal would stand up a needless thicket of new  bureaucracy. They would task offices like the Social Security  Administration with standing up brand-new bureaucracy that would delay  the delivery of aid to those who need it. 

  As currently drafted, the proposal appears to impose permanent  unfunded mandates on businesses that could cause massive job losses and  put thousands of small businesses at risk. The administration was ready  to collaborate. The Senate was ready to seriously consider a compromise  product, but it appears that over in the House, leftwing political  messaging may have taken priority over the needs of our country.  Certainly, this is disappointing. 

  I want to commend Secretary Mnuchin for his efforts and his continued  conversation. At a minimum, I hope that Senate Democrats will not block  potential requests from our colleagues today to pass smaller,  noncontroversial pieces of legislation right away that would bolster  particular aspects of the fight against coronavirus. 

  The good news is that our Nation's economy remains strong. The  President is continuing to take action himself. We just passed  billions--billions--in urgent funding just last week, and the Senate  will continue to stand ready and willing to work toward further  bicameral, bipartisan actions when the House Democrats decide to get  serious.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT