Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, this pandemic is weighing heavily on  the American people. Roughly, 1.4 million Americans have been infected,  more than 80,000 have died, and unemployment has not been this high  since World War II. 

  Just a few months ago, millions of hard-working men and women were  thriving and optimistic. They were making big plans across kitchen  tables. Now all of that is in chaos. 

  The Chairman of the Federal Reserve reports that nearly 4 in 10  American households that earn less than $40,000 a year had somebody get  laid off in the month of March alone. This emergency is very serious,  so the Senate's response has been serious. 

  In March, Senate Republicans designed and the full Senate passed the  CARES Act. It pushed trillions of dollars to working families, job  creators, and medical professionals. We sent direct cash to almost 130  million Americans. We delivered hundreds of billions of dollars in  paycheck protection loans to small businesses, saving tens of millions  of American jobs. We helped State and local governments defray  coronavirus costs. We funded healthcare providers and testing. Even  now, its programs are still taking effect, still coming online, still  helping. The Senate took a blank sheet of paper and turned it into the  largest rescue package in history. 

  We have taken this crisis seriously, but the House Democrats have  taken a totally different approach. While we finalized the CARES Act,  the House parachuted in with miscellaneous liberal demands that were  completely unrelated to COVID-19--solar energy tax credits, airline  emissions. One senior House Democrat called the virus a ``tremendous  opportunity to restructure things to fit our vision.'' One Senate  Democratic colleague asked: ``How many times are we going to get a shot  at a $1 trillion-plus program?'' They told us exactly what they were up  to, so we ignored the leftwing wish list and stayed serious, and the  CARES Act is still helping Americans bridge these temporary shutdowns. 

  So let's fast-forward to today. The Democratic House is still not  back in Washington. Its constitutional duty  stations are still unmanned, but the Democrats cannot stop salivating  over the possibilities for partisan gain. 

  Former Vice President Biden says he sees this tragedy as an  ``incredible opportunity . . . to fundamentally transform the  country.'' Biden said it is an ``incredible opportunity . . . to  fundamentally transform the country.'' 

  Speaker Pelosi said: ``I see everything as an opportunity.'' 

  A cochair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus said: ``For me, the  leverage is that there is enormous suffering.'' ``The leverage is that  there is enormous suffering.'' There are 80,000 Americans who have died  and more than 20 million who have lost their jobs. I call that a  crisis; they call it leverage. 

  This week, the Speaker published an 1,800-page seasonal catalog of  leftwing oddities and called it a coronavirus relief bill. So here we  go again. It includes a massive Tax Code giveaway to high earners in  blue States. Working families are struggling to put food on the table,  but the House Democrats are prioritizing millionaires on the coasts. It  would print another round of checks--listen to this--specifically for  illegal immigrants. Can you believe it? We forgot to have the Treasury  Department send money to people who are here illegally. My goodness.  What an oversight. Thank goodness the Democrats are on the case. 

  The Speaker's bill also tries to use the virus as cover to implement  sweeping changes to election laws that the Democrats have literally  wanted for years, like forcing every single State to embrace  California's sketchy ballot harvesting whether they want to or not. 

  Then there is the cherry on top. It is the bold new policy from the  Washington Democrats that will kick the coronavirus to the curb and  save American families from this crisis. Here it is--new annual studies  on diversity and inclusion within the cannabis industry. There is not  one study but two of them. Let me say that again. The Democrats'  supposed coronavirus bill includes taxpayer-funded studies to measure  diversity and inclusion among the people who profit off of marijuana. 

  The word ``cannabis'' appears in this bill 68 times--more times than  the word ``job'' and 4 times as much as the word ``hire.'' Maybe that  is just as well because when their proposal does try to treat the  economic crisis, it proposes stifling, anti-work policies that would  only make it harder for Americans to get their jobs back. For example,  they literally propose to raise taxes on small business and drain more  cash from Main Street during a Main Street meltdown. So maybe it is  best if the House Democrats focus on cannabis studies and leave  economics to the rest of us. 

  This is a totally unserious effort. Even the mainstream media says:  ``Neither this bill nor anything resembling it will ever become law.  It's a Democratic wish list.'' 

  Forget about making law; this thing even fails as a messaging bill.  That is what is so remarkable. The House Democrats had a blank slate to  write anything they wanted to define the modern Democratic Party--any  vision for the society that they wanted--and here is what they chose:  tax hikes on small businesses, giveaways to blue State millionaires,  government checks for illegal immigrants, and sending diversity  detectives to inspect the pot industry. The House gave itself no  assignments for 2 months except to develop this proposal. Yet it still  reads like the Speaker of the House pasted together some random ideas  from her most liberal Members and slapped the word ``coronavirus'' on  top of it--an unserious product from an unserious House majority that  has spent months dealing itself out of the crisis. 

  The House Democrats have been missing in action for months. While the  Senate was passing the CARES Act, the Democratic House was on the  sidelines substantively and literally. They had already gone home.  Nearly 2 months later, the Senators are back at our duty stations with  new precautions. We have been back for 2 weeks. We are holding major  hearings on the pandemic. We are legislating and confirming nominees.  Yet the House is still at home. And when it does contribute, it is not  serious. 

  The House Democrats have checked out of this crisis and left  governing up to the Senate. They even intend to shatter congressional  history and jam through remote voting so they can continue to be  counterproductive from the comfort of their homes. Let me say that  again. They even intend to shatter congressional history and jam  through remote voting so they can continue to be counterproductive from  the comfort of their own homes. 

  Look, here in the real world, the Senate Republicans are working  seriously to help the country reopen. The crushing unemployment  figures, even with the CARES Act, show that no amount of Federal  spending could substitute for the entirety of the U.S. economy. We need  to be smart, and we need to be safe, but we have to find a more  sustainable middle ground. 

  This week, Chairman Alexander and the Committee on Health, Education,  Labor, and Pensions heard from Dr. Fauci, Dr. Redfield, and other top  experts on exactly this subject. There are at least two big things our  Nation will need to start recovering: stepped-up testing nationwide and  legal liability protections so that K-12 schools, universities,  charities, and employers are not invaded by trial lawyers the instant  they unlock their doors. 

  On testing, fortunately, the Senate has already done a great deal.  The executive branch and especially the States are in the driver's  seat, but we have already sent billions of dollars to help scale up  testing nationwide. On legal liability reform, the work lies ahead of  us. As my Republican colleagues and I have made clear, strong legal  protections will be a hard redline in any future legislation. 

  That is what is happening here in the Senate--serious leadership on a  serious crisis like we have been doing for months. This half of the  Capitol is doing our job    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT