Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, for weeks now, the American people  have been contending with the coronavirus pandemic that is spreading  across our country and the massive, massive disruptions to daily life  it is creating for all of us. They are grappling with small business  closures, mass layoffs, and uncertainty for their families. But that  isn't all. For the last several days now, in the midst of all that--in  the midst of all that--they have also had to watch the Senate spin its  wheels. 

  As we convene this morning, roughly 40 percent of our population is  under stay-at-home orders from State leaders. Employers across America  are wondering how they will keep the lights on. Doctors, nurses, and  healthcare professionals are literally crying out for support. We  literally have Army field hospitals on the way to being set up in our  major American cities. 

  In the space of just a few weeks, this has become, unfortunately, our  new normal. This is a national crisis. It is the most serious threat to  Americans' health in over a century and quite likely the greatest risk  to Americans' jobs and prosperity that we have seen since the Great  Depression. 

  Hundreds of thousands of Americans have already lost their jobs  because so much of our commerce has been put on pause. Families are  wondering how they are going to pay their rent or mortgage in 8 days.  Rent is due on April 1. People don't know how they are going to pay  bills or make their car payment. 

  Many other hard-working Americans are still employed for now but fall  asleep every night wondering if it will be there when they wake up to  that email or phone call tomorrow. 

  American seniors have seen decades of savings cut down in the space  of days as the markets literally tumble. 

  Our national life has literally been transformed in less than a  month. The urgency and the gravity of this moment cannot be lost on  anyone. Every day, every hour the Congress delays in passing a  significant relief package, we risk more American livelihoods and the  safety of more healthcare professionals. That is why, right after I  fast-tracked the Democratic House relief bill through the Senate, I  immediately turned the Senate toward developing an even bigger and  bolder relief package for the American people. 

  Nine days ago, I laid out the key objectives of our work. We had to  send direct financial assistance to Americans--direct assistance to  Americans. We had to help Main Street small businesses. We had to act  to stabilize the foundations of our economy for workers. And, of  course, we had to send more resources to medical professionals and our  healthcare system.  

  Five days ago, Senate Republicans released our initial framework for  the CARES Act. We put forward bold policies like sending cash directly  to Americans, pouring money into small businesses, lending to national  industries to prevent mass layoffs, and surge resources for doctors,  nurses, and patients. We knew we needed a proposal to address our  Nation's pain at literally every level. 

  Now, in the past few days, some voices have tried to pit some  Americans against other Americans and argue that directly helping  workers and strengthening businesses are somehow conflicting  priorities. That is utter nonsense. American workers need paychecks.  They need jobs. 

  The working men and women of this country do need direct relief from  government in this crisis, but for goodness' sake, they also need their  paychecks. They need to be able to resume their lives and their jobs  once this is over. The two things can't be separated. There is a term  for when you separate employees from employers. There is a term for  that. It is called unemployment. Let me say that again. There is a term  for when you separate employees from employers. It is called  unemployment. That is what we are trying to avoid. 

  This is no time to point fingers or stoke these culture wars. This is  the time to unify. Perhaps now more than at any moment in living  memory, all of us Americans are in this together. This pandemic is not  the fault of the American workers who make this country run. It is not  the fault of small business owners. It is not the fault of major  national employers. Everyone needs help. We are all in this together.  We need an ``all of the above'' approach, and that is what our  framework put forward: help for workers and families and employers and  healthcare providers. 

  As soon as Republicans put out a draft proposal to treat every aspect  of this crisis, I immediately called for bipartisan talks. That is not  something you see often in Washington. As soon as I released our first  draft, I immediately invited the other side, these folks over here, to  make their suggestions. That is what you call urgency. 

  We set up bipartisan working groups. I asked negotiators to work  together to turn our rough draft into something that could pass the  Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support. Republicans and Democrats  traded ideas. Democrats asked for many changes to the initial draft and  received many. The updated text, released a few days ago, included  proposals from the other side. And, of course, as our colleagues have  dragged out the last several days, even further changes have been made  at their request. 

  This majority has gone out of its way to make this process as  bipartisan and as open as possible. The administration has bent over  backward to work with Democrats and address their concerns. Now, at  last, I believe we are on the 5-yard line. It has taken a lot of noise  and a lot of rhetoric to get us here. That, of course, sometimes  happens in this town. 

  At different times, we received Democratic counteroffers that  demanded things like new emission standards or tax credits for solar  panels. We saw the Speaker of the House release an encyclopedia of  unrelated demands as though it were a coronavirus proposal somehow. In  spite of all that, we are very close. We are close to a bill that takes  our bold Republican framework, integrates further ideas from both  parties, and delivers huge progress on each of the four core priorities  I laid out a week ago. 

  Today the Senate has a chance to get back on track. Today we can make  all of the Washington drama fade away. If we act today, what Americans  will remember and what history will record is that the Senate did the  right thing, that we came together, that we took a lesson from the way  Americans are uniting all across the country and working together, that  we combined ideas from both sides and took a bold step to protect  Americans and help our Nation through this crisis. 

  I am not sure how many ways to say it, but the clock has run out. The  buzzer is sounding. The hour for bargaining as though this were  business as usual has expired. 

  The American people need our Democratic friends to take yes for an  answer. I hope that will happen today. Doctors and nurses need masks.  Families need help. Small businesses need cash. Hospitals need funding.  Their Senate majority is ready to deliver those things. We have been  ready to deliver those things for a while. I hope today is the day this  body will get it done.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT