Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, our healthcare sector continues to  battle the coronavirus at every level. Doctors, nurses, hospital  workers, researchers, and public health leaders are working constantly  to protect Americans and fight this invader. 

  Unfortunately, the last 2 months' stoppage of much of our national  life was never going to permanently extinguish the virus. That task  will be ongoing. The stated purpose of this effort was to prevent a  rapid spike that could have completely overwhelmed the medical  capacities of many areas. The patriotic sacrifices of the American  people have worked. We have bought our healthcare system that breathing  room we needed. 

  As we cautiously move forward, major precautions will remain in  place. Some routines will not go back to normal for a long time. But as  a nation, we will need to regroup and find a more sustainable middle  ground between total lockdown and total normalcy. Let me say that  again. We need to find a middle ground between total lockdown and total  normalcy. 

  While we keep battling the virus through testing, tracing, isolation,  treatment, and hopefully soon, a vaccine, we need to smartly and safely  begin to reopen our country. If Americans want to go back to work and  back to school in the fall, we will need to reopen the country. No  doubt, there will be many discussions here in Congress about more ways  we can help make that happen. 

  Already, we are hearing that House Democrats are cobbling together  another big laundry list of pet priorities. Even the media is  describing it as a partisan wish list with no chance of becoming law.  That is exactly the wrong approach. It is the wrong approach when a  senior Democrat calls this pandemic ``a tremendous opportunity to  restructure things to fit our vision.'' It is the wrong approach when  former Vice President Biden calls this tragedy an ``incredible  opportunity . . . to fundamentally transform the country.'' 

  The American people don't need a far-left transformation. They just  need a path back to the historically prosperous and optimistic moment  that they had built for themselves until about 12 weeks ago. The  American people don't need a far-left transformation. They just need a  path back to the historically prosperous and optimistic moment they had  built for themselves until about 12 weeks ago. 

  American workers don't need Washington to inflict some far-left,  extreme  makeover on our country. They need us to get rid of obstacles that  might stand in their way. One such obstacle is becoming obvious. 

  A second epidemic of frivolous lawsuits could follow the actual  pandemic and crush our recovery before it begins. Already, more than  two-thirds of independent business owners say they are specifically  worried about a legal liability minefield getting in the way of  reopening. 

  Already, lawyers have begun filing hundreds of COVID-related  complaints in courts all across our country. This is exactly the kind  of hostile environment that could take our reopening and recovery from  challenging to downright impossible. So the Senate is going to act.  Senate Republicans are preparing a major package of COVID-related  liability reforms to foster our economic recovery. This package, which  Senator Cornyn and I are spearheading, will extend significant new  protections to the people who have been on the frontlines of this  response and those who will be on the frontlines of our reopening. 

  First and foremost, we are going to protect the healthcare workers  who have been locked in combat with this mysterious new disease. We are  not going to let healthcare heroes emerge from this crisis facing a  tidal wave of medical malpractice lawsuits so that trial lawyers can  line their pockets. 

  We aren't going to federalize the entirety of medical malpractice  law, but we are going to raise the liability threshold for COVID- related malpractice lawsuits. This will give our doctors, nurses, and  other healthcare providers a lot more security as they clock in every  day and risk themselves to take care of strangers. 

  Second, we are including new legal protections for the businesses,  nonprofits, and government agencies that have kept serving throughout  the crisis and for those that will need to lead the reopening. 

  We are facing the worst layoffs since the Great Depression and a  storm of uncertainty for Main Street businesses. Americans want to get  back to work, and we need to do everything in our power to help that  happen. 

  Also, K-12 schools, colleges, and universities right now are  completely uncertain about the fall. If we want schools to reopen this  fall, we will have to create the conditions to make that possible. If  we want schools to reopen this fall, we have to create the conditions  to make that possible. 

  If we want even an outside shot at the kind of brisk rehiring that  American workers deserve, we have to make sure opportunistic trial  lawyers are not lurking on the sidewalk outside every small business in  America, waiting to slap them with a lawsuit the instant they turn the  lights back on. 

  Our legislation is going to create a legal safe harbor--safe harbor-- for businesses, nonprofits, governments, and workers and schools that  are following public health guidelines to the best of their ability. To  be clear now, we are not talking about immunity from lawsuits. There  will be accountability for actual gross negligence and intentional  misconduct. That will continue. We aren't going to provide immunity,  but we are going to provide some certainty. If we want American workers  to clock back in, we need employers to know that if they follow the  guidelines, they will not be left to drown in opportunistic litigation.  We are going to make sure it is the trial lawyers and not struggling  job creators who will need to clear a very high legal burden. 

  In addition, I hope our bill will find ways to expand existing  protections for the manufacturers of therapeutics, diagnostics, and  potential vaccines--things we are urging the private sector to produce  as fast as possible. And I hope we will be able to create new  protections for other medical equipment manufacturers, as well, like  the policies we put in the CARES Act to increase the supply of masks. 

  So it is all well and good to give rhetorical tributes here on the  floor to healthcare professionals, essential workers, key industries,  small businesses, charities, and nonprofits. Rhetoric is well and good.  Words matter, but actions matter more. Americans on the frontlines do  not just need Senators to talk about how important they are. They need  action. They need us to provide the same kinds of commonsense legal  protections that Congress has enacted a number of times previously in  difficult or unusual periods. 

  American taxpayers deserve these protections as well. The men and  women of this country just saw Congress commit historic amounts of  their own money to sweeping recovery legislation so that we could help  healthcare facilities and small businesses survive the crisis. We are  not going to stand idly by while a small group of wealthy lawyers  vacuum up this relief money and redirect it into their own pockets. 

  Strong legal protections are the right move for doctors, nurses,  hospitals, schools, and universities; for workers who want their jobs  back, for small business owners who are struggling to stay open, and  for nonprofits that have helped the vulnerable; and for taxpayers, who  want their money to finance a real national rescue and not the biggest  trial lawyer bonanza in American history. 

  Senate Republicans are going to continue to develop this legislation.  It is going to be a redline for us in any future coronavirus  legislation. The administration has already stated its support for  action on this issue as well. 

  American heroes across our country deserve these basic protections.  This Senate majority will make sure they get them. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT