Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, every day our country grows more  affected by the continued spread of the coronavirus. Every American is  feeling the anxiety and uncertainty of this national challenge--older  Americans and young Americans, healthy Americans and those with  underlying medical conditions, parents, teachers, working Americans,  and small business owners, certainly, our first responders and  healthcare professionals. Everyone--everyone--is impacted in different  ways and to different degrees, but all Americans are affected. 

  All of us have seen our daily lives transformed in what feels like  the blink of an eye. That is the bad news, and it is the good news too.  We are all in this together--all in it together. Our Nation faces this  serious challenge, but working together we can take bold steps to  combat it. 

  Earlier this month, Congress passed billions in urgent funding for  public health and small businesses, and this Senate majority remains  committed to taking further bold steps to preserve and protect the  economic foundations of our country. 

  Later today, the Senate will vote on a House proposal that seeks to  address one small piece of the problem before us. It is a well- intentioned, bipartisan product assembled by House Democrats  and President Trump's team that tries to stand up and expand some new  relief measures for American workers. 

  I will vote to pass their bill. This is the time for urgent,  bipartisan action, and, in this case, I do not believe we should let  perfection be the enemy of something that would help even a subset of  workers. 

  However, the House's bill has real shortcomings. It does not even  begin to cover all of the Americans who will need help in the days  ahead. And, more specifically, it achieves one of its signature  policies by imposing a new, untested mandate on small businesses  without--without--guaranteeing they will have sufficient funds in  advance to finance this new employee benefit. 

  Everyone agrees that workers need relief. The Republicans are working  on bold solutions to help individuals and families as we speak, but  small businesses need relief as well. 

  This is literally the worst time in living memory to pile even more  burdens and costs onto small businesses, which are, themselves,  fighting to stay alive unless--unless--we back it up with major  assistance. 

  We all know what small businesses are up against. Just this week, New  York City joined the list of towns and cities across the country where  local officials have shuttered every bar and every restaurant for the  sake of public health. At 5 p.m. today, all public-facing businesses in  my home State of Kentucky will do the same. These job creators are  literally being taken offline by their own governments for the public  good. 

  It is not only bars, restaurants, and entertainment businesses we  need to worry about. Nobody expects Main Street small businesses of any  sort to hold the kind of cash buffer they would need to remain in  business and wait out a national economic disruption that could last  for weeks or months. 

  Men and women who pour their entire lives into small businesses do  not need even more obstacles. They need help. They need a lifeline.  They need to know that Congress understands the historic obstacles they  are facing and that we have their back as well. 

  There is no moral hazard here. This is not some rescue following  risky business decisions. Nobody thinks any of this is the fault of  small businesses. So while I will support the House bill in order to  secure emergency relief for some American workers, I will not adjourn  the Senate until we have passed a far bolder package that must include  significant relief for small businesses all across our country. 

  As we speak, Chairman Rubio, Senator Collins, and others are  assembling a historic level of assistance for small businesses across  America. We want to help them survive this disruption, absorb the new  mandate in the House bill, and continue to make payroll and avoid  layoffs as much as they can and emerge this storm in the best shape  possible. That means a historic injection of liquidity and access to  credit, and it means Washington working directly with the lenders who  already work with these small businesses to minimize the new  bureaucracy so the assistance can flow as fast as possible. 

  So we are going to pass the House's bill, but its imperfections will  just make our more comprehensive package even more urgent. So we aren't  leaving. So everybody understands, we aren't leaving until we deliver.  The Senate is not going to leave small business behind. 

  This will be just one component of our work. As we speak, Chairman  Grassley and others are determining the best pathway to put money  directly in the hands of the American people--those who are employed,  those who may be laid off, retirees, disabled Americans, families--as  quickly as possible. 

  Of course, Chairman Alexander and a number of our colleagues are  working on further steps in our public health fight against the virus  itself, such as getting more tools in the hands of healthcare  providers, removing barriers to treatment, and helping researchers  develop therapeutics and vaccines. 

  Chairman Wicker and several Senators are considering the possibility  of targeted relief for key industries that are shouldering an outsized  burden from the public health directives and which our Nation will need  to be operational on the other side of this. 

  We are crafting bold and significant legislation to meet this crisis  head-on and to strengthen our Nation. 

  The Congress has an enormous role to play in responding to this  challenge, and we are determined to do that duty. But, at the same  time, never in our Nation's history have Americans looked solely to  Washington for answers. That is not who we are. This is no different. 

  Even amidst the uncertainty, the American people are stepping up and  reminding everyone what solidarity and citizenship look like. In my  home State, Kentuckians are going out of their way to stand with their  neighbors. Stay-at-home parents are volunteering to help neighbors with  childcare when parents are unable to telework. Grocery stores in the  Louisville area are setting aside the first hour they are open each  day, right after their cleaning, so older shoppers and those with  underlying conditions can shop first and with less exposure. One local  restaurant is distributing free meals to service industry workers whose  hours have been cut. 

  This is what makes the United States of America what it is, and it is  what we are today: generosity, friendship, resolve, and strength. 

  This is not a challenge anyone wanted for our Nation, but it is a  challenge we will overcome. Someday--hopefully, soon--our Nation will  have this virus on its heels, mainstream small businesses will be  thriving again, and families will be flying around the country again to  reunite and catch up. We will have gotten through this together. In  part, it will be because the Federal Government and Congress did our  part, but, just as important, it will also be because every single  American did theirs.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT