Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on an entirely different matter, these  events only compound what has already been a historically challenging  time for our country. 

  As our Nation continues to combat and contain the coronavirus, the  Senate will continue to lead the response. To name one example, I hope  and anticipate the Senate will soon take up and pass legislation that  just passed the House by an overwhelming vote of 417 to 1 to further  strengthen the Paycheck Protection Program so it continues working for  small businesses that need our help. 

  Even as we fight the pandemic, we will remember that other challenges  face our Nation as well. Foreign adversaries are all too eager to  exploit a distracted world. 

  In recent days, agents of the Chinese Communist Party have taken to  social media to openly taunt--openly taunt--the United States and  defend their violent crackdown on the autonomy of Hong Kong. 

  It has been almost a year since the world watched Hongkongers embark  on the latest round of peaceful demonstrations against the repressive  grip of the Chinese Communist Party. The world watched as Hong Kong  voters, with American flags in hand, dealt crushing defeats to  Beijing's preferred puppet candidates in elections last fall. But in  recent weeks, as the coronavirus pandemic that China exacerbated has  dominated the world's attention, the Chinese Communist Party is trying  yet again to tighten their grip. New laws--supposedly related to  national security--aim to stifle dissent and curtail Hongkongers' civil  liberties. 

  When I authored the U.S.-Hong Kong Policy Act way back in 1992, we  wanted to ensure future Chinese regimes would respect the promises made  regarding this unique, autonomous region, so we made sure the weight  and suasion of the United States of America would stand with  Hongkongers if need be.  

  Unfortunately, these years later, such a time is upon us. Among other  examples, we received word today that for the first time in 30 years-- 30 years--authorities in Hong Kong will not allow the annual  candlelight vigil that commemorates the Tiananmen Square massacre to  occur. For the first time in 30 years, no commemoration of the  Tiananmen massacre will occur in Hong Kong. For three decades, Hong  Kong has been the only place in China where full-scale remembrances of  the massacre are permitted, but now they, too, will be going dark. 

  So I am encouraged that Secretary Pompeo is tapping into that law to  formally certify that Beijing's systemic efforts to interfere in Hong  Kong have eroded the region's autonomy. I might say this is exactly  what we were concerned about back in 1992 when the Hong Kong Policy Act  was introduced by me and became law--exactly what we feared. 

  I hope that the administration will soon identify the specific ways  it will impose costs on Beijing and, just as important, continue  American support for the people of Hong Kong. Under my original  legislation, several tools are available. Their primary aim is to be an  effective friend and partner for Hongkongers who share values of  democracy and freedom and to help preserve the region's unique  character, autonomy, and prosperity. 

  Our Nation's commitment to those efforts must remain ironclad, and it  must be 100 percent clear that the responsibility for threatening Hong  Kong's economic, political, and social climate rests solely and  squarely on the Chinese Communist Party--the regime that views free  thought as a fundamental evil; the regime that sees peaceful  demonstrations as an existential challenge. That is who is to blame for  this, no matter what the Communist Party's two-bit propaganda is trying  to claim--not the people of Hong Kong, not their friends in the United  States, just the would-be tyrants in Beijing. 

  Last year, as Congress passed Senator Rubio's update to my Hong Kong  Policy Act, I also secured additional funding to provide legal  protections to Hong Kong protestors and support democracy promotion  activities. But if China moves in the coming days and weeks to  implement its draconian new laws that strangle Hong Kong, there will be  no rule of law left for protesters to appeal to. That is why the U.S.  response should mirror those of other democracies that open their doors  to Hongkongers fleeing oppression. Our Nation has a rich heritage of  standing as a beacon of light and freedom, from refugees of war to  those escaping the Iron Curtain. We should exercise it again for the  people of Hong Kong. 

  Finally, while we address these latest aggressions, we must not miss  the broader lessons. The Communist Party of China does not play by the  rules. They don't--not the rules of the international economy; not the  rules of its bilateral agreements with other nations; not even its own  rules, which are increasingly subject to the whims of President Xi. 

  Whether they are cracking down on Hong Kong, trying to cover up a  pandemic, or herding ethnic and religious minorities into modern-day  gulags, this generation of Chinese leadership is telling the rest of  the world every single day exactly who they are--exactly who they are. 

  America and the world have watched China deepen its tyranny at home,  assert its hegemony abroad, and undermine basic norms that protect the  peace. The question before us is, What will we do to stop it?    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT