Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, it has been a little more than 100  days since the first case of COVID-19 was reported in the United  States. Since then, our Nation has come face-to-face with this full- scale pandemic. Families have hunkered down and changed their routines.  Bustling Main Streets have literally come to a halt. Essential workers  have taken new precautions to keep the supply chains running. And, of  course, brave healthcare providers have stretched the limits of their  supplies and their stamina to care for patients. All the while, even  with the entire country doing its best to fight this disease, it has  stolen the lives of nearly 70,000 of our fellow Americans. 

  Our Nation is facing the most severe pandemic since 1918 and quite  possibly the worst economic shock since the Great Depression. And we  are facing them at the same time. This is a historic challenge, and the  Senate is helping the country meet it. 

  In early March, we passed an initial response to help communities  handle the outbreak. We spent billions of dollars to enhance our public  health response, to promote development of vaccines and treatment, and  to help the healthcare providers and small businesses in places that  were bearing the brunt of the virus. 

  Just days later, we delivered billions more in phase 2. It sought to  expand access to testing and to help workers. 

  Then we built the historic CARES Act, the largest rescue package in  America's history, and then passed it without a single vote in  opposition. It sent more than $2 trillion in direct money to American  households, support for employees' paychecks, stability for major  employers, and resources for the healthcare fight itself. 

  Predictably, these huge, historic efforts have encountered some  challenges along the way. There is no way the Federal Government could  make years' worth of small business loans in a few weeks or rapidly cut  checks to most American households without any hiccups at all. But on  the whole, it has been encouraging to see Congress, the administration,  the Federal Reserve, and the American people--all of us--leap into  action together to help our country. 

  Our work is making a difference. But, ultimately, we know there is no  policy Congress could pass, nor any amount of money we could spend,  that would keep the entire economy glued together if these blunt  shutdowns continue indefinitely. 

  So while our legislation has rightly poured money into short-term  help for the economy, we have also made sure to invest in the tools and  tactics we will need to contain and beat the virus so that our country  can step back toward normalcy: testing, tracking, treatments, and the  race for a vaccine.  

  Our task in the weeks ahead will be to keep seeking thoughtful  solutions that are not just for the very short term but will help pivot  toward a phased reopening and recovery. We will need to ask not only  how we endure each week but also how we foster recovery on the other  side. 

  Early February feels like it was about 2 years ago, but the truth is,  it was just 12 weeks ago. American workers and families were in one of  the most prosperous economic moments in our history. Wages were  growing. Unemployment was near a 50-year low. Formerly discouraged  Americans were being drawn off the sidelines. The country was buzzing-- literally buzzing--from coast to coast. The American people built that.  It is our job to help them build it again. 

  As we carefully consider what may come in the weeks ahead, we will  need smart and targeted policies to help jump-start our economic  engine, not unrelated ideological wish-list items that would gum it up  even further. The country will need pro-growth, pro-certainty  policies--pro-growth, pro-certainty policies. 

  The last thing we need is for the political left to view this  national crisis as an exploitable opportunity to achieve other goals  they have wanted for a very long time. That is how, for example, former  Vice President Biden has repeatedly described the pandemic. Here is  what he had to say: ``an incredible opportunity . . . to fundamentally  transform the country''--``an incredible opportunity . . . to  fundamentally transform the country.'' 

  This cannot be about ideological transformation. It needs to be what  will actually work for the American people. 

  Here is just one example of a commonsense policy Republicans will  insist on. Even as the entire country is rallying behind healthcare  workers and small businesses, trial lawyers are already looking for  ways to line their pockets by suing the very people we are bending over  backward to help. 

  As one recent Washington Post column put it, ``[f]ear of COVID-19  lawsuits is not [some] mere Republican reflex''--a Washington Post  column: ``[f]ear of COVID-19 lawsuits is not [some] mere Republican  reflex.' 

  It went on to list all sorts of lawsuits that are already pouring in.  This kind of hostile climate would create yet another major headwind we  cannot afford. Republicans will be insisting on strong legal  protections for the frontlines. We will not let our historic recovery  efforts be diverted so that taxpayers foot the bill for the biggest  trial lawyer bonanza in our history. 

  Our discussions in the weeks ahead do not need to be partisan or  contentious. There is nothing partisan about the coronavirus, and there  is nothing partisan about the inspiring example being set by citizens  across our country. 

  In my home State of Kentucky, we are proud of a father-daughter duo  in Breathitt County. They both came down with the virus. They both beat  it and then turned right around and started donating plasma to the race  for new medicines. 

  We are proud of the family resource coordinators of Fayette County  Public Schools who are collecting donated household supplies to add to  weekly food deliveries for thousands of students and families. 

  These stories only scratch the surface in the Bluegrass, and I know  every one of my colleagues has stories of their own to tell. We are all  in this together. We have stepped up to meet the challenge. Let's  continue to stand together for our country.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT