Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the Senate is back in session. In this  unusual period for our Nation, it has been more than 5 weeks since the  full Senate last convened. As I explained on March 25, right before we  passed the CARES Act 96 to 0, the Senate has kept right on working this  whole time. 

  We have monitored the implementation of that bill--the largest rescue  package in American history--and strengthened it where necessary. We  passed further legislation to provide even more economic assistance,  even more support of testing, and more relief for hospitals and  healthcare workers. 

  This deadly coronavirus does not take days off, and so the U.S.  Senate has not either. For more than a month, we were among the many  Americans who have found creative ways to telework and continue doing  our jobs remotely. But now the time has come for us to continue  conducting our Nation's business in ways that are only possible with  Senators here in the Capitol. 

  For this work period, the Senate will shift out of the ranks of those  Americans who are working remotely and into the ranks of the Americans  working in essential sectors who are listening to expert guidance and  modifying their routines and ultimately continuing to man their posts  to keep the country running. 

  If it is essential that brave healthcare workers, grocery store  workers, truckdrivers, and many other Americans continue to carefully  show up for work, then it is essential that their U.S. Senators  carefully show up ourselves and support them. 

  I want to thank the dedicated men and women who worked hard to  develop solutions so the Senate can take  these careful steps back toward in-person operations: Dr. Brian Monahan  and the entire Office of the Attending Physician, well done; everyone  in the Offices of the Architect of the Capitol, the Sergeant at Arms,  the Secretary of the Senate, and our colleagues on the Rules Committee  and their staff. Of course, the teams who support our networks and  telecommunications were working hard day and night during these weeks  of remote work. 

  Even more broadly, I want to recognize and thank all--all--the  essential Senate staff who are here with us today in person so the  Senate can function. Whether they be staff members in our own offices  and committee offices, all the nonpartisan professionals who serve the  institution itself, and, particularly, our facilities employees,  custodians, food service staff, and, of course, the men and women of  the Capitol Police, we are grateful for your service, and, more  importantly, your country is grateful for your service. You are  literally helping our government function in the midst of this crisis. 

  The Senate is back in session because we have important work to do  for the Nation. Critical posts throughout the Federal Government--from  public health to national security and beyond--remain vacant. Qualified  nominees who have been held up for too long already have become even  more necessary in these uncertain times. 

  On the floor and in committee, the Senate will be acting on key  nominations that relate directly to the safety of the American people,  oversight of our coronavirus legislation, and more. We need to continue  to maintain and safeguard our domestic nuclear resources. That is our  first nominee, Mr. Feitel. 

  We need to keep protecting our Nation against foreign intelligence  services. That is another nominee we will be moving soon, Mr. Evanina.  Those around the world who wish harm on Americans are not going to give  us a free pass until the pandemic is over, so the Senate needs to  overcome obstruction and continue to act. 

  I don't think anybody could seriously argue that filling critical  national security posts is not essential Senate business. But to any of  my colleagues who may wish that we did not have to devote floor time  and rollcall votes to these kinds of nominations, I would simply say: I  agree with you. I agree with you. 

  Unfortunately, for more than 3 years now, my colleagues in Democratic  leadership have used across-the-board obstruction to force floor time  and even cloture votes for the kinds of sub-Cabinet level nominations  that used to travel easily by voice vote. If any of my colleagues on  either side wish that we could recover the Senate's tradition and spend  less floor time on these sorts of nominations, I would invite them to  share their view with the distinguished Democratic leadership and  invite them to change their tactics. But as long as floor time and  rollcall votes remain the only way for the Senate to fill important  posts, that is what we will do. We cannot let nuclear watchdogs or  counterintelligence leaders stay on the sidelines. 

  The Senate is going to be as smart and safe as we possibly can, and  we are going to show up for work like the essential workers we are. Our  bosses are the American people, and they are counting on us to keep on  serving. 

  It is good to see the Chair and all of our colleagues again. I am  grateful that all 100 of us have come through the last several weeks  safely and in good health. Let's work together, across the aisle, and  get some more work done for the American people    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT