Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the eyes of the Nation are on the  Senate. For days now, we have been engaged in intense, bipartisan talks  to build emergency relief legislation on a historic scale, to push  resources to our healthcare heroes and American workers and families. 

  Democrats and Republicans sat down together. We crafted this version  of a proposal together. This compromise package would push tens of  billions of dollars to hospitals and healthcare providers. It would  send direct checks to millions of American households--direct checks.  It would massively expand unemployment insurance in this crisis. It  would stabilize industries to prevent mass layoffs. And, crucially, it  would deliver historic relief to small businesses to help Main Street  employees from being totally crushed--crushed--by this pandemic. 

  But, yesterday, when the time came to vote on these urgent measures,  our Democratic colleagues chose to block it. So why are the American  people still waiting? It is a good question to ask. I hear the markets  are not doing well today. They would like to ask the question of us:  Why not move? Why are Democrats filibustering the bipartisan bill they  helped write? 

  It is an appropriate question to ask this morning as the country  waits on us. So let me give the American people a taste of the  outstanding issues we woke up to this morning. Here are some of the  items on the Democratic wish list over which they chose to block this  legislation last night: tax credits for solar energy and wind energy,  provisions to force employers to give special new treatment to Big  Labor, and--listen to this--new emissions standards for the airlines. 

  Are you kidding me? This is the moment to debate new regulations that  have nothing whatsoever to do with this crisis? That is what they are  up to over there. The American people need to know it. 

  Democrats will not let us fund hospitals or save small businesses  unless they get to dust off the Green New Deal. I would like to see  Senate Democrats tell New York City doctors and nurses who are  literally overrun as we speak that they are filibustering hospital  funding and more masks because they want to argue with the airlines  over their carbon footprint. 

  I would like to see Senate Democrats tell small business employees in  their States, who are literally being laid off every day, that they are  filibustering relief that will keep people on the payroll because  Democrats' special interest friends want to squeeze employers while  they are vulnerable--squeeze these employers while they are vulnerable. 

  I would like to see Senate Democrats tell all the American seniors  who have seen their hard-earned retirement savings literally melt away,  as the markets track toward their worst month since 1931, that they are  continuing to hold up emergency measures over tax credits for solar  panels--tax credits for solar panels 

  Even with the Federal Reserve announcing even further extraordinary  steps today, the markets are tanking once again, as I said, because  this body can't get its act together, and the only reason it can't get  its act together is right over here on the other side of the aisle. 

  So these are just a few of the completely nongermane wish list items  that they are rallying behind, preventing us from getting this  emergency relief to the American people right now, eleventh-hour  demands the Democrats have decided are more important than Americans'  paychecks and the personal safety of doctors and nurses. 

  So remember what one of Speaker Pelosi's top lieutenants in the House  said a few days ago--and this is a direct quote: This is a tremendous  opportunity to restrict things to fit our vision--to fit our vision.  That was the Democratic whip in the House, just laying it out there. It  reminds me of the definition of a Washington gaffe: when a politician  in Washington tells you what he really means. 

  We heard something similar here on the Senate floor last night--just  last night. Here was one of our Democratic  colleagues: ``How many times are we going to get a shot at a trillion- dollar-plus program?'' Right here on the floor last night: ``I don't  know how many trillion-plus packages we are going to have.'' In other  words, let's don't waste this opportunity to take full advantage and  get our whole wish list done. 

  They ought to be embarrassed. In fact, I have heard from some of them  who are embarrassed, talking like this is some juicy political  opportunity. This is not a juicy political opportunity. This is a  national emergency. 

  We had days of productive, bipartisan talks to get to this point.  Senate Democrats sat down with Senate Republicans and negotiated  furiously to get to this point. The bill now contains a huge number of  changes that our Democratic colleagues requested, including major  changes. We were this close--this close. 

  Then, yesterday morning, the Speaker of the House flew back from San  Francisco, and suddenly the Senate's serious bipartisan process turned  into this leftwing episode of ``Supermarket Sweep''--unrelated issues,  left and right. 

  I will tell you what would really lower our carbon footprint. If the  entire economy continues to crumble, with hundreds of thousands more  Americans laid off because Senate Democrats will not let us act, that  will lower our carbon footprint all right. Every single American  outside of Washington knows this is no time for this nonsense. 

  A surgeon in Fresno, CA, says: ``We are at war with no ammo.'' ``We  are at war with no ammo.'' That is a surgeon in Fresno. An intensive  care nurse in New York City says: ``If we don't get the proper  equipment soon, we're going to get sick.'' 

  Democrats are filibustering more masks and aid for hospitals. Every  day, more Americans wake up to the news that their jobs are gone--their  jobs are gone. Democrats are filibustering programs to keep people on  the payroll, and they are filibustering a huge expansion of  unemployment insurance, which they themselves negotiated and put into  the bill. Hundreds of dollars extra per week for laid-off workers on  top of existing unemployment benefits, and Democrats are blocking it? 

  This has to stop, and today is the day it has to stop. The country is  out of time--out of time. When the Democratic House passed their phase  2 bill, even though Senate Republicans would have written it very  differently, we sped it through the Senate and passed it quickly  without even amending it. I literally told my colleagues to ``gag and  vote for it,'' for the sake of building bipartisan momentum, because  Republicans understand that a national crisis calls for urgency and it  calls for bipartisanship. 

  It is time for that good faith to be reciprocated. It is time for  Democrats to stop playing politics and step up to the plate. The small  businesses in their own States deserve it. Their own States' emergency  room doctors deserve it. Their own constituents who have lost their  jobs deserve it. 

  In my home State of Kentucky, the Governor has effectively paused  commerce across the State, and our unemployment system crashed due to  demand. Kentuckians need help now, and we aren't alone. I have heard  the pleas from healthcare workers in New York and Seattle. I have  listened to the small business owners crying out in Brooklyn and  Chicago. 

  Why does only one side understand that this is urgent? Why are these  hard-hit cities' own Senators happy to keep this slow-walking going on  indefinitely? Is that really something these folks on the other side  are comfortable with--indefinitely slow-walking all of this? How can  half the Senate not rise to the occasion? At a time when everybody else  in the country is pulling together, they are pulling us apart. 

  The examples are all over the country that we ought to look to:  healthcare heroes, to neighborhood volunteers, to national industries.  Everybody is unifying and pitching in. What about here in the Senate? 

  It is time to get with the program. It is time to pass historic  relief that we have built together. The country doesn't have time for  these political games. They need progress. 

  So we are going to vote in just a few minutes, and I assure you the  American people will be watching. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT