Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the new coronavirus has spread from  China throughout the world, and it is challenging our Nation in new  ways. Across our country, daily routines are being disrupted, families  are grappling with school closings and changes to childcare, major  American companies and institutions are literally modifying how they do  business, and a growing number of Main Street small businesses face the  possibility of significant disruptions as more and more communities  begin to ``hunker down,'' as Dr. Fauci put it, on the advice of public  health experts and local leaders. 

  As an aside, I have noticed that a lot of the discussion in the media  has focused on individuals who may be temporarily transitioning from  office work to working from home. So I want to especially acknowledge  the many other hard-working Americans for whom telework is not an  option. Now, more than ever, we are reminded who really keeps this  country running: the hard-working men and women who grow things, who  make things, who drive trucks and move goods across the country, who  mine coal or otherwise produce domestic energy and, literally, power  our communities, who run the stores and shops we rely on, who serve our  communities as police and first responders, and, of course, especially  the dedicated frontline healthcare professionals, who work tirelessly  to heal and protect all the rest of us. 

  To all Americans--but, most especially, to those hard-working people  whose efforts are going to get our country through this challenge--I  have one message: The Senate stands with you. We stand with American  workers and families, we stand with American businesses, and we stand  with the public health experts and the heroic frontline medical  professionals whom our Nation seems poised to lean on as heavily as we  have at any point in recent memory. 

  The Senate is committed to meeting these uncertain times with bold  and bipartisan solutions. That is what we did a little more than a week  ago, when the Senate passed billions of dollars in emergency funding  for health and small businesses with an overwhelming bipartisan vote  and put it on the President's desk. That is what we are going to keep  doing this week, particularly if the House of Representatives can  actually complete its work and transmit a finished product of its  relief over to us. And it is what we are going to keep doing in the  days and weeks ahead. 

  With respect to the House-passed legislation, I understand the House  chose to proceed with their planned 1-week recess, despite not having  finished processing their bill. As of this afternoon, we are still  waiting for the House to reach a decision on possible technical  corrections and to submit a final  product to us here in the Senate. We cannot consider the legislation  until we get it, but I know that Senators on both sides have spent the  last several days carefully studying the House proposal, and I know  that all of us are eager to act quickly to support American workers,  families, and small businesses. 

  Even more broadly, Senate Republicans are absolutely convinced that  the House's bill can only be the beginning--just the beginning--of  Congress's efforts to secure our economy and support American families.  This is a unique challenge--a unique challenge. Unlike in any other  tough circumstances, our short-term goal is not simply to bring  economic activity right back to normal starting tomorrow. Instead, our  task is to secure the historically strong foundation of our Nation's  economy and support Americans during this period when public health may  require that some normal activities simply be scaled back. 

  I have spoken with countless colleagues and committee chairmen over  the last several days. We agree there are three major areas where the  Senate must continue to develop bold and bipartisan action: 

  No. 1, we will need to take further steps to assist individual  Americans and families with financial challenges in the weeks and  months ahead. 

  No. 2, we will need to further significant actions to secure our  Nation's economy--particularly Main Street small businesses--and  safeguard our historically strong economic foundation through this  period. 

  No. 3, we will need further steps to ready our healthcare system and  support our Nation's medical professionals. 

  The Senate majority is already working toward next steps on all three  of those fronts. I hope further bold action can be just as bipartisan  and collaborative as the process by which we passed the first set of  additional funds. We must work with each other in the bipartisan spirit  this moment demands--and with the administration and the House--to  deliver results for our country.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT