Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it has only been 65 days since the  first American tested positive with the new coronavirus on our soil. In  barely 2 months, this pandemic has upended our Nation. As of this  morning, more than 175 million Americans have been advised to remain in  their homes. More than half of our people are effectively sheltering in  place. 

  Hospitals in major cities are pushing capacity. Doctors and nurses  are exhausting crucial supplies. 

  And, if it were not enough for Americans to fight to stay healthy,  they are also fighting to keep their paychecks, to keep supporting  their families. Combating this disease has forced our country to put  huge parts of our national life on pause and triggered layoffs at a  breathtaking pace. 

  This strange new reality has forced our Nation onto something like a  wartime footing. A fight has arrived at our shores. We did not seek it.  We did not want it. But, now, we are going to win it. 

  Ten days ago, I laid out four urgent priorities for new Senate  legislation to help our Nation through this crisis. We had to get  direct--direct--financial assistance to the American people. We had to  get historic aid to small businesses to keep paychecks flowing,  stabilize key industries to prevent mass layoffs, and, of course, flood  more resources into the frontline healthcare battle itself. 

  One week ago, Senate Republicans laid down an initial proposal that  tackled each--each--of these emergency missions. Our Members put  forward a bold plan to send cash to households, stand up historic  emergency loans for Main Street, stabilize key sectors, and put the  full might of Congress behind our doctors, nurses, hospitals,  healthcare providers, and the race for treatments and vaccines. 

  I couldn't be more proud of our colleagues. Our Nation needed us to  go big and go fast, and they did. The creative policies our chairmen  crafted in just a couple of days' time remain the central  building blocks of the proposal we will pass today. 

  But Republicans knew the Nation had no time--no time--for  conventional political gamesmanship, so the instant we released our  first draft, I created a series of bipartisan working groups. I asked  Republicans and Democrats to work together around the clock--literally,  around the clock--to make the bill even better. 

  By Sunday, we had an updated proposal that was even stronger and  contained even more ideas, literally, from both sides--both sides.  Republicans and Democrats have worked together to dramatically  strengthen and rework unemployment insurance during this crisis. We  have worked together to make sure lower income families could receive  the full cash assistance, and on and on. 

  I will leave it to others to compare the bipartisan Sunday bill to  the final version we will pass today and determine whether the last few  changes really required or merited 3 days of delay--3 days of delay--in  the face of this worsening crisis. But that Washington drama does not  matter anymore. The Senate is going to stand together, act together,  and pass this historic relief package today. 

  Struggling Americans are going to go to their mailboxes and find  four-figure checks to help with their bills. Why? Because the Senate  stepped up. 

  Many American families who have poured everything into a restaurant  or a shop or a small manufacturer are going to keep making payroll and  keep their businesses alive because this Senate stepped up. 

  Hundreds of thousands of workers in key sectors who might well have  been laid off through no fault of their own will, instead, get to keep  their job and continue their career because this Senate stepped up. 

  And, for the healthcare heroes who leave their own sleeping children  and drive to the hospital for an all-night shift, who spend hour after  hour healing the sick, comforting strangers, and literally battling  this disease, there will be more masks in their supply closet, more  funding for their hospitals, and, soon, more new treatments to  administer to their patients because this Senate stepped up. 

  So, today, the Senate will act to help the people of this country  weather this storm. Nobody thinks legislation can end this. We cannot  outlaw the virus. 

  No economic policy could fully end the hardship so long as the public  health requires that we put so much of our Nation's commerce on ice.  This is not even a stimulus package. It is emergency relief--emergency  relief. That is what this is. 

  No, this fight is not going to be won or lost in Washington. It is  the American people who will beat this virus. Americans will keep  making sacrifices to slow down the spread. Americans will keep pitching  in and looking after each other. Americans will keep finding creative  ways to stand united, even if they have to stand 6 feet apart. 

  We will win this fight because of people like Amy Jean Tyler, a stay- at-home mom in Oldham County, KY, who is leading a drive to sew cotton  masks for a local children's hospital. 

  We will win this fight because of people like Pastor Grant Hasty in  Stearns, KY, who is gathering volunteers to distribute more than 550  home-cooked meals. 

  We will win this fight because of people like Peg Hays, who runs a  distillery in Christian County, KY, and is temporarily converting her  bourbon-making facilities to churn out hand sanitizer. 

  We will win this fight because national companies are switching  production lines to make medical supplies because our largest high-tech  companies are partnering with the government to throw supercomputing  power right into the race for vaccines. 

  We will win this fight because of families, neighbors, and church  communities that cannot even worship together in person and because of  small businesses, big businesses, public health Ph.D.s, and local  entrepreneurs. 

  It has been 18 years since every American was united in amazement and  prayer as firefighters and first responders rushed into burning  buildings on September 11, 2001. 

  In the coming days and weeks, our Nation is going to meet new heroes.  Many may be police, firefighters, and EMTs once again. Many others will  be truckdrivers, grocery store clerks, and pharmacists, who literally  keep our supply chains running; utility workers and delivery drivers,  who leave their homes so everyone else can remain in theirs; teachers,  who somehow manage to keep educating their students over the internet  while looking after their own kids at the very same time. And, most of  all, we are going to meet a whole lot of American heroes who wear  scrubs and masks and gloves--heroes who rush toward the sick and wash  their hands until they bleed and work around the clock to heal our  friends and our families.  

  When our Nation comes through this and takes flight again on the  other side, it will be because American heroes won this fight. All the  Senate can do is to give them the resources to do it, and that is  exactly what we are going to do today.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT