Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, our Nation continues to battle the  coronavirus pandemic. More than 400,000 Americans have tested positive.  Nearly 15,000 have lost their lives. Nurses, doctors, and EMTs are  fighting this disease literally day and night, and important public  health measures are creating an economic catastrophe. 

  This morning, we learned that 6.6 million more Americans filed for  unemployment in just the last week. That means more than 16 million  Americans have lost their jobs in only the last 3 weeks, a tragedy that  is hard to even comprehend. As one journalist put it, we are facing a  healthcare crisis with an economic crisis strapped to its back. That is  why, 2 weeks ago, the Senate passed the largest rescue package in  American history. The bipartisan CARES Act funneled more than $2  trillion into bold programs to help households, fund hospitals and  healthcare providers, and keep paychecks coming. 

  Before we adjourned, I said the Senate would stay nimble and prepare  to react quickly as the legislation came online, so that why we are  here today. Much of the CARES Act is still being implemented, but one  key program--one key program--is already up and running. It is the  Paycheck Protection Program from Chairman Rubio, Chairman Collins,  Senator Cardin, and Senator Shaheen. It gives small businesses  emergency capital so that workers can keep getting paychecks instead of  pink slips. Just a few days after the program opened for business, $100  billion in loans have already been committed. That is 30 percent of the  total funding spoken for in just the first few days. I say that is very  good news. It means this job-saving program is attractive to small  business. Employers can access it. But it also means we need more  funding, and we need it fast. 

  Soon, I will ask unanimous consent to increase the funding for the  Paycheck Protection Program to a new total of $600 billion. I am not  talking about changing any policy language that both sides have already  negotiated together several weeks ago. I am literally talking about  deleting the number 350 and writing 600 in its place. Let me say that  again: We are not talking about making any policy changes; we are  literally changing the number 350 to 600. That is all we are suggesting  here today. That, by definition, is a clean bill. 

  I want to add more money to the only part of our bipartisan bill that  is currently at risk of running out of money, so I was surprised to see  this simple proposal met uneasily by the Democratic leadership. The  distinguished Democratic leader and the Speaker of the House sought to  use this crucial program to open broader negotiations on other topics,  including parts of the CARES Act where literally--listen to this, Mr.  President--literally no money has gone out the door yet--no money has  gone out the door yet. The Democratic leadership has suggested they may  hold Americans' paychecks hostage unless we passed another sweeping  bill that spends a half trillion dollars, doubling down on a number of  parts of the  CARES Act, including parts that have not even started to work yet. 

  The country cannot afford unnecessary wrangling or political  maneuvering. Treating this as a normal kind of partisan negotiation  could literally cost Americans their jobs. We are in a situation right  now where passing a bill means either unanimous consent or a voice  vote. Everyone knows--everyone--there is zero chance that the sprawling  proposal that our Democratic friends have gestured towards could pass  either Chamber by unanimous consent this week--no chance. The President  has already indicated he would not sign it. The country needs us to be  nimble--nimble--to fix urgent problems as fast as we can, to be able to  have focused discussions on urgent subjects without turning every  conversation into a conversation about everything. We need to patch  holes as we see them and keep moving forward together. 

  Everybody in the Senate voted to send historic funding to hospitals  and healthcare providers. Everyone supports funding hospitals. I am in  favor of even more funding for hospitals and providers down the line. I  have been talking to a number of them, as I am sure our colleagues  have, over the last couple of weeks. 

  But certainly, we need to see the existing funding begin to work  before we know what additional resources may be needed. I have been  urging Secretary Azar to push this money onto the frontlines as soon as  possible. I am glad tens of billions are going to go out tomorrow.  There is only one part of the CARES Act that is already--already--at  risk of exhausting its funding right now--only one part of the CARES  Act is at risk of exhausting its funding right now: the Paycheck  Protection Program. 

  We are asking small business owners across America to place their  faith in us. We are asking them to keep workers on payroll because  Congress, the Treasury, and the SBA will have their back. We must not  fail them. My colleagues must not treat working Americans as political  hostages. This does not have to be, nor should it be contentious. We  don't have to divide along the usual lines so soon after we came  together for the country. 

  To my Democratic colleagues, please--please--do not block emergency  aid you do not even oppose just because you want something more. Do not  block emergency aid you do not oppose just because you want something  more. 

  Nobody believes this is the Senate's last word on COVID-19. We don't  have to do everything right now. In fact, our posture of needing  unanimous consent does not even permit us to try to do everything right  now. We cannot play games with this crisis. Let's pass more  noncontroversial funding for Americans' paychecks. Let's do it today,  and then let's continue to work together with speed and bipartisanship.  We will get through this crisis together.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT