Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, yesterday President Trump visited the  Capitol to discuss the ongoing efforts to fight the new coronavirus and  its growing footprint here in the United States. 

  As Vice President Pence, Dr. Anthony Fauci, and the other  administration experts related in their briefing yesterday, we should  expect a number of cases to continue to climb throughout our country.  Fortunately, our Nation was rated the best prepared in the world for  this kind of outbreak, and we are continuing to scale up our response  every day. 

  My home State of Kentucky currently has eight confirmed cases. I  applaud the efforts of State and local leaders who are working together  with Federal officials to proceed carefully and intelligently. 

  Our public health experts are compiling the best guidance for  individuals, families, businesses, schools, and healthcare  professionals in one place, and www.coronavirus.gov is the place to go.  I encourage every American to read through the information,  particularly anyone whose personal circumstances make additional  precautions a wise idea. 

  President Trump and Senators also discussed potential policies to  soften the economic impact of the virus. Over the last 3 years, we have  built a historically strong economy of American workers and middle- class families. We should take sensible steps to help that momentum  continue, notwithstanding this new challenge. 

  I am glad the Secretary of the Treasury and the Speaker of the House  are engaging in direct bipartisan talks on this subject. Congress has  already provided billions in new funding to Federal, State, and local  health leaders. I hope we can bring the same bipartisan energy to any  steps that prove necessary to support our strong U.S. economy. 

  Now, it has been sad but not surprising to see some of President  Trump's Democratic critics here in Washington fall back on the same old  predictable partisan attacks, even at a time like this, but across the  country, where leaders are working together on the frontlines, we have  seen something different. I want to commend the Democratic Governor of  California, who stated on Monday that he had been in close touch with  the President and Vice President and appreciated their attention and  support. 

  Here is what he said:  

       He said everything I could have hoped for. . . . We had a       very long conversation, and       every single thing he said, they followed through on.  

  That is the Governor of California talking about the Republican  President of the United States. He praised the administration's work on  this and said: ``It starts at the top.'' 

  So, clearly, this does not have to be a time for partisan bickering.  The American people know that. The leaders around the country know  that. I hope our Democratic colleagues here in Washington understand  the American people expect us to be working together on this problem.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT