Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the Senate is back for its second week  in session, and we have more important work to do for the American  people. 

  While our Nation fights the coronavirus pandemic, many of our fellow  Americans have been taking new safety precautions but continue to show  up to perform essential work. Because of delivery drivers and grocery  clerks, families can keep food on their shelves. Because of utility  workers, people hunkered down at home have power. Because of  pharmacists manning their counters, Americans have been able to keep  getting the medicines they need so this health crisis does not compound  itself. Then, of course, there has been the selfless work of so many  doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. 

  Frankly, even the word ``essential'' does not do full justice to all  the new American heroes we have met these past weeks. 

  In my home State of Kentucky, we met people like Leilani Krause. She  is a 30-year nursing veteran who now oversees care at a senior living  facility in Louisville. A few weeks ago, she herself contracted the  coronavirus. Even as she stayed home to recover, she never stopped  working. She still did all she could to coordinate her patients' care  over video calls. As soon as she  felt better and doctors gave her the all-clear, she checked right back  into work right on the frontlines. 

  I want to thank all of my Senate colleagues as we continue to perform  our essential responsibilities to serve citizens like Miss Krause and  so many other American heroes all across our country. Of course, much  of the work before us relates to the pandemic itself. Our committees of  jurisdiction are attacking COVID-19 and its effects from every angle. 

  This week, Chairman Alexander and our colleagues on the HELP  Committee will hold a major hearing on smart and safe ways for  Americans to get back to work and back to school. They will hear expert  testimony from the very top leaders: Dr. Fauci, Dr. Redfield, Dr. Hahn,  and Admiral Giroir from HHS. 

  Chairman Crapo and the Banking Committee will hear from  representatives from the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on financial  regulation. Obviously, that is an essential topic as the government  continues to push out billions and billions of dollars in emergency  liquidity following the CARES Act. 

  With huge numbers of Americans working, teaching, and learning from  home and with telemedicine more important than ever, the Commerce  Committee will hear from experts about access to broadband internet  during the crisis. 

  The Judiciary Committee will hold an important hearing on issues of  legal liability during this unprecedented time. It is crucial that as  we continue to fight the pandemic itself, we ensure it is not followed  up by a second job-killing epidemic of frivolous lawsuits. This would  be just about the worst time in living memory to let trial lawyers line  their pockets at the expense of the rest of our country. The Senate is  going to play a strong role in ensuring that does not happen. 

  While our committees are working away, here on the floor, we will  start this week by confirming two more qualified nominees to important  posts that should not remain empty at this time. We will begin with  Brian Montgomery of Texas, named by President Trump to serve as Deputy  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Then we will turn to Troy  Edgar of California to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of  Homeland Security. 

  I understand some of my distinguished Democratic colleagues complain  that the full Senate should not have to spend more time on these sorts  of uncontroversial executive branch nominees. I agree. But as long as  their own Democratic leadership continues to hold important posts open  for as long as possible in order to just spite the White House, as long  as the minority continues to break from longstanding Senate precedent  to obstruct even the least controversial nominees, then, frankly, they  will have to continue to show up and vote on them. The floor votes they  say they dislike are the direct result of their own tactics. 

  We are also going to take up important legislation this week. While  COVID-19 rightly dominates headlines around the world, the United  States of America also faced many serious threats before this virus  began to spread, and they are still with us today. 

  Later this week, we will turn back to reauthorizing important  authorities under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. This is  urgent because the House refused to take up the Senate's short-term  extension of important counterterrorism and counterintelligence  authorities before they left town. House Democrats let these tools  expire, so we must act quickly to clean up their mess and renew these  authorities, which our government needs to fight terrorists and check  the agents of China and Russia. 

  The bipartisan bill we will take up was negotiated exhaustively by  House Republicans and the Attorney General of the United States.  Determined advocates for reform after the shameful abuses of 2016 sat  down with determined defenders of the good parts of these tools, and  they hammered out a strong compromise. The legislation will introduce  more daylight and more accountability into the FISA process where  appropriate, but it will ensure that the embarrassments of 2016 do not  jeopardize these essential national security tools altogether. 

  I hope the Senate will be able to dispatch the amendments that we  will consider and pass this important legislation on a bipartisan basis  to keep the American people safe.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT