Election Security


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, now, on a final matter, this  afternoon all Senators will have the opportunity to attend a briefing  on election security from administration experts who tackle the issue  every day. The FBI Director; the Acting Secretary of Homeland Security;  General Nakasone of the NSA and Cyber Command; the Director of  Counterintelligence at the DNI; and a number of other senior leaders  will come here to the Capitol to discuss this critical subject. 

  I look forward to hearing more about the significant and strong steps  the Trump administration has taken over the past 3 years to secure our  democracy and punch back against the real and varied foreign efforts to  interfere. I look forward to hearing more about the unprecedented level  of coordination that has connected nonpartisan Federal experts in all  50 States, U.S. territories, thousands of local jurisdictions, and  private sector leaders to make sure the unpreparedness and inaction  that defined the Obama administration's failures in 2016 was not  repeated in 2018 and will not be repeated in 2020 or beyond. 

  I look forward to hearing about how the record sums of money,  hundreds of millions of dollars that Congress has put aside for direct  grants so States and local election officials can shore up their  systems, are making our democracy safer. I expect I will have more to  say following the briefing. I expect many of our colleagues will, but,  beforehand, I would like to say this: The American people have  confidence in our democracy, as they should. Just last month, a survey  found that more than 70 percent of Americans are confident their State  or local government will conduct a fair and accurate election this  November. Let me say this again. Just last month, a survey found that  more than 70 percent of Americans are confident their State or local  government will conduct a fair and accurate election this November, and  they should be confident about the resilience of our institutions.  

  Our Nation is strong. The Trump administration has made huge strides.  After 8 years of weakness, this administration's foreign policy has  made it clear to our adversaries that the United States of America is  not going to be pushed around, but the American people also know we  must remain vigilant. As long as Russia and other nations seek to  meddle, we need to be ready. 

  Election security is critically important to our Nation, and it can  only be handled right if it is handled with good faith and  bipartisanship. 

  When Washington Democrats use this particular topic as a platform for  demonizing the other side or for pushing tangential policy proposals,  which the left had sought many years--many years--before 2016, everyone  can see right through it. It only signals unseriousness. 

  So I encourage all my colleagues to attend the bipartisan briefing  today, and then let's preserve that bipartisan spirit and that unity.  Let's focus on fighting against foreign interference, not fighting each  other. 

  We should not just snap right back into tired, old partisanship. We  should not let Putin or anyone else bait Americans into talking down  our own democracy or sowing more fear and discord among ourselves than  other adversaries could ever hope to do themselves.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT