Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the core business of our Nation does  not stop while we fight the coronavirus. This week, Senate committees  are conducting oversight and holding hearings. Members are tracking the  implementation of the CARES Act. We are discussing how Congress could  do everything from further strengthening the health response to  ensuring that a second epidemic of frivolous lawsuits does not redirect  the national recovery into a trial lawyer bonanza. 

  Here on the floor, we are filling major vacancies in the Federal  Government. Today, we will confirm Bill Evanina to lead the National  Counterintelligence and Security Center. As our Nation grapples with  challenges at home, it is critically important that a full complement  of skilled professionals keep a close watch on our foes, adversaries,  and competitors.      

  Mr. Evanina's nomination will make him the first Senate-confirmed  Director of the NCSC. This role represents our government's senior-most  expert in counterintelligence. Fortunately, this nominee has served for  3 decades as special agent with the FBI, as chief of the CIA's  Counterespionage Group, and as one of the principal advisers to the  Director of National Intelligence. 

  Mr. Evanina's long professional experience has given him a well- trained eye. He has made clear he is focused on the most serious  espionage threats facing our country today: China's insidious efforts  to steal our industrial, governmental, technological, and political  secrets and Russia's continuing efforts to meddle in our democracy. We  have a qualified professional who is tailor-made for an important job.  Our colleagues on the Intelligence Committee have reported him out on a  unanimous bipartisan basis twice. The vice chairman, Senator Warner,  said: ``Bill Evanina should be confirmed without further delay.'' 

  But even still, our Democratic colleagues chose to obstruct his  nomination on the floor this week and require a full day of floor time  to confirm. Ironically, at the same time, we have also heard some of  our Democratic colleagues complain that we spend too much time voting  on nominations. It is bad enough to spend 3 years delaying nominations  to a historic degree and deliberately making the process painful, but  it reached a new level of irony for our Democratic friends to do all  that and then complain that their own strategy is inconveniencing their  schedules. 

  Essential matters of government do not cease because of the  coronavirus. They do not cease because of partisanship either. As long  as Senate Democrats continue to make incredibly qualified nominees  travel the hard way, including someone whom their own Democratic  ranking member openly praised, then, I will assure them they will need  to continue to show up and cast votes. The country's business will not  go undone.                         Nomination of Justin Walker  

  Mr. President, speaking of nominations, this morning our colleagues  on the Judiciary Committee are examining the qualifications of Judge  Justin Walker. Judge Walker is a fellow Kentuckian. He is a district  judge of the Western District of Kentucky, and he is President Trump's  nominee to serve on our second most important Federal Court, the Court  of Appeals for the District of Columbia. 

  I am grateful to Chairman Graham and all the other chairmen who are  finding creative ways to conduct important business. The Senate is  demonstrating that the work of governing must and can continue, albeit  in new ways. 

  So to respect this time of social distancing, I am going to offer my  introduction here on the floor instead of over in the committee. Since  Judge Walker was tapped to serve the people of Kentucky on the Federal  district bench, he wasted no time in expanding his strong reputation  for intellectual brilliance, legal acumen, and total fairness and  impartiality. 

  In just the last few weeks, Judge Walker has won national attention  for an eloquent and persuasive opinion that forcefully defended  Kentuckians' basic First Amendment freedom of religion, and he has  earned a ``well-qualified'' rating from the left-leaning American Bar  Association that Senate Democrats, like my friend the Democratic  leader, have frequently described as ``the gold standard.'' 

  Let me say that again. In the span of just a couple of weeks, almost  simultaneously, Judge Walker has won praise from religious freedom  advocates nationwide and the approval of the ABA, which Democrats call  ``the gold standard.'' That illustrates the kind of impressive  individual the committee is considering this morning. 

  Already, Judge Walker's reputation as a brilliant legal rising star  precedes him. Yet, when you consider the full scope of his education  and experience, it is hardly a surprise. Judge Walker graduated from  Duke University summa cum laude. He graduated from Harvard Law School  magna cum laude, and he edited the Law Review. 

  He had prestigious clerkships at the DC Circuit for then-Judge Brett  Kavanaugh and at the Supreme Court for then-Justice Anthony Kennedy. He  learned at the elbows of legal giants. Then, he moved on to skilled  performance in private practice, and then to distinguished scholarship  at the University of Louisville Law School, with particular expertise  in national security, administrative law, and the separation of powers. 

  Indeed, it is an impressive record. As Kentucky's secretary of State,  Mike Adams, put it recently, ``Judge Walker is more than just a  [C.V.].'' Hence, the outpouring of praise from his peers, colleagues,  and neighbors in Kentucky who know him well. One hundred Kentucky  lawyers, many of whom have practiced before Judge Walker in the  district court, wrote to praise his ``courage to apply precedent  faithfully.'' Sixteen State attorneys general wrote to share their  confidence in Judge Walker's ability to ``weigh the facts against the  law as it is written . . . not as he wishes it to be.'' 

  I am confident our colleagues on the committee will find that this  nominee possesses a generational legal mind, a kind heart, and total  judicial impartiality. 

  President Trump made an outstanding choice when he asked this  Kentuckian to take his public service to the next level. I am confident  Judge Walker will not disappoint. I urge the committee to approve his  nomination. I look forward to voting to confirm him soon here on the  Senate floor. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT