Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, it has been 10 days since the United  States removed Iran's chief terrorist, Qasem Soleimani, from the  battlefield. It has been 5 days since the brutal violence,  recklessness, and failed governance that defines the Iranian's regime  was put on full display with their shoot-down of a Ukrainian civilian  airline and the death of all 167 souls on board. 

  After a brief stab at a failed coverup, the Iranian Government had to  come clean and explain that its own recklessness had killed more than  80 Iranians, 63 Canadians, and the other victims. Despite the claims of  supposed experts on Iran that Iranians would rally behind their  oppressive regime, the truth is quite different. Instead, thousands of  Iranians have taken to the streets to celebrate Soleimani's death,  condemn the regime's domestic repression, call for regime change in  Tehran, and denounce their government's feeble efforts to lay its own  violence at the feet of the United States. 

  According to journalists, here is one chant that has been ringing out  on the streets of Iran: ``Soleimani is a murderer, his leader a  traitor.'' Here is another: ``They are lying that our enemy is America,  our enemy is right here.'' The irony is rich. 

  As Iran's master terrorist, Soleimani himself led efforts to  brutalize Iranian protesters who dared to challenge the regime. Just a  few months ago, he boasted to Iraqi leaders: ``We in Iran know how to  deal with protests.'' That violent approach is exactly why Iraqis and  Iranians alike are now celebrating his death and denouncing the regime  he helped lead. I am sure the mullahs regret that Soleimani himself is  no longer around to help intimidate and murder their own citizens into  silence. 

  These protests aren't limited to Iran either. Protestors are back in  Iraq as well--not phony, Iran-staged demonstrations but real citizen- led protests across Iraq. Iraqis are demanding a government whose top  priority is Iraqi's own interests rather than facilitating Iranian  interference. 

  Given the death and terror that Iran has wrought in the Middle East  for decades, this kind of reaction shouldn't be a surprise, but  strangely--strangely--it seems it has surprised many of our fellow  Americans. 

  Here at home, many on the left and in the media had rushed to  reflexively blame President Trump, and not the Iranian regime, for the  recent violence. 

  After only the earliest initial reports, the Speaker of the House  rushed  to blame our administration for ``needless provocations,'' she said,  and following Iran's shoot-down of the airliner, one prominent House  Democrat characterized the regime's violence as ``collateral damage,''  resulting from America's actions--exactly how the Iranians themselves  were trying to spin it. 

  One Democrat running for President tried a similar, embarrassing  equivocation. He said the civilians Iran had blown up were ``caught in  the middle of an unnecessary and unwarranted military tit-for-tat.'' 

  For several days, you could not open a newspaper or turn on the  television without prominent Democrats and so-called foreign policy  experts setting aside decades of Iranian aggression to imply--or even  say outright--that America, not Iran, was responsible for the cycle of  violence and that President Donald Trump was the real villain. 

  So we are faced with a remarkable spectacle. Even under threat of  tear gas or even gunfire, the brave people of Iran are themselves  displaying more willingness to criticize their own brutal rulers than  we saw in the initial responses from some Democrats and so-called  experts right here at home. It is a remarkable spectacle but a pretty  sad one. I hope this can be a lesson to anyone who has let their  domestic political grievances pollute their judgment of world affairs. 

  It shouldn't take the brave Iranian people themselves to remind  American leaders that Tehran has long been the force for bad in this  situation, and the United States is a force for good. 

  As I have said, the President's bold action has attracted significant  criticism for Democrats here in Congress. It is the Senate's  prerogative to weigh in on foreign policy, and I fully expect we will  debate a War Powers Resolution from some of our colleagues very soon. 

  I look forward to discussing the last administration's failed  strategy that got us here. The Obama administration responded to Iran's  violence and aggression with appeasement and retrenchment rather than  pushback. 

  I look forward to discussing the fact that senior military commanders  did not just recommend the President take immediate action to disrupt  Iranian plots against our personnel, they believed the United States  would be ``culpably negligent'' if it didn't act to stop the plotting. 

  I expect that some of the Democrats who have rhetorically embraced  the intelligence community when it suited their political interests may  now rush to criticize the career professionals. I look forward to  hearing our colleagues who want to quibble over the word ``imminent''  explain just how close we should let the terrorists come to killing  more Americans before we defend ourselves--just how close should we let  terrorists come to killing more Americans before we defend ourselves. 

  I assure you, if the President had not acted to disrupt a deadly  attack, I am confident these same critics would have blasted him for  failing--failing--to protect American lives. 

  Just a few days before the strike, the junior Senator from  Connecticut was blasting--blasting--the administration for  ``render[ing] America impotent in the Middle East.'' He complained that  ``no one fears us, no one listens to us.'' Naturally, after President  Trump did take bold action, the same colleague has become a fierce  critic of President Trump for supposedly being too harsh--too harsh.  That is not exactly a model of consistency. 

  Our Democratic colleagues were very happy to give President Obama  wide latitude to engage in strikes where American lives and American  interests were far less directly at stake than with Mr. Soleimani. 

  Now the same Democrats who embraced the Obama intervention in Libya,  for example, say it is a bridge too far for President Trump to respond  with limited force to Iranian-directed strikes against American  interests and personnel that have been escalating for months. OK in  Libya, not OK here--the double standards are literally head-spinning. 

  So I expect the Senate will soon debate Senator Kaine's War Powers  Resolution. For a year now, I have wanted the Senate to go on record  about our military presence and strategy in Syria and Iraq. I am glad  my Democratic colleagues may finally be interested in having that  discussion rather than ducking it. 

  I don't believe the blunt instrument of the War Powers Resolution is  an acceptable substitute for the studied oversight the Senate can  exercise through hearings, resolutions, and more tailored legislation.  So I will strongly oppose the resolution, and I would urge all our  colleagues to consider what message the Senate should send to Iran and  the world at the very moment that America's actions are challenging the  calculus in Tehran for the better. We appear to have restored a measure  of deterrence in the Middle East, so let's not screw it up.                                 Impeachment  

  Mr. President, on Friday Speaker Pelosi signaled that she may finally  wind down her one-woman blockade of a fair and timely impeachment  trial. It has certainly been revealing to see House Democrats first  claim that impeachment was so urgent--so urgent--that they could not  even wait to fill out the factual record and then, subsequently, delay  it for weeks. I am glad the Speaker finally realized she never had any  leverage in the first place to dictate Senate procedure to Senators and  is giving in to bipartisan pressure to move forward. 

  In terms of influencing Senate proceedings, this strange gambit has  achieved absolutely nothing, but it has produced one unintended side  effect: The Speaker's efforts to precommit the Senate to carry on an  investigation with which her own House lost patience concedes that the  House case is rushed, weak, and incomplete. 

  Let me say that again. By trying and failing to get the Senate to  precommit to redoing the House's investigation, House Democrats  admitted that even they did not believe their own case is persuasive. 

  Think about the message it sends when the prosecutors are this  desperate to get the judge and jury to redo their homework for them,  and think about the separation of powers. The House, knowingly-- knowingly--declined to spend time on legal battles and due process that  it would have needed to pursue the certain avenues. Now, after  declining to fight their own fight, they want the Senate to precommit  ourselves to wage these potentially protracted legal battles on their  behalf. They wanted Senators to precommit ourselves to not only judge  the case that House Democrats are actually going to send over but,  also, to reopen the investigatory stage and maybe supplement Chairman  Schiff's slapdash work. In other words, the President's opponents are  afraid of having the Senate judge the case they actually are going to  send us. They are afraid of having the Senate judge the case they  themselves voted on. That alone speaks volumes. 

  A few weeks ago, in real time, many Senators and legal experts tried  to warn House Democrats that they were nowhere near a finished  product--nowhere near--and that the Articles of Impeachment they had  drafted were more like a censure resolution based on partisan anger  than an actual impeachment based on careful investigation. 

  The House ignored us at the time. They rushed ahead to meet a  political timetable. Now they have spent almost a month conceding that  their own case does not stand on its own and searching for ways to  supplement it from the outside. This is exactly the kind of toxic new  precedent that many of us warned about back in December--that Speaker  Pelosi's House was not sending the Senate a thorough investigation.  They were just tossing up a jump ball and hoping that the political  winds might blow things their way. 

  So here we are. The Senate was never going to precommit ourselves to  redoing the prosecutors' homework for them, and we were never going to  allow the Speaker of the House to dictate Senate proceedings to  Senators. 

  House Democrats have already done enough damage to the precedent, to  national unity, and to our institutions of government. The Senate will  not be sucked into this precedent-breaking path. We will fulfill our  constitutional duty. We will honor the reason for which the Founders  created this body: to ensure our institutions and our Republic can rise  above short-term, factional fever. 

  The House has done enough damage. The Senate is ready to fulfill our  duty. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT