Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL.  The right to peaceful  protest is absolutely sacrosanct. It is a core American liberty. When  peaceful demonstrations occur within the bounds of the law and with  respect to the needs of law enforcement, leadership at every level has  an obligation to respect and honor them. 

  Our Nation must not turn a deaf ear to the anger, pain, or  frustration of Black Americans. Our Nation needs to hear them. There is  no question that the killing of George Floyd was horrific. In my view,  it absolutely appears to have been a heinous act of criminal violence.  It is totally unacceptable that Mr. Floyd is dead. There is no doubt  that residual racism continues to be a stain on our country. We need to  do more to address it. 

  Over the last few days, we have seen peaceful protests hijacked on a  nightly basis into a rolling series of riots that engulfed great  American cities in wanton destruction and violent crime. 

  These are the two issues the American people are focused on: justice  for Black Americans in the face of unjust violence and peace for our  country in the face of looting, riots, and domestic terror. Those are  the two issues that Americans want addressed: racial justice and ending  riots. 

  Unfortunately, this resolution from my friend the Democratic leader  does not address either one of them. Instead, it just indulges in the  myopic obsession with President Trump that has come to define the  Democratic side of the aisle. It pays more attention to the precise  ways that Federal law enforcement protects Presidential movements  around the White House than to the fact that great American cities,  including my colleague's beloved New York, have been consumed by  rioting, looting, and violence against police for several nights in a  row, with no end in sight. 

  Outside of the Washington, DC, bubble, there is no universe where  Americans think Democrats' obsession with condemning President Trump is  a more urgent priority than ending the riots or advancing racial  justice. There is no universe in which the dynamics of Lafayette Park  before the President seeks to exit the White House is a more urgent  national priority than the shattered glass, destroyed businesses, and  brutal attacks on law enforcement that are happening nationwide in  places like Lafayette Street in New York City. 

  I will object to my distinguished colleague's thin resolution and  will offer something more full-throated in its place. 

  My resolution would condemn a long pattern of unjust police violence  toward Black Americans. It would champion the First Amendment and  praise the peaceful protests that followed Mr. Floyd's death. It would  clearly condemn the violent rioting that has paralyzed places like New  York City and insist that local authorities finally get serious about  protecting the innocent. 

  I hope my distinguished colleague will not object. America is united  and outraged at the death of Mr. Floyd, and I hope we can unite to  condemn these senseless riots and move forward together as one Nation.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as in if legislative session, I ask  unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the consideration of S.  Res. 601 submitted earlier today.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL.  tomorrow;  finally, if either of the nominations are confirmed, the motions to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table and the President  be immediately notified of the Senate's actions. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT