Fisa


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, speaking of keeping our Nation safe,  the Senate has work of our own to do this week to ensure the safety and  security of our Nation. In addition to fighting this historic pandemic,  it is  also our job to keep sight of the other threats to national security  that are still evolving, independent of COVID-19. 

  Far from any frontline hospital, the PRC's domineering approach to  contested territories in the South China Sea is keeping the men and  women of the U.S. Seventh Fleet on high alert. 

  From dark corners of cyber space, Russia busies our national security  and intelligence experts with a steady flow of infectious propaganda  and disinformation. 

  From the Mediterranean to the Gulf of Aden, Iran continues to expand  its regional influence, sow division, promote terror, and threaten  America and its partners. 

  And across Afghanistan, the Taliban, al-Qaida, and ISIS continue to  undermine the work of an international coalition and a representative  government. 

  These are just a few of the global threats that were with us long  before the COVID-19 crisis, and they have only gotten worse during the  pandemic. 

  History reminds us that when great nations confront profound  challenges at home, their enemies and competitors do not pause their  own efforts until the situation becomes more stable. Rather, from  Beijing to Moscow, to caves in the Middle East, our adversaries would  be tickled pink if the coronavirus caused the United States to lose our  ability to multitask. 

  Some of our Democratic colleagues have implied recently that it is  beneath the Senate--beneath the Senate--to spend time on any business  that does not exclusively pertain to the pandemic. I could not disagree  more strongly. Common sense tells us that this crisis demands more  vigilance on the other fronts of national security, not less. When we  take our oaths of office as U.S. Senators, we swear to defend the  Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. This  coronavirus may have shoved its way to the top of that list, but the  list is still a long one, indeed. 

  Unfortunately, for several weeks now, our Nation has been less  prepared than normal to defend ourselves against those who wish us  harm, and it is not because of the coronavirus. It is because House  Democrats have failed to act. 

  Back in March, the Senate passed a clean short-term extension of key  authorities under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, while a  broader renegotiation was under way. After the shameful abuses of the  FISA process that marred the 2016 Presidential campaign, there was a  clear need for meaningful reforms to bring more daylight and  accountability into the process. But at the same time, many of us on  both sides of the aisle were absolutely intent on preserving these  critical national security tools that have helped keep America safe. 

  While discussions were under way on how to strike the right balance,  the Senate passed a bipartisan short-term extension so these important  tools could remain in our national security professionals' hands while  Congress got our act together. Unfortunately, Speaker Pelosi let that  extension sit on her desk and gather dust. So, for more than 8 weeks--8  weeks--these important tools have gone dark. 

  Fortunately, the Attorney General and Members of Congress have worked  together to craft a compromise solution that will implement needed  reforms while preserving the core national security tools. These  intense discussions produced a strong bill that balances the need for  accountability with our solemn obligation to protect our citizens and  defend our homeland. 

  I understand several of our colleagues believe this compromise bill  is not perfect. Sadly, imperfection is a fact of life when it comes to  compromise legislation. While I respect my distinguished colleagues  whose amendments we will be voting on later today, I urge Senators to  vote against them. The current bill in its current form already strikes  the correct and delicate balance, and there is certainly no guarantee  that another, new version of this legislation would necessarily pass  the House or earn the President's support. This version has already  done both. We cannot let the perfect become the enemy of the good when  key authorities are currently sitting expired and unusable. 

  In sum, while the Senate continues overseeing the national response  to the coronavirus crisis, we are also making sure the pandemic does  not inflict even greater harm by distracting us from other threats and  challenges that preceded it. 

  Off the floor, our committees are working through a number of  pressing national security nominations, from the Director of National  Intelligence to the Secretary of the Navy, to other high-level openings  at the Pentagon. When the time comes, I hope we will be able to fill  these crucial openings promptly through bipartisan cooperation on the  floor. I hope our Democratic colleagues think carefully before applying  reflexive partisan delays even to vital security positions during a  global emergency. 

  We cannot put Homeland Security on autopilot because another crisis  has our attention. The Senate can, will, and must continue to pay  attention to both.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT