Government Accountability


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, the coronavirus pandemic continues to  challenge our Nation, and the Senate is here working for the American  people. 

  Our committees have called in experts like Dr. Fauci and leaders like  Chairman Powell to discuss the CARES Act and the path toward reopening.  We are tracking the effects of the largest rescue package ever and are  considering next steps, like strong legal protections so that doctors,  small businesses, schoolteachers, and universities do not face a second  epidemic of frivolous lawsuits. 

  The Senate is also staying on top of other threats that predated  COVID-19--the meddling of Putin's Russia, the brutal Chinese Communist  Party, rogue states like Iran and North Korea, foreign terrorists such  as ISIS. 

  Two weeks ago, we overwhelmingly confirmed an impressive leader for  the National Counterintelligence and Security Center, whom Acting DNI  Grenell has announced will play a central role in briefing candidates  and campaigns on foreign threats against our elections. 

  Today, our colleagues on the Intelligence Committee, now led by  Acting  Chairman Rubio, will report out the President's nominee to be the next  Director of National Intelligence, and, last week, we reauthorized  essential tools that our intelligence community needs to defend our  homeland, track our enemies, and protect Americans. 

  But we didn't stop there. 

  Over the last several years, we have been painfully reminded that our  Nation and our liberties are not only threatened from without. The  fabric of our country is also hurt when tools and capabilities that are  meant to keep us safe are abused in ways that are, at best, reckless,  sloppy, and unaccountable--or, worse, polluted by political bias. 

  In 2016, the FBI embarked on a counterintelligence investigation  against Donald Trump's campaign for the Presidency. Federal law  enforcement used taxpayer money to scrutinize a political campaign in  the middle of a democratic election. You would have thought such a  radical step must have sprung from an air-tight justification.  Certainly, you would think the outgoing Obama administration should  only have used the awesome power of the Federal Government to pry into  their political rivals if they had had a slam-dunk basis for doing so,  but that is not what they had. 

  In one instance, the FBI got permission to surveil a Trump associate  by telling half-truths, blurring evidence, and citing sketchy sources  like a dossier of partisan opposition research that had been funded by  the Hillary Clinton campaign and the DNC. 

  Here is how even the New York Times explained the recent findings of  the Justice Department's inspector general: ``The FBI had cherry-picked  and misstated evidence about the Trump adviser . . . when seeking  permission to wiretap him.'' 

  That was from the New York Times. 

  So an American citizen's campaign for the American Presidency was  treated like a hostile foreign power by our own law enforcement, in  part, because the Democratic-led executive branch manipulated  documents, hid contrary evidence, and made a DNC-funded dossier a  launch pad for an investigation. The inspector general counted seven  significant inaccuracies and omissions. 

  Here is his report:  

       We identified multiple instances in which factual       assertions relied upon in the [FBI's] FISA application were       inaccurate, incomplete, or unsupported by appropriate       documentation based upon information the FBI had in its       possession at the time the application was filed.  

  Did you catch that last part? It was based upon information the FBI  had in its possession at the time the application was filed. So we are  either talking about gross incompetence or intentional bias. Does any  Senator think it is acceptable for any Federal warrant application to  include seven significant inaccuracies and omissions? But this wasn't  just a run-of-the-mill warrant; it was a FISA warrant to snoop on a  Presidential campaign. 

  This is just one of the realities that President Trump's Democratic  critics spent years calling conspiracy theories or inventions of the  President's mind. Yet here it is in black and white from exactly the  kind of independent inspector general the Democrats rushed to embrace  when convenient. 

  Sadly, this was no isolated incident. Just recently, Attorney General  Barr has had to take the incredible step of unwinding the DOJ  prosecution of another former Trump adviser because the government's  case against him was unfair and distorted as well. 

  It was largely on the basis of these proceedings that the Democrats  and the media spent years being fixated on wild theories of Russian  collusion, but upon investigation, the Mueller investigation--remember  that one?--it is those wild allegations that collapsed along with the  credibility of several of these investigations that helped to create  the cloud of suspicion in the first place. 

  In the words of our distinguished Attorney General:  

       The proper investigative and prosecutorial standards of the       Department of Justice were abused. . . . We saw two different       standards of justice emerge, one that applied to President       Trump and his associates and the other that applied to       everybody else. We can't allow this ever to happen again.  

  That is from the Attorney General. 

  Oh, and by the way, as if this debacle needed even more shocking  behavior, I understand a Federal judge may try to continue prosecuting  one of these cases even though the prosecution itself wants to drop it.  The judge has taken it upon himself to go browsing for other hostile  parties. Obviously, that subverts our constitutional order in which the  executive alone decides whether to prosecute cases 

  So, look, no matter what some Washington Democrats may try to claim,  you are not crazy or a conspiracy theorist if you see a pattern of  institutional unfairness toward this President. You would have to be  blind not to see one. 

  All of this is why the Senate passed important FISA reforms in last  week's bill--to help bring accountability and transparency into that  flawed process--and we aren't nearly finished. 

  As soon as possible, the full Senate will vote on Mr. Ratcliffe's  nomination. The President will have a Senate-confirmed DNI who can  pursue the vital national security work of our tireless intelligence  community while he can also ensure that the IC stays out of politics  and out of the papers. 

  Just yesterday, Chairman Graham announced the Committee on the  Judiciary will vote on a serious new set of subpoenas so the Senate can  hear directly from key players like James Comey, Andrew McCabe, Loretta  Lynch, and many others to continue getting to the bottom of this. Let  me say that again. The Senate Republicans are taking steps to issue  subpoenas to a wide variety of Obama administration officials who have  some relationship to the abuses I have just laid out. The American  people deserve answers about how such abuses could happen, and we  intend to get those answers. 

  I have been a strong supporter of law enforcement and the  intelligence community during my career. The American people sleep  safer because dedicated people are protecting our country and bringing  our foes to justice. It is precisely because I support these missions  that I feel so strongly this malpractice cannot be tolerated and must  never be repeated.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT