Great American Outdoors Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on an entirely different subject, while  the Senate remains the only Chamber in this Capitol with its lights on,  we are going to continue with legislative work for the country. We will  take our first vote today to advance the Great American Outdoors Act--a  generational bill from Senator Daines and Senator Gardner--that will  secure the future of our Nation's natural treasures. 

  America is home to 419 national park sites, 567 national wildlife  refuges, and hundreds of millions of acres of public lands. Every year,  millions of Americans turn to these lands for recreation, inspiration,  and for their livelihoods. These resources exist because of the  visionary actions of prior Congresses. Now it is our turn to secure  them for generations yet to come. 

  Our colleagues' legislation does two big things: It improves access  to parks and public lands by investing in maintenance and upkeep, and  it secures permanent support for the missions of the Land and Water  Conservation Fund. 

  Their legislation has already persuaded 59 cosponsors here in the  Senate. It has earned the bipartisan endorsement of the last six former  Secretaries of the Interior, and a diverse coalition of independent  advocates--from The Nature Conservancy to the Outdoor Industry  Association to the American Battlefield Trust--have called on us to  pass this bill. 

  This bill has unusually broad, bipartisan, and vocal support because  the issues at hand affect so many different communities so concretely.  Every year, visitors to America's national parks bring more than $40  billion in economic impact to the gateway towns that surround them. The  State and local parks, stewarded by the LWCF, help to generate another  $166 billion in local economic activity and support more than 1.1  million jobs. 

  My fellow Kentuckians and I know this firsthand. At least 120,000  jobs are supported by active outdoor recreation in the Commonwealth.  From hunters and anglers in the Daniel Boone National Forest to  tourists visiting Mammoth Cave, our State's natural treasures occasion  nearly $13 billion in annual consumer spending. Yet Kentuckians also  know that tight budgets for maintenance often mean that historic sites  go without important repairs and upgrades that would ensure safe access  and smooth operations. So we are acutely aware of the need to address  the deferred maintenance backlog, which this legislation tackles head- on. 

  So I am very grateful to our colleagues from Montana and Colorado for  shepherding this legislation. I am proud of the stand they have taken  in support of our Nation's natural wonders and the millions of American  livelihoods that depend on them. I look forward to discussing this  landmark legislation more in the days ahead, to supporting it here on  the floor, and to urging every one of my colleagues to join in.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT