Great American Outdoors Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on an entirely different matter,  yesterday our colleagues voted overwhelmingly to advance the Great  American Outdoors Act. Thanks to the guiding leadership of colleagues  like Senators Daines and Gardner, we have a rare opportunity to take a  huge step forward with some of our Nation's most cherished treasures. 

  Every year, America's national parks, forests, wildlife refuges,  battlefields, and public lands draw hundreds of millions of visits from  across the country and around the world--hunters and anglers,  backpackers and climbers, bird watchers and road trippers, school  groups and scientists. Across hundreds of millions of acres, there is  room for recreation and conservation alike. 

  Where our Nation makes its natural wonders possible, local  communities thrive. According to the National Park Service, park  visitors contribute to more than $40 billion in economic output in  adjacent towns. From local hotels and restaurants to the outdoor  recreation industry itself, they supported nearly 330,000 jobs. 

  So it would be difficult to overstate the importance of our public  lands in the lives of the American people. When the Senate passes  legislation to secure permanent funding for keeping them safe and  accessible, we will be ushering in a bright future for American  recreation and conservation. 

  At the same time--and just as importantly--we will be addressing the  areas where decades of funding levels for routine maintenance have not  kept pace, leaving some of our parks and public lands inaccessible and  potentially unsafe. 

  This is where the rubber meets the road. This is where all of our  love for the great American outdoors needs to be backed up with some  sober accounting. 

  In Senator Gardner's backyard, in the U.S. Forest Service's Rocky  Mountain region, last year's totals put the costs of backlog  maintenance projects at nearly half a billion dollars. From upkeep of  roads, bridges, and dams to updates of wastewater and drinking water  systems, we are talking about projects with real consequences for  recreation, conservation, and local economies. 

  In Kentucky, we know all too well what happens when urgent  maintenance is neglected. At Mammoth Cave National Park, for example,  untreated sewer leaks in past years have restricted access to portions  of the largest cave system in the world and even threatened some of its  native species. 

  Today, more than $90 million in maintenance is still outstanding at  that particular park. We are still waiting on funding to rehabilitate  cave trails that haven't seen major investment since the 1930s. 

  At the Forest Service's London district office, Kentucky rangers are  still waiting for funding for critical security and accessibility  updates. 

  Like any prized asset, public lands need regular maintenance. We  shouldn't let key infrastructure languish for decades and then fight  uphill to make up for lost time. 

  This is a familiar problem that is felt in different ways in every  corner of our Nation, so the solution will need to be just as sweeping.  Fortunately, as last night's lopsided vote demonstrates, our colleagues  have assembled a deeply bipartisan set of solutions that our country  deserves. 

  I am proud the work led by our colleagues from Montana and Colorado  have received the endorsement of hundreds of national and local  advocates for American recreation and conservation. I urge all Senators  to join the experts and support the bill.        

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT