Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on an entirely different matter, of  course, we also anticipate that another totally different, very serious  item will be heading the Senate's way soon. The Senate will have to  address some of the deepest institutional questions contemplated by our  Constitution. We will have to decide whether we are going to safeguard  core governing traditions or let short-term partisan rage overcome  them. 

  Back in December, I explained how House Democrats' sprint into the  most rushed, least fair and least thorough impeachment inquiry in  American history has jeopardized the foundations of our system of  government. 

  Last spring, Speaker Pelosi told the country: ``Impeachment is so  divisive to the country that unless there's something so compelling and  overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that  path.'' That was the Speaker less than a year ago. 

  Back in 1998, when Democrats were busy defending President Clinton,  Congressman Jerry Nadler said:  

       There must never be a narrowly-voted impeachment, or an       impeachment substantially supported by one of our major       political parties and largely opposed by the other. Such an       impeachment would lack legitimacy.  

  Congressman Jerry Nadler said this 20 years ago. That was, obviously,  the standard when a Democrat was in the White House, but, ultimately,  House Democrats cared more about attacking President Trump than keeping  their promises. So they rushed through a slapdash investigation. They  decided not to bother with the standard legal processes for pursuing  witnesses and evidence. There was not enough time to do that. 

  Chairman Adam Schiff told the entire country on national television  that getting court decisions takes a long time and he did not want to  wait. It takes a long time to go to court. So they just plowed ahead-- plowed right ahead with a historically weak case--and impeached a duly  elected President with votes from just one--just one--political party. 

  Democrats have let Trump derangement syndrome develop into the kind  of dangerous partisan fever that our Founding Fathers were afraid of. 

  Just before the holidays, this sad spectacle took another unusual  turn. As soon as the partisan impeachment votes had finished, the  prosecutors began to develop cold feet. Instead of sending the articles  to the Senate, they flinched. They flinched. 

  That is right. The same people who had just spent weeks screaming  that impeachment was so serious and so urgent that it couldn't wait for  due process now decided that it could wait indefinitely while they  checked the political winds and looked for new talking points. 

  This is yet another situation where House Democrats have blown right  past the specific warnings of our Founding Fathers. 

  Alexander Hamilton specifically warned about the dangers of a  ``procrastinated determination of the charges'' in an impeachment. He  explained it would not be fair to the accused and it would be dangerous  for the country. Speaker Pelosi apparently does not care. Her  conference is behaving exactly like the ``intemperate or designing  majority in the House of Representatives'' that Hamilton warned might  abuse the impeachment power. 

  So as House Democrats continue their political delay, they are  searching desperately for some new talking points to help them deflect  blame for what they have done. We have heard it claimed that the same  House Democrats who botched their own process should get to reach over  into the Senate and dictate our process. 

  We have heard claims that it is a problem that I have discussed trial  mechanics with the White House, even as my counterpart, the Democratic  leader is openly coordinating political strategy with the Speaker, who  some might call the prosecution. 

  So it is OK to have consultation with the prosecution, but not,  apparently, with the defendant. 

  We have heard claims that any Senators who formed opinions about  House Democrats' irresponsible and unprecedented actions as they played  out in the view of the entire Nation should be disqualified from the  next phase. Obviously, this is nonsense--nonsense. 

  Let me clarify Senate rules and Senate history for those who may be  confused. 

  First, about this fantasy that the Speaker of the House will get to  hand-design the trial proceedings in the Senate, that is, obviously, a  nonstarter. 

  What I have consistently said is very simple. The structure for this  impeachment trial should track with the structure of the Clinton trial.  We have a precedent here. That means two phases. 

  First, back in 1999, the Senate passed a unanimous bipartisan  resolution, 100 to nothing, that set up the initial logistics, such as  briefs, opening arguments, and Senators' questions. 

  It stayed silent on midtrial questions, such as witnesses, until the  trial was actually underway. That was approved 100 to 0. 

  Somewhat predictably, things started to diverge along party lines  when we considered those later procedural questions, but the initial  resolution laying out the first half of the trial was approved 100 to  0. 

  I believe we should simply repeat that unanimous bipartisan precedent  at this time as well. That is my position. President Trump should get  the same treatment that every single Senator thought was fair for  President Clinton. Just like 20 years ago, we should address midtrial  questions, such as witnesses, after briefs, opening arguments, Senator  questions, and other relevant motions. Fair is fair. 

  Let's discuss these lectures about how Senators should do our jobs.  The oath that Senators take in impeachment trials to ``do impartial  justice according to the Constitution and laws'' has never meant that  Senators should wall themselves off from the biggest news stories of  the Nation and completely ignore what the House has been doing. The  oath has never meant that Senators check all of their political  judgment at the door and strip away all of our independent judgment  about what is best for the Nation. It has never meant that, and it  never could. 

  The Framers debated whether to give the power to try impeachments to  a court or to the Senate and decided on the Senate precisely because  impeachment is not a narrow legal question--impeachment is not a narrow  legal question--but a deeply political one as well. Hamilton said this  explicitly in Federalist 65. 

  Impeachment requires the Senate to address both legal questions about  what has been proved and political questions about what the common good  of our Nation requires. 

  Senators do not cease to be Senators just because the House sends us  Articles of Impeachment. Our job remains the same--to represent our  States, our constituents, and our Nation's best interests in the great  matters of our time. That is our obligation whether we are voting on  legislation, nominations, or the verdict in an impeachment. 

  Twenty years ago, I would add, Democrats understood all of this very  well. President Clinton had obviously committed an actual felony.  President Clinton had actually committed a felony. If Democrats  actually believed in the narrow sense of impartiality they have now  adopted as a talking point, then every single one of them would have  voted to remove President Clinton from office. Oh, no. Instead, a  majority of the Senate decided that removing President Clinton, despite  his proven and actual crimes, would not best serve the Nation. They  made a political judgment. By the way, back then, leading Democrats had  zero--zero--objections to Senators speaking out before the trial. 

  The current Democratic leader, Senator Schumer, was running for the  Senate during the House impeachment  process back in 1998. He voted against the articles both in the House  Judiciary Committee and on the House floor. Listen to this, a major  part of his Senate campaign that year was literally promising New  Yorkers in advance--in advance--that he would vote to acquit President  Clinton. 

  People asked if it was appropriate for him to prejudge like that. He  dismissed the question, saying: ``This is not a criminal trial but . .  . something the founding fathers decided to put in a body that was  susceptible to the whims of politics.'' That was the Democratic leader  in the 1998 Senate campaign that. That was the newly sworn-in Senator  Schumer in 1999. 

  A few weeks later, during the trial itself, Democratic Senator Tom  Harkin successfully objected to the use of the word ``jurors'' to  describe Senators because the analogy to a narrow legal proceeding was  so inappropriate, according to Senator Harkin. 

  I respect our friends across the aisle, but it appears that one  symptom of Trump derangement syndrome is also a bad case of amnesia--a  bad case of amnesia. 

  No Member of this body needs condescending lectures on fairness from  House Democrats who just rushed through the most unfair impeachment in  modern history or lectures on impartiality from Senators who happily  prejudged the case with President Clinton and simply changed their  standards to suit the political winds. 

  Anyone who knows American history or understands the Constitution  knows that a Senator's role in an impeachment trial is nothing--nothing  like the job of jurors in the legal system. The very things that make  the Senate the right forum to settle impeachments would disqualify all  of us in an ordinary trial. All of us would be disqualified in an  ordinary trial. 

  Like many Americans, Senators have paid great attention to the facts  and the arguments that House Democrats have rolled out publicly before  the Nation. Many of us personally know the parties on both sides. 

  This is a political body. We do not stand apart from the issues of  the day. It is our job to be deeply engaged in those issues, but--and  this is critical--the Senate is unique by design. 

  The Framers built the Senate to provide a check against short- termism, the runaway passions, and ``the demon faction'' that Hamilton  warned would ``extend his sceptre'' over the House of Representatives  ``at certain seasons.'' 

  We exist because the Founders wanted an institution that could stop  momentary hysterias and partisan passions from damaging our Republic,  an institution that could be thoughtful, be sober, and take the long  view. 

  That is why the Constitution puts the impeachment trial in this  place, not because Senators should pretend they are uninformed,  unopinionated, or disinterested in the long-term political questions  that an impeachment of the President poses but precisely because we are  informed; we are opinionated opinion; and we can take up these weighty  questions. That is the meaning of the oath we take. That is the task  that lies before us. 

  ``Impartial justice'' means making up our minds on the right basis.  It means putting aside purely reflective partisanship and putting aside  personal relationships and animosities. It means cooly considering the  facts that the House has presented and then rendering the verdict we  believe is best for our States, our Constitution, and our way of life.  It means seeing clearly not what some might wish the House of  Representatives had proven but what they actually have or have not  proven. It means looking past a single news cycle to see how  overturning an election would reverberate for generations. 

  You better believe Senators have started forming opinions about these  critical questions over the last weeks or months. We sure have,  especially in light of the precedent-breaking theatrics that House  Democrats chose to engage in. 

  Here is where we are. Their turn is over. They have done enough  damage. It is the Senate's turn now to render sober judgment as the  Framers envisioned, but we can't hold a trial without the articles. The  Senate's own rules don't provide for that. So, for now, we are content  to continue the ordinary business of the Senate while House Democrats  continue to flounder--for now. 

  If they ever muster the courage to stand behind their slapdash work  product and transmit their articles to the Senate, it will then be time  for the U.S. Senate to fulfill our founding purpose.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT