Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the U.S. Senate was made for moments  like this. The Framers predicted that factional fever might dominate  House majorities from time to time. They knew the country would need a  firewall  to keep partisan flames from scorching our Republic. So they created  the Senate--out of ``necessity,'' James Madison wrote, ``of some stable  institution in the government.'' 

  Today, we will fulfill this founding purpose. We will reject this  incoherent case that comes nowhere near--nowhere near--justifying the  first Presidential removal in history. This partisan impeachment will  end today, but I fear the threat to our institutions may not because  this episode is one symptom of something much deeper. 

  In the last 3 years, the opposition to this President has come to  revolve around a truly dangerous concept. Leaders in the opposite party  increasingly argue that, if our institutions don't produce the outcomes  they like, our institutions themselves must be broken. One side has  decided that defeat simply means the whole system is broken, that we  must literally tear up the rules and write new ones. 

  Normally, when a party loses an election, it accepts defeat. It  reflects and retools--but not this time. 

  Within months, Secretary Clinton was suggesting her defeat was  invalid. She called our President ``illegitimate.'' A former President  falsely claimed: ``[President] Trump didn't actually win.'' ``He lost  the election,'' a former President said. Members of Congress have used  similar rhetoric--a disinformation campaign, weakening confidence in  our democracy. 

  The very real issue of foreign election interference was abused to  fuel conspiracy theories. For years, prominent voices said there had  been a secret conspiracy between the President's campaign and a foreign  government, but when the Mueller investigation and the Senate  Intelligence Committee debunked that, the delegitimizing endeavor  didn't stop. It didn't stop. 

  Remember what Chairman Schiff said here on the floor? He suggested  that if the American people reelect President Trump in November that  the election will be presumptively invalid as well. That was Chairman  Schiff, on this floor, saying, if the American people reelect President  Trump this November, the election will be presumptively invalid as  well. 

  So they still don't accept the American voters' last decision, and  now they are preparing to reject the voters' next decision if they  don't like the outcome--not only the last decision but the next  decision. Heads, we win. Tails, you cheated. And who can trust our  democracy anyway, they say? 

  This kind of talk creates more fear and division than our foreign  adversaries could achieve in their wildest dreams. As Dr. Hill  testified, our adversaries seek to ``divide us against each other,  degrade our institutions, and destroy the faith of the American people  in our democracy.'' As she noted, if Americans become ``consumed by  partisan rancor,'' we can easily do that work for them. 

  The architects of this impeachment claimed they were defending norms  and traditions. In reality, it was an assault on both. 

  First, the House attacked its own precedents on fairness and due  process and by rushing to use the impeachment power as a political  weapon of first resort. Then their articles attacked the Office of the  Presidency. Then they attacked the Senate and called us  ``treacherous.'' Then the far left tried to impugn the Chief Justice  for remaining neutral during the trial. 

  Now, for the final act, the Speaker of the House is trying to steal  the Senate's sole power to render a verdict. The Speaker says she will  just refuse to accept this acquittal. The Speaker of the House of  Representatives says she refuses to accept this acquittal--whatever  that means. Perhaps she will tear up the verdict like she tore up the  State of the Union Address. 

  So I would ask my distinguished colleagues across the aisle: Is this  really--really--where you want to go? The President isn't the  President? An acquittal isn't an acquittal? Attack institutions until  they get their way? Even my colleagues who may not agree with this  President must see the insanity of this logic. It is like saying you  are so worried about a bull in a china shop that you want to bulldoze  the china shop to chase it out. 

  Here is the most troubling part. There is no sign this attack on our  institutions will end here. In recent months, Democratic Presidential  candidates and Senate leaders have toyed with killing the filibuster so  that the Senate could approve radical changes with less deliberation  and less persuasion. 

  Several of our colleagues sent an extraordinary brief to the Supreme  Court, threatening political retribution if the Justices did not decide  a case the way they wanted. 

  We have seen proposals to turn the FEC--the regulator of elections  and political speech--into a partisan body for the first time ever. 

  All of these things signal a toxic temptation to stop debating policy  within our great American governing traditions and, instead, declare  war on the traditions themselves--a war on the traditions themselves. 

  So, colleagues, with whatever policy differences we may have, we  should all agree this is precisely the kind of recklessness the Senate  was created to stop. The response to losing one election cannot be to  attack the Office of the Presidency. The response to losing several  elections cannot be to threaten the electoral college. The response to  losing a court case cannot be to threaten the judiciary. The response  to losing a vote cannot be to threaten the Senate. 

  We simply cannot let factional fever break our institutions. It must  work the other way, as Madison and Hamilton intended. The institutions  must break the fever rather than the other way around. 

  The Framers built the Senate to keep temporary rage from doing  permanent damage to our Republic. 

  The Framers built the Senate to keep temporary rage from doing  permanent damage to our Republic. That is what we will do when we end  this precedent-breaking impeachment. 

  I hope we will look back on this vote and say this was the day the  fever began to break. 

  I hope we will not say this was just the beginning. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT