Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another matter, every day that the  House Democrats refuse to stand behind their historically partisan  impeachment, it deepens the embarrassment for the leaders who chose to  take our Nation down this road. You can't say we didn't warn them. You  can't even say they didn't warn themselves. 

  It was less than 1 year ago that Speaker Pelosi said: ``Impeachment  is so divisive . . . unless there's something so compelling and  overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that  path.'' That was the Speaker a year ago. 

  Back during the Clinton impeachment, it was Congressman Jerry Nadler  who said: ``An impeachment substantially supported by one of our major  political parties and largely opposed by the other . . . will lack  legitimacy.'' Chairman Nadler was right 20 years ago. 

  At this point, they may wish they had taken their own advice. 

  Instead, what the country got was the most rushed, least thorough,  and most unfair Presidential impeachment in American history, and now  the prosecution seems to have gotten cold feet. Nearly 3 weeks after  the rushed vote they claim was so urgent, they are still debating  whether or not they even want to see the trial proceed. They voted for  it 3 weeks ago. 

  The House Democrats say they are waiting for some mythical leverage.  I have had difficulty figuring out where the leverage is. Apparently,  this is their proposition: If the Senate does not agree to break with  our own unanimous, bipartisan precedent from 1999 and agree to let  Speaker Pelosi hand-design a different procedure for this Senate trial,  then, they might not ever dump this mess in our lap. 

  It is one cynical political game right on top of another. It was not  enough for the House to blow through its own norms and precedents and  succumb to the partisan temptation of a subjective impeachment that  every other House had resisted for 230 years. Now it needs to erode our  constitutional order even further. Those in the House want to invent a  new, sort of pretrial hostage negotiation wherein the House gets to run  the show over here in the Senate. 

  Meanwhile, they are creating exactly the kind of unfair and dangerous  delay in impeachment that Alexander Hamilton specifically warned  against in the Federalist Papers. This is already the longest delay in  American history between the impeachment vote and the delivery of the  House's impeachment message. It is almost as though this House Democrat  majority systematically took all of the Framers' warnings about  partisan abuses of the impeachment power--took everything the Founders  said not to do--and thought: Now, there is an idea. Why don't we try  that? 

  Impeaching a President is just about the most serious action that any  House of Representatives can ever take. How inappropriate and how  embarrassing to rush forward on a partisan basis and then treat what  you have done like a political toy. How contemptuous of the American  people to tell them, for weeks, that you feel this extraordinary step  is so urgent and then delay it indefinitely for political purposes. How  embarrassing, but also how revealing. 

  Speaker Pelosi's actions over the past 3 weeks have confirmed what  many Americans have suspected about this impeachment process all  along--that the House Democrats have only ever wanted to abuse this  grave constitutional process for partisan ends right from the  beginning. 

  Well, here is where we are. The Senate is not about to let the  Speaker corrode our own Senate process and precedents in the same way.  The first organizing registration resolution for the 1999 Clinton trial  was approved unanimously, 100 to nothing. It left midtrial questions to  the middle of the trial where they belong. 

  If that unanimous bipartisan precedent was good enough for President  Clinton, it should be our template for President Trump. Fair is fair.  The Speaker of the House is not going to handwrite new rules for the  Senate. It is not going to happen. 

  Look, these are serious matters. At some point in time, the  Democrats' rage at this particular President will begin to fade, but  the sad precedent they are setting will live on. The American people  deserve a lot better than this.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT