Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, tomorrow will be 4 weeks--4 weeks-- since House Democrats impeached the President of the United States with  purely partisan support. 

  Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Schiff did not wait to fill out the  factual record. They did not even wait to see their own subpoenas  through the legal system. They plowed ahead for two reasons: They said  impeachment was too urgent to wait--too urgent to wait--and they said  they had already proven their case. 

  But since then, House Democrats have spent 4 weeks contradicting both  of those claims. They spent 4 weeks demonstrating through their actions  that impeachment is actually not that urgent--not that urgent--and they  do not actually have much confidence in their case. 

  An arbitrary 4-week delay does not show urgency. These demands for  the Senate to precommit to reopening the House investigation do not  show confidence. There is a reason why the House inquiry that led to  President Nixon's resignation took 14 months of hearings in addition to  the separate special prosecutor. There is a reason why the Clinton  impeachment inquiry drew on years of prior investigation and mountains  of testimony from firsthand fact witnesses. That is because both of  those Houses of Representatives knew they had to prove their case-- prove their case before submitting it to the Senate for judgment. 

  Both situations involved legal battles over executive privilege and  extensive litigation, both times not after a trial had been handed to  the Senate but beforehand. When the cases were actually being compiled,  there were mountains of evidence, mountains of testimony, and long  legal battles over privilege. None of this discovery took place over  here in the Senate. 

  The Constitution gives the sole power of impeachment to the House. If  the House majority wants to impeach a President, the ball is in their  court, but they have to do the work. They have to prove their case.  Nothing--nothing in our history or our Constitution says a House  majority can pass what amounts to a half-baked censure resolution and  then insist that the Senate fill in the blanks. There is no  constitutional exception for a House majority with a short attention  span. 

  I think everyone knows this process has not been some earnest,  factfinding mission with House Democrats following each thread wherever  it leads. The Speaker of the House did not reluctantly decide to  impeach after pouring over secondhand impressions of  civil servants. This was a predetermined political conclusion. Members  of her conference had been publicly promising it literally for years. 

  That is why the investigation stopped long before the House had come  anywhere near proving what they allege. They pulled the plug early  because the facts were never the point. They were never the point. The  point was to check a political box. 

  For goodness' sake, the very morning after the House's historic vote,  Speaker Pelosi literally chastised reporters for asking too many  questions about impeachment. She tried to change the subject to  economic policy. She said:  

       Any other questions? . . . Anybody want to talk about the       SALT tax. . . . I'm not going to answer any more questions on       this--  

  Referring to impeachment. 

  Really? Really? You impeach a President of the United States, and the  very next morning, there is nothing to see here? Does that sound like  the Speaker of the House really thinks the survival of the Republic is  on the line? Does anyone really think that if Democrats truly believe  the President of the United States was a criminal who is imperiling our  country, they would have abandoned the search for evidence because they  didn't want to make time for due process; that they would have pulled  the plug on the investigation just because it sounded good to finish by  Christmas; that they would have delayed the trial for months while they  test-drove new talking points; that they would have been trying to  change the subject 12 hours after the vote? 

  I cannot say what Democrats do and do not really believe, but they  certainly do not seem to display the urgency or the seriousness you  would expect from people who actually thought they had proven the  President should be removed. 

  On television last weekend, the Speaker bragged that ``this President  is impeached for life,'' regardless of what the Senate does--regardless  of what the Senate does, as if the ultimate verdict were sort of an  afterthought. 

  Likewise, the Senate Democratic leader recently said that as long as  he can try to use the trial process to hurt some Republicans'  reelection chances, ``it's a win-win.'' That is what this is all about.  The Democratic leader just laid it right out there in case anybody had  any doubt. 

  What a revealing admission. Forget about the fate of the Presidency.  Forget about the Constitution. As long as the process helps Democrats'  political fortunes, our Democratic colleagues call it a ``win-win.'' Do  these sound like leaders who really believe we are in a constitutional  crisis, one that requires the most severe remedy in our entire system  of government? Does it sound like that? 

  Here is how deep we have come into bizarro world. The latest  Democratic talking point is, if the Senate conducts a trial based on  what the House itself looked at, we will be engaged in a coverup. Did  you get that? Unless the Senate steps outside of our lane and takes it  upon ourselves to supplement the House case, it is a coverup? 

  Do they think the entire country has forgotten what they were saying  just a couple of days ago? We heard over and over that the House case,  on its own, was totally damming and convincing. That is what they were  saying a few days ago. 

  Clearly, a majority of the House felt that it was sufficient to  impeach, and a number of Senate Democrats were happy to prejudge the  case publicly and suggest the House had proven enough for removal. 

  But now, all of a sudden, the story has reversed. Now, we hardly know  anything. Now, the investigation is just beginning. Now, what the House  has produced is so weak that they are calling their own investigation a  coverup. Who would be the author of this coverup--Chairman Schiff? 

  We have arrived at a simple contradiction. Two things cannot both be  true. House Democrats' case cannot simultaneously be so robust that it  was enough to impeach in the first place but also so weak that the  Senate needs to go fishing. If the existing case is strong, there is no  need for the judge and the jury to reopen the investigation. 

  If the existing case is weak, House Democrats should not have  impeached in the first place. I think I am beginning to understand why  the Speaker wanted to change the subject to tax policy. Unfortunately,  no matter how irresponsibly this has been handled across the Capitol,  impeachment is not a political game, and the U.S. Senate will not treat  it like one. 

  A House majority fueled by political animus may have started this  with frivolity, but it will fall to the Senate--to the Senate--to end  it with seriousness and sobriety. It will fall to us to do what the  Founders intended: to take the long view, to move beyond partisan  passions, and to do what the long-term good of our institution and our  Nation demands.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT