Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, these past weeks, the Senate has  grappled with as grave a subject as we ever consider: a request from a  majority of the House to remove the President. The Framers took  impeachment extremely seriously, but they harbored no illusions that  these trials would always begin for the right reasons. 

  Alexander Hamilton warned that ``the demon of faction'' would  ``extend his sceptre'' over the House of Representatives ``at certain  seasons.'' He warned that ``an intemperate or designing majority of the  House'' might misuse impeachment as a weapon of ordinary politics  rather than emergency tool of last resort. The Framers knew  impeachments might begin with overheated passions and short-term  factualism. But they knew those things could not get the final say, so  they placed the ultimate judgment not in the fractious lower Chamber  but in the sober and stable Senate. 

  They wanted impeachment trials to be fair to both sides. They wanted  them to be timely, avoiding the ``procrastinated determination of the  charges.'' They wanted us to take a deep breath and decide which  outcome would reflect the facts, protect our institutions, and advance  the common good. They called the Senate ``the most fit depositary of  this important trust.'' Tomorrow, we will know whether that trust was  well-placed. 

  The drive to impeach President Trump did not begin with the  allegations before us. Here was reporting in April of 2016, before the  President was the nominee: ``Donald Trump isn't even the Republican  nominee yet . . . [but] `Impeachment' is already on the lips of  pundits, newspaper editorials, constitutional scholars, and even a few  members of Congress.'' 

  Here was the Washington Post headline minutes after President Trump's  inauguration: ``The campaign to impeach President Trump has begun,''  the Washington Post says. 

  The Articles of Impeachment before us were not even the first ones  House Democrats introduced. This was go-around number, roughly, seven.  Those previously alleged high crimes and misdemeanors included things  like being impolite to the press and to professional athletes. It  insults the intelligence of the American people to pretend this was a  solemn process reluctantly begun because of withheld foreign aid. No,  Washington Democrats' position on this President has been clear  literally for years. Their position was obvious when they openly rooted  for the Mueller investigation to tear our country apart and were  disappointed when the facts proved otherwise. It was obvious when they  sought to impeach the President over and over. 

  Here is their real position: Washington Democrats think President  Donald Trump committed a high crime  or misdemeanor the moment he defeated Hillary Clinton in the 2016  election. That is the original sin of this Presidency: that he won and  they lost. 

  Ever since, the Nation has suffered through a grinding campaign  against our norms and institutions from the same people who keep  shouting that our norms and institutions need defending--a campaign to  degrade our democracy and delegitimize our elections from the same  people who shout that confidence in our democracy must be paramount. 

  We have watched a major American political party adopt the following  absurd proposition: We think this President is a bull in a China shop,  so we are going to drive a bulldozer through the China shop to get rid  of him. This fever led to the most rushed, least fair, and least  thorough Presidential impeachment inquiry in American history. 

  The House inquiry under President Nixon spanned many months. The  special prosecutors' investigation added many more months. With  President Clinton, the independent counsel worked literally for years.  It takes time to find facts. It takes time to litigate executive  privilege, which happened in both those investigations. Litigating  privilege questions is a normal step that investigators of both parties  understood was their responsibility. But this time, there was no  lengthy investigation, no serious inquiry. The House abandoned its own  subpoenas. They had an arbitrary political deadline to meet. They had  to impeach by Christmas. They had to impeach by Christmas. So in  December, House Democrats realized the Framers' nightmare. A purely  partisan majority approved two Articles of Impeachment over bipartisan  opposition. 

  After the Speaker of the House delayed for a month in a futile effort  to dictate Senate process to Senators, the articles finally arrived  over here in the Senate. 

  Over the course of the trial, Senators have heard sworn video  testimony from 13 witnesses, over 193 video clips. We have entered more  than 28,000 pages of documents into evidence, including 17 depositions.  And our Members asked 180 questions. In contrast to the House  proceedings, our trial gave both sides a fair platform. Our process  tracked with the structure that Senators adopted for the Clinton trial  20 years ago. 

  Just as Democrats such as the current Democratic leader and then- Senator Joe Biden argued at length in 1999, we recognized that Senate  traditions imposed no obligation to hear new live witness testimony if  it is not necessary to decide the case--if it is not necessary to  decide the case; let me emphasize that. 

  The House managers themselves said over and over that additional  testimony was not necessary to prove their case. They claimed dozens of  times that their existing case was ``overwhelming'' and  ``incontrovertible.'' 

  That was the House managers saying their evidence was overwhelming  and incontrovertible at the same time they were arguing for more  witnesses. 

  But in reality, both of the House's accusations are constitutionally  incoherent. 

  The ``obstruction of Congress'' charge is absurd and dangerous. House  Democrats argued that anytime the Speaker invokes the House's ``sole  power of impeachment,'' the President must do whatever the House  demands, no questions asked. Invoking executive branch privileges and  immunities in response to House subpoenas becomes an impeachable  offense itself. 

  Here is how Chairman Schiff put it back in October. ``Any action''-- any action--``that forces us to litigate, or have to consider  litigation, will be considered further evidence of obstruction of  justice.'' 

  That is nonsense impeachment. That is nonsense. ``Impeachment'' is  not some magical constitutional trump card that melts away the  separations between the branches of government. The Framers did not  leave the House a secret constitutional steamroller that everyone  somehow overlooked for 230 years. 

  When Congress subpoenas executive branch officials with questions of  privilege, the two sides either reach an accommodation or they go to  court. That is the way it works. 

  So can you imagine if the shoe were on the other foot? How would  Democrats and the press have responded if House Republicans had told  President Obama: We don't want to litigate our subpoenas over Fast and  Furious. So if you make us step foot in court, we will just impeach  you. We will just impeach you. 

  Of course, that is not what happened. The Republican House litigated  its subpoenas for years until they prevailed. 

  So much for ``obstruction of Congress.'' 

  And the ``abuse of power'' charge is just as unpersuasive and  dangerous. By passing that article, House Democrats gave in to a  temptation that every previous House has resisted. They impeached a  President without even alleging a crime known to our laws. 

  Now, I do not subscribe to the legal theory that impeachment requires  a violation of a criminal statute, but there are powerful reasons why,  for 230 years, every Presidential impeachment did in fact allege a  criminal violation. 

  The Framers explicitly rejected impeachment for  ``maladministration,'' a general charge under English law that  basically encompassed bad management--a sort of general vote of no  confidence. Except in the most extreme circumstances, except for acts  that overwhelmingly shocked the national conscience, the Framers  decided Presidents must serve at the pleasure of the electorate--the  electorate--and not at the pleasure of House majorities. As Hamilton  wrote, ``It is one thing to be subordinate to the laws, and another to  be dependent''--dependent--``on the legislative body. 

  So House Democrats sailed into new and dangerous waters--the first  impeachment unbound by the criminal law. Any House that felt it needed  to take this radical step owed the country the most fair and  painstaking process, the most rigorous investigation, the most  bipartisan effort. Instead, we got the opposite--the exact opposite. 

  The House managers argued that the President could not have been  acting in the national interest because he acted inconsistently with  their own conception of the national interest. Let me say that again.  The House managers were basically arguing that the President could not  have been acting in the national interest because he acted  inconsistently with their conception of the national interest, a  conception shared by some of President's subordinates as well. 

  This does not even approach a case for the first Presidential removal  in American history. It doesn't even approach it. Such an act cannot  rest alone on the exercise of a constitutional power, combined with  concerns about whether the President's motivations were public or  personal, and a disagreement over whether the exercise of the power was  in the national interests. 

  The Framers gave our Nation an ultimate tool for evaluating a  President's character and policy decisions. They are called elections.  They are called elections. 

  If Washington Democrats have a case to make against the President's  reelection, they should go out and make it. Let them try to do what  they failed to do 3 years ago and sell the American people on their  vision for the country. 

  I can certainly see why, given President Trump's remarkable  achievements over the past 3 years, Democrats might feel a bit uneasy  about defeating him at the ballot box. But they don't get to rip the  choice away from the voters just because they are afraid they might  lose again. They don't get to strike President Trump's name from the  ballot just because, as one House Democrat put it, ``I am concerned  that if we don't impeach [him], he will get re-elected.'' 

  The impeachment power exists for a reason. It is no nullity. But  invoking it on a partisan whim to settle 3-year-old political scores  does not honor the Framers' design. It insults the Framers' design. 

  Frankly, it is hard to believe that House Democrats ever really  thought this reckless and precedent-breaking process would yield 67  votes to cross the Rubicon. 

  Was their vision so clouded by partisanship that they really  believed--they really believed--this would be anywhere near enough for  the first Presidential removal in American history? 

  Or was success beside the point? Was this all an effort to hijack our  institutions for a month-long political rally? 

  Either way, ``the demon of faction'' has been on full display, but  now it is  time for him, the demon, to exit the stage. We have indeed witnessed an  abuse of power--a grave abuse of power--by just the kind of House  majority that the Framers warned us about. 

  So tomorrow--tomorrow--the Senate must do what we were created to do.  We have done our duty. We considered all the arguments. We have studied  the ``mountain of evidence,'' and, tomorrow, we will vote. 

  We must vote to reject the House's abuse of power, vote to protect  our institutions, vote to reject new precedents that would reduce the  Framers' design to rubble, and vote to keep factional fever from  boiling over and scorching our Republic. 

  I urge every one of our colleagues to cast the vote that the facts in  evidence, the Constitution, and the common good clearly require. Vote  to acquit the President of these charges. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT