Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, it took 4 weeks--4 weeks, but the  Democratic majority in the House of Representatives is finally ready-- finally ready--to defend their impeachment of the President of the  United States. 

  After weeks of delay, the Speaker of the House decided yesterday that  a trial could finally go forward. She signed the impeachment papers.  That took place at a table with a political slogan stuck onto it. And  they posed--they posed--afterward for smiling photos. And the Speaker  distributed souvenir pens--souvenir pens--to her own colleagues,  emblazoned with her golden signature that literally came in on silver  platters. The pens literally came in on silver platters. There were  golden pens on silver platters, a souvenir to celebrate the moment. 

  I seem to remember Democrats falling over themselves to say they did  not see impeachment as a long-sought political win. House Democrats  said over and over that they recognized the gravity and the seriousness  of this action, and, of course, they had only come to it reluctantly.  Well, nothing says seriousness and sobriety like handing out souvenirs,  as though this were a happy bill-signing instead of the gravest process  in our Constitution. 

  This final display neatly distilled the House's partisan process into  one perfect visual. It was a transparently partisan performance from  beginning to end. 

  That is why they sped through a slapdash inquiry in 12 weeks, when  previous Presidential impeachments came after months, if not years, of  investigations and hearings. That is why the House cut short their own  inquiry, declined to pursue their own subpoenas, and denied the  President due process, but now--now they want the Senate to redo their  homework and rerun the investigation. 

  That is why our colleague the Democratic leader told the press that  whatever happens next, as long as he can weaponize the trial to hurt  the Republicans in the 2020 election, ``it's a win-win.'' That is what  the Democratic leader of the Senate said.  

  That is why the Speaker of the House apparently saw nothing strange  about celebrating the third Presidential impeachment in American  history with souvenirs and posed for photographs--souvenirs and posed  photographs. 

  That pretty well sums it up. That is what the process has been thus  far, but it is not what this process will be going forward. 

  The Founding Fathers who crafted and ratified our Constitution knew  that our Nation might sometimes fall prey to the kind of dangerous  factualism and partisanship that has consumed--literally consumed the  House of Representatives. 

  The Framers set up the Senate specifically to act as a check against  the short-termism and the runaway passions to which the House of  Representatives might fall victim. 

  Alexander Hamilton worried that ``the demon of faction'' would  ``extend his scepter'' over the House majorities ``at certain  seasons.'' That is what Alexander Hamilton said. He feared for the  viability of the government established by the Constitution if, blinded  by factualism, the House of Representatives would abuse the power of  impeachment to serve nakedly partisan goals rather than long-term  interests of the American people and their Republic, but, fortunately,  they did something about it. 

  They did not give both the power to impeach and the power to remove  to the House. They divided the power and placed the final decision on  removal over here in the Senate. 

  This body, this Chamber, exists precisely--precisely so we can look  past the daily dramas and understand how our actions will reverberate  for generations; so we can put aside animal reflexes and animosity and  coolly consider how to best serve our country in the long run; so we  can break factional fevers before they jeopardize the core institutions  of our government. 

  As Hamilton put it, only the Senate, with ``confidence enough in its  own situation,'' can ``preserve, unawed and uninfluenced, the necessary  impartiality between an individual accused, and the representatives of  the people, his accusers.'' 

  The House's hour is over. The Senate's time is at hand. It is time  for this proud body to honor our founding purpose.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT