Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, in the meantime, at this dangerous  time, House Democrats continue to play political games with their  partisan impeachment of the Commander in Chief. Last year, House  Democrats conducted the least thorough, most rushed, most unfair  impeachment inquiry in history. For weeks, Democrats said they could  not wait for due process, could not conduct a normal or fair inquiry  because removing the President from office was so incredibly urgent-- incredibly urgent. 

  Well, the unseriousness was obvious then and should be even more  obvious now because Speaker Pelosi is now sitting on the articles she  claimed were so very urgent. She has delayed this indefinitely so the  architects of the failed House process can look for ways to reach over  here into the Senate and dictate our process as well. 

  Democrats have tried to insist that the Senate deviate from the  unanimous bipartisan precedent set in the 1999 trial of President  Clinton and write new rules for President Trump. They have tried to  precommit the Senate to redoing House Democrats' slapdash work for them  and pursuing avenues Chairman Schiff himself didn't bother to pursue. 

  The Senate has a unanimous bipartisan precedent for when to handle  midtrial questions such as witnesses: in the middle of the trial. That  is when that was done the last time, and that is the way it should be  done this time. 

  In 1999, every single U.S. Senator agreed to establish basic  parameters for the start of the trial upfront and reserve midtrial  questions, such as witnesses, until later. The vote was 100 to 0. That  was good enough for President Clinton, so it ought to be good enough  for President Trump. Fair is fair. 

  House Democrats' hunger to break our Senate precedents, just like  they broke their own House precedents, could not be more telling, but  the Senate does not just bob along on the currents of every news cycle.  The House may have been content to scrap their own norms to hurt  President Trump, but that is not the Senate. Even with a process this  constitutionally serious, even with tensions rising in the Middle East,  House Democrats are treating impeachment like a political toy--like a  political toy--treating their own effort to remove our Commander in  Chief like some frivolous game. 

  These bizarre stunts do not serve our Constitution or our national  security. They erode both. My Democratic colleagues should not plow  away American unity in some bizarre intramural competition to see who  dislikes the President more. 

  They should not disdain our Constitution by rushing through a purely  partisan impeachment process and then toying around with it. Governing  is serious business. The American people deserve better, a lot better  than this.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT