Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as the Senate convenes this afternoon,  we find our Nation facing two grave and serious choices. One concerns  our unity at home and the future of our Constitution. The other  involves our strength abroad and the security of our homeland. Both  situations demand serious, sober treatment from Congress. Both require  that we put enduring national interests ahead of the factionalism and  short-termism the Founding Fathers warned us about. But, unfortunately,  seriousness has been in short supply lately--in very short supply--from  the determined critics of President Trump, and our Nation, of course,  is worse for it. 

  Last Thursday, the United States took decisive action to end the  murderous scheming of Iran's chief terrorist. Qasem Soleimani had spent  numerous years masterminding attacks on American servicemembers and our  partners throughout the Middle East and expanding Iran's influence.  Despite sanctions and despite prohibitions by the U.N. Security  Council, he roamed throughout the region with impunity. 

  His hands bore the blood of more American servicemembers than anyone  else alive. Hundreds of American families have buried loved ones  because of him. Veterans have learned to live with permanent injuries  inflicted by his terrorists. In Iraq, Syria, and beyond, the  entire region felt the effects of his evil tactics. 

  We should welcome his death and its complication of Tehran's  terrorism-industrial complex, but we must remain vigilant and soberly  prepared for even further aggression. 

  It is completely appropriate that this decision would generate  interest and questions from this body. We can and we should learn more  about the intelligence and thinking that led to this operation and the  plan to defend American personnel and interests in the wake of it. 

  I am glad the administration will hold an all-Senators briefing on  Wednesday. It will be led by Secretary of Defense Esper, Chairman of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Milley, Secretary of State Pompeo,  and CIA Director Haspel. 

  Unfortunately, in this toxic political environment, some of our  colleagues rushed to blame our own government before even knowing the  facts, rushed to split hairs about intelligence before being briefed on  it, and rushed to downplay Soleimani's evil while presenting our own  President as the villain. 

  Soon after the news broke, one of our distinguished colleagues made a  public statement that rightly called Soleimani a ``murderer'' and then,  amazingly, walked that message back when the far left objected to the  factual statement. Since then, I believe all of her criticism has been  directed at our own President. 

  Another of our Democratic colleagues has been thinking out loud about  Middle East policy on social media. Mere days before President Trump's  decision, this Senator tore into the White House for what he described  as weakness and inaction. ``No one fears us'' he complained. ``Trump  has rendered America impotent in the Middle East.'' But since the  strike, he has done a complete 180. That same Senator has harshly  criticized our own President for getting tough. Ludicrously, he and  others on the left have accused the administration of committing an  illegal act and equated the removal of this terrorist leader with a  foreign power assassinating our own Secretary of Defense. 

  Here is what one expert had to say about it. Jeh Johnson, President  Obama's own former Pentagon general counsel and Secretary of Homeland  Security, said:  

       If you believe everything that our government is saying       about General Soleimani, he was a lawful military objective,       and the president, under his constitutional authority as       commander in chief, had ample domestic legal authority to       take him out without--  

  Without--       an additional congressional authorization. Whether he was a       terrorist or a general in a military force that was engaged       in armed attacks against our people, he was a lawful military       objective.  

  That was the former Secretary of Homeland Security in the Obama  administration, Jeh Johnson, an expert on these things. 

  Our former colleague, Joe Lieberman, who ran for Vice President on  the Democratic ticket in 2000, wrote this morning: ``In their uniformly  skeptical or negative reactions to Soleimani's death, Democrats are . .  . creating the risk that the U.S. will be seen as acting and speaking  with less authority abroad at this important time.'' That is how a  former Democratic Senator sees it. 

  The Senate is supposed to be the Chamber where overheated partisan  passions give way to sober judgment. Can we not at least wait until we  know the facts? Can we not maintain a shred--just a shred--of national  unity for 5 minutes--for 5 minutes--before deepening the partisan  trenches? 

  Must Democrats' distaste for this President dominate every thought  they express and every decision they make? Is that really the  seriousness that this situation deserves? 

  The full Senate will be briefed on Wednesday. I expect the committees  of oversight will also conduct hearings and that the Senators will have  plenty of opportunities to discuss our interests and policies in the  region. 

  I urge my colleagues to bring a full awareness of the facts,  mindfulness of the long history of Iran's aggression toward the United  States and its allies, and a sober understanding of the threat Iran  continues to pose. 

  Could we at least remember we are all Americans first, and we are all  in this together?    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT