Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I spoke yesterday about President  Trump's decision to remove the chief architect of Tehran's terrorism  from the battlefield, and I discussed the Senate's obligation to  approach this in a manner that is serious, sober, and factual. 

  It is right for Senators to want to learn more about the President's  major decision. Once again, I encourage all of our colleagues to attend  the classified briefing which the administration will provide tomorrow.  The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Chairman of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the CIA Director will give a classified  context behind the President's decision, and they will discuss the  administration's strategy to protect our personnel and defend our  Nation's interests in the new landscape. I would ask every Senator on  both sides to bring an open mind to this briefing. 

  In particular, we should all remember that the history of Iranian  aggression began long, long before this news cycle or this Presidency.  In the decades since the Islamic revolution of 1979, as the White House  has changed parties and our administrations have changed strategies,  Tehran's simmering anti-American hatred, proxy violence, and steady  support for terrorism worldwide have remained entirely constant through  all of these years. 

  In effect, Iran has been at war with the United States for years.  While it has taken pains to avoid direct conflict, Iran's authoritarian  regime has shown no compunction about kidnapping, torturing, and  killing Americans since its earliest days--or Iraqis or fellow  Iranians, for that matter. From the 52 diplomatic personnel held  hostage in Tehran for 444 days back in 1979, to the hundreds of U.S.  servicemembers killed in bombings carried out by Iran's proxies--Beirut  in 1983, Riyadh in 1995, Khobar in 1996--to the hundreds more killed or  maimed in Iraq by the explosives and indirect fire attacks ordered by  General Soleimani himself, to the constant flows of resources and  equipment that prop up despots and terrorist organizations throughout  the region, Iran's game plan has been an open book: Use third-party  terrorism to inflict death and suffering on its enemies while avoiding  direct confrontation. 

  The threat Iran poses is, certainly, not new. Its violence is not  some unique reaction to President Trump or to Prime Minister Netanyahu  or to any other current leader. Violence runs in the bloodstream of  this evil regime. 

  In particular, our colleagues who apparently want to blame President  Trump for Iranian provocative foreign policy should reflect on the  previous administration's recent history. 

  Iran exploited President Obama's withdrawal from Iraq. Soleimani and  his agents filled the void and dramatically expanded Iranian influence  inside Iraq. They were able to impose a sectarian vision on Iraq that  disenfranchised the Sunnis, fueled the rise of ISIS, and plunged the  region into chaos. 

  Over in Syria, more weakness from the Obama administration opened yet  another door for Iran. The Democratic administration failed to confront  the Iranian-backed Assad regime as it slaughtered literally hundreds of  thousands of Syrians and displaced millions more. Once again, amid the  chaos, Soleimani worked and thrived. 

  Of course, all of this was the backdrop for the brazen, legacy- shopping  nuclear arrangement that sent billions of dollars to fuel Iran's  further violence. 

  Even my friend the current Democratic leader knew it at the time.  Before he himself voted for a resolution of disapproval on President  Obama's deal, Senator Schumer said: ``After 10 years, if Iran is the  same nation as it is today, we will be worse off with this agreement  than without it.'' That was the Democratic leader, who opposed  President Obama's Iran nuclear deal, and the Democratic leader was  prescient, for that is exactly what happened. 

  The previous administration failed to confront Iran when necessary.  So the mullahs used their windfall from the disastrous nuclear deal to  double down on hegemonic aspirations all across the Middle East. A  Democratic administration just had 8 years to deal with the growing  threat posed by Iran, and it failed demonstrably. Iran was stronger and  more lethal at the end of the Obama Presidency than at the beginning. 

  So I would ask my Democratic colleagues today not to rush to lash out  at President Trump when he actually demonstrates that he means what he  says--when he enforces his redlines, when he takes real action to  counter lethal threats against Americans. 

  Wishing away tensions with Iran is really not an option. The Iranians  have spent decades making that perfectly clear to all of us. The  question is whether we as a body would prefer the administration to  stand by as Iran kills Americans or whether we are prepared to work  with the President to stand up to Tehran's terrorism and shadow wars.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT