Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, every day brings more repudiation of  the conventional wisdom of the Democratic foreign policy establishment,  breathlessly--breathlessly--amplified by the mainstream media, that the  strike on Soleimani would unite Iranians behind the regime. Remember,  that is what they were all saying, that the strike on Soleimani would  unite Iranians behind the regime. Proud Iranians continue, however, to  take to the streets not to rage against America or Israel but to vent  their frustration against the corrupt, theocratic regime that has led  Iran down a ruinous path. 

  I spoke about these protests before the strike on Soleimani, and I  will continue to speak out about them. I have long believed the United  States should care about human rights and democracy, whether in Russia,  China, Hong Kong, Burma, Cuba, Venezuela, Afghanistan, Syria, or Iran.  The promotion of human rights and the defense of democracy should not  necessarily be the driving force of our foreign policy, but it should  be an important component. 

  I ask my Democratic colleagues who share this view to set aside their  hatred for Donald Trump--even just for a moment--and to step back to  look at what has been happening across Iran for years: the repression  of women, the persecution of ethnic and religious minorities, and the  brutal suppression of dissent. 

  Was the Obama administration right to meet the 2009 Green Revolution  with silence? 

  Consider the story of Iran's only female Olympic medalist, who this  week defected--defected--from Iran and requested asylum; or the Iranian  state TV broadcasters who quit, apologizing to the public for years of  lying on behalf of the mullahs; or the innocent protesters who are  being killed and wounded by agents of the state. 

  These are well-known realities. They were well known when, 12 days  ago, the United States took the most dangerous terrorist off the  battlefield, but mystifyingly, many voices here in Washington and the  media sought to blame the escalating tensions in the region on  President Trump. 

  We heard from leading Democrats that the operation to eliminate  Soleimani was one of the administration's ``needless provocations''-- needless provocations. We heard that the cycle of violence was  America's responsibility. All of this--all of it--flies in the face of  the reasonable analysis some of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle were offering before--before--Donald Trump became President. 

  In 2007, 30 Democratic Senators joined Republicans to support an  amendment warning of the need to prevent ``Iran from turning Shia  militia extremists in Iraq into a Hezbollah-like force that could serve  its interests inside Iraq, including by overwhelming, subverting, or  coopting institutions of the legitimate government of Iraq.'' That was  back in 2007, with 30 Democrats. 

  Few more prescient warnings have been pronounced by this body, but,  unfortunately, it went unheeded by the Obama administration, which  withdrew U.S. forces from Iraq, effectively abandoning it to Soleimani  and his proxies. 

  As recently as 2015, the Democratic leader warned that the JCPAO  failed to address Iran's destabilizing malign activities and that Iran  would use its windfall to ``redouble its efforts to create even more  trouble in the Middle East and, perhaps, beyond.'' That was the  Democratic leader in 2015. 

  Senator Menendez hit the nail on the head as well. He warned: ``If  there  is a fear of war in the region, it will be fueled by Iran and its  proxies and exacerbated by an agreement that allows Iran to possess an  industrial-sized nuclear program and enough money in sanctions relief  to significantly continue to fund its hegemonic intentions throughout  the region.'' Senator Menendez. 

  So many of our Democratic colleagues understood all this quite  clearly when a Democrat occupied the White House, and it came true. It  came true. Iran's aggression only accelerated after the Obama  administration's deal. The question for us is not whom to blame. That  much is clear. The question is what to do about it. 

  As Iran's aggression became focused on the United States, as the risk  to our personnel and interests grew, after months of repeated warnings,  President Trump took action. I am glad the strike against Soleimani has  provided some justice--some justice--to his countless victims, hundreds  of Americans and many more across the Middle East. 

  We don't yet know if Soleimani will prove irreplaceable, but his  death will significantly disrupt Iran's death machine and will change  Iran's long-held misconception that they could literally get away with  the murder of Americans without a meaningful response. President  Trump's strategy seems to have reestablished deterrence. 

  The Senate risks jeopardizing what we have gained with this strike if  it ties the military's hands and tells Iran that we have no stomach for  this. America can hardly be defeated on the battlefield, but we can be  defeated at home on the political front. We can allow ourselves to  become divided and play into the hands of our adversaries. Our  divisions at home are significant. Let us not allow them to pollute our  judgment on foreign affairs. Let's not make our adversaries' lives  easier by tying our military's hands.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT