Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I had planned to discuss the corrosive  political games that the Speaker of the House continues to play with  the solemn issue of Presidential impeachment, but the deadly serious  events of yesterday evening threw those political squabbles into the  starkest possible relief. 

  I was troubled but not surprised by reports that Iran fired ballistic  missiles at U.S. forces in Iraq last night. As I have warned, the  threat posed by Iraq has been growing for years, and this threat will  continue even beyond the death of Tehran's master terrorist, Soleimani. 

  We must remain vigilant in the face of serious threats posed by  Tehran. Apparently, these strikes did not kill or wound Americans, but  they demonstrate the significant progress Iran has made over the last  decade in building a large, long-range, and accurate ballistic missile  force. Many of us have long cited the absence of any constraint on  Iran's sophisticated missile program as one of the primary shortcomings  of the Obama Iran deal, and this strike stands as a reminder to the  world of this growing threat. 

  We rightly talk a lot in this Chamber about American interests, but  last night was another stark reminder that Iran and its proxies have  been a cancer on Iraq's sovereignty and Iraq's politics for some time. 

  Tehran has long shown disregard for Iraqi lives. Just in the last few  weeks, its militia proxies have slaughtered innocent Iraqi protesters,  and it has launched ballistic missiles at its territory. The millions  of Iraqis who have been taking to the streets for months to protest  have understood this perfectly well. 

  I spoke to the President last night. I am grateful for his patience  and prudence as he and his Cabinet deliberate on how to respond  appropriately to the latest Iranian provocation. As a superpower, we  have the capacity to exercise restraint and to respond at a time and  place of our choosing, if need be. I believe the President wants to  avoid conflict or needless loss of life but is rightly prepared to  protect American lives and interests. I hope Iran's leaders do not  miscalculate by questioning our collective will and launching further  attacks. For our part, I certainly hope our own congressional  deliberations do not give Tehran a reason to question our national  will. 

  Top officials will provide a classified briefing to Senators today.  As I have  said before, I hope all Senators will wait for the facts before they  pass judgment on the recent strike on Soleimani. Patience, caution, and  restraint can sometimes be in short supply around here, but when  matters of national security are at hand, it is imperative that we seek  out the facts, restrain our partisan urges, and concentrate on  protecting our country. 

  For this reason, it has troubled me that Speaker Pelosi responded to  the earliest reports yesterday by leaping to blame ``needless  provocations'' by our administration. In other words, she was blaming  the United States. 

  So let's be clear. We can and should debate how to responsibly  respond to Iranian threats, but the notion that our administration is  to blame for Iranian aggression--that is nonsense. Utter nonsense. 

  For 40 years since the founding of the Islamic Republic, Iran has  consistently pursued aggression against the United States, against  Israel, and against its Arab neighbors. The question before us is not  who is to blame for the aggression. It is how best to deter and defend  against it.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT