Iraq


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this morning, Iran's master terrorist  is dead. The architect and chief engineer of the world's most active  state sponsor of terrorism has been removed from the battlefield at the  hand of the U.S. military. No man alive was more directly responsible  for the deaths of more American servicemembers than Qasem Soleimani,  the leader of the Quds Force within Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard  Corps. 

  Soleimani's schemes and his agents killed hundreds of American  servicemembers in Iraq and Afghanistan. He personally oversaw the  state-sponsored terrorism that Iran used to kill our sons and  daughters. As we have seen in recent days and weeks, he and his  terrorists posed an ongoing and growing threat to American lives and  American interests. 

  Soleimani made it his life's work to take the Iranian revolutionary  calls for ``Death to America'' and ``Death to Israel'' and turn them  into action, but this terrorist mastermind was not just a threat to the  United States and Israel. For more than a decade he masterminded Iran's  malevolent and destabilizing work throughout the entire Middle East. He  created, sustained, and directed terrorist proxies everywhere from  Yemen to Iraq, to Syria, to Lebanon. Innocents were killed. These  sovereign countries were destabilized. 

  In Syria this leading terrorist and his agents acted as strategists,  enablers, and accomplices to Bashar al-Assad's brutal repression and  the slaughter of the Syrian people. 

  In Iraq, his violence expanded Iran's influence at the expense of the  Iraqis themselves. His dark, sectarian vision disenfranchised countless  Sunni Arabs and paved the way for the rise of ISIS. 

  With ISIS largely defeated, Soleimani and his agents again turned  their sights on controlling the Iraqi people, who through massive  protests are rejecting not only a corrupt government but also Iran's  influence over that government. Once again, there were Iran and its  proxies facilitating violence against these peaceful protesters. 

  For too long this evil man operated without constraint, and countless  innocents have suffered for it. Now his terrorist leadership has been  ended. 

  Predictably enough, in this political environment, the operation that  led to Soleimani's death may prove controversial or divisive. Although  I anticipate and welcome a debate about America's interests and foreign  policy in the Middle East, I recommend that all Senators wait to review  the facts and hear from the administration before passing much public  judgment on this operation and its potential consequences. 

  The administration will be briefing staff today on the situation in  Iraq. We are working to arrange a classified briefing for all Senators  early next week. 

  For my part, I have spoken to the Secretary of Defense, and I am  encouraged by the steps the U.S. military is taking to defend American  personnel  and interests from a growing Iranian threat. I know I speak for the  entire Senate when I say that my prayers are with all American  diplomats, personnel, and brave servicemembers serving in Iraq and in  the Middle East. I am grateful for their courageous service to protect  our country. 

  Right from the outset of this new year, it is already clear that 2020  will require the Senate and our whole Nation to redouble our resolve to  keep America safe in this troubled world.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT