Kentucky's Rural Health Clinics Will Receive $13 Million for COVID-19 Testing


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today rural health centers across Kentucky will receive a total of $13,206,199 to increase COVID-19 testing in their communities. These federal resources, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), were made available by Senator McConnell's Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, which he led to Senate passage. 

In addition to this funding, Senator McConnell previously announced Kentucky will receive $108 million for coronavirus testing from the same legislation. 

"Increasing the accessibility of coronavirus testing is one of the keys to smartly and safely reopening our economy and beating this virus," said Senator McConnell. "I am proud to lead the Senate's bold response to this crisis by delivering urgent federal funding to Kentucky's rural health centers to help keep families safe. As Senate Majority Leader, I am in the best position to help Kentucky's healthcare heroes get the resources to beat the coronavirus. As the only congressional leader not from New York or California, I'm constantly looking out for Kentucky's rural communities." 

"We are very appreciative of Senator McConnell's continued support of the clinics who are the front line in addressing the needs of Kentuckians in the battle against the coronavirus," said David Bolt, Kentucky Primary Care Association CEO. "The Rural Health Clinics in the Association are the source of primary care in many rural communities. They serve over a quarter million Kentuckians in rural counties designated as health profession shortage or medically under served areas."  

In response to the coronavirus pandemic, Senator McConnell also introduced and led to passage the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. The CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, is making an $11 billion impact on Kentucky. The legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. Senator McConnell's legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping 44,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.