Kentucky to Receive Nearly $1.6 Million to Prepare for Upcoming Flu Season Amid Coronavirus


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky received $1,589,381 to scale up preparations for the 2020-21 flu season, especially for vulnerable Kentuckians. These federal funds, distributed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

"Even as we face the current health and economic crisis of the coronavirus, we must also prepare for the upcoming flu season and promote the continued health of Kentucky families," said Senator McConnell. "I'm proud my CARES Act continues to deliver critical resources to help keep Kentucky communities safe. By assisting public health officials as they prepare for the flu season, we can protect high-risk Kentuckians, our healthcare heroes and our communities." 

"Senator McConnell has a strong record of delivering for Kentucky's priorities and helping us keep families and vulnerable communities safe," said Barren River District Health Department Director Matt Hunt. "Each year, we work to promote access to the flu vaccine as a way to help stop the spread of the virus. As we continue responding to COVID-19, I'm especially grateful Senator McConnell is putting an emphasis on influenza preparedness." 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.6 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 46,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5.2 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.