Kentucky Schools Eligible for Nearly $43.8 Million from McConnell's CARES Act


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky is eligible to receive $43,799,187 from the U.S. Department of Education to meet students' and institutions' needs during the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funding, delivered through the Governor's Emergency Education Relief Fund, was made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. The bipartisan CARES Act, introduced by Senator McConnell, became the largest economic rescue package in American history.

Because of the unique challenges facing students, school districts, and colleges and universities, the CARES Act provides extraordinary flexibility to governors to use these emergency federal resources. After completing the application process, Governor Andy Beshear (D-KY) will be able to rush funding to K-12 schools and higher education institutions based on the Commonwealth's needs.

"During the coronavirus crisis, Kentucky's schools have responded with innovative solutions to continue educating students while keeping them safe," said Senator McConnell. "With the bold federal resources available through the CARES Act, educators, administrators and parents will have more of the support they need to care for their school community. I'm glad this funding will help Kentucky's next generation of leaders continue to receive a top-tier education. "

"Governors have the opportunity to truly rethink and transform the approach to education during this national emergency and ensure learning continues," said U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. "At a time when so many school boards and superintendents have shut down learning for the balance of the school year, I want to encourage each and every governor to focus on continuity of education for all students. Parents, families, teachers and other local education leaders are depending on their leadership to ensure students don't fall behind."

In addition to this announcement, Kentucky communities and organizations have so far received nearly $948 million to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from Senator McConnell's CARES Act. Last week, Senator McConnell announced Kentucky colleges and universities would receive more than $156 million from the U.S. Department of Education to support their students during the pandemic. The emergency financial aid can be used by students for course materials, technology, housing, food, healthcare and childcare costs.