Kentucky Rural Healthcare Providers Receive Additional $372 Million from McConnell's CARES Act


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today that 542 rural healthcare providers across Kentucky will receive a total of $372 million in federal funding to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. The federal resources, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

"Our healthcare heroes continue bravely fighting the coronavirus and its consequences in rural communities across Kentucky. I'm proud my CARES Act continues to equip them with the resources and supplies to help keep families healthy," said Senator McConnell. "As the only congressional leader not from New York or California, I'm proud to look out for rural America and Kentucky in particular. We have a strong partner in President Trump who shares my dedication to rural families." 

"I'm glad the Governor agreed with me that it's time to begin phasing back in more elective procedures at hospitals, especially in rural areas, so Kentuckians aren't deferring the care they need," McConnell continued. "Those procedures--along with these coronavirus response funds--can help more Kentucky hospitals make it through this crisis and continue serving their communities." 

According to HHS, every rural hospital will receive at least $1 million of these announced funds. Rural Health Clinics and Community Health Centers in Kentucky will each receive at least $100,000 from this distribution to help keep their doors open and benefit their communities. 

"Senator McConnell has once again responded to the issues impacting rural America as he continues to champion rural families and communities across Kentucky," said Ernie Scott, Director of the Kentucky Office of Rural Health. "Because of his leadership, the CARES Act is delivering vital support for our rural hospitals and healthcare providers as they treat patients and serve their communities. The COVID-19 pandemic is a serious threat to Kentucky, and I'm extremely grateful to Senator McConnell for helping us make it through these challenging times." 

These funds are the most recent distribution from the $100 billion fund the CARES Act dedicated to support healthcare providers. Before this announcement, Kentucky healthcare providers had already received almost $530 million. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has so far had a $10 billion impact on Kentucky. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping nearly 42,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5.2 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $2.3 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.