McConnell Announces UK to Receive $3.8 Million from CARES Act


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today that the University of Kentucky Center of Excellence in Rural Health will receive $3,878,582 to bolster the healthcare efforts of 46 rural hospitals in combating the coronavirus pandemic. These federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Health Resources and Services Administration, were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic relief package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week.

"I'm proud my CARES Act will help these brave Kentuckians and UK fight the virus and keep their communities safe," said Senator McConnell. "We are grateful for their service, especially to the rural areas of our Commonwealth, and I'll continue working to help provide resources and supplies to these healthcare heroes on the frontlines."

The CARES Act funding allows hospitals maximum flexibility in how they respond to COVID-19 within their communities, including for testing and laboratory services as well as the purchase of personal protective equipment to minimize COVID-19 exposure.

"The rural communities in Kentucky appreciate the support of Senator McConnell in assisting rural Kentucky. Providing the CARES Act support for our rural hospitals comes at a crucial time in assisting our rural hospitals and the communities they serve in providing access to care and helping in the fight to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic," said Dr. Fran Feltner, Director of the University of Kentucky Center of Excellence in Rural Health.

"We are thankful to see this kind of support from the federal government during these challenging times," said Kentucky Office for Rural Health (KORH) Director, Ernie Scott. "There's no doubt about it: The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a widespread disruption to our health system. 

While preparing for and fighting the coronavirus, our hospitals have had to discontinue outpatient care and elective procedures. As a result of that lost revenue, many hospitals have been faced with the reality of having to temporarily furlough staff. Through it all, though, these hospitals have remained open all day, every day. And, their staff has continued to place the medical needs of community members above all else."

In addition to these federal funds, Kentucky communities and organizations have so far received more than $1 billion to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from Senator McConnell's CARES Act.