McConnell on Hugh Hewitt


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) joined Hugh Hewitt today to discuss the bipartisan deal reached to supplement the CARES Act. See below for highlights

On Speaker Pelosi and Leader Schumer's Delay to Immediately Replenish the Paycheck Protection Program: 

"Yeah, that's a fact, an indisputable fact. A 12 day delay when we ran out of money for this popular small business program. The demand was enormous. They wanted to extract other things. Fortunately, what they wanted to extract the most, I refused to go along with, and the White House backed me up, and that was we're not ready to just send a blank check down to states and local governments to spend anyway they choose to." 

On Next Steps Related to the COIVID-19 Pandemic: 

"We haven't had much discussion about adding $2.7 trillion dollars to the national debt, and the way that could indeed also threaten the future of the country. 

"The only solution is ultimately to begin to open up. I was encouraged the White House Taskforce set up Phase 1. Many governors are now looking at beginning to carefully reopen. And I think that's the only way we can ultimately solve this problem, is to begin the process of getting back to normal." 

On Continuing to Reshape the Judiciary: 

"Well, the current plan is to go back in session on May the 4th. I haven't seen anything that would discourage me from doing that. And as soon as we get back in session, we'll start confirming judges again. We need to have hearings, and we need to confirm judges. 

"Hugh, you and I have discussed this before. My motto for the year is leave no vacancy behind. That hasn't changed. The pandemic will not prevent us from achieving that goal." 

On Stopping Blue State Bailouts: 

"I said yesterday we're going to push the pause button here, because I think this whole business of additional assistance for state and local governments needs to be thoroughly evaluated. You raised yourself the important issue of what states have done, many of them have done to themselves with their pension programs. There's not going to be any desire on the Republican side to bail out state pensions by borrowing money from future generations."