McConnell Announces Nearly $4 Million for UofL Apprenticeship Program


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the University of Louisville received a nearly $4 million competitive federal grant from the U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) "Apprenticeships: Closing the Skills Gap" program. UofL plans to use the funding for its Modern Apprenticeship Pathways to Success (MAPS) program.

Senator McConnell contacted DOL in support of his constituents' federal grant application and UofL's mission to encourage the global competitiveness of Kentucky's workforce. The MAPS program will use these federal resources to support apprenticeships by enhancing public-private partnerships with the region's advanced manufacturing, health care, and information technology industries, among other initiatives.

"By equipping job seekers with the training they need for good, 21st-century jobs, we can help close the skills gap and build upon Kentucky's growing economy," said Senator McConnell. "I applaud President Trump for his administration's focus on apprenticeship programs, and I'm proud to work with him to promote investment in the future of Kentucky's workers and their families. As Senate Majority Leader, I'm in a better position than ever to deliver for Kentucky communities, and I was proud to partner with UofL to give Kentucky workers every opportunity to succeed."

In 2017, President Trump signed the "Executive Order on Expanding Apprenticeship in America" to support programs that help students and workers develop the skills necessary for today's growing economy.

"The University of Louisville is honored to be chosen for participation in the Apprenticeship: Closing the Skills Gap grant program," said UofL President Neeli Bendapudi. "We are grateful for Senator McConnell's support for this innovative U.S. Department of Labor funding award. At UofL, we recognize that many people entering such industries as advanced manufacturing, health care and information technology require new skill sets or retraining in order to be successful. The apprenticeships created by the University and its private-sector partners through this grant program will help to form the workforce of the future."

"Aligning our education and training efforts with the jobs in demand will allow our region to accelerate growth. We commend Leader McConnell for his unwavering efforts to strengthen our regional workforce and helping address the biggest pain point for employers," said Sarah Davasher-Wisdom, President & CEO, Greater Louisville Inc., the Metro Chamber of Commerce.