McConnell Announces Coronavirus Funding for Radcliff


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the City of Radcliff, Kentucky received a $34,301 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Justice Assistance. These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist the city's coronavirus response efforts. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week.

The funding is part of DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments like the City of Radcliff to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus. It can be used for overtime pay for first responders and medical professionals, to address the needs of local jails, as well as to purchase personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. Last week, Senator McConnell visited several hospitals across Kentucky, including Hardin Memorial Hospital, to thank the healthcare workers on the frontlines of this virus.

"I recently had the privilege of personally thanking the frontline healthcare workers at Hardin Memorial Hospital. As Senate Majority Leader, I continue working on behalf of Kentucky communities like the City of Radcliff and with great leaders like Mayor Duvall to ensure federal resources are readily available to help during the pandemic," said Senator McConnell.

"I want to thank Senator McConnell for his help in securing these resources for the City of Radcliff. This funding will help us keep our first responders safe, and will support our city in continuing to fight the Coronavirus," said Radcliff Mayor JJ Duvall.

To date, organizations in Hardin County have received nearly $10 million as a result of Senator McConnell's CARES Act and his subsequent coronavirus response legislation, including $7.5 million for Hardin Memorial Hospital, $2.4 million for Elizabethtown Community and Technical College, $30,000 for Addington Field Airport, $30,000 for the Housing Authority of Elizabethtown, and $20,000 for the Housing Authority of Radcliff.

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.6 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.

Earlier this year, Senator McConnell joined leaders from Radcliff and other local communities to celebrate Fort Knox's selection as the home for the new Fifth Corps (V Corps) headquarters that is expected to bring approximately 635 additional soldiers to Kentucky.

On February 14, 2020, Senator McConnell was joined by leaders of the Fort Knox community, including Mayor Duvall (pictured), to discuss with local media that at Senator McConnell's request the U.S. Army selected Ft. Knox to be the home of the new corps HQ.