McConnell Announces $1.7 Billion for Kentucky's Coronavirus Response


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky is receiving $1.732 billion to help state and local leaders fight the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funding was made available through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic relief package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

"To address the widespread health and economic effects of the coronavirus crisis, I led the Senate to take bold action in support of families, workers, small businesses and our healthcare heroes," said Senator McConnell. "As Senate Majority Leader, I was proud to make sure the bipartisan CARES Act delivered emergency relief for Kentucky's coronavirus response. These crucial federal resources can help Governor Beshear and local leaders across our state effectively protect families and communities from this virus." 

According to the U.S. Treasury Department, Kentucky can use these funds for a wide range of coronavirus-related expenses including, but not limited to: 

-Providing COVID-19 testing and hospital treatment;-Acquiring personal protective equipment and other supplies for medical professionals and first responders;-Paying healthcare, public safety and public health professionals responding to the coronavirus crisis;-Expanding services like food delivery, distance learning, telework and care for homeless populations; and-Providing grants to small businesses to compensate for required closures. 

County and city governments are also eligible to work with Governor Beshear and his administration to access this federal funding to the Commonwealth. 

In addition to these federal funds for state and local government response, Kentucky communities and organizations have so far received more than $1 billion to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from Senator McConnell's CARES Act.