McConnell's CARES Act Sends $16.9 Million to Kentucky for Community and Economic Development


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky received $16,856,592 to support a wide-range of social services and emergency assistance for those who are struggling to make ends meet as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. These federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Community Services Block Grant Program and made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to support economic development efforts across Kentucky in response to coronavirus. 

"The CARES Act continues to deliver urgent resources addressing the health and economic challenges of the coronavirus crisis," said Senator McConnell. "When various levels of government shut down broad sectors of the economy, families in Kentucky and across the country began to feel the strain. With these emergency funds, Kentucky can provide necessary relief services to help them stay afloat as we begin to safely re-open our economy. As Senate Majority Leader, I was proud to advance Kentucky's priorities in our bold rescue package, and I will continue helping our families and communities make it through this crisis." 

Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact on Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping nearly 44,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5.3 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.