McConnell: "Our Economic Comeback is Just Beginning"


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) issued the following statement today regarding the economy: 

"Our economic comeback is just beginning. But even in these early days of our careful reopening, the American people are already trouncing expert predictions and starting to come back strong.

"The CARES Act, which Senate Republicans wrote in March and which passed both houses of Congress unanimously, has been essential. With the country on the line, the Senate built the largest rescue package in American history and sent emergency money to American families, healthcare providers, and small businesses.

"Because of the Paycheck Protection Program from Senators Susan Collins and Marco Rubio, tens of millions of Americans have kept receiving paychecks instead of pink-slips during this emergency, and millions of small businesses have lived to see the reopening instead of closing their doors forever. The start of our recovery would look radically different without the Senate's bold policy.

"Today, President Trump signed new legislation that will make the PPP even stronger. In addition to Senator Collins and Senator Rubio, Senators Daines, Gardner, and Tillis have been instrumental in maintaining this lifeline for workers. In my home state of Kentucky, one small business called our latest bill "truly awesome news,' a local museum called it "a godsend,' and a nonprofit that serves victims of domestic violence explained the PPP has let them "keep our doors open for all victims.'

"This crisis is not over. COVID-19 still plagues our country. Millions of Americans are still out of work. Families don't know what life will look like in the fall.

"As Senate Republicans have made clear for weeks, future efforts must be laser-focused on helping schools reopen safely in the fall, helping American workers continue to get back on the job, and helping employers reopen and grow. We must keep the wind in our sails, not slam the brakes with left-wing policies that would make rehiring even harder and recovery even more challenging."