McConnell Announces More Than $77 Million for Kentucky Airports from CARES Act


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today that 55 Kentucky airports will receive $77.2 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through the Airport Improvement Program (AIP). The federal funding was made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, the largest economic rescue package in history that Senator McConnell introduced and led to enactment in about a week.

"Kentucky's network of world-class airports drive our economy and support good jobs. As our country faces the health and economic crisis of the coronavirus, we must maintain these critical features of Kentucky's infrastructure. When this crisis is over, our Commonwealth will be ready to once again take flight," said Senator McConnell. "As Senate Majority Leader, I was proud to keep Kentucky's priorities--including our airports and their workers--at the center of the national discussion."

Airports in Kentucky and around the country face financial hardships as a result of the coronavirus. The CARES Act included funding to provide economic relief to certain airports impacted by COVID-19.  According to the FAA, the federal government will supply 100% of the AIP funding, which normally requires a local match.

"CVG, like all airports and businesses across the country, has been hit hard by the pandemic," said Candace McGraw, CEO of the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport (CVG). "I am truly grateful for the leadership of Senator Mitch McConnell to include airport funding in the CARES Act, which is providing necessary economic relief to many struggling industries and families in Kentucky and across the country. Airports are critical in keeping us connected and ensuring our economy remains moving, particularly in times of crisis. Airports assure those with an essential need to travel can do so and that our air cargo partners can facilitate the movement of needed supplies. Airport relief funds provided by the CARES Act are a lifeline to allow airports to remain operational."

"In times of crisis, Kentuckians know they can look to Senator Mitch McConnell for leadership," said Dan Mann, executive director of the Louisville Muhammad Ali International Airport (SDF). "As communities across the country are struggling with the effects of the coronavirus, Senator McConnell is stepping in with vital relief. He used his position as Majority Leader to deliver for SDF and all of Kentucky through his CARES Act economic rescue bill. On behalf of our workers, our travelers and our community, I would like to express sincere gratitude to Senator McConnell for helping us continue operating through this crisis and to come out stronger on the other side."

"I would like to thank Senator McConnell for all of his efforts to make this rescue package possible," said Blue Grass Airport (LEX) Executive Director Eric Frankl. "Blue Grass Airport, like many commercial service airports around the country, has been significantly impacted by the speed and magnitude COVID-19 has had on the airline and airport industry.  Blue Grass Airport does not receive any local taxpayer revenue to support our day-to-day operations, so the combination of staying open and functional as a critical piece of infrastructure for central Kentucky with the loss of over 90% of our passenger activity has had a devastating financial impact. Senator McConnell had a significant role in passing an economic rescue package that makes it possible for us to continue to operate the airport during these unprecedented times."

In addition to today's announcement, Kentucky communities and organizations have so far received more than $800 million to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from Senator McConnell's CARES Act.