McConnell's CARES Act Boosts Poison Control Centers to Protect Kentucky Children


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the Kentucky Poison Control Center in Louisville, Kentucky will receive $66,594 to improve its capacity to respond to increasing calls during the coronavirus pandemic. These federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Health Resources and Services Administration, were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic relief package in history, and led it to enactment in about a week.

"As our nation faces the health and economic crisis of the coronavirus, we must continue protecting our children from harm," said Senator McConnell. "By boosting the resources for local poison control centers and their education, prevention and treatment efforts, we can keep our kids healthy and remove unnecessary strains on the healthcare system. I'm proud that my CARES Act is delivering emergency relief to fight this crisis in Kentucky, and I'm grateful to our healthcare heroes who are working tirelessly to keep our families and communities safe."

"Today's funding gives Poison Control Centers the support they need to field the significant increase in calls we've seen during the COVID-19 pandemic," said HHS Secretary Alex Azar. "Poison control centers are an easily accessible resource for Americans to protect their health, providing information about the risks of products they may be more likely to use to keep their households clean and loved ones safe during the pandemic. This funding secured by President Trump from Congress helps the dedicated medical professionals who staff Poison Control Centers continue their vital work."

In addition to these federal funds, Kentucky communities and organizations have so far received more than $1 billion to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from Senator McConnell's CARES Act.