McConnell's CARES Act Provides Additional Funding for Kentucky Housing Authorities


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky received an additional $828,457 for several housing authorities to assist certain at-risk Kentuckians with disabilities during the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)'s Mainstream Voucher Program, were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

Earlier this month, Kentucky received nearly $17 million for several housing authorities across the state. The following will receive the additional resources from the CARES Act: 

-$358,052 for the Louisville Metro Housing Authority -$162,755 for the Housing Authority of Lexington -$44,162 for the City of Bowling Green Housing Division -$263,488 for the Kentucky Housing Corporation-State Agency 

"The coronavirus crisis inflicts serious consequences on all Kentuckians, especially the most vulnerable. I'm proud the CARES Act I introduced is delivering federal resources to help slow the virus' spread, to bolster public health and housing and to address the economic effects," said Senator McConnell. "As Senate Majority Leader, I am constantly working to help Kentucky receive the critical resources we need and I'm grateful to the dedicated Kentuckians who are working around the clock to help protect families of all circumstances beat this virus."

"Kentucky Housing Corporation welcomes the additional funds to enable it to provide assistance to more Kentucky families. The Mainstream Program vouchers enable non-elderly families that have a member who has a disability to lease affordable, private housing of their choice.  This in turn helps people with disabilities live independently in the community," said Lisa A. Beran, Interim Executive Director, Kentucky Housing Corporation. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping nearly 44,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.