McConnell: As a Result of CARES Act, Kentucky Healthcare Providers Receive $452 Million to Combat Coronavirus


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced on Friday that Kentucky healthcare providers would receive $452,761,171 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support their ongoing fight against the coronavirus. The announcement is the first distribution of the $100 billion appropriated by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to provide critical relief for healthcare providers. This is the most significant discretionary funding source available directly to hospitals and providers in modern times. This first allotment of funding will be distributed among more than 3,900 Kentucky medical providers and systems, based on their share of certain 2019 Medicare reimbursements. Future distributions of funding to Kentucky will follow different metrics established by HHS. 

The funding is the result of CARES Act, which Senator McConnell introduced and led to passage last month. The bipartisan CARES Act, which is the biggest rescue package in history, passed with a 96 to 0 vote and was signed into law by President Donald Trump. As a result of the CARES Act, Kentucky will receive at least $1.25 billion in relief. 

"One of the primary goals of the CARES Act was to rush new resources to our healthcare heroes battling the coronavirus in hospitals and emergency rooms. The immediate cash relief announced today will help these medical providers fulfill their mission to care for those in need. Doctors, nurses and other professionals are showing inspirational courage as they work on the frontlines of this crisis. Along with all Kentuckians, I'm grateful for their sacrifice and dedication to protect the health of our communities," said Senator McConnell. "We can all do our part to support the work of our medical professionals by listening to the experts, protecting the health of ourselves and our families, and looking for ways to help our neighbors in need. We will get through this crisis together." 

"KHA is grateful to Senator Mitch McConnell for his leadership on the CARES Act, which will bring some much-needed relief to Kentucky's hospitals," said Nancy Galvagni, President of the Kentucky Hospital Association. "Kentucky hospital revenue has declined significantly (by an estimated 40%) as hospitals have cancelled elective procedures per the request of the Governor. KHA estimates the lost revenue to hospitals, for just an 8-week period, is between $600 million and $1.3 billion. While hospitals were ready and willing to do everything in their power to protect their health care workers and the public by cancelling these procedures, it is increasingly difficult for hospitals to cover their ongoing expenses and some have had to furlough employees. This first tranche of relief payments will be a tremendous help to Kentucky's hospitals." 

"Congressional allies like Leader McConnell have long acknowledged the critical role that hospice providers serve in caring for our most vulnerable citizens. This funding is a lifeline that will allow us to continue our focus on serving the seriously ill and support our hospital and nursing home partners with expert end of life care. With prices for things like face masks that have gone up as much as 2,000 percent, the CARES Act funding is essential in the face of COVID-19 to ensuring access to high-quality hospice and palliative care services. We appreciate the President, Administrator and Leader providing the CARES grants funding to minimize the financial hardship many hospices are facing during this difficult time," said Liz Fowler, CEO of Kentucky-based hospice provider Bluegrass Care Navigators. 

In addition to Friday's announcement, Kentucky has so far received more than $350 million to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities from the CARES Act.