McConnell's CARES Act Sends Nearly $550,000 to Kentucky for Family Violence Prevention and Services


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky received $549,709 to help provide temporary housing, assistance, and supportive services to victims of family, domestic, and dating violence during the coronavirus pandemic. As news reports and studies convey the increase in family violence during the coronavirus, this federal funding will expand services to help Kentuckians in need.  

These federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, the largest economic rescue package in American history, which has so far made an $11 billion impact on Kentucky.

"One of the many tragic realities of the coronavirus crisis is the increase in domestic violence. In the bold CARES Act I introduced and led to passage, I continued to prioritize helping vulnerable Kentuckians have access to safe and reliable support," said Senator McConnell. "I'm proud to deliver these federal resources to Kentucky so we can help address this heartbreaking problem and care for survivors."

Jennifer Hancock, President and CEO for Volunteers of America (VOA) Mid-States, said, "Non-profits in the Commonwealth of Kentucky have never needed the leadership and partnership of our elected officials more than we do right now during this unprecedented crisis. I'm very grateful that CARES Act funding is becoming available for areas of great need, and that Leader McConnell is working with Kentucky providers to get through this very difficult time. For VOA and so many other providers of essential services, ongoing help will be crucial so that we can continue to serve vulnerable families."

Additionally, Senator McConnell's CARES Act directed $2 million in federal funding for the National Domestic Violence Hotline to continue providing remote services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

For any victims and survivors who need support, contact the National Domestic Violence Hotline:

Call 1-800-799-7233For TTY: 1-800-787-3224Text LOVEIS to 22522