McConnell's CARES Act Provides Critical Funding to Nursing Facilities in Kentucky


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky is receiving nearly $130 million to assist 347 skilled nursing facilities across the Commonwealth to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

According to HHS, each skilled nursing facility is eligible to receive $50,000. The Department will also distribute an additional payment of $2,500 per bed in facilities with six or more beds. This federal funding may be used by Kentucky's nursing facilities for coronavirus-related expenses, including to pay staff salaries, to increase testing, and to purchase personal protective equipment. 

"The coronavirus pandemic continues to have a devastating effect on Kentucky seniors, especially those living in nursing facilities. This funding will go a long way to help protect the facilities' residents and caregivers, many of whom are working overtime to try and keep seniors healthy during this crisis," said Senator McConnell. "As Senate Majority Leader, I'm proud the CARES Act is delivering relief to high-risk seniors and those who care for them." 

"We are grateful for this much-needed assistance for skilled nursing facilities in Kentucky. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused dramatic increases in the costs it requires to keep our residents and staff safe from the deadly virus. We are thankful for HHS for this strong stand with nursing facilities and also for Senator McConnell's support and leadership," said Betsy Johnson, President, Kentucky Association of Health Care Facilities. 

Kentucky is receiving more federal funding from this distribution than 80% of other states. Once these funds are delivered, Kentucky healthcare providers will have received more than $1 billion from Senator McConnell's coronavirus response legislation. 

To date, the CARES Act is making an $11 billion impact on Kentucky. The legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. Senator McConnell's legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping 44,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.