McConnell on "The Daily Briefing' with Dana Perino


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) joined "The Daily Briefing' today to discuss ongoing COVID-19 relief proposals and reopening the economy.

On the Senate's Return This Week:

"Well, the Senate got back to work this week. The Democrats didn't want to come back to work, and we have a lot of different things to do -- nominations that have been stalled for at least six weeks, if not longer. So look, we can do that and we can also think about the way forward.

"And it's pretty clear to me, Dana, that the way forward is for the economy to begin to open up. We've added $2.8 trillion to the national debt over the last six weeks. We can't keep throwing endless amounts of borrowed money at the problem in hope to fix it. The way forward is to begin to safely open up our economy so people can begin to re-engage and reinvigorate the robust economy we had as recently as a couple of months ago."

 

On the Historic CARES Act and Next Steps:

"Of course, no one is saying we should do nothing. We've been quite busy. The PPP loans have gone out in massive numbers. Small businesses are given this bridge to get to the next place where hopefully the economy begins to open up again.

"What I don't hear our Democratic colleagues say anything about is getting back to normal. The government shut the economy down at the state level and was encouraged to do so at the federal level in order to deal with this healthcare pandemic. But now we need to carefully begin to reopen our economy. That may or may not involve another rescue package. It could well happen. But we need to be more measured in going forward and see how much growth and reinvigoration we can get out of beginning to reopen the economy."

 

On Litigation Protections for Frontline Workers, Universities, and Businesses:

"There will be an epidemic -- it's beginning already -- of litigation, surrounding the pandemic of the coronavirus. As of a week ago, 771 lawsuits had already been filed. The trial lawyers are waiting to go after everybody who tries to get back to normal. And of course, the Democrats say we can't possibly do that.

"What I want to make very clear to them, is that if there is another rescue package, it must include and will include liability protections related narrowly to the coronavirus pandemic that has effected every single state in America. That will have to be a part of every rescue package."