McConnell Announces Nearly $17 Million More for Community Development in Kentucky


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Kentucky received $16,942,485 for community development programs in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The federal funds, distributed by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

"My CARES Act is sending emergency cash to meet urgent needs in Kentucky and across the country," said Senator McConnell. "I'm proud my bill continues delivering the federal funding to help Kentucky slow the virus' spread, to bolster public health and housing and to address the economic effects. As Senate Majority Leader, I was able to use my position to help Kentucky receive resources to protect our workers, families and vulnerable communities. I'm grateful to the dedicated Kentuckians who are working around the clock to respond to this crisis." 

The HUD funding, included in the CARES Act, is part of the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program. Senator McConnell's legislation provides states with extra flexibility with these funds by waiving certain limitations that normally apply. Kentucky can use the federal aid to encourage economic development, address the needs of homeless Kentuckians and support local services for other Kentuckians in need. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has so far had an over $10 billion impact on Kentucky. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping nearly 42,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5.2 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $2.3 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.