McConnell's CARES Act Directs Federal Funds to Help Kentucky's Homeless Population during Coronavirus Pandemic


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded more than $23 million to Louisville, Lexington, and the Commonwealth of Kentucky for their response to the coronavirus. These federal funds were made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act--the largest economic rescue package in history--which Senator McConnell introduced and shepherded to enactment in about a week. 

The funding is part of HUD's Emergency Solutions Grants program, which provides targeted assistance for homeless Kentuckians in emergency transition shelters and supports local services responding to the coronavirus. Before this announcement, HUD has already directed nearly $70 million from the CARES Act to housing and community development programs throughout Kentucky. 

The distribution of the funds is as follows:

-$14.5 million for the State of Kentucky.-$5.43 million for the City of Louisville.-$3.22 million for City of Lexington. 

"The CARES Act directs rapid relief to families and communities across the nation as they respond to the coronavirus, and I was proud to use my position as Senate Majority Leader to keep Kentucky's priorities at the center of the discussion," said Senator McConnell. "The CARES Act is making substantial investments into helping protect vulnerable Kentuckians from the spread of the coronavirus as they face this crisis. Distributing these federal funds to local governments where they're most needed will bolster compassionate responses to this health and economic emergency." 

"Funding of this magnitude and at this critical time is life-saving and life-changing for those experiencing homelessness in our City," said Lexington Mayor Linda Gorton. 

"This funding will allow individuals and families without a home the opportunity to be safe and healthy while practicing all CDC recommendations to reduce the spread of COVID-19," said Polly Ruddick, Director of Homelessness Prevention and Intervention in Lexington. "Additionally, it will help individuals and families secure permanent housing, ultimately reducing and ending homelessness here in Fayette County. We are grateful for Senator McConnell and his team for securing this funding for Lexington." 

"We commend Congress' allocation of COVID-19 resources from the CARES Act to support people experiencing homelessness with shelter, prevent families from losing their homes to eviction, and front-end rental assistance. Homeless service providers from Paducah to Pikeville stand ready to deploy Emergency Solutions Grant funding to help Kentuckians today," said Adrienne Bush, executive director of the Homeless and Housing Coalition of Kentucky. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.6 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.