Paycheck Protection Program


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, earlier today, leaders in both Chambers  and the administration reached a bipartisan agreement to supplement the  historic CARES Act. At the core of our agreement is $320 billion more  for the Paycheck Protection Program, which is already saving millions  of small business jobs and helping Americans get paychecks instead of  pink slips. This is even more money than we had first requested a while  back. In the intervening time and at our request, this new money puts a  special focus on community banks and credit unions. 

  Separately, thanks to the hard work of Senator Collins and Senator  Rubio, the bill supplies $60 billion for additional economic injury  disaster loans; and because of Senator Roberts, Senator Daines, and our  other colleagues from rural States, it will be clear that farmers and  ranchers will be eligible as well. 

  Senate Republicans wanted more funding for Americans' paychecks  nearly 2 weeks ago before the program even shut down, but in the days  that our Democratic colleagues delayed these urgent funds, additional  Federal help for hospitals, healthcare providers, and testing became  timely as well. Republicans have always supported more medical funding  as soon as it was necessary, so I am proud this package will provide  roughly $75 billion more to fund hospitals and healthcare providers in  this crisis. 

  Thanks to Chairman Alexander and Chairman Blunt, there is an  additional $25 billion for State-led--State-led--COVID-19 testing plans  and for research, development, and other testing support for key  Federal agencies, such as the CDC, the NIH, and BARDA. 

  This is a significant package. It does just what I outlined the  evening we passed the CARES Act back in March. The Senate is continuing  to stand by the American people, watching the CARES Act go into effect,  and adding funding when necessary to key programs that are working  well. It is unfortunate that it took our Democratic colleagues 12 days  to agree to a deal that contains essentially nothing that Republicans  ever opposed. In my view, it is indefensible that Main Street small  businesses and their workers had their assistance cut off for partisan  leverage. That was the word of choice for one leading House Democrat:  ``Leverage.'' The American people cannot be political leverage. 

  I am glad we are now poised to move ahead. Senate Republicans are  prepared to pass the bill. It is my hope the entire Senate will be able  to pass it as soon as possible, potentially as soon as just a few  minutes from now. 

  Before I conclude, I want to share my gratitude for the people whose  efforts allow us to produce these vital pieces of legislation on a  crash timeline in these most unusual circumstances. A lot of talented  people worked day and night to produce this bill: in the  administration, Secretary Mnuchin and his staff at the Treasury  Department and White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows; here in the  Senate, our Members on both sides, our committee and leadership staff  on both sides, and the incredible team players in the Office of the  Legislative Counsel--these are nonpartisan staff who serve the  institution and our country. As usual, we literally would not have this  legislative text without their extraordinary help. These are  unprecedented times for the entire Nation, and the Senate is no  exception. So I want to thank everyone--those who worked remotely from  their kitchen tables, those of you here in the Chamber right now, the  Capitol police officers who protect the place day and night--I thank  you all, and more importantly, your country thanks you. 

  Now, let's just get this done. Let's move ahead and get it done for  the American people.        

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT