Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, last night, the streets of major  American cities were again the scene of looting and violent rioting  that serves no purpose except to hurt innocent people and undermine  peaceful demonstrations. 

  Every one of us has an obligation to distinguish peaceful protests  over the killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery  from the violent riots that continue to see innocent people hurt,  businesses and neighborhoods destroyed, and law enforcement officers  assaulted. The former is a cherished constitutional right that every  single citizen should support, and the latter is an unacceptable  scourge that State and local leaders should have ended days ago. So I  want to thank Federal, State, and local leaders who are taking  seriously their obligation to restore peace, protect the innocent, and  stop this senseless violence. 

  In some places, like my home State of Kentucky and here in  Washington, last night was comparatively more calm and safe. But in too  many other places, like New York City, it appeared to be open season  for lawlessness, looting, and attacking law enforcement for yet another  night. And for what? For what? Rioting for the thrill of it? For the  chance to steal some expensive items? So people can say they were on  social media? 

  This selfish violence takes us further away from any national healing  or forward progress. It does not bring positive change any closer; it  simply pushes it further away. 

  These rioters need to listen to what George Floyd's brother Terrence  said in Minneapolis just yesterday. Here is what George Floyd's brother  said:  

       I understand [you all] are upset. I doubt [you're] half as       upset as I am. So if I'm not over here blowing up stuff, if       I'm not over here messing up my community, then what are [you       all] doing?  

  George Floyd's brother.        

       [You're] doing nothing. Because that's not going to bring       my brother back at all.  

  So the legitimate and important voices of peaceful protesters will  never be heard over the wailing of fire alarms, the smashing of plate- glass windows, and the sirens of ambulances coming for police officers  who have been assaulted or shot in the head. 

  Our Nation is united in horror and opposition to the violent killing  of Mr. Floyd. We are united. It is well past time that we also unite on  the side of peace in our streets and peace in our communities. We need  to unite against these violent rioters, who seek only to aggrandize  themselves and further damage a nation that needs healing.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT