Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, several times now I have praised the  peaceful demonstrations protesting racial injustice and the killings of  Black Americans. I am grateful that after several harrowing days of  looting and riots, law enforcement restored order and helped these  peaceful protests be heard. 

  Notwithstanding the far-left calls to disband the police altogether,  I believe most Americans are ready to consider how the memories of  Black Americans like George Floyd and Breonna Taylor can move us to  continue combating residual racism. 

  Today, I need to discuss a different pressing problem that concerns  Americans' constitutional rights. It is becoming clear to many  Americans, including many who appreciate and applaud the recent  protests, that our national life during this pandemic has slid toward a  double standard.  

  For weeks, State and local leaders put normal American life totally  on ice and asked citizens to prioritize fighting the virus. For weeks,  the mainstream media heaped scorn on any small citizen protest, outdoor  gathering, or even the suggestion that other important values might  require a reappraisal of certain restrictions. 

  Well, the American people did their part. They made necessary  sacrifices that clearly helped the country, and they are ready to  continue doing their part as our reopening carefully proceeds. But now,  many Americans feel they have just seen those fastidious regulations  and that puritanical zeal disappear in an instant because a new cause  has emerged that powerful people agree with. 

  A month ago, small protest demonstrations were widely condemned as  reckless and selfish. Now, massive rallies that fill entire cities are  not just praised but, in fact, are called especially brave because of  the exact same health risk that brought condemnation when the cause was  different. 

  People just spent the spring watching their small businesses dissolve  or canceling weddings or missing religious observances for the longest  spells in their lives or missing the last days of a loved one's life  and then missing the funeral. Never were the American people told about  any exemption for things they felt strongly about. 

  I have no criticism for the millions of Americans who peacefully  demonstrated in recent days. Their cause is beyond righteous. It is the  inconsistency from leaders that has been baffling. The same Governor of  Michigan who argued that letting people carefully shop for vegetable  seeds--vegetable seeds--would be too dangerous during the pandemic, now  poses for photographs with groups of protesters. Here in the District  of Columbia, the mayor celebrates massive street protests. She actually  joins them herself. But on her command, churches and houses of worship  remain shut. I believe even the largest church buildings in the  District are still subject to the 10-person limit for things the mayor  deems inessential. 

  The rights of free speech, free assembly, and the free exercise of  religion are all First Amendment rights. They have the same  constitutional pedigree. Apparently, while protests are now  permissible, prayer is still too dangerous. Politicians are now picking  and choosing within the First Amendment itself. 

  Last week, one county in California's Bay area seriously attempted to  issue guidance that allowed protests of 100 people but still--still  capped all other social gatherings at 12 people and banned outdoor  religious gatherings altogether--banned outdoor religious gatherings  altogether. Figure that one out. 

  These governments are acting like the coronavirus discriminates based  on the content of people's speech, but, alas, it is only the leaders  themselves who are doing that. It is now impossible to avoid the  conclusion that local and State leaders are using their power to  encourage constitutionally protected conduct which they personally  appreciate while continuing to ban constitutionally protected conduct  which they personally feel is less important. 

  In New York City, Mayor de Blasio makes no effort to hide this  subjectivity. At one point, he recounted our Nation's history with  racism, compared that to ``a devout religious person who wants to go  back to religious services'' and concluded, ``Sorry, that is not the  same question.'' 

  Well, the American people's constitutional liberties do not turn--do  not turn on a mayor's intuition. Politicians do not get to play red  light, green light within the First Amendment. The Bill of Rights is  not some a-la-carte menu that leaders may sample as they please. It is  hard to see any rational set of rules by which mass protests should  continue to be applauded, but small, careful religious services should  continue to be banned. 

  These prominent Democrats are free to let social protests outrank  religion in their own consciences if they choose, but they do not get  to impose their ranking on everyone else. This is precisely the point  of freedom of conscience. That is precisely the point of the First  Amendment. 

  Weeks ago, citizens sued the mayor of Louisville, KY, when he tried  to ban drive-in Easter services while imposing no restrictions on the  parking lots of secular businesses. A brilliant district judge had to  remind him and the whole country that in America, faith can never be  shoved into second class. It seems at least a few local leaders still  need to learn that lesson. I hope they learn it soon. 

  The American people's response to the coronavirus was courageous and  patriotic. 

  On the advice of experts, our Nation sacrificed a great deal to  protect our medical system. Politicians must not repay that sacrifice  with constitutionally dubious double standards.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT