Protests


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, this is an hour of great pain and  unrest in our country. Americans from coast to coast have been grieved  and horrified by the killings of three African-American citizens:  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in my hometown of Louisville,  KT, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

  In each disturbing situation, investigations and reviews are ongoing.  In Kentucky, I am glad that local authorities are investigating, I am  glad the FBI is involved, and I am glad our attorney general is  committed to taking any necessary action. We need the truth, and we  need swift justice under law. But here is something that requires no  investigation: In no world whatsoever should arresting a man for an  alleged minor infraction involve a police officer putting his knee on a  man's neck for 9 minutes while he cries out ``I can't breathe'' and  then goes silent. 

  To me, to a great many of my fellow Kentuckians, and to millions of  outraged Americans, these disturbing events do not look like three  isolated incidents. They look more like the latest chapter in our  national struggle to make equal justice and equal protection of the law  into facts of life for all Americans, rather than contingencies that  sometimes depend on the color of one's skin. Obviously, this struggle  remains incomplete. 

  I have spent decades in the Senate not only as an advocate for civil  rights but as a First Amendment purist. So I completely support and  fully defend citizens' constitutional rights to speak their minds and  engage in peaceful protests. Our Nation cannot deafen itself to the  anger, pain, or the frustration of Black Americans. Our Nation needs to  hear this. 

  Yet, over the last several days, citizens have watched with horror as  cities across America have convulsed with looting, riots, and  destruction. On a nightly basis, initially peaceful demonstrations have  been hijacked. Americans have watched protests dedicated to ending  unjust violence mutate into riots that inflict unjust violence  themselves. We have seen small businesses destroyed and public property  defaced. We have seen the men and women of law enforcement--the vast  majority of whom are not bad actors but brave public servants-- threatened and assaulted on our streets. 

  Free speech and peaceful protest are central American liberties.  Looting, rioting, assault, and arson are violent crimes that have no  place--no place--whatsoever in our society. It is not a display of  courageous citizenship to smash and destroy small businesses that had  just barely hung on through the pandemic. It is not an act of  principled protest to grab expensive merchandise or set fire to a  church. It does  not advance freedom or justice to vandalize the World War II Memorial  that stands for those who bled and died for exactly those values. You  do not advance peace by committing assault. You do not advance justice  by inflicting injustice upon your neighbors. You do not promote the  rule of law through anarchy. There is no constitutional right to commit  violent crime or to terrorize communities, period. 

  This cannot continue. It has already gone on for entirely too long. I  hope State and local authorities will work quickly to crack down on  outside agitators and domestic terrorists and restore some order to our  cities. If State and local leaders cannot or will not secure the peace  and protect citizens and their property, I hope the Federal Government  is ready to stand in the breach. 

  In Kentucky, we are already seeing violence and tragedy compound on  themselves. Several days ago, seven people were shot in Louisville-- none, according to the mayor, by law enforcement. Last night, one  individual was shot and killed by authorities after the police were  fired upon from within a crowd. We are learning about the incident as  fast as we can. I was just briefed by Governor Beshear today, and I  support a full and thorough and immediate investigation. But this has  to end. 

  These important protests began with the notion that basic physical  safety and legal protections must be non-negotiable for every single  American, bar none; that American liberty and the rule of law must be  universal truths for all, not special privileges for some. That point  is absolutely right. That is a righteous and important mission. And it  is exactly why these senseless and destructive riots need to end. Not  next week. Not tomorrow night. Right now. Right now. 

  We have real work to do to build constructive paths forward between  law enforcement and affected communities. More violence and destruction  is not just unfair to many innocent people, it also just makes this  important work so much harder.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT