Providing Emergency Assistance and Health Care Response for Individuals, Families, and Businesses Affected By the 2020 Coronavirus Pandemic


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, as our Nation confronts this health  crisis and the economic crisis it is spawning, Senate Republicans have  prepared a bold legislative proposal. I am officially introducing the  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. This legislation  takes bold action on four major priorities that are extremely urgent  and very necessary: first, direct financial help for the American  people; second, rapid relief for small businesses and their employees;  third, significant steps to stabilize our economy and protect jobs; and  fourth, more support for the brave healthcare professionals and the  patients who are fighting the coronavirus on the frontlines. 

  Now, just yesterday, by an overwhelming vote, the Senate passed  bipartisan legislation that originated with the Democratic House of  Representatives. So I hope this bold, new proposal will find a similar  degree of bipartisan respect and mutual urgency on the other side of  the aisle and across the Capitol. 

  I look forward to working with our Democratic colleagues and the  administration to complete this important work and to deliver for our  country. 

  Here are the next steps.   These will be our point people. 

  I invite all of their Democratic counterparts to join us at the table  tomorrow. These are urgent discussions. They need to happen at a Member  level, and they need to happen starting right now. 

  I might add that all Republican Senators, whether they are part of  this group that I just mentioned or not, have been asked to stay in  town. We are here. We are ready to act as soon as an agreement with our  colleagues across the aisle can be reached. The administration has  agreed to send the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the  National Economic Council, and the White House Director of Legislative  Affairs, and they will participate in these discussions, again,  beginning tomorrow. 

  These bipartisan discussions must begin immediately and continue with  urgency at the Member level until we have results. We know this  legislation will not be the last word. Bipartisan, bicameral talks are  already underway to act on the administration's request, in addition to  this, for a supplemental appropriation, but we need to take bold and  swift action as soon as possible. 

  We need to take further steps to continue addressing our Nation's  healthcare needs, and we need to help protect American workers,  families, and small businesses from this unique economic crisis that  threatens to worsen with every single day. We need to have the American  people's backs. This  legislation is a significant next step, and the Senate is not going  anywhere until we take action. Our Republican colleagues are here. They  are in town. They are ready to act. We look forward to meeting with our  Democratic counterparts tomorrow. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, before he leaves the floor, I want to  particularly thank the senior Senator from Florida for the  extraordinary contribution he is making as we move toward completion of  this rescue package    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT