S. 2657


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, in the meantime, the Senate will  continue considering an important package of comprehensive energy  legislation. For the first time in more than a decade, we are looking  at a thorough update to the laws governing innovation, security, and  workforce development all across the American energy sector. 

  As Chairman Murkowski has noted, 12 years is a long time. The demands  we face in researching, producing, refining, storing, and protecting  our abundant domestic energy have evolved a great deal since 2007, so  it is high time for relevant Federal policy to evolve as well. I am  grateful the chairman was willing to take on this important task, and I  am glad she and Senator Manchin led their colleagues on the Energy and  Natural Resources Committee through an overwhelmingly bipartisan  process to produce this bill. 

  As I mentioned yesterday, the legislation aggregates 50 individual  bills. It contains input from more than 60 Senators. It covers an  exhaustive range of energy-related challenges, from power storage and  renewable technologies to carbon capture and electrical grid cyber  security. 

  It has earned the support of a similarly broad range of industry,  advocacy, and research organizations. In one joint letter, the  Bipartisan Policy Center, the American Nuclear Society, the Nature  Conservancy, and 36 other signatories endorsed it as ``the culmination  of extensive efforts to develop practical legislative solutions.'' That  is the American Nuclear Society and the Nature Conservancy--that ought  to tell you what you need to know about this bill. This is a bipartisan  piece of legislation done right. This is how you take practical steps  to build consensus on issues that affect every American in every State. 

  Around this time last year, you will recall we saw a high-profile  example of exactly what not to do. The far-left edge of the House  Democratic caucus rolled out a massive scheme to forcibly remake much  of our economy and our society according to their radical top-down  designs. 

  We all remember the Green New Deal--categorical bans on the most  affordable forms of American energy, a dim future for millions of  energy jobs, unprecedented Washington mandates on every subject from  building codes to personal transportation. We all remember what  happened next: This socialist fantasy did not stay confined to  ideological fringe; it quickly grew into a broader rallying cry. When  the Senate had the opportunity to vote on this wish list of central  planning, only four--just four--of our Democratic colleagues could  bring themselves to vote against it. That is quite a remarkable  commentary on the state of our politics. 

  Experts estimated the Green New Deal could have cost our government  more than the GDP of the entire world. The Green New Deal could have  cost our government more than the GDP of the entire world. Instead,  this bipartisan legislation will let us direct responsible and targeted  investment in a smart way toward key energy priorities. 

  The Green New Deal sought to have Washington micromanage everyday  life in this country to a degree that the 20th-century Socialists would  have drooled over. Instead, this bipartisan legislation will create  better policy and regulatory conditions for American workers, American  innovators, and American job creators to actually thrive. 

  Speaking as the senior Senator from Kentucky, I know firsthand that  many Americans in the middle of the country suffered badly during the  Obama era because Washington bureaucrats decided American energy had to  fit their ideological designs. The very last thing we want is to move  backward and expand those errors exponentially with radical leftwing  experiments that would make the last administration's War on Coal look  like child's play. 

  What Kentuckians and all Americans deserve is for the Federal  Government to make prosperity and domestic energy dominance easier-- easier--not harder. They deserve investment and support to help the  communities that have fueled this country for generations to prosper  once again, and that is what this bipartisan bill will actually  deliver. 

  I am proud to support this smart legislation. Clearly, I am not  alone, since only three Senators voted against advancing the bill this  week. So I would urge all of my colleagues to keep up their support,  and let's see this package through to the finish line.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT