S. 2657


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another matter, this week, we have  the opportunity to pass major legislation to strengthen our domestic  energy. Chairman Murkowski, Senator Manchin, and the Energy and Natural  Resources Committee have assembled a strong, bipartisan bill. I look  forward to passing it. 

  I was disappointed yesterday when the Senate failed to advance the  legislation and clear a path toward completing the bill. The  committee's product includes about 50 different bills and contributions  from nearly three-fourths of the Members of this body, and contrary to  the Democratic leader's assertions on the floor, I am certainly not  blocking any bipartisan amendment. I have stated right here on the  floor that I hope and anticipate that we will vote on amendments this  week. 

  Don't be fooled by the finger-pointing. I am not standing in the way  of bipartisan amendments. What is really  happening is that the Democratic leader is moving the goalposts. There  had been a bipartisan understanding about how to finish this bill, but  yesterday the Democratic leader decided to change his tune and demand a  vote on something outside the scope of the current debate. I hope we  can get past this showmanship, finish this bipartisan legislation, and  send it to the House so we can get it on the President's desk. Let's  don't squander this real opportunity. 

  Chairman Murkowski's and Senator Manchin's compromise product will  help our Nation move toward greater energy security, energy efficiency,  and energy affordability for years to come--new support for energy  efficiency efforts, new incentives for innovation, new tools to secure  our electrical grid, and new ways to strengthen our domestic supply  chain for important minerals, and on and on and on. 

  This Chamber got it right last week when it proceeded to the bill by  a vote of 90 to 4. It hasn't suddenly become controversial overnight.  Everyone knows there are plenty of outside issues that Senators do not  agree on. We should let ourselves agree on what we do agree on. Let me  say that again: We should let ourselves agree on what we do agree on  and complete this legislation this week. 

  Let's keep legislating. Let's get this done. The American people  deserve it.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT