S. 2657


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, this week, the Senate has a good  opportunity to update the laws governing the way we harness and deploy  America's tremendous domestic energy resources. It has been well over a  decade since the last time comprehensive energy legislation was signed  into Federal law. 

  Following our overwhelming vote yesterday to proceed to consideration  of the American Energy Innovation Act, the Senate is on track to change  that very soon. The American Energy Innovation Act put forward by  Chairman Murkowski and Ranking Member Manchin is thoroughly bipartisan.  It contains provisions sponsored or cosponsored by more than 60 of our  colleagues. It has come to include 50 individual pieces of legislation  that the Energy and Natural Resources Committee considered last year. 

  Over the past 3 years, the Trump administration and this Congress  have worked together to secure historic advances for both the producers  and consumers of affordable domestic energy. We have opened access to  new energy reserves, streamlined the regulation of liquid natural gas  exports, and halted or reversed the most egregious Obama-era regulatory  burdens. The growing record is clear. We have helped to usher in a  prosperous new era of U.S. energy independence. 

  The legislation we are considering this week is designed to build on  those successes. It takes proactive steps to ensure the security,  efficiency, and affordability of American energy for years to come. 

  First, it puts a strong tailwind behind programs, grants, and  research efforts that are focused on energy innovation. That means  significant investments in improving energy efficiency and grid storage  technologies; new resources for the development of renewable  geothermal, nuclear, and other energy sources to help sustain domestic  energy independence; reauthorization for the Department of Energy's  cutting-edge research at the Advanced Research Projects Agency; and a  renewed commitment to carbon capture, utilization, and storage at coal  production facilities. 

  In addition to energy innovation, the legislation also focuses on  energy security. Since the last comprehensive update to the Federal  energy laws in 2007, our Nation's critical infrastructure, including  the electric grid, has changed significantly, and so have the threats  it faces. Our colleagues' legislation tackles this head-on. It  introduces incentives for electrical grid modernization and cyber  security projects. It encourages utility providers to take proactive  measures to protect ratepayers from the devastating effects of  potential cyber attacks. It makes new technical cyber security  assistance available to municipalities and rural utilities and  authorizes grant funding for on-the-job workforce retraining.  

  Perhaps most importantly, the legislation before us is not only  designed for continued advances in areas where the U.S. energy sector  has seen success, it is also meant to take a sober assessment of where  we are falling short. 

  As my colleague Chairman Murkowski noted yesterday, the United States  currently relies on foreign imports to meet our demand for dozens of  mineral commodities. We are talking about rare substances with critical  applications in manufacturing, energy production, and national  security. These are critical products, but at present, domestic  production does not satisfy domestic demand. That is why this  legislation provides for new survey and cataloging efforts to identify  new domestic supplies of important materials. It invests in extraction  technologies that would harness existing mining infrastructure in  places like Appalachian coal country to help meet the demand. 

  As the senior Senator from Kentucky, I know the importance of these  investments firsthand. The working families and job creators in my  State know that clean coal technologies and longstanding mining  operations can continue to add tremendous value to the security and  prosperity of our Nation. 

  There is a reason why this legislation has earned widespread praise  from the researchers and energy industry leaders who would be affected  the most. It is a product of serious, good-faith, bipartisan work. That  is why organizations from the National Mining Association to the  Environmental Defense Fund have found common ground in endorsing it. 

  I will have more to say about this legislation in the coming days,  but right now, I am grateful for our colleagues on the Energy Committee  for their work in bringing it to the floor. I look forward to  considering their important legislation in the days ahead, and I would  encourage all Members to join me in supporting this excellent work.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT