Senate Legislative Agenda


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, yesterday, President Trump and his  team announced several new actions to help contain and combat the  coronavirus. The President invoked the Defense Production Act, laying  groundwork to manufacture more medical equipment. The Department of  Health and Human Services will let medical professionals practice  across State lines. The Department of Defense will deploy hospital  ships and transfer millions of respirator masks and thousands of  ventilators to HHS. The FDA will deepen partnerships with commercial  laboratories to expand testing. The Department of Housing and Urban  Development will suspend foreclosures and evictions on FHA-insured  mortgages. And the Department of Homeland Security reached a mutual  agreement with Canada to close our northern border to nonessential  travel. These are major steps as we confront a major crisis 

  Here in the Senate we are preparing to take further bold steps of our  own. Yesterday, we passed legislation from the House that will provide  some American workers with additional benefits during this emergency.  As I explained yesterday, that legislation was hardly perfect. It  imposes new costs and uncertainty on small businesses at precisely the  most challenging moment for small businesses in living memory. So the  Senate is even more determined that our legislation cannot leave small  businesses behind. 

  Support for small business is one of the four key components of the  much bolder proposal we are finalizing. Chairman Rubio and Chairman  Collins have been crafting a major plan to help small businesses  survive this crisis and help workers continue to get paid. 

  We are talking about new federally guaranteed loans on the order of  hundreds of billions of dollars to address immediate cashflow problems.  This is no massive new bureaucracy. We want to let qualified small  businesses get liquidity through familiar institutions--their own  community banks, credit unions, or nationwide lenders. 

  As Chairman Collins explained yesterday, owners will not be able to  use the funds to give themselves raises or increase their own profits.  The point is to help small business endure, help workers keep their  jobs, and help both businesses and workers emerge from this ready to  thrive. 

  As Chairman Rubio explained, the portions of these funds that small  businesses use on core expenses, such as paying workers and paying  their rent or mortgage, will convert into grants they will not need to  pay back. This will make sure that even lower profit margin Main Street  businesses get a fighting chance to stay open and continue paying  workers. 

  This is straightforward: a rapid injection of cash to help small  businesses  through this turmoil--not some brandnew program with a long lead time  but an existing program that has been tested. 

  The second major pillar of our legislation will be even more  straightforward: direct financial help for Americans. Senate  Republicans want to put cash in the hands of the American people.  Chairman Grassley and a number of our colleagues are finalizing a  structure that will get assistance to individuals and families as  rapidly as possible. This is no Washington process with a thousand  cooks in the kitchen, no piles of forms for laid-off workers or busy  families to fill out--money for people from the middle class on down,  period. 

  For laid-off Americans, this infusion would complement unemployment  insurance and could be put toward immediate needs during this crisis.  For Americans who are still working, the money would provide extra  certainty in this uniquely uncertain time and help remind everyone that  temporary shutdowns at bars and restaurants do not mean all commerce  has to halt. For retirees, the money would complement Social Security  and help seniors navigate the unusual routines that have suddenly  become necessary for their own safety. 

  This is a form of additional tax relief that we want to push to  taxpayers right away. It is not an ordinary policy, but this is no  ordinary time. The American people need help, and they need it fast.  This will deliver it. 

  Now, we believe this rapid assistance is crucial, but, more broadly,  we need to keep as many Americans as possible on the job and connected  to their employers. The small business relief will help, and so will a  number of additional tax relief measures, which will be designed to  help employers maintain cashflow and keep making payroll, preserving  employment and protecting economic foundations. 

  That is also why the third pillar of our proposal involves targeted  lending to industries of national importance. Chairman Shelby, Chairman  Wicker, and Senator Thune are leading this component. 

  Just like small businesses, entire sectors are being crushed-- crushed--by public health guidance, which is obviously through no fault  of their own. For example, our Nation needs airlines. Yet they have  ongoing maintenance costs that do not disappear just because the  government has chased away all the customers. We cannot expect this key  industry to mothball itself overnight, then dust off in weeks and  months and pop right back online as the Nation will need and expect. 

  So let's be clear about something. From small businesses to key  sectors, we are not talking about so-called bailouts for firms that  made reckless decisions. Nobody is alleging a moral hazard here. None  of these firms--not corner stores, not pizza parlors, not airlines-- brought this on themselves. We are not talking about a taxpayer-funded  cushion to companies that made mistakes. We are talking about loans,  which must be repaid, for American employers whom the government  itself--the government itself--is temporarily crushing for the sake of  public health. 

  The fourth piece of our proposal goes to the heart of this crisis:  the health of the American people. Chairmen Alexander and Grassley will  be rolling out proposals to get resources on the frontlines of our  fight against the virus itself because, to be clear, nothing I have  laid out so far will represent a typical economic stimulus in the way  that we think of that term. 

  Nobody--nobody--expects that employment figures or the stock market  or GDP growth will bounce right back to where they were a few weeks  ago. No policy and no amount of money could return things to normal  overnight. 

  There is an underlying medical reality that is driving this  disruption. In the words of one journalist, this is primarily ``a  health crisis--with an economic crisis strapped to its back.'' 

  So, yes, our proposal will immediately help American workers,  families, and businesses. Yes, it will help position our economy to  thrive once again after this public health menace is behind us. 

  This may not be the last economic legislation we pursue, but,  fundamentally, we have to beat back this virus. We have to beat back  this virus. That is why our proposal will go even further to remove  barriers to care, speed innovation, fund the hospitals and health  centers that will treat patients, and expand healthcare workers' access  to the tools they need, including respirator masks. 

  Immediately after we pass this legislation, Congress must begin a  bipartisan, bicameral appropriations process to address the  administration's new supplemental funding request, so we can keep  funding healthcare and other priorities. 

  I think every American shares the sense that the last several days  have felt more like several months. Just last Saturday, our Nation had  fewer than 3,000 confirmed cases, and 58 Americans had lost their  lives. Already, the number of cases has nearly tripled. Tragically, so  has the number of deaths. The crisis is moving fast; our health system  is under strain; and our economy is hurting. 

  The legislation I have just laid out will not be the last word. As I  said, we will need to turn right away to a bipartisan appropriations  process. This is not Congress's last chance to legislate, but it is  critical that we move swiftly and boldly to begin to stabilize our  economy, preserve Americans' jobs, get money to workers and families,  and keep up our fight on the health front. 

  That is exactly--exactly--what our proposal will do. These are not  ordinary policies. This is no ordinary time. The American people are  strong. They are brave. There is no doubt the American people will come  through this battle and then soar to new heights on the other side. 

  The American people will win this fight against this virus. The  Senate's job is to give them the tools they need, and we are not  leaving until we do our job. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT