Senator McConnell Announces Coronavirus Funding for Covington


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the City of Covington received a $81,593 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist Covington with its coronavirus response efforts. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

The funding is being distributed by DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments like Covington to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus in the area. The funding can be used for overtime pay for first responders, equipment for law enforcement and medical professionals, personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. 

To date, organizations in Covington have received more than $5.3 million as a result of Senator McConnell's CARES Act, including funding for Healthpoint Family Care, Gateway Community And Technical College, and the Housing Authority of Covington. 

"The Senate took bold action to support communities battling the coronavirus crisis, and I'm proud the City of Covington is receiving this vital assistance," said Senator McConnell. "These federal resources can help Kentuckians on the frontlines protect themselves while keeping families and communities safe. As Senate Majority Leader, I'm constantly working to advance Kentucky's priorities in the national discussion. I'm grateful to Kentucky first responders who are leading the effort to beat this virus and get back to normal." 

"These funds come at the right time. Covington, as with all cities, did not budget its resources to handle the COVID pandemic. This grant helps us to continue to serve our citizens with needed public services. Every little bit helps us do this," said David Johnston, City Manager, Covington. "Here in Covington we know that Senator McConnell was instrumental in getting the CARES Act quickly through Congress. We appreciate his help on this grant and on so many other fronts that help Covington out." 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping nearly 44,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.