Senator McConnell Announces Coronavirus Funding for Owensboro


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today the City of Owensboro received a $65,828 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist Owensboro with its coronavirus response efforts. Senator McConnell introduced the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history, and led it to enactment in about a week. 

The funding is being distributed by DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments like Owensboro to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus in the area. The funding can be used for overtime pay for first responders, equipment for law enforcement and medical professionals, personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. 

To date, organizations in Owensboro have received nearly $4.6 million as a result of Senator McConnell's CARES Act, including funding for the Owensboro-Daviess County Regional Airport, Owensboro Community and Technical College, Kentucky Wesleyan College, Brescia University, Audubon Area Community Care Clinic, and the Housing Authority of Owensboro. 

"The historic CARES Act is supporting communities battling the coronavirus crisis, and I'm proud the City of Owensboro is receiving this vital assistance," said Senator McConnell. "These federal resources can help Kentuckians on the frontlines protect themselves while keeping families and communities safe. Every Kentuckian has been impacted by the coronavirus crisis, and as Senate Majority Leader, I'm constantly working to make sure we have resources to respond. I'm grateful to Kentucky first responders and strong local officials like Mayor Watson who are leading the effort to beat this virus and get back to normal." 

"Once again, Senator McConnell has used his leadership position in Washington to deliver for Kentucky families when we need it most," said Owensboro Mayor Tom Watson.  "Not only did he direct the passage of the largest economic rescue package in history, but Senator McConnell also made sure the bill protects Kentucky's medical professionals and first responders. We are grateful for his instrumental support to overcome this crisis." 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.