Senator McConnell Comments on Humana's Decision to Waive Medical Costs for Coronavirus Treatment


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) released the following statement today regarding the Humana announcement that the Louisville-based health care company will waive enrollee medical costs for treatment related to the Coronavirus:

"It's going to take all of us to win the fight against the coronavirus. I'm proud of Kentucky companies like Humana that are stepping up to lead the national response," said Senator McConnell. "Humana is once again putting its customers first and helping them get the coronavirus treatment they need regardless of their circumstances. Increasing the accessibility of treatment for this virus will not only help reduce the spread, but it can also limit its economic damage. Of course, this level of generosity comes as no surprise from a company so focused on investing in families and communities in our Commonwealth and across the country."

Senator McConnell continued: "We all stand united as we face this virus, and we're going to beat it by listening to the experts and continuing to look out for one another. I'm grateful to Humana for setting an example and helping support families during this crisis."

BACKGROUND: On March 19, Senator McConnell introduced the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which was signed into law by President Trump last week. The bipartisan legislation takes bold action on four urgent priorities. The CARES Act directs financial help for the American people, provides rapid relief for small businesses and their employees, takes significant steps to stabilize our economy and protect jobs, and delivers more support for the brave healthcare professionals and the patients who are fighting the coronavirus on the front lines. The CARES Act will help stabilize the economy, provide recovery checks and unemployment insurance, support small businesses, and surge funding for hospitals and medical equipment.