Senator McConnell Announces Nearly $2 Million of Coronavirus Funding for Louisville


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Louisville, Kentucky received $1,958,633 from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Justice Assistance. These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist the city's coronavirus response efforts. The announcement follows Senator McConnell's recent visit to Norton Brownsboro Hospital to thank healthcare workers on the frontlines of the virus. In his first public appearance in Kentucky since mid-March, Senator McConnell also discussed his legislation, the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history. 

The funding is part of DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus. It can be used for overtime pay for first responders and medical professionals, to address the needs of local jails, as well as to purchase personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. 

"Kentucky's healthcare heroes continue to courageously step into the unknown when facing the coronavirus crisis. I was grateful for the chance to personally thank some of the medical professionals who put themselves at risk to help and heal total strangers," said Senator McConnell. "In Louisville and across Kentucky, my CARES Act is providing the necessary assistance to first responders protecting the health of our communities. As Senate Majority Leader, I'm constantly working to deliver the resources to overcome the coronavirus in Kentucky." 

To date, the Louisville community has received nearly $260 million as a result of Senator McConnell's CARES Act, including more than $133 million for Louisville Metro Government, over $43 million for Norton Healthcare, $42 million for TARC, $21 million for the Louisville Muhammad Ali International Airport, and $12.5 million for the University of Louisville. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.6 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.