Senate Legislative Agenda


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, yesterday I introduced the Coronavirus  Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act: Senate Republicans' bold  proposal to continue combating this health crisis and the economic  crisis it is causing. And I called on our Democratic counterparts to  join us immediately at the table for urgent discussions so the Senate  can deliver measured relief to the American people as soon as humanly  possible. 

  I am glad to say that talks are already well underway. Earlier this  morning, a number of our committee chairmen began indepth, bipartisan  talks with their Democratic counterparts. We were joined by  representatives from the administration, and those talks continue right  now as we speak. 

  Here are the next steps: These Member-level discussions will proceed  with the goal of reaching agreements on each of four components of the  legislation by the end of today--by the end of today, agreements on  each of these four components. 

  This would allow the first procedural vote to occur before the end of  the day tomorrow, and that would allow a bipartisan package focused on  immediate challenges to pass the Senate Monday. 

  The Nation's needs and expectations are perfectly clear. Workers,  families, small businesses, and the foundations of our economy itself  need swift action. And in the Senate, ``swift'' means bipartisan. 

  The Senate rose to the occasion earlier this month. We united across  party lines to pass billions in quick funding to support the medical  response, and we did it again just this week. We passed the more modest  proposal that came over from the Democratic House quickly and in a  bipartisan fashion. 

  Now our Nation needs a major next step, and we need it fast. That is  why Senate Republicans produced a bold initial proposal to give shape  and structure to these discussions. 

  First, our CARES Act will deliver direct financial help as quickly as  possible to the American people. Senate Republicans want to put cash in  Americans' hands. 

  For Americans who have lost work, this would be the quickest possible  first wave of government assistance to supplement unemployment  insurance and help with bills and immediate needs. 

  For our Nation's seniors, this would supplement Social Security and  provide further relief to those who are at heightened risk and have had  to change their routines literally overnight. 

  And for Americans still working, this infusion of money would provide  a little more certainty in this very uncertain moment and the  opportunities to invest in local economies where possible. 

  Second, our proposal would provide the quickest possible access to  desperately needed liquidity for small businesses all across our  country. Our proposal would use existing channels and small businesses'  existing lending relationships to provide hundreds of billions of  dollars in emergency capital, a significant cash infusion as fast as  possible so that more small businesses can hold on to their workers,  weather this disruption, and come out on the other side instead of  having to resort to layoffs or shutdowns right away. 

  So no tangled new bureaucracies, no delay of this urgent aid while we  try to redesign complex programs from the ground up, just the most  direct path--the most direct path to the cash that small businesses  need to keep making payroll, while, in many cases, the government  itself is chasing away their customers for the sake of public health. 

  This straightforward approach is already earning support. A coalition  of small business advocates has already written to express their hope  that ``both Republicans and Democrats can come together'' to pass this. 

  Third, our bill recognizes a big, structural, national crisis  requires a big, structural response. Let me say that again. Our bill  recognizes that a big, structural national crisis requires a big,  structural response. 

  We want to empower the Treasury Department to engage in targeted  lending--not bailouts but loans--to key sectors and industries which  this pandemic is hurting. 

  Again, we want to preserve employer-employee relationships wherever  we can. We have to fight to protect jobs, and we need to recognize that  our Nation will need industries to come back online quickly on the  other side of the crisis. 

  Fourth--and this is crucial--our legislation will continue to push  surged resources to the frontlines of the medical battle against the  virus itself. We want to expand access to testing and treatment to  further encourage and speed up research on therapeutics and eventually  vaccines, to continue to fund the hospitals and health centers that are  treating patients, and we want to expand healthcare workers' access to  critical equipment and supplies, including--including--respirator  masks. 

  These are the four big things our bill seeks to do. As we speak, at  this very moment, Senators on both sides are discussing the details and  exchanging suggestions on all four of the pillars that I have just  outlined. 

  So, once again, this will not be the first bill we pass to combat  this crisis or the second, and I do not expect it will be the last. 

  This legislation does not need to contain every piece of the ongoing  national effort. In fact, that would be impossible. But everyone-- everyone--from public health experts to economists, to working families  of this country--everyone--has made it clear that we need to deliver  relief and we need to deliver it now. 

  We need to go big. We need to minimize new complexity, and we need to  move swiftly. We need to push immediate relief to Americans. We need to  keep Americans employed as much as possible and help job creators  literally stay afloat. We need to continue taking action to stand with  medical professionals and protect our Nation's health. 

  Laid-off workers cannot wait. Struggling Main Street businesses  cannot wait. Our hospitals and health centers cannot wait. 

  So, as I said, I hope these Member-level discussions will be able to  produce agreements in principle on all four components by the end of  the day today. In fact, they must reach agreement by the end of the day  today. That would leave tomorrow for drafting legislative text and for  the first procedural vote on the shell. And that should allow a  bipartisan package, focused on immediate challenges, to pass the Senate  on Monday. 

  The crisis is moving fast. The Senate is here, we are working, and we  are going to deliver.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT