Senator McConnell Announces Coronavirus Funding for Hardin County


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Hardin County, Kentucky received a $45,977 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist the county with its coronavirus response efforts. The announcement comes just days after Senator McConnell visited Hardin Memorial Hospital to thank healthcare workers who are on the frontlines in the fight against Coronavirus. During the visit to Elizabethtown, Senator McConnell also talked about his legislation, the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history. 

The funding is being distributed by DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments like Hardin County to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus in the area. The funding can be used for overtime pay for first responders, equipment for law enforcement and medical professionals, personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. 

To date, organizations in Hardin County have received nearly $10 million as a result of Senator McConnell's CARES Act, including $7.5 million for Hardin Memorial Hospital, $2.4 million for Elizabethtown Community and Technical College, $30,000 for Addington Field Airport, and $30,000 for the Housing Authority of Elizabethtown. 

"It was a privilege to personally thank the healthcare heroes at Hardin Memorial for their efforts to combat this virus. I'm proud my CARES Act continues to support strong local officials like Judge Harry Berry who are helping lead the response," said Senator McConnell. "Those on the frontlines of this crisis, including our first responders, law enforcement, and healthcare heroes, deserve all the support we can provide. As Senate Majority Leader, I'm constantly working to deliver the resources to overcome the coronavirus crisis in Kentucky." 

"Senator McConnell is always using his leadership position in Washington to look out for Kentucky. While the CARES Act significantly helps our entire country, Senator McConnell specifically made sure the bill protects Hardin County's brave medical professionals and first responders. We are incredibly grateful for these resources," said Hardin County Judge/Executive Harry Berry. 

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.4 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.