Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


   3548  

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.  

       This Act may be cited as the ``Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and       Economic Security Act'' or the ``CARES Act''.       SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.  

       The table of contents for this Act is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title. Sec. 2. Table of contents.               DIVISION A--SMALL BUSINESS INTERRUPTION LOANS  Sec. 1101. Definitions. Sec. 1102. 7(a) loan program. Sec. 1103. Entrepreneurial development. Sec. 1104. Waiver of matching funds requirement under the women's                business center program. Sec. 1105. Loan forgiveness. Sec. 1106. Direct appropriations. Sec. 1107. Minority business development agency. Sec. 1108. Waiver of prepayment penalty. Sec. 1109. United States Treasury Program Management Authority.  

      DIVISION B--RELIEF FOR INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES, AND BUSINESSES              TITLE I--REBATES AND OTHER INDIVIDUAL PROVISIONS  Sec. 2101. 2020 recovery rebates for individuals. Sec. 2102. Delay of certain deadlines. Sec. 2103. Special rules for use of retirement funds. Sec. 2104. Allowance of partial above the line deduction for charitable                contributions. Sec. 2105. Modification of limitations on charitable contributions                during 2020.                       TITLE II--BUSINESS PROVISIONS  Sec. 2201. Delay of estimated tax payments for corporations. Sec. 2202. Delay of payment of employer payroll taxes. Sec. 2203. Modifications for net operating losses. Sec. 2204. Modification of limitation on losses for taxpayers other                than corporations. Sec. 2205. Modification of credit for prior year minimum tax liability                of corporations. Sec. 2206. Modification of limitation on business interest. Sec. 2207. Technical amendments regarding qualified improvement                property. Sec. 2208. Installments not to prevent credit or refund of overpayments                or increase estimated taxes. Sec. 2209. Restoration of limitation on downward attribution of stock                ownership in applying constructive ownership rules.  

  DIVISION C--ASSISTANCE TO SEVERELY DISTRESSED SECTORS OF THE UNITED                               STATES ECONOMY                      TITLE I--ECONOMIC STABILIZATION  Sec. 3101. Short title. Sec. 3102. Emergency relief through loans and loan guarantees. Sec. 3103. Limitation on certain employee compensation. Sec. 3104. Continuation of certain air service. Sec. 3105. Reports. Sec. 3106. Coordination with Secretary of Transportation. Sec. 3107. Definitions. Sec. 3108. Rule of construction.                      TITLE II--AVIATION EXCISE TAXES  Sec. 3201. Suspension of certain aviation excise taxes.                      DIVISION D--HEALTH CARE RESPONSE                         TITLE I--HEALTH PROVISIONS                  Subtitle A--Addressing Supply Shortages          PART I--Moving the Strategic National Stockpile to ASPR  Sec. 4101. Moving the strategic national stockpile to ASPR.                     PART II--Medical Product Supplies  Sec. 4111. National Academies report on America's medical product                supply chain security. Sec. 4112. Requiring the strategic national stockpile to include                certain types of medical supplies. Sec. 4113. Treatment of respiratory protective devices as covered                countermeasures.               PART III--Mitigating Emergency Drug Shortages  Sec. 4121. Prioritize reviews of drug applications; incentives. Sec. 4122. Additional manufacturer reporting requirements in response                to drug shortages. Sec. 4123. GAO report on intra-agency coordination. Sec. 4124. Report. Sec. 4125. Safe harbor provision.           PART IV--Preventing Essential Medical Device Shortages  Sec. 4131. Discontinuance or interruption in the production of medical                devices. Sec. 4132. GAO report on intra-agency coordination.            PART V--Emergency Use of Laboratory Developed Tests  Sec. 4141. Emergency use of laboratory developed tests.          Subtitle B--Access to Health Care for COVID-19 Patients            PART I--Coverage of Testing and Preventive Services  Sec. 4201. Coverage of diagnostic testing for COVID-19. Sec. 4202. Pricing of diagnostic testing. Sec. 4203. Rapid coverage of preventive services and vaccines for                coronavirus.                 PART II--Support for Health Care Providers  Sec. 4211. Supplemental awards for health centers. Sec. 4212. Allowing permanent direct hire of NDMS health care                professionals. Sec. 4213. Telehealth network and telehealth resource centers grant                programs. Sec. 4214. Rural health care services outreach, rural health network                development, and small health care provider quality                improvement grant programs. Sec. 4215. United States Public Health Service Modernization. Sec. 4216. Limitation on liability for volunteer health care                professionals during covid-19 emergency response.                     PART III--Miscellaneous Provisions  Sec. 4221. Confidentiality and disclosure of records relating to                substance use disorder. Sec. 4222. Nutrition services. Sec. 4223. Guidance on protected health information. Sec. 4224. Reauthorization of healthy start program.                           Subtitle C--Innovation  Sec. 4301. Removing the cap on OTA. Sec. 4302. Extending the priority review program for agents that                present national security threats. Sec. 4303. Priority zoonotic animal drugs.                       Subtitle D--Finance Committee  Sec. 4401. Exemption for telehealth services. Sec. 4402. Inclusion of certain over-the-counter medical products as                qualified medical expenses. Sec. 4403. Treatment of direct primary care service arrangements. Sec. 4404. Increasing Medicare telehealth flexibilities during                emergency period. Sec. 4405. Enhancing Medicare telehealth services for Federally                qualified health centers and rural health clinics during                emergency period. Sec. 4406. Temporary waiver of requirement for face-to-face visits                between home dialysis patients and physicians. Sec. 4407. Improving care planning for Medicare home health services. Sec. 4408. Adjustment of sequestration. Sec. 4409. Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system add-               on payment for covid-19 patients during emergency period. Sec. 4410. Revising payment rates for durable medical equipment under                the Medicare program through duration of emergency                period. Sec. 4411. Providing home and community-based services in acute care                hospitals.  Sec. 4412. Treatment of technology-enabled collaborative learning and                capacity building models as medical assistance. Sec. 4413. Encouraging the development and use of DISARM antimicrobial                drugs. Sec. 4414. Novel medical products.                       TITLE II--EDUCATION PROVISIONS  Sec. 4501. Short title. Sec. 4502. Definitions. Sec. 4503. Campus-based aid waivers. Sec. 4504. Use of supplemental educational opportunity grants for                emergency aid. Sec. 4505. Federal work-study during a qualifying emergency. Sec. 4506. Adjustment of subsidized loan usage limits. Sec. 4507. Exclusion from Federal Pell Grant duration limit. Sec. 4508. Institutional refunds and Federal student loan flexibility. Sec. 4509. Satisfactory progress. Sec. 4510. Continuing education at affected foreign institutions. Sec. 4511. National emergency educational waivers. Sec. 4512. HBCU Capital financing. Sec. 4513. Temporary relief for federal student loan borrowers. Sec. 4514. Provisions related to the Corporation for National and                Community Service. Sec. 4515. Workforce response activities. Sec. 4516. Technical amendments.                        TITLE III--LABOR PROVISIONS  Sec. 4601. Limitation on paid leave. Sec. 4602. Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act Limitation. Sec. 4603. Regulatory Authorities under the Emergency Paid Sick Leave                Act. Sec. 4604. Unemployment insurance. Sec. 4605. OMB Waiver of Paid Family and Paid Sick Leave. Sec. 4606. Paid leave for rehired employees. Sec. 4607. Advance refunding of credits.  DIVISION E--TEMPORARY PERMIT USE TO GUARANTEE MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUNDS  Sec. 5001. Non-applicability of restrictions on ESF during national                emergency.                      DIVISION F--BUDGETARY PROVISIONS  Sec. 6001. Emergency designation.               DIVISION A--SMALL BUSINESS INTERRUPTION LOANS       SEC. 1101. DEFINITIONS.  

       In this division-- 

       (1) the terms ``Administration'' and ``Administrator'' mean       the Small Business Administration and the Administrator       thereof; and 

       (2) the term ``small business concern'' has the meaning       given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 632).       SEC. 1102. 7(A) LOAN PROGRAM.  

       (a) Definition of Covered Period.--In this section, the       term ``covered period'' means the period beginning on March       1, 2020 and ending on December 31, 2020. 

       (b) Increased Eligibility for Certain Small Businesses and       Organizations.-- 

       (1) In general.--During the covered period, any business       concern, private nonprofit organization, or public nonprofit       organization which employs not more than 500 employees shall       be eligible to receive a loan made under section 7(a) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)), in addition to small       business concerns. 

       (2) Exclusion of nonprofits receiving medicaid       expenditures.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a nonprofit       entity eligible for payment for items or services furnished       under a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act       (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) or under a waiver of such plan. 

       (c) Maximum Loan Amount.--During the covered period, with       respect to any loan guaranteed under section 7(a) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) for which an       application is approved or pending approval on or after the       date of enactment of this Act, the maximum loan amount shall       be the lesser of-- 

       (1) the product obtained by multiplying-- 

       (A) the average total monthly payments by the applicant for       payroll, mortgage payments, rent payments, and payments on       any other debt obligations incurred during the 1 year period       before the date on which the loan is made, except that, in       the case of an applicant that is seasonal employer, as       determined by the Administrator, the average total monthly       payments for payroll shall be for the period beginning March       1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2019; by 

       (B) 4; or 

       (2) $10,000,000. 

       (d) Allowable Uses of Program Loans.-- 

       (1) In general.--During the covered period, a recipient of       a loan made under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 636(a)) (including a recipient of assistance under the       Community Advantage Pilot Program of the Administration) may,       in addition to the allowable uses of such a loan, use the       proceeds of the loan for-- 

       (A) payroll support, including paid sick, medical, or       family leave, and costs related to the continuation of group       health care benefits during those periods of leave; 

       (B) employee salaries; 

       (C) mortgage payments; 

       (D) rent (including rent under a lease agreement); 

       (E) utilities; and 

       (F) any other debt obligations that were incurred before       the covered period. 

       (2) Delegated authority.-- 

       (A) In general.--For purposes of making loans for the       purposes described in paragraph (1), a lender under section       7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) shall be       considered to have delegated authority to make and approve       loans under such section 7(a) based on an evaluation of the       eligibility of the borrower. 

       (B) Considerations.--In evaluating the eligibility of a       borrower for a loan under section 7(a) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) with the terms described in this       subsection and subsection (c), a lender shall only consider       whether the borrower-- 

       (i) was in operation on March 1, 2020; and 

       (ii) had employees for whom the borrower paid salaries and       payroll taxes. 

       (3) Limitation.--A borrower that receives assistance under       section 7(b)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(b)(2)) related to COVID-19 for purposes of paying payroll       and providing payroll support shall not be eligible for a       loan described in paragraph (1) for the same purpose. 

       (e) Fee Waiver for 7(a) Loans.--During the covered period,       with respect to each loan guaranteed under section 7(a) of       the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a))-- 

       (1) in lieu of the fee otherwise applicable under section       7(a)(23)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)(23)(A)), the Administrator shall collect no fee or       reduce fees to the maximum extent possible; and 

       (2) for which the application is approved on or after the       date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall, in       lieu of the fee otherwise applicable under section       7(a)(18)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)(18)(A)), collect no fee or reduce fees to the maximum       extent possible. 

       (f) Guarantee Amount for 7(a) Loans.-- 

       (1) In general.--Section 7(a)(2)(A) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``equal       to--'' and all that follows through the end of the       subparagraph and inserting ``equal to 100 percent of the       balance of the financing outstanding at the time of       disbursement of the loan.''. 

       (2) Prospective repeal.--Effective on January 1, 2021,       section 7(a)(2)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``equal to 100 percent       of the balance of financing outstanding at the time of       disbursement of the loan'' and inserting ``equal to-- 

       ``(i) 75 percent of the balance of the financing       outstanding at the time of disbursement of the loan, if such       balance exceeds $150,000; or 

       ``(ii) 85 percent of the balance of the financing       outstanding at the time of disbursement of the loan, if such       balance is less than or equal to $150,000.''. 

       (g) Deferment of 7(a) Loans.-- 

       (1) Definitions .-- 

       (A) Eligible borrower.--The term ``eligible borrower''       means-- 

       (i) a small business concern; or 

       (ii) an organization made eligible by subsection (b) of       this section for a loan under section 7(a) of the Small       Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)). 

       (B) Impacted borrower.-- 

       (i) In general.--In this subsection, the term ``impacted       borrower'' means an eligible borrower that--  

       (I) is in operation on March 1, 2020; and 

       (II) has an application for a loan made under section 7(a)       of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) that is approved       or pending approval on or after the date of enactment of this       Act.  

       (ii) Presumption.--For purposes of this subsection, an       impacted borrower is presumed to have been adversely impacted       by COVID-19. 

       (2) Deferral.--During the covered period, the Administrator       shall-- 

       (A) consider each eligible borrower that applies for a loan       under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)) to be an impacted borrower; and 

       (B) require lenders under such section 7(a) to provide       complete payment deferment relief for impacted borrowers with       loans guaranteed under such section 7(a) for a period of not       more than 1 year. 

       (3) Secondary market.--During the covered period, with       respect to a loan made under 7(a) of the Small Business Act       (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) that is sold on the secondary market, if       an investor declines to approve a deferral requested by a       lender under paragraph (2), the Administrator shall exercise       the authority to purchase the loan so that the impacted       borrower may receive a deferral for a period of not more than       1 year. 

       (4) Guidance.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall provide       guidance to lenders under section 7(a) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) on the deferment process described in       this subsection. 

       (h) Commitments for 7(a) Loans.--During the covered       period-- 

       (1) there shall be no limitation on the commitments for       general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)); and 

       (2) the amount authorized for commitments for such loans       under the heading ``business loans program account'' under       the heading ``Small Business Administration'' under title V       of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-      93; 133 Stat. 2475) shall not apply. 

       (i) Express Loans.-- 

       (1) In general.--Section 7(a)(31)(D) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(31)(D)) is       amended by striking ``$350,000'' and inserting       ``$1,000,000''. 

       (2) Prospective repeal.--Effective on January 1, 2021,       section 7(a)(31)(D) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)(31)(D)) is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' and       inserting ``$350,000''.       SEC. 1103. ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT.  

       (a) Definitions.--In this section-- 

       (1) the term ``covered small business concern'' means a       small business concern that is located in an area that is       substantially affected by the COVID-19; 

       (2) the term ``resource partner'' means-- 

       (A) a small business development center; and 

       (B) a women's business center; 

       (3) the term ``small business development center'' has the       meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small Business Act       (15 U.S.C. 632); 

       (4) the term ``substantially affected by COVID-19'' means,       with respect to a covered small business concern, that the       covered small business concern has experienced-- 

       (A) supply chain disruptions, including changes in-- 

       (i) quantity and lead time, including the number of       shipments of components and delays in shipments; 

       (ii) quality, including shortages in supply for quality       control reasons; and 

       (iii) technology, including a compromised payment network; 

       (B) staffing challenges; 

       (C) a decrease in sales or customers; or 

       (D) shuttered businesses; and 

       (5) the term ``women's business center'' means a women's       business center described in section 29 of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 656). 

       (b) Education, Training, and Advising Grants.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Administration may provide financial       assistance in the form of grants to resource partners to       provide education, training, and advising to covered small       business concerns. 

       (2) Use of funds.--Grants under this subsection shall be       used for the education, training, and advising of covered       small business concerns and their employees on-- 

       (A) accessing and applying for resources provided by the       Administration and other Federal resources relating to access       to capital and business resiliency; 

       (B) the hazards and prevention of the transmission and       communication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases; 

       (C) the potential effects of COVID-19 on the supply chains,       distribution, and sale of products of covered small business       concerns and the mitigation of those effects; 

       (D) the management and practice of telework to reduce       possible transmission of COVID-19; 

       (E) the management and practice of remote customer service       by electronic or other means; 

       (F) the risks of and mitigation of cyber threats in remote       customer service or telework practices; 

       (G) the mitigation of the effects of reduced travel or       outside activities on covered small business concerns during       COVID-19 or similar occurrences; and 

       (H) any other relevant business practices necessary to       mitigate the economic effects of COVID-19 or similar       occurrences. 

       (3) Grant determination.-- 

       (A) Small business development centers.--The Administration       shall award 80 percent of funds authorized to carry out this       subsection to small business development centers, which shall       be awarded pursuant to a formula jointly developed,       negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both       parties, between the association formed under section       21(a)(3)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       648(a)(3)(A)) and the Administration. 

       (B) Women's business centers.--The Administration shall       award 20 percent of funds authorized to carry out this       subsection to women's business centers, which shall be       awarded pursuant to a process established by the       Administration in consultation with recipients of assistance. 

       (C) No matching funds required.--Matching funds shall not       be required for any grant under this subsection. 

       (4) Goals and metrics.-- 

       (A) In general.--Goals and metrics for the funds made       available under this subsection shall be jointly developed,       negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both       parties, between the resource partners and the Administrator,       which shall-- 

       (i) take into consideration the extent of the circumstances       relating to the spread of COVID-19, or similar occurrences,       that affect covered small business concerns located in the       areas covered by the resource partner, particularly in rural       areas or economically distressed areas; 

       (ii) generally follow the use of funds outlined in       paragraph (2), but shall not restrict the activities of       resource partners in responding to unique situations; and 

       (iii) encourage resource partners to develop and provide       services to covered small business concerns. 

       (B) Public availability.--The Administrator shall make       publicly available the methodology by which the Administrator       and resource partners jointly develop the metrics and goals       described in subparagraph (A). 

       (c) Resource Partner Association Grants.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Administrator may provide grants to an       association or associations representing resource partners to       establish a centralized hub for COVID-19 information, which       shall include-- 

       (A) an online platform that consolidates resources and       information available across multiple Federal agencies for       small business concerns related to COVID-19; and 

       (B) a training program to educate resource partner       counselors on the resources and information described in       subparagraph (A). 

       (2) Goals and metrics.--Goals and metrics for the funds       made available under this subsection shall be jointly       developed, negotiated, and agreed upon, with full       participation of both parties, between the association or       associations receiving a grant under this subsection and the       Administrator. 

       (d) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the       Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business       and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small       Business of the House of Representatives a report-- 

       (1) that describes, with respect to the initial year       covered by the report-- 

       (A) the programs and services developed and provided by the       Administration and resource partners under subsection (b); 

       (B) the initial efforts to provide those services under       subsection (b); and 

       (C) the online platform and training developed and provided       by the Administration and the association or associations       under subsection (c); and 

       (2) that describes, with respect to the subsequent years       covered by the report-- 

       (A) with respect to the grant program under subsection       (b)-- 

       (i) the efforts of the Administrator and resource partners       to develop services to assist covered small business       concerns; 

       (ii) the challenges faced by owners of covered small       business concerns in accessing services provided by the       Administration and resource partners; 

       (iii) the number of unique covered small business concerns       that were served by the Administration and resource partners;       and 

       (iv) other relevant outcome performance data with respect       to covered small business concerns, including the number of       employees affected, the effect on sales, the disruptions of       supply chains, and the efforts made by the Administration and       resource partners to mitigate these effects; and 

       (B) with respect to the grant program under subsection       (c)-- 

       (i) the efforts of the Administrator and the association or       associations to develop and evolve an online resource for       small business concerns; and 

       (ii) the efforts of the Administrator and the association       or associations to develop a training program for resource       partner counselors, including the number of counselors       trained.       SEC. 1104. WAIVER OF MATCHING FUNDS REQUIREMENT UNDER THE                     WOMEN'S BUSINESS CENTER PROGRAM.  

       During the 3-month period beginning on the date of       enactment of this Act, the requirement relating to obtaining       cash contributions from non-Federal sources under section       29(c)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656(c)(1)) is       waived for any recipient of assistance under such section 29.       SEC. 1105. LOAN FORGIVENESS.  

       (a) Definitions.--In this section-- 

       (1) the term ``covered 7(a) loan'' means a loan guaranteed       under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.       636(a)) that is made during the covered period; 

       (2) the term ``covered period'' means the period beginning       on March 1, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020; 

       (3) the term ``eligible recipient'' means the recipient of       a covered 7(a) loan; and 

       (4) the term ``payroll costs'' shall not include-- 

       (A) the compensation of an individual employee in excess of       $33,333 during the covered period; 

       (B) qualified sick leave wages for which a credit is       allowed under section 7001 of the Families First Coronavirus       Response Act; or 

       (C) qualified family leave wages for which a credit is       allowed under section 7003 of the Families First Coronavirus       Response Act. 

       (b) Forgiveness.--An eligible recipient shall be eligible       for forgiveness of indebtedness on a covered 7(a) loan in an       amount equal to the cost of maintaining payroll continuity       during the covered period. 

       (c) Treatment of Amounts Forgiven.-- 

       (1) In general.--Amounts which have been forgiven under       this section shall be considered canceled indebtedness by       lenders authorized under section 7(a) of the Small Business       Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)). 

       (2) For purposes of redemption of guarantees.--For purposes       of the redemption of a guarantee by the lender for a covered       7(a) loan, amounts which are forgiven under this section       shall be treated as a default, in accordance with the       procedures that are otherwise applicable to a default on a       loan guaranteed under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act       (15 U.S.C. 636(a)). 

       (d) Limits on Amount of Forgiveness.-- 

       (1) In general.--The amount of loan forgiveness under this       section for an eligible recipient shall not exceed the sum       of-- 

       (A) the total payroll costs incurred by the eligible       recipient during the covered period; and 

       (B) the amount of payments made during the covered period       on debt obligations that were incurred before the covered       period.  

       (2) Reduction based on reduction in number of employees.-- 

       (A) In general.--The amount of loan forgiveness under this       section shall be reduced by the percentage equal to the       difference obtained by subtracting-- 

       (i) the quotient obtained by dividing--  

       (I) the average number of full-time equivalent employees       per month employed by the eligible recipient during the       covered period; by 

       (II)(aa) the average number of full time equivalent       employees per month employed by the eligible recipient during       the period beginning on March 1, 2019 and ending on June 30,       2019; or 

       (bb) in the case of an eligible recipient that is seasonal       employer, as determined by the Administrator, the average       number of full-time equivalent employees per month employed       by the eligible recipient during the period beginning on       March 1, 2019 and ending on June 30, 2019; from  

       (ii) 1. 

       (B) Calculation of average number of employees.--The       average number of full-time equivalent employees shall be       determined by calculating the average number of employees for       each pay period falling within a month. 

       (3) Reduction relating to compensation.--The amount of loan       forgiveness under this section shall also be reduced by the       amount of any reduction in excess of 25 percent of       compensation in the most recent full quarter in which the       employee was paid in compensation during the covered period       of any employee who was compensated-- 

       (A) in an amount less than $33,333 during the period       beginning on March 1, 2019 and ending on June 30, 2019; or 

       (B) not more than $100,000 on annualized basis during 2019. 

       (4) Exception for tipped workers.--An eligible recipient       with tipped employees described in section 3(m)(2)(A) of the       Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(m)(2)(A)) may       receive forgiveness for additional wages paid to those       employees. 

       (e) Application.--An eligible recipient seeking loan       forgiveness under this section shall submit to the lender       that originated the covered 7(a) loan an application, which       shall include documentation verifying the number of full-time       equivalent employees on payroll and pay rates for the periods       described in subsection (d), including-- 

       (1) payroll tax filings reported to the Internal Revenue       Service; 

       (2) State income, payroll, and unemployment insurance       filings; 

       (3) financial statements verifying payment on debt       obligations incurred before the covered period; and 

       (4) any other documentation the Administrator determines       necessary. 

       (f) Certification.--An eligible recipient receiving loan       forgiveness under this section shall make a good faith       certification that the uncertainty of current economic       conditions justifies the loan request to support the ongoing       operations of the borrower, and acknowledges that funds will       be used to retain workers and maintain payroll. 

       (g) Prohibition on Forgiveness Without Documentation.--No       eligible recipient shall receive forgiveness under this       section without submitting to the lender that originated the       covered 7(a) loan the documentation required under subsection       (e). 

       (h) Decision.--Not later than 15 days after the date on       which a lender receives an application for loan forgiveness       under this section from an eligible recipient, the lender       shall issue a decision on the an application. 

       (i) Taxability.--Canceled indebtedness under this section       shall be excluded from gross income for purposes of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (j) Rule of Construction.--The cancellation of indebtedness       on a covered 7(a) loan under this section shall not otherwise       modify the terms and conditions of the covered 7(a) loan. 

       (k) Regulations.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue guidance       and regulations implementing this section.       SEC. 1106. DIRECT APPROPRIATIONS.  

       (a) In General.--There is appropriated, out of amounts in       the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year       ending September 30, 2020, to remain available until       September 30, 2021, for additional amounts-- 

       (1) $299,400,000,000 under the heading ``Small Business       Administration--Business Loans Program Account'' for the cost       of guaranteed loans as authorized under section 7(a) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)); 

       (2) $300,000,000 under the heading ``Small Business       Administration--Salaries and Expenses'' for salaries and       expenses of the Administration; 

       (3) $25,000,000 under the heading ``Small Business       Administration--Office of Inspector General'' for necessary       expenses of the Office of Inspector General of the       Administration in carrying out the provisions of the       Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); 

       (4) $265,000,000 under the heading ``Small Business       Administration--Entrepreneurial Development Programs'', of       which-- 

       (A) $240,000,000 shall be for carrying section 1103(b) of       this Act; and 

       (B) $25,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 1103(c)       of this Act; and 

       (5) $10,000,000 under the heading ``Department of       Commerce--Minority Business Development Agency'' for minority       business centers of the Minority Business Development Agency       to provide technical assistance to small business concerns. 

       (b) Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the       Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee       on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a detailed       expenditure plan for using the amounts appropriated under       subsection (a).       SEC. 1107. MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.  

       (a) Definitions.--In this section-- 

       (1) the term ``Agency'' means the Minority Business       Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; 

       (2) the term ``covered small business concern'' means a       small business concern (as defined in section 3 of the Small       Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632) that is located in an area that       is substantially affected by the COVID-19; 

       (3) the term ``minority business center'' means a Business       Center of the Agency; and 

       (4) the term ``substantially affected by COVID-19'' means,       with respect to a covered small business concern, that the       covered small business concern has experienced-- 

       (A) supply chain disruptions, including changes in-- 

       (i) quantity and lead time, including the number of       shipments of components and delays in shipments; 

       (ii) quality, including shortages in supply for quality       control reasons; and 

       (iii) technology, including a compromised payment network; 

       (B) staffing challenges; 

       (C) a decrease in sales or customers; or 

       (D) shuttered businesses. 

       (b) Education, Training, and Advising Grants.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Agency may provide financial       assistance in the form of grants to minority business centers       to provide education, training, and advising to covered small       business concerns. 

       (2) Use of funds.--Grants under this section shall be used       for the education, training, and advising of covered small       business concerns and their employees on-- 

       (A) accessing and applying for resources provided by the       Agency and other Federal resources relating to access to       capital and business resiliency; 

       (B) the hazards and prevention of the transmission and       communication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases; 

       (C) the potential effects of COVID-19 on the supply chains,       distribution, and sale of products of covered small business       concerns and the mitigation of those effects; 

       (D) the management and practice of telework to reduce       possible transmission of COVID-19; 

       (E) the management and practice of remote customer service       by electronic or other means; 

       (F) the risks of and mitigation of cyber threats in remote       customer service or telework practices; 

       (G) the mitigation of the effects of reduced travel or       outside activities on covered small business concerns during       COVID-19 or similar occurrences; and 

       (H) any other relevant business practices necessary to       mitigate the economic effects of COVID-19 or similar       occurrences. 

       (3) No matching funds required.--Matching funds shall not       be required for any grant under this section. 

       (4) Goals and metrics.-- 

       (A) In general.--Goals and metrics for the funds made       available under this section shall be jointly developed,       negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both       parties, between the minority business centers and the       Agency, which shall-- 

       (i) take into consideration the extent of the circumstances       relating to the spread of COVID-19, or similar occurrences,       that affect covered small business concerns located in the       areas covered by the minority business centers, particularly       in rural areas or economically distressed areas; 

       (ii) generally follow the use of funds outlined in       paragraph (2), but shall not restrict the activities of       minority business centers in responding to unique situations;       and 

       (iii) encourage minority business centers to develop and       provide services to covered small business concerns. 

       (B) Public availability.--The Agency shall make publicly       available the methodology by which the Agency and minority       business centers jointly develop the metrics and goals       described in subparagraph (A). 

       (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized       to be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this section, to       remain available until expended.       SEC. 1108. WAIVER OF PREPAYMENT PENALTY.  

       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for a loan made       under the authority under this division or an amendment made       by this division, there shall be no prepayment penalty for       any payment on the loan made on or before December 31, 2020.       SEC. 1109. UNITED STATES TREASURY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                     AUTHORITY.  

       (a) Authority to Include Additional Financial       Institutions.--The Department of the Treasury, in       consultation with the Administration and the other Federal       financial regulatory agencies (as defined in section 313(r)       of title 31, United States Code), shall establish criteria       for insured depository institutions (as defined in section 3       of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)) and       other specialized lenders, that do not already participate in       lending under programs of the Administration, to participate       in a small business interruption loans program to provide       loans under section 7(a) of the Small       Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in accordance with this       section until the date on which the national emergency       declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act       (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the Coronavirus       Disease 2019 (COVID-19) expires. 

       (b) Criteria.--Due to exigent circumstances, the       eligibility criteria that would otherwise be applicable a       loan made under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15       U.S.C. 636(a)) shall not apply to a loan made under this       section. 

       (c) Safety and Soundness.--An insured depository       institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit       Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)) or other specialized lender       may only participate in the program established under this       section if participation does not affect the safety and       soundness of the institution or lender. 

       (d) Additional Regulations.--The Secretary of the Treasury,       in consultation with the Administrator, shall issue       regulations and guidance in order to direct additional       lenders under this section and establish additional terms       that set out compensation, underwriting standards, interest       rates, maturity, and other relevant terms and conditions. 

       (e) Program Administration.--Under the infrastructure of       the Department of the Treasury and with guidance from the       Secretary of the Treasury, the Administration shall       administer the program established under this section until       the date on which the national emergency declared by the       President under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601       et seq.) with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-      19) expires.  

      DIVISION B--RELIEF FOR INDIVIDUALS, FAMILIES, AND BUSINESSES              TITLE I--REBATES AND OTHER INDIVIDUAL PROVISIONS       SEC. 2101. 2020 RECOVERY REBATES FOR INDIVIDUALS.  

       (a) In General.--Subchapter B of chapter 65 of subtitle F       of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting       after section 6427 the following new section:       ``SEC. 6428. 2020 RECOVERY REBATES FOR INDIVIDUALS.  

       ``(a) In General.--In the case of an eligible individual,       there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by       subtitle A for the first taxable year beginning in 2020 an       amount equal to the lesser of-- 

       ``(1) net income tax liability, or 

       ``(2) $1,200 ($2,400 in the case of a joint return). 

       ``(b) Special Rules.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--In the case of a taxpayer described in       paragraph (2)-- 

       ``(A) the amount determined under subsection (a) shall not       be less than $600 ($1,200 in the case of a joint return), and 

       ``(B) the amount determined under subsection (a) (after the       application of subparagraph (A)) shall be increased by the       product of $500 multiplied by the number of qualifying       children (within the meaning of section 24(c)) of the       taxpayer. 

       ``(2) Taxpayer described.--A taxpayer is described in this       paragraph if the taxpayer-- 

       ``(A) has qualifying income of at least $2,500, or 

       ``(B) has-- 

       ``(i) net income tax liability which is greater than zero,       and 

       ``(ii) gross income which is greater than the basic       standard deduction. 

       ``(c) Treatment of Credit.--The credit allowed by       subsection (a) shall be treated as allowed by subpart C of       part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1. 

       ``(d) Limitation Based on Adjusted Gross Income.--The       amount of the credit allowed by subsection (a) (determined       without regard to this subsection and subsection (f)) shall       be reduced (but not below zero) by 5 percent of so much of       the taxpayer's adjusted gross income as exceeds $75,000       ($150,000 in the case of a joint return). 

       ``(e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section-- 

       ``(1) Qualifying income.--The term `qualifying income'       means-- 

       ``(A) earned income, 

       ``(B) social security benefits (within the meaning of       section 86(d)), and 

       ``(C) any compensation or pension received under chapter       11, chapter 13, or chapter 15 of title 38, United States       Code. 

       ``(2) Net income tax liability.--The term `net income tax       liability' means the excess of-- 

       ``(A) the sum of the taxpayer's regular tax liability       (within the meaning of section 26(b)) and the tax imposed by       section 55 for the taxable year, over 

       ``(B) the credits allowed by part IV (other than section 24       and subpart C thereof) of subchapter A of chapter 1. 

       ``(3) Eligible individual.--The term `eligible individual'       means any individual other than-- 

       ``(A) any nonresident alien individual, 

       ``(B) any individual with respect to whom a deduction under       section 151 is allowable to another taxpayer for a taxable       year beginning in the calendar year in which the individual's       taxable year begins, and 

       ``(C) an estate or trust. 

       ``(4) Earned income.--The term `earned income' has the       meaning set forth in section 32(c)(2) except that such term       shall not include net earnings from self-employment which are       not taken into account in computing taxable income. 

       ``(5) Basic standard deduction.--The term `basic standard       deduction' shall have the same meaning as when used in       section 63 (as modified by subsection (c)(7) of such       section). 

       ``(f) Coordination With Advance Refunds of Credit.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--The amount of credit which would (but       for this paragraph) be allowable under this section shall be       reduced (but not below zero) by the aggregate refunds and       credits made or allowed to the taxpayer under subsection (g).       Any failure to so reduce the credit shall be treated as       arising out of a mathematical or clerical error and assessed       according to section 6213(b)(1). 

       ``(2) Joint returns.--In the case of a refund or credit       made or allowed under subsection (g) with respect to a joint       return, half of such refund or credit shall be treated as       having been made or allowed to each individual filing such       return. 

       ``(g) Advance Refunds and Credits.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (5), each       individual who was an eligible individual for such       individual's first taxable year beginning in 2018 shall be       treated as having made a payment against the tax imposed by       chapter 1 for such first taxable year in an amount equal to       the advance refund amount for such taxable year. 

       ``(2) Advance refund amount.--For purposes of paragraph       (1), the advance refund amount is the amount that would have       been allowed as a credit under this section for such first       taxable year if this section (other than subsection (f) and       this subsection) had applied to such taxable year. 

       ``(3) Timing of payments.--The Secretary shall, subject to       the provisions of this title, refund or credit any       overpayment attributable to this section as rapidly as       possible. No refund or credit shall be made or allowed under       this subsection after December 31, 2020. 

       ``(4) No interest.--No interest shall be allowed on any       overpayment attributable to this section. 

       ``(5) Alternate taxable year.--In the case of an individual       who, at the time of any determination made pursuant to       paragraph (3), has not filed a tax return for the year       described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may apply such       paragraph by substituting `2019' for `2018'. 

       ``(h) Identification Number Requirement.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--No credit shall be allowed under       subsection (a) to an eligible individual who does not include       on the return of tax for the taxable year-- 

       ``(A) such individual's valid identification number, 

       ``(B) in the case of a joint return, the valid       identification number of such individual's spouse, and 

       ``(C) in the case of any qualifying child taken into       account under subsection (b)(1)(B), the valid identification       number of such qualifying child. 

       ``(2) Valid identification number.-- 

       ``(A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the term       `valid identification number' means a social security number       (as such term is defined in section 24(h)(7)). 

       ``(B) Adoption taxpayer identification number.--For       purposes of paragraph (1)(C), in the case of a qualifying       child who is adopted, the term `valid identification number'       shall include the adoption taxpayer identification number of       such child. 

       ``(i) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such       regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to carry       out the purposes of this section.''. 

       (b) Administrative Amendments.-- 

       (1) Definition of deficiency.--Section 6211(b)(4)(A) of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and       36B, 168(k)(4)'' and inserting ``36B, and 6428''. 

       (2) Mathematical or clerical error authority.--Section       6213(g)(2)(L) of such Code is amended by striking ``or 32''       and inserting ``32, or 6428''. 

       (c) Treatment of Possessions.-- 

       (1) Payments to possessions.-- 

       (A) Mirror code possession.--The Secretary of the Treasury       shall pay to each possession of the United States which has a       mirror code tax system amounts equal to the loss (if any) to       that possession by reason of the amendments made by this       section. Such amounts shall be determined by the Secretary of       the Treasury based on information provided by the government       of the respective possession. 

       (B) Other possessions.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall       pay to each possession of the United States which does not       have a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the       Secretary of the Treasury as being equal to the aggregate       benefits (if any) that would have been provided to residents       of such possession by reason of the amendments made by this       section if a mirror code tax system had been in effect in       such possession. The preceding sentence shall not apply       unless the respective possession has a plan, which has been       approved by the Secretary of the Treasury, under which such       possession will promptly distribute such payments to its       residents. 

       (2) Coordination with credit allowed against united states       income taxes.--No credit shall be allowed against United       States income taxes under section 6428 of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by this section) to any       person-- 

       (A) to whom a credit is allowed against taxes imposed by       the possession by reason of the amendments made by this       section, or 

       (B) who is eligible for a payment under a plan described in       paragraph (1)(B).  

       (3) Definitions and special rules.-- 

       (A) Possession of the united states.--For purposes of this       subsection, the term ``possession of the United States''       includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Commonwealth       of the Northern Mariana Islands. 

       (B) Mirror code tax system.--For purposes of this       subsection, the term ``mirror code tax system'' means, with       respect to any possession of the United States, the income       tax system of such possession if the income tax liability of       the residents of such possession under such system is       determined by reference to the income tax laws of the United       States as if such possession were the United States. 

       (C) Treatment of payments.--For purposes of section 1324 of       title 31, United States Code, the payments under this section       shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from a       credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such       section. 

       (d) Exception From Treasury Offset Program.--Any credit or       refund allowed or made to any individual by reason of section       6428 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by this       section) or by reason of subsection (c) of this section shall       not be subject to reduction or offset pursuant to-- 

       (1) section 3716 or 3720A of title 31, United States Code,       or 

       (2) subsection (d), (e), or (f) of section 6402 of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (e) Appropriations to Carry Out Rebates.-- 

       (1) In general.--Immediately upon the enactment of this       Act, the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in       the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year       ending September 30, 2020: 

       (A) Department of the treasury.-- 

       (i) For an additional amount for ``Department of the       Treasury--Bureau of the Fiscal Service--Salaries and       Expenses'', $78,650,000, to remain available until September       30, 2021. 

       (ii) For an additional amount for ``Department of the       Treasury--Internal Revenue Service--Taxpayer Services'',       $70,200,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021. 

       (iii) For an additional amount for ``Department of the       Treasury--Internal Revenue Service--Operations Support'',       $209,600,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021. 

       (B) Social security administration.--For an additional       amount for ``Social Security Administration--Limitation on       Administrative Expenses'', $38,000,000, to remain available       until September 30, 2020. 

       (2) Reports.--No later than 15 days after enactment of this       Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a plan to the       Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives       and the Senate detailing the expected use of the funds       provided by paragraph (1)(A). Beginning 90 days after       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall       submit a quarterly report to the Committees on Appropriations       of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing the       actual expenditure of funds provided by paragraph (1)(A) and       the expected expenditure of such funds in the subsequent       quarter. 

       (f) Conforming Amendments.-- 

       (1) Paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, United       States Code, is amended by inserting ``6428,'' after       ``54B(h),''. 

       (2) The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 of       subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by       inserting after the item relating to section 6427 the       following:  ``Sec. 6428. 2020 Recovery Rebates for individuals.''.       SEC. 2102. DELAY OF CERTAIN DEADLINES.  

       (a) Filing Deadlines for 2019.-- 

       (1) In general.--In the case of returns for taxable year       2019, including for purposes of section 6151(a) of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 6072(a) of such Code       shall be applied-- 

       (A) by substituting ``July'' for ``April'', and 

       (B) by substituting ``the seventh month'' for ``the fourth       month''. 

       (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall apply to all       returns required to be filed for taxable year 2019. 

       (b) Estimated Tax Payments for Individuals.-- 

       (1) In general.--In the case of an individual, the due date       for any required installment under section 6654 of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which (but for the application       of this section) would be due during the applicable period       shall not be due before October 15, 2020, and all such       installments shall be treated as one installment due on such       date. The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's       delegate) shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance       as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this       subsection. 

       (2) Applicable period.--For purposes of this subsection,       the applicable period is the period beginning on the date of       the enactment of this Act and ending before October 15, 2020.       SEC. 2103. SPECIAL RULES FOR USE OF RETIREMENT FUNDS.  

       (a) Tax-favored Withdrawals From Retirement Plans.-- 

       (1) In general.--Section 72(t) of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 shall not apply to any coronavirus-related       distribution. 

       (2) Aggregate dollar limitation.-- 

       (A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, the       aggregate amount of distributions received by an individual       which may be treated as coronavirus-related distributions for       any taxable year shall not exceed $100,000. 

       (B) Treatment of plan distributions.--If a distribution to       an individual would (without regard to subparagraph (A)) be a       coronavirus-related distribution, a plan shall not be treated       as violating any requirement of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986 merely because the plan treats such distribution as a       coronavirus-related distribution, unless the aggregate amount       of such distributions from all plans maintained by the       employer (and any member of any controlled group which       includes the employer) to such individual exceeds $100,000. 

       (C) Controlled group.--For purposes of subparagraph (B),       the term ``controlled group'' means any group treated as a       single employer under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of       section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (3) Amount distributed may be repaid.-- 

       (A) In general.--Any individual who receives a coronavirus-      related distribution may, at any time during the 3-year       period beginning on the day after the date on which such       distribution was received, make 1 or more contributions in an       aggregate amount not to exceed the amount of such       distribution to an eligible retirement plan of which such       individual is a beneficiary and to which a rollover       contribution of such distribution could be made under section       402(c), 403(a)(4), 403(b)(8), 408(d)(3), or 457(e)(16), of       the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as the case may be. 

       (B) Treatment of repayments of distributions from eligible       retirement plans other than iras.--For purposes of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if a contribution is made       pursuant to subparagraph (A) with respect to a coronavirus-      related distribution from an eligible retirement plan other       than an individual retirement plan, then the taxpayer shall,       to the extent of the amount of the contribution, be treated       as having received the coronavirus-related distribution in an       eligible rollover distribution (as defined in section       402(c)(4) of such Code) and as having transferred the amount       to the eligible retirement plan in a direct trustee to       trustee transfer within 60 days of the distribution. 

       (C) Treatment of repayments of distributions from iras.--      For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, if a       contribution is made pursuant to subparagraph (A) with       respect to a coronavirus-related distribution from an       individual retirement plan (as defined by section 7701(a)(37)       of such Code), then, to the extent of the amount of the       contribution, the coronavirus-related distribution shall be       treated as a distribution described in section 408(d)(3) of       such Code and as having been transferred to the eligible       retirement plan in a direct trustee to trustee transfer       within 60 days of the distribution. 

       (4) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection-- 

       (A) Coronavirus-related distribution.--Except as provided       in paragraph (2), the term ``coronavirus-related       distribution'' means any distribution from an eligible       retirement plan made-- 

       (i) on or after the date of the enactment of this Act and       before December 31, 2020, 

       (ii) to an individual--  

       (I) who is diagnosed with the virus SARS-CoV-2 or with       coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) by a test approved by the       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 

       (II) whose spouse or dependent (as defined in section 152       of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) is diagnosed with such       virus or disease by such a test, or 

       (III) who experiences adverse financial consequences as a       result of being quarantined, being furloughed or laid off or       having work hours reduced due to such virus or disease, being       unable to work due to lack of child care due to such virus or       disease, closing or reducing hours of a business owned or       operated by the individual due to such virus or disease, or       other factors as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury       (or the Secretary's delegate).  

       (B) Eligible retirement plan.--The term ``eligible       retirement plan'' has the meaning given such term by section       402(c)(8)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (5) Income inclusion spread over 3-year period.-- 

       (A) In general.--In the case of any coronavirus-related       distribution, unless the taxpayer elects not to have this       paragraph apply for any taxable year, any amount required to       be included in gross income for such taxable year shall be so       included ratably over the 3-taxable-year period beginning       with such taxable year. 

       (B) Special rule.--For purposes of subparagraph (A), rules       similar to the rules of subparagraph (E) of section       408A(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall apply. 

       (6) Special rules.-- 

       (A) Exemption of distributions from trustee to trustee       transfer and withholding rules.--For purposes of sections       401(a)(31), 402(f), and 3405 of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986, coronavirus-related distributions shall not be treated       as eligible rollover distributions. 

       (B) Coronavirus-related distributions treated as meeting       plan distribution requirements.--For purposes of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986, a coronavirus-related distribution       shall be treated as meeting the requirements of sections       401(k)(2)(B)(i), 403(b)(7)(A)(i), 403(b)(11), and       457(d)(1)(A) of such Code. 

       (b) Loans From Qualified Plans.-- 

       (1) Increase in limit on loans not treated as       distributions.--In the case of any loan from a qualified       employer plan (as defined       under section 72(p)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986)       to a qualified individual made during the 180-day period       beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act-- 

       (A) clause (i) of section 72(p)(2)(A) of such Code shall be       applied by substituting ``$100,000'' for ``$50,000'', and 

       (B) clause (ii) of such section shall be applied by       substituting ``the present value of the nonforfeitable       accrued benefit of the employee under the plan'' for ``one-      half of the present value of the nonforfeitable accrued       benefit of the employee under the plan''. 

       (2) Delay of repayment.--In the case of a qualified       individual with an outstanding loan (on or after the date of       the enactment of this Act) from a qualified employer plan (as       defined in section 72(p)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986)-- 

       (A) if the due date pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (C) of       section 72(p)(2) of such Code for any repayment with respect       to such loan occurs during the period beginning on the date       of the enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2020,       such due date shall be delayed for 1 year (or, if later,       until the date which is 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act), 

       (B) any subsequent repayments with respect to any such loan       shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the delay in the       due date under subparagraph (A) and any interest accruing       during such delay, and 

       (C) in determining the 5-year period and the term of a loan       under subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 72(p)(2) of such       Code, the period described in subparagraph (A) of this       paragraph shall be disregarded. 

       (3) Qualified individual.--For purposes of this subsection,       the term ``qualified individual'' means any individual who is       described in subsection (a)(4)(A)(ii). 

       (c) Provisions Relating to Plan Amendments.-- 

       (1) In general.--If this subsection applies to any       amendment to any plan or annuity contract, such plan or       contract shall be treated as being operated in accordance       with the terms of the plan during the period described in       paragraph (2)(B)(i). 

       (2) Amendments to which subsection applies.-- 

       (A) In general.--This subsection shall apply to any       amendment to any plan or annuity contract which is made-- 

       (i) pursuant to any provision of this section, or pursuant       to any regulation issued by the Secretary of the Treasury or       the Secretary of Labor (or the delegate of either such       Secretary) under any provision of this section, and 

       (ii) on or before the last day of the first plan year       beginning on or after January 1, 2020, or such later date as       the Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's delegate)       may prescribe.      In the case of a governmental plan (as defined in section       414(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), clause (ii)       shall be applied by substituting the date which is 2 years       after the date otherwise applied under clause (ii). 

       (B) Conditions.--This subsection shall not apply to any       amendment unless-- 

       (i) during the period--  

       (I) beginning on the date that this section or the       regulation described in subparagraph (A)(i) takes effect (or       in the case of a plan or contract amendment not required by       this section or such regulation, the effective date specified       by the plan), and 

       (II) ending on the date described in subparagraph (A)(ii)       (or, if earlier, the date the plan or contract amendment is       adopted),       the plan or contract is operated as if such plan or contract       amendment were in effect, and 

       (ii) such plan or contract amendment applies retroactively       for such period.       SEC. 2104. ALLOWANCE OF PARTIAL ABOVE THE LINE DEDUCTION FOR                     CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS.  

       (a) In General.--Section 62(a) of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 is amended by inserting after paragraph (21) the       following new paragraph: 

       ``(22) Charitable contributions.--In the case of taxable       years beginning in 2020, the amount (not to exceed $300) of       qualified charitable contributions made by an eligible       taxpayer during the taxable year .''. 

       (b) Definitions.--Section 62 of such Code is amended by       adding at the end the following new subsection: 

       ``(f) Definitions Relating to Qualified Charitable       Contributions.--For purposes of subsection (a)(22)-- 

       ``(1) Eligible taxpayer.--The term `eligible taxpayer'       means any individual who does not elect to itemize       deductions. 

       ``(2) Qualified charitable contributions.--The term       `qualified charitable contribution' means a charitable       contribution (as defined in section 170(c))-- 

       ``(A) which is made in cash, 

       ``(B) for which a deduction is allowable under section 170       (determined without regard to subsection (b) thereof), and 

       ``(C) which is-- 

       ``(i) made to an organization described in section       170(b)(1)(A), and 

       ``(ii) not--  

       ``(I) to an organization described in section 509(a)(3), or 

       ``(II) for the establishment of a new, or maintenance of an       existing, donor advised fund (as defined in section       4966(d)(2)).       Such term shall not include any amount which is treated as a       charitable contribution made in such taxable year under       subsection (b)(1)(G) or (d)(1) of section 170.''. 

       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31,       2019.       SEC. 2105. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS ON CHARITABLE                     CONTRIBUTIONS DURING 2020.  

       (a) Temporary Suspension of Limitations on Certain Cash       Contributions.-- 

       (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in paragraph       (2), qualified contributions shall be disregarded in applying       subsections (b) and (d) of section 170 of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (2) Treatment of excess contributions.--For purposes of       section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986-- 

       (A) Individuals.--In the case of an individual-- 

       (i) Limitation.--Any qualified contribution shall be       allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate       of such contributions does not exceed the excess of the       taxpayer's contribution base (as defined in subparagraph (H)       of section 170(b)(1) of such Code) over the amount of all       other charitable contributions allowed under section       170(b)(1) of such Code. 

       (ii) Carryover.--If the aggregate amount of qualified       contributions made in the contribution year (within the       meaning of section 170(d)(1) of such Code) exceeds the       limitation of clause (i), such excess shall be added to the       excess described in section 170(b)(1)(G)(ii). 

       (B) Corporations.--In the case of a corporation-- 

       (i) Limitation.--Any qualified contribution shall be       allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate       of such contributions does not exceed the excess of 25       percent of the taxpayer's taxable income (as determined under       paragraph (2) of section 170(b) of such Code) over the amount       of all other charitable contributions allowed under such       paragraph. 

       (ii) Carryover.--If the aggregate amount of qualified       contributions made in the contribution year (within the       meaning of section 170(d)(2) of such Code) exceeds the       limitation of clause (i), such excess shall be appropriately       taken into account under section 170(d)(2) subject to the       limitations thereof. 

       (3) Qualified contributions.-- 

       (A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, the term       ``qualified contribution'' means any charitable contribution       (as defined in section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986) if-- 

       (i) such contribution is paid in cash during calendar year       2020 to an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A) of       such Code, and 

       (ii) the taxpayer has elected the application of this       section with respect to such contribution. 

       (B) Exception.--Such term shall not include a contribution       by a donor if the contribution is-- 

       (i) to an organization described in section 509(a)(3) of       the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or 

       (ii) for the establishment of a new, or maintenance of an       existing, donor advised fund (as defined in section       4966(d)(2) of such Code). 

       (C) Application of election to partnerships and s       corporations.--In the case of a partnership or S corporation,       the election under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be made       separately by each partner or shareholder. 

       (b) Increase in Limits on Contributions of Food       Inventory.--In the case of any charitable contribution of       food during 2020 to which section 170(e)(3)(C) of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 applies, subclauses (I) and       (II) of clause (ii) thereof shall each be applied by       substituting ``25 percent'' for ``15 percent.'' 

       (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to taxable       years ending after December 31, 2019.                       TITLE II--BUSINESS PROVISIONS       SEC. 2201. DELAY OF ESTIMATED TAX PAYMENTS FOR CORPORATIONS.  

       (a) In General.--In the case of a corporation, the due date       for any required installment under section 6655 of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which (but for the application       of this section) would be due during the applicable period       shall not be due before October 15, 2020, and all such       installments shall be treated as one installment due on such       date. The Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary's       delegate) shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance       as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this       section. 

       (b) Applicable Period.--For purposes of this section, the       applicable period is the period beginning on the date of the       enactment of this Act and ending before October 15, 2020.       SEC. 2202. DELAY OF PAYMENT OF EMPLOYER PAYROLL TAXES.  

       (a) In General.-- 

       (1) Taxes.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the       payment for applicable employment taxes for the payroll tax       deferral period shall not be due before the applicable date. 

       (2) Deposits.--Notwithstanding section 6302 of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986, an employer shall be treated as having       timely made all deposits of applicable employment taxes that       are required to be made (without regard to this section) for       such taxes during the payroll tax deferral period if all such       deposits are made not later than the applicable date. 

       (3) Exception.--This subsection shall not apply to any       taxpayer if such taxpayer has had indebtedness forgiven under       section 1105       of this Act with respect to a loan under section 7(a) of the       Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)). 

       (b) SECA.-- 

       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, the payment for 50 percent of the taxes imposed under       section 1401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for the       payroll tax deferral period shall not be due before the       applicable date. 

       (2) Estimated taxes.--For purposes of applying section 6654       of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to any taxable year       which includes any part of the payroll tax deferral period,       50 percent of the of the taxes imposed under section 1401(a)       of such Code for the payroll tax deferral period shall not be       treated as taxes to which such section 6654 applies. 

       (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section-- 

       (1) Applicable employment taxes.--The term ``applicable       employment taxes'' means the following: 

       (A) The taxes imposed under section 3111(a) of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986. 

       (B) So much of the taxes imposed under section 3211(a) of       such Code as are attributable to the rate in effect under       section 3111(a) of such Code. 

       (C) So much of the taxes imposed under section 3221(a) of       such Code as are attributable to the rate in effect under       section 3111(a) of such Code. 

       (2) Payroll tax deferral period.--The term ``payroll tax       deferral period'' means the period beginning on the date of       the enactment of this Act and ending before January 1, 2021. 

       (3) Applicable date.--The term ``applicable date'' means-- 

       (A) December 31, 2021, with respect to 50 percent of the       amounts to which subsection (a) or (b), as the case may be,       apply, and 

       (B) December 31, 2022, with respect to the remaining such       amounts. 

       (d) Trust Funds Held Harmless.--There are hereby       appropriated (out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise       appropriated) for each fiscal year to the Federal Old-Age and       Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability       Insurance Trust Fund established under section 201 of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401) and the Social Security       Equivalent Benefit Account established under section 15A(a)       of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 (45 U.S.C. 231n-1(a))       an amount equal to the reduction in the transfers to such       fund for such fiscal year by reason of this section. Amounts       appropriated by the preceding sentence shall be transferred       from the general fund at such times and in such manner as to       replicate to the extent possible the transfers which would       have occurred to such Trust Fund had such amendments not been       enacted. 

       (e) Regulatory Authority.--The Secretary of the Treasury       (or the Secretary's delegate) shall issue such regulations or       other guidance as necessary to carry out the purposes of this       section.       SEC. 2203. MODIFICATIONS FOR NET OPERATING LOSSES.  

       (a) Temporary Repeal of Taxable Income Limitation.-- 

       (1) In general.--The first sentence of section 172(a) of       the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``an       amount equal to'' and all that follows and inserting ``an       amount equal to-- 

       ``(1) in the case of a taxable year beginning before       January 1, 2021, the aggregate of the net operating loss       carryovers to such year, plus the net operating loss       carrybacks to such year, and 

       ``(2) in the case of a taxable year beginning after       December 31, 2020, the sum of-- 

       ``(A) the aggregate amount of net operating losses arising       in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, carried to       such taxable year, plus 

       ``(B) the lesser of-- 

       ``(i) the aggregate amount of net operating losses arising       in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, carried       to such taxable year, or 

       ``(ii) 80 percent of the excess (if any) of--  

       ``(I) taxable income computed without regard to the       deductions under this section and sections 199A and 250, over 

       ``(II) the amount determined under subparagraph (A).''.  

       (2) Conforming amendments.-- 

       (A) Section 172(b)(2)(C) of such Code is amended to read as       follows: 

       ``(C) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020,       be reduced by 20 percent of the excess (if any) described in       subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii) for such taxable year.''. 

       (B) Section 172(d)(6)(C) of such Code is amended by       striking ``subsection (a)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection       (a)(2)(B)(ii)(I)''. 

       (C) Section 860E(a)(3)(B) of such Code is amended by       striking all that follows ``for purposes of'' and inserting       ``subsection (a)(2)(B)(ii)(I) and the second sentence of       subsection (b)(2) of section 172.''. 

       (b) Modification of Rules Relating to Carrybacks.-- 

       (1) In general.--Section 172(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following       new subparagraph: 

       ``(D) Special rule for losses arising in 2018, 2019, and       2020.-- 

       ``(i) In general.--In the case of any net operating loss       arising in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017,       and before January 1, 2020--  

       ``(I) such loss shall be a net operating loss carryback to       each of the 5 taxable years preceding the taxable year of       such loss, and 

       ``(II) subparagraphs (B) and (C)(i) shall not apply.  

       ``(ii) Special rules for reit's.--For purposes of this       subparagraph--  

       ``(I) In general.--A net operating loss for a REIT year       shall not be a net operating loss carryback to any taxable       year preceding the taxable year of such loss. 

       ``(II) Special rule.--In the case of any net operating loss       for a taxable year which is not a REIT year, such loss shall       not be carried back to any taxable year which is a REIT year. 

       ``(III) REIT year.--For purposes of this subparagraph, the       term `REIT year' means any taxable year for which the       provisions of part II of subchapter M (relating to real       estate investment trusts) apply to the taxpayer.  

       ``(iii) Election.--A taxpayer may elect not to have clause       (i) apply for any taxable year. Such election shall be made       in such manner as prescribed by the Secretary and shall be       made--  

       ``(I) in the case of any election relating to a net       operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning in 2018 or       2019, by the due date (including extensions of time) for       filing the taxpayer's return for the first taxable year       ending after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph,       and 

       ``(II) in the case of any election relating to a net       operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning in 2020,       by the due date (including extensions of time) for such       taxable year.       Such election, once made for any taxable year, shall be       irrevocable for such taxable year.''. 

       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 170(b)(1)(A) of such       Code, as amended by subsection (c)(2), is amended by striking       ``and (C)(i)'' and inserting ``, (C)(i), and (D)''. 

       (c) Technical Amendment Relating to Section 13302 of Public       Law 115-97.-- 

       (1) Section 13302(e) of Public Law 115-97 is amended to       read as follows: 

       ``(e) Effective Dates.-- 

       ``(1) Net operating loss limitation.--The amendments made       by subsections (a) and (d)(2) shall apply to-- 

       ``(A) taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and 

       ``(B) taxable years beginning on or before December 31,       2017, to which net operating losses arising in taxable years       beginning after December 31, 2017, are carried. 

       ``(2) Carryforwards and carrybacks.--The amendments made by       subsections (b), (c), and (d)(1) shall apply to net operating       losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31,       2017.''. 

       (2) Section 172(b)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986 is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(A) General rule.--A net operating loss for any taxable       year-- 

       ``(i) shall be a net operating loss carryback to the extent       provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C)(i), and 

       ``(ii) except as provided in subparagraph (C)(ii), shall be       a net operating loss carryover--  

       ``(I) in the case of a net operating loss arising in a       taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, to each of the       20 taxable years following the taxable year of the loss, and 

       ``(II) in the case of a net operating loss arising in a       taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, to each       taxable year following the taxable year of the loss.''.  

       (d) Effective Dates.-- 

       (1) Net operating loss limitation.--The amendments made by       subsection (a) shall apply-- 

       (A) to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and 

       (B) taxable years beginning on or before December 31, 2017,       to which net operating losses arising in taxable years       beginning after December 31, 2017, are carried. 

       (2) Carryforwards and carrybacks.--The amendment made by       subsection (b) shall apply to net operating losses arising in       taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. 

       (3) Technical amendments.--The amendments made by       subsection (c) shall take effect as if included in the       provisions of Public Law 115-97 to which they relate. 

       (4) Special rule.--In the case of a net operating loss       arising in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018,       and ending after December 31, 2017-- 

       (A) an application under section 6411(a) of the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to the carryback of such       net operating loss shall not fail to be treated as timely       filed if filed not later than the date which is 120 days       after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 

       (B) an election to-- 

       (i) forgo any carryback of such net operating loss, 

       (ii) reduce any period to which such net operating loss may       be carried back, or 

       (iii) revoke any election made under section 172(b) to       forgo any carryback of such net operating loss,      shall not fail to be treated as timely made if made not later       than the date which is 120 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act.       SEC. 2204. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON LOSSES FOR TAXPAYERS                     OTHER THAN CORPORATIONS.  

       (a) In General.--Section 461(l)(1) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``December 31, 2017'' and       inserting ``December 31, 2020''. 

       (b) Technical Amendments Relating to Section 11012 of       Public Law 115-97.-- 

       (1) Section 461(l)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986       is amended by striking ``a net       operating loss carryover to the following taxable year under       section 172'' and inserting ``a net operating loss for the       taxable year for purposes of determining any net operating       loss carryover under section 172(b) for subsequent taxable       years''. 

       (2) Section 461(l)(3)(A) of such Code is amended-- 

       (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``and without regard to any       deduction allowable under section 172 or 199A'' after ``under       paragraph (1)'', and 

       (B) by adding at the end the following flush sentence:      ``Such excess shall be determined without regard to any       deductions, gross income, or gains attributable to any trade       or business of performing services as an employee.''. 

       (3) Section 461(l)(3) of such Code is amended by       redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C) and by       inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new       subparagraph: 

       ``(B) Treatment of capital gains and losses.-- 

       ``(i) Losses.--Deductions for losses from sales or       exchanges of capital assets shall not be taken into account       under subparagraph (A)(i). 

       ``(ii) Gains.--The amount of gains from sales or exchanges       of capital assets taken into account under subparagraph       (A)(ii) shall not exceed the lesser of--  

       ``(I) the capital gain net income determined by taking into       account only gains and losses attributable to a trade or       business, or 

       ``(II) the capital gain net income.''.  

       (c) Effective Dates.-- 

       (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a)       shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31,       2017. 

       (2) Technical amendments.--The amendments made by       subsection (b) shall take effect as if included in the       provisions of Public Law 115-97 to which they relate.       SEC. 2205. MODIFICATION OF CREDIT FOR PRIOR YEAR MINIMUM TAX                     LIABILITY OF CORPORATIONS.  

       (a) In General.--Section 53(e) of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(e) Credit Treated as Refundable for Certain Taxpayers.--      In the case of the first taxable year of a corporation       beginning in 2018-- 

       ``(1) subsection (c) shall not apply, and 

       ``(2) for purposes of this title (other than this section),       the credit allowed by reason of this subsection shall be       treated as allowed under subpart C (and not this subpart).''. 

       (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section       shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31,       2017.       SEC. 2206. MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON BUSINESS INTEREST.  

       (a) In General.--Section 163(j) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended by redesignating paragraph (10) as       paragraph (11) and by inserting after paragraph (9) the       following new paragraph: 

       ``(10) Special rule for taxable years beginning in 2019 and       2020.-- 

       ``(A) In general.--In the case of any taxable year       beginning in 2019 or 2020, paragraph (1)(B) shall be applied       by substituting `50 percent' for `30 percent'. 

       ``(B) Election to use 2019 income for taxable years       beginning in 2020.-- 

       ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), in the case of       any taxable year beginning in 2020, the taxpayer may elect to       apply this subsection by substituting the adjusted taxable       income of the taxpayer for the last taxable year beginning in       2019 for the adjusted taxable income for such taxable year. 

       ``(ii) Special rule for short taxable years.--No election       may be made under clause (i) with respect to any taxable year       beginning in 2020 if such taxable year is a short taxable       year.''. 

       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31,       2018.       SEC. 2207. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS REGARDING QUALIFIED                     IMPROVEMENT PROPERTY.  

       (a) In General.--Section 168 of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (e)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (3)(E), by striking ``and'' at the end of       clause (v), by striking the period at the end of clause (vi)       and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the       following new clause: 

       ``(vii) any qualified improvement property.'', and 

       (B) in paragraph (6)(A), by inserting ``made by the       taxpayer'' after ``any improvement'', and 

       (2) in the table contained in subsection (g)(3)(B)-- 

       (A) by striking the item relating to subparagraph (D)(v),       and 

       (B) by inserting after the item relating to subparagraph       (E)(vi) the following new item: 

  ``(E)(vii)......................................................20''. 

       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect as if included in section 13204 of Public       Law 115-97.       SEC. 2208. INSTALLMENTS NOT TO PREVENT CREDIT OR REFUND OF                     OVERPAYMENTS OR INCREASE ESTIMATED TAXES.  

       (a) In General.--Section 965(h) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following       new paragraph: 

       ``(7) Installments not to prevent credit or refund of       overpayments or increase estimated taxes.--If an election is       made under paragraph (1) to pay the net tax liability under       this section in installments-- 

       ``(A) no installment of such net tax liability shall-- 

       ``(i) in the case of a request for credit or refund, be       taken into account as a liability for purposes of determining       whether an overpayment exists for purposes of section 6402       before the date on which such installment is due, or 

       ``(ii) for purposes of sections 6425, 6654, and 6655, be       treated as a tax imposed by section 1, section 11, or       subchapter L of chapter 1, and 

       ``(B) the first sentence of section 6403 shall not apply       with respect to any such installment.''. 

       (b) Limitation on Payment of Interest.--In the case of the       portion of any overpayment which exists by reason of the       application of section 965(h)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 (as added by this section)-- 

       (1) if credit or refund of such portion is made on or       before the date which is 45 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, no interest shall be allowed or paid       under section 6611 of such Code with respect to such portion;       and 

       (2) if credit or refund of such portion is made after the       date which is 45 days after the date of the enactment of this       Act, no interest shall be allowed or paid under section 6611       of such Code with respect to such portion for any period       before the date of the enactment of this Act. 

       (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a)       shall take effect as if included in section 14103 of Public       Law 115-97.       SEC. 2209. RESTORATION OF LIMITATION ON DOWNWARD ATTRIBUTION                     OF STOCK OWNERSHIP IN APPLYING CONSTRUCTIVE                     OWNERSHIP RULES.  

       (a) In General.--Section 958(b) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended-- 

       (1) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: 

       ``(4) Subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 318(a)(3)       shall not be applied so as to consider a United States person       as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a       United States person.'', and 

       (2) by striking ``Paragraph (1)'' in the last sentence and       inserting ``Paragraphs (1) and (4)''. 

       (b) Foreign Controlled United States Shareholders.--Subpart       F of part III of subchapter N of chapter 1 of such Code is       amended by inserting after section 951A the following new       section:       ``SEC. 951B. AMOUNTS INCLUDED IN GROSS INCOME OF FOREIGN                     CONTROLLED UNITED STATES SHAREHOLDERS.  

       ``(a) In General.--In the case of any foreign controlled       United States shareholder of a foreign controlled foreign       corporation-- 

       ``(1) this subpart (other than sections 951A, 951(b), 957,       and 965) shall be applied with respect to such shareholder       (separately from, and in addition to, the application of this       subpart without regard to this section)-- 

       ``(A) by substituting `foreign controlled United States       shareholder' for `United States shareholder' each place it       appears therein, and 

       ``(B) by substituting `foreign controlled foreign       corporation' for `controlled foreign corporation' each place       it appears therein, and 

       ``(2) sections 951A and 965 shall be applied with respect       to such shareholder-- 

       ``(A) by treating each reference to `United States       shareholder' in such sections as including a reference to       such shareholder, and 

       ``(B) by treating each reference to `controlled foreign       corporation' in such sections as including a reference to       such foreign controlled foreign corporation. 

       ``(b) Foreign Controlled United States Shareholder.--For       purposes of this section, the term `foreign controlled United       States shareholder' means, with respect to any foreign       corporation, any United States person which would be a United       States shareholder with respect to such foreign corporation       if-- 

       ``(1) section 951(b) were applied by substituting `more       than 50 percent' for `10 percent or more', and 

       ``(2) section 958(b) were applied without regard to       paragraph (4) thereof. 

       ``(c) Foreign Controlled Foreign Corporation.--For purposes       of this section, the term `foreign controlled foreign       corporation' means a foreign corporation, other than a       controlled foreign corporation, which would be a controlled       foreign corporation if section 957(a) were applied-- 

       ``(1) by substituting `foreign controlled United States       shareholders' for `United States shareholders', and 

       ``(2) by substituting `section 958(b) (other than paragraph       (4) thereof)' for `section 958(b)'. 

       ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such       regulations or other guidance as may be necessary or       appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section,       including regulations or other guidance-- 

       ``(1) to treat a foreign controlled United States       shareholder or a foreign controlled foreign corporation as a       United States shareholder or as a controlled foreign       corporation, respectively, for purposes of provisions of this       title other than this subpart, and 

       ``(2) to prevent the avoidance of the purposes of this       section.''. 

       (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart       F of part III of subchapter N of chapter 1 of such Code is       amended by inserting after the item relating to section 951A       the following new item:  ``Sec. 951B. Amounts included in gross income of foreign controlled                United States shareholders.''.  

       (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to-- 

       (1) the last taxable year of foreign corporations beginning       before January 1, 2018, and each subsequent taxable year of       such foreign corporations, and 

       (2) taxable years of United States persons in which or with       which such taxable years of foreign corporations end.  

  DIVISION C--ASSISTANCE TO SEVERELY DISTRESSED SECTORS OF THE UNITED                               STATES ECONOMY                      TITLE I--ECONOMIC STABILIZATION       SEC. 3101. SHORT TITLE.  

       This title may be cited as the ``Coronavirus Economic       Stabilization Act of 2020''.       SEC. 3102. EMERGENCY RELIEF THROUGH LOANS AND LOAN                     GUARANTEES.  

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, to provide liquidity to eligible businesses related to       losses incurred as a direct result of coronavirus, the       Secretary is authorized to make or guarantee loans to       eligible businesses that do not, in the aggregate, exceed       $208,000,000,000 and provide the subsidy amounts necessary       for such loans and loan guarantees in accordance with the       provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C.       661 et seq.). 

       (b) Distribution of Loans and Loan Guarantees.--Loans and       loan guarantees made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made       available to eligible business as follows: 

       (1) Not more than $50,000,000,000 shall be available for       passenger air carriers. 

       (2) Not more than $8,000,000,000 shall be available for       cargo air carriers. 

       (3) Not more than $150,000,000,000 shall be available for       other eligible businesses. 

       (c) Loans and Loan Guarantees.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Secretary shall review and decide on       applications for loans and loan guarantees under this section       and may enter into agreements to make or guarantee loans to       one or more obligors if the Secretary determines, in the       Secretary's discretion, that-- 

       (A) the obligor is a eligible business for which credit is       not reasonably available at the time of the transaction; 

       (B) the intended obligation by the obligor is prudently       incurred; and 

       (C) the loan is sufficiently secured. 

       (2) Terms and limitations.-- 

       (A) Forms; terms and conditions.--A loan or loan guarantee       shall be issued under this section in such form and on such       terms and conditions and contain such covenants,       representatives, warranties, and requirements (including       requirements for audits) as the Secretary determines       appropriate. Any loans made by the Secretary under this       section shall be at a rate not less than a rate determined by       the Secretary taking into consideration the current average       yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United       States of comparable maturity. 

       (B) Procedures.--As soon as practicable, but in no case       later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this Act,       the Secretary shall publish procedures for application and       minimum requirements, which may be supplemented by the       Secretary in the Secretary's discretion, for the making of       loans and loan guarantees under this section. 

       (d) Financial Protection of Government.-- 

       (1) In general.--To the extent feasible and practicable,       the Secretary shall ensure that the Federal Government is       compensated for the risk assumed in making loans and loan       guarantees under this section. 

       (2) Government participation in gains.--If an eligible       business receives a loan or loan guarantee from the Federal       Government under this section, the Secretary is authorized to       enter into contracts under which the Federal Government,       contingent on the financial success of the eligible business,       would participate in the gains of the eligible business or       its security holders through the use of such instruments as       warrants, stock options, common or preferred stock, or other       appropriate equity instruments. 

       (e) Deposit of Proceeds.--Amounts collected by the       Secretary under this section, including the proceeds of       investments, earnings, and interest collected, shall be       deposited as follows: 

       (1) Amounts collected from eligible businesses that       received loans or loan guarantees under paragraph (1) or (2)       of subsection (b) shall be deposited in the Airport and       Airway Trust Fund under section 9502 of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986. 

       (2) Amounts collected from eligible businesses that       received loans or loan guarantees under paragraph (3) of       subsection (b) shall be deposited in the Treasury as       miscellaneous receipts. 

       (f) Administrative Expenses.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of law, the Secretary may use $100,000,000 of the       funds made available under this section to pay costs and       administrative expenses associated with the provision of       direct loans or guarantees authorized under this section. 

       (g) Conforming Amendment.--Section 10(a) of the Gold       Reserve Act of 1934 (31 U.S.C. 5302(a)) is amended-- 

       (1) by striking ``and'' before ``section 3''; and 

       (2) by inserting ``and the Coronavirus Economic       Stabilization Act of 2020,'' before ``and for investing''.       SEC. 3103. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION.  

       (a) In General.--The Secretary may only enter into a loan       or loan agreement under section 3102(a) with an eligible       business after the eligible business enters into a legally       binding agreement with the Secretary that, during the 2-year       period beginning March 1, 2020, and ending March 1, 2022, no       officer or employee of the eligible business whose total       compensation exceeded $425,000 in calendar year 2019 (other       than an employee whose compensation is determined through an       existing collective bargaining agreement entered into prior       to March 1, 2020)-- 

       (1) will receive from the eligible business total       compensation which exceeds, during any 12 consecutive months       of such 2-year period, the total compensation received by the       officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar       year 2019; and 

       (2) will receive from the eligible business severance pay       or other benefits upon termination of employment with the       eligible business which exceeds twice the maximum total       compensation received by the officer or employee from the       eligible business in calendar year 2019. 

       (b) Total Compensation Defined.--In this section, the term       ``total compensation'' includes salary, bonuses, awards of       stock, and other financial benefits provided by an eligible       business to an officer or employee of the eligible business.       SEC. 3104. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN AIR SERVICE.  

       The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to require,       to the extent reasonable and practicable, an air carrier       receiving loans and loan guarantees under section 3102 to       maintain scheduled air transportation service as the       Secretary of Transportation deems necessary to ensure       services to any point served by that carrier before March 1,       2020. When considering whether to exercise the authority       granted by this section, the Secretary of Transportation       shall take into consideration the air transportation needs of       small and remote communities.       SEC. 3105. REPORTS.  

       (a) Secretary.--The Secretary shall, with respect to the       loans and loan guarantees provided under section 3102, make       such reports as are required under section 5302 or title 31,       United States Code. 

       (b) Government Accountability Office.-- 

       (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States       shall conduct a study on the loans and loan guarantees       provided under section 3102. 

       (2) Report.--Not later than 9 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through the       year succeeding the last year for which loans or loan       guarantees provided under section 3102 are in effect, the       Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on       Transportation and Infrastructure, the Committee on       Appropriations, and the Committee on the Budget of the House       of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,       and Transportation, the Committee on Appropriations, and the       Committee on the Budget of the Senate a report on the loans       and loan guarantees provided under section 3102.       SEC. 3106. COORDINATION WITH SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION.  

       In implementing this title with respect to air carriers,       the Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of       Transportation.       SEC. 3107. DEFINITIONS.  

       In this title: 

       (1) Air carrier.--The term ``air carrier'' has the meaning       such term has under section 40102 of title 49, United States       Code. 

       (2) Coronavirus.--The term ``coronavirus'' means SARS-CoV-2       or another coronavirus with pandemic potential. 

       (3) Covered loss.--The term ``covered loss'' includes       losses, direct or incremental, incurred as a result of       coronavirus, as determined by the Secretary. 

       (4) Eligible business.--The term ``eligible business''       means-- 

       (A) an air carrier; or 

       (B) a United States business that has incurred covered       losses such that the continued operations of the business are       jeopardized, as determined by the Secretary, and that has not       otherwise applied for or received economic relief in the form       of loans or loan guarantees provided under any other       provision of this Act. 

       (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Treasury, or the designee of the Secretary of the       Treasury.       SEC. 3108. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.  

       Nothing in this title shall be construed to allow the       Secretary to provide relief to eligible businesses except in       the form of secured loans and loan guarantees as provided in       this title and under terms and conditions that are in the       interest of the Federal Government.                      TITLE II--AVIATION EXCISE TAXES       SEC. 3201. SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN AVIATION EXCISE TAXES.  

       (a) Transportation by Air.--In the case of any payment for       transportation by air (including any amount treated as paid       for transportation by air by reason of section 4261(e)(3) of       the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) during the excise tax       holiday period, no tax shall be imposed under section 4261 or       4271 of such Code. The preceding sentence shall not apply to       amounts paid for transportation on or before the date of the       enactment of this Act. 

       (b) Use of Kerosene in Commercial Aviation.--In the case of       kerosene used in commercial aviation (as defined in section       4083 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) during the excise       tax holiday period-- 

       (1) no tax shall be imposed on such kerosene under-- 

       (A) section 4041(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,       or  

       (B) section 4081 of such Code (other than at the rate       provided in subsection (a)(2)(B) thereof), and 

       (2) section 6427(l) of such Code shall be applied-- 

       (A) by treating such use as a nontaxable use, and 

       (B) without regard to paragraph (4)(A)(ii) thereof. 

       (c) Excise Tax Holiday Period.--For purposes of section,       the term ``excise tax holiday period'' means the period       beginning after the date of the enactment of this section and       ending before January 1, 2021.                      DIVISION D--HEALTH CARE RESPONSE                         TITLE I--HEALTH PROVISIONS                  Subtitle A--Addressing Supply Shortages          PART I--MOVING THE STRATEGIC NATIONAL STOCKPILE TO ASPR       SEC. 4101. MOVING THE STRATEGIC NATIONAL STOCKPILE TO ASPR.  

       Section 319F-2(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42       U.S.C. 247d-6b(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``The Secretary,       in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for       Preparedness and Response and the Director of the Centers for       Disease Control and Prevention, and in coordination with the       Secretary of Homeland Security (referred to in this section       as the `Homeland Security Secretary'), shall maintain'' and       inserting ``The Secretary, in collaboration with the       Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, and in       coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security       (referred to in this section as the `Homeland Security       Secretary'), shall maintain''.                     PART II--MEDICAL PRODUCT SUPPLIES       SEC. 4111. NATIONAL ACADEMIES REPORT ON AMERICA'S MEDICAL                     PRODUCT SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human       Services shall enter into an agreement with the National       Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (referred to       in this section as the ``National Academies'') to examine,       and, in a manner that does not compromise national security,       report on, the security of the United States medical product       supply chain. 

       (b) Purposes.--The report developed under this section       shall-- 

       (1) assess and evaluate the dependence of the United       States, including the private commercial sector, States, and       the Federal Government, on critical drugs and devices that       are sourced or manufactured outside of the United States,       which may include an analysis of-- 

       (A) the supply chain of critical drugs and devices of       greatest priority to providing health care; 

       (B) any potential public health security or national       security risks associated with reliance on critical drugs and       devices sourced or manufactured outside of the United States,       which may include responses to previous or existing shortages       or public health emergencies, such as infectious disease       outbreaks, bioterror attacks, and other public health       threats; 

       (C) any existing supply chain information gaps, as       applicable; and 

       (D) potential economic impact of increased domestic       manufacturing; and 

       (2) provide recommendations, which may include a plan to       improve the resiliency of the supply chain for critical drugs       and devices as described in paragraph (1), and to address any       supply vulnerabilities or potential disruptions of such       products that would significantly affect or pose a threat to       public health security or national security, as appropriate,       which may include strategies to-- 

       (A) promote supply chain redundancy and contingency       planning; 

       (B) encourage domestic manufacturing, including       consideration of economic impacts, if any; 

       (C) improve supply chain information gaps; 

       (D) improve planning considerations for medical product       supply chain capacity during public health emergencies; and 

       (E) promote the accessibility of such drugs and devices. 

       (c) Input.--In conducting the study and developing the       report under subsection (b), the National Academies shall-- 

       (1) consider input from the Department of Health and Human       Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department       of Defense, the Department of Commerce, the Department of       State, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of       Justice, and any other Federal agencies as appropriate; and 

       (2) consult with relevant stakeholders, which may include       conducting public meetings and other forms of engagement, as       appropriate, with health care providers, medical professional       societies, State-based societies, public health experts,       State and local public health departments, State medical       boards, patient groups, medical product manufacturers, health       care distributors, wholesalers and group purchasing       organizations, pharmacists, and other entities with       experience in health care and public health, as appropriate. 

       (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``device'' and       ``drug'' have the meanings given such terms in section 201 of       the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).       SEC. 4112. REQUIRING THE STRATEGIC NATIONAL STOCKPILE TO                     INCLUDE CERTAIN TYPES OF MEDICAL SUPPLIES.  

       Section 319F-2(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42       U.S.C. 247d-6b(a)(1)) is amended by inserting ``(including       personal protective equipment, ancillary medical supplies,       and other applicable supplies required for the administration       of drugs, vaccines and other biological products, medical       devices, and diagnostic tests in the stockpile)'' after       ``other supplies''.       SEC. 4113. TREATMENT OF RESPIRATORY PROTECTIVE DEVICES AS                     COVERED COUNTERMEASURES.  

       Section 319F-3(i)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42       U.S.C. 247d-6d(i)(1)) is amended-- 

       (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'' at the end; 

       (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; or''; and 

       (3) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(D) a respiratory protective device that is approved by       the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health       under part 84 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or       any successor regulations), and that the Secretary determines       to be a priority for use during a public health emergency       declared pursuant to section 319.''.               PART III--MITIGATING EMERGENCY DRUG SHORTAGES       SEC. 4121. PRIORITIZE REVIEWS OF DRUG APPLICATIONS;                     INCENTIVES.  

       Section 506C(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act       (21 U.S.C. 356c(g)) is amended-- 

       (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Secretary may'' and       inserting ``the Secretary shall, as appropriate''; 

       (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``prioritize and''       before ``expedite the review''; and 

       (3) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``prioritize and''       before ``expedite an inspection''.       SEC. 4122. ADDITIONAL MANUFACTURER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS IN                     RESPONSE TO DRUG SHORTAGES.  

       (a) Expansion To Include Active Pharmaceutical       Ingredients.--Subsection (a) of section 506C of the Federal       Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 356c) is amended-- 

       (1) in paragraph (1)(C), by inserting ``or any such drug       that is critical to the public health during a public health       emergency determined under section 319 of the Public Health       Service Act'' after ``during surgery''; and 

       (2) in the flush text at the end-- 

       (A) by inserting ``, or a discontinuance or an interruption       in the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredients       of such drug,'' before ``that is likely''; and 

       (B) by adding at the end the following: ``Notification       under this subsection shall include disclosure of reasons for       the discontinuation or interruption, as applicable; if an       active pharmaceutical ingredient is a reason for, or risk       factor in, such discontinuation or interruption, the source       of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and any alternative       sources for the active pharmaceutical ingredient known by the       manufacturer; whether any associated medical devices used for       preparation or administration included in the finished dosage       form is a reason for, or a risk factor in, such       discontinuation or interruption; the expected duration of the       interruption; and such other information as the Secretary may       require.''. 

       (b) FOIA Exemption.--Section 506C(d) of the Federal Food,       Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 356c(d)) is amended by       adding at the end the following: ``Information provided by a       manufacturer to the Secretary under this section shall not be       subject to disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United       States Code.''. 

       (c) Manufacturing Contingency Plans.--Section 506C of the       Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 356c) is       amended by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(j) Manufacturer Contingency Plans.--Each manufacturer of       a drug described in subsection (a) or of any active       pharmaceutical ingredient or any associated medical devices       used for preparation or administration included in the       finished dosage form of such a drug, shall maintain       contingency and redundancy plans, as applicable, for each       establishment in which such drugs or active pharmaceutical       ingredients of such drugs are manufactured to help prevent or       mitigate interruptions in the supply of the drug or       ingredient.''. 

       (d) Annual Notification.--Section 506E of the Federal Food,       Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 356e) is amended by adding       at the end the following: 

       ``(d) Interagency Notification.--Not later than 180 days       after the date of enactment of this subsection, and every 90       days thereafter, the Secretary shall transmit a report       regarding the drugs of the current drug shortage list under       this section to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare       & Medicaid Services.''. 

       (e) Reporting After Inspections.--Section 704(b) of the       Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 374(b)) is       amended-- 

       (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) and       subparagraphs (A) and (B); 

       (2) by striking ``(b) Upon completion'' and inserting       ``(b)(1) Upon completion''; and 

       (3) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(2) In carrying out this subsection with respect to any       establishment manufacturing a drug approved under subsection       (c) or (j) of section 505 for which a notification has been       submitted in accordance with section 506C is, or has been in       the last 5 years, listed on the drug shortage list under       section 506E, or that is described in section 505(j)(11)(A),       a copy of       the report shall be sent promptly to the appropriate offices       of the Food and Drug Administration with expertise regarding       drug shortages. Such offices shall ensure timely and       effective coordination regarding the reviews of such report       and overseeing the alignment of any feedback regarding such       report, or corrective or preventative actions, after       consideration of the systematic benefits and risks to public       health, patient safety, the drug supply and drug supply       chain, and timely patient access to such drugs.''. 

       (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       and section 4121 shall take effect on the date that is 180       days after the date of enactment of this Act.       SEC. 4123. GAO REPORT ON INTRA-AGENCY COORDINATION.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education,       Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy       and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report       examining the Food and Drug Administration's intra-agency       coordination, communication, and decision making in assessing       drug shortage risks, and taking corrective action. 

       (b) Content.--The report shall include-- 

       (1) consideration of-- 

       (A) risks associated with violations of current good       manufacturing practices; 

       (B) corrective and preventative actions with respect to       such violations requested by the Food and Drug       Administration; 

       (C) the effects of potential manufacturing slow-downs or       shut-downs on potential drug shortages, including the       discontinuance of drug manufacturing and marketing; 

       (D) efforts to prioritize review of applications for drugs       that the Secretary has determined under section 506E of the       Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 356e) to be       in shortage; and 

       (E) efforts to prioritize inspections of facilities       necessary for approval of applications for drugs described in       subparagraph (D); 

       (2) a description of how the Food and Drug Administration       proactively coordinates strategies to mitigate the       consequences of the violations, slow-downs, and shut-downs       described in paragraph (1) across agencies; and 

       (3) an evaluation of changes in relevant Food and Drug       Administration practices that such agency has proposed but       not yet implemented.       SEC. 4124. REPORT.  

       Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in       coordination with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and the       Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid       Services, shall develop and submit to the Committee on       Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the       Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives a report containing recommendations-- 

       (1) for market-based incentives or other appropriate       mechanisms, sufficient to encourage the manufacture of drugs       in shortage or at risk of shortage; and 

       (2) on how the Emerging Technology Program of the Food and       Drug Administration can help facilitate creating or upgrading       existing technologies to address drug shortage challenges and       promote modern, reliable manufacturing strategies.       SEC. 4125. SAFE HARBOR PROVISION.  

       (a) In General.--The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act       is amended by inserting after section 502 (21 U.S.C. 352) the       following:       ``SEC. 502A. SAFE HARBOR PROVISION.  

       ``(a) In General.--The communication of information,       consistent with subsection (b), with respect to the use of a       drug or device authorized under section 564 provided or       distributed to a health care provider, shall not-- 

       ``(1) be a basis for treating such drug or device as       misbranded under subsection (a) or (f) of section 502, or in       violation of section 505, 515, or 564 of this Act or       subsection (a) or (k) of section 351(a)(1) of the Public       Health Service Act, as applicable; or 

       ``(2) be treated as evidence that such drug or device is       misbranded under subsection (a) or (f) of section 502, or in       violation of section 505, 513, 515, or 564 of this Act or       subsection (a) or (k) of section 351 of the Public Health       Service Act, as applicable. 

       ``(b) Provision of Information.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--Any information relating to a use of a       drug or device authorized under section 564, or for which a       submission under section 564 has been submitted, that-- 

       ``(A) is neither false nor misleading, when measured       objectively against the information available at the time the       statement is made; 

       ``(B) is accompanied, as required, by an appropriate       disclaimer, as described in paragraph (2); and 

       ``(C) is based on competent and reliable scientific       evidence, as described in subsection (c). 

       ``(2) Disclaimers.--For purposes of paragraph (1), such       information shall be accompanied, as necessary, by an       appropriate disclaimer, including-- 

       ``(A) a statement identifying any differences between the       information and any labeling of the drug or device; 

       ``(B) a statement identifying contradictory evidence; and 

       ``(C) such other information as may be required by       regulation. 

       ``(c) Competent and Reliable Scientific Evidence.--In this       section, the term `competent and reliable scientific       evidence' means evidence established through scientific       methods that are widely accepted by experts in the relevant       field and followed pursuant to a clear and well-described       protocol, as scientifically appropriate. Evidence may       constitute competent and reliable scientific evidence within       the meaning of this section-- 

       ``(1) regardless of whether it is supported by 2 adequate       and well-controlled clinical studies; and 

       ``(2) may include-- 

       ``(A) information derived from clinical trials,       observational studies, clinical studies or bench tests that       describe performance, database reviews, registries, patient       utilization projections, and modeling techniques, and the       data, inputs, and components of such information; 

       ``(B) information about the effects of a drug or device in       subgroups defined by demographic or other variables,       including groups defined by race, sex, risk factors, or other       variables, such as genomic features or disease severity; 

       ``(C) information related to the emergency use       authorization, as applicable; and 

       ``(D) information relating to the safety, effectiveness, or       benefit of a use or treatment that is authorized under       section 564 for a drug or device, including information       regarding-- 

       ``(i) health outcomes, patient or caregiver experience, or       other quality metrics; and 

       ``(ii) the comparative effectiveness of a drug or device       relative to others products, other health care interventions,       program and quality improvement interventions, or no       intervention. 

       ``(d) Distribution.--Information pursuant to subsection (b)       may be distributed proactively through written or oral means,       or other information platforms, to a health care provider,       payor, formulary committee, or other similar entity carrying       out responsibilities for making drug coverage, reimbursement,       or usage decisions on a population basis. 

       ``(e) Coverage Not Excluded.--The distribution of       information that otherwise meets the requirements of this       section shall not fail to meet the requirements of subsection       (a) because the manufacturer or distributor of the drug or       device about which information is being distributed has-- 

       ``(1) knowledge that such drug or device is being used by       patients or health care practitioners in a manner not       described in any labeling of the drug or device, as       applicable; or 

       ``(2) objective or subjective intent that such drug or       device be used in a manner inconsistent with any labeling, as       applicable, of such drug or device. 

       ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall       be construed-- 

       ``(1) to limit communication not specifically permitted by       this section; or 

       ``(2) to alter or expand the authority of the Secretary to       enforce the provisions of this Act, except to the extent that       the communication of information in accordance with this       section is permitted.''.           PART IV--PREVENTING ESSENTIAL MEDICAL DEVICE SHORTAGES       SEC. 4131. DISCONTINUANCE OR INTERRUPTION IN THE PRODUCTION                     OF MEDICAL DEVICES.  

       Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21       U.S.C. 351 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section       506I the following:       ``SEC. 506J. DISCONTINUANCE OR INTERRUPTION IN THE PRODUCTION                     OF MEDICAL DEVICES.  

       ``(a) In General.--A manufacturer of a device that-- 

       ``(1) is critical to public health during a public health       emergency, including devices that are life-supporting, life-      sustaining, or intended for use in emergency medical care or       during surgery; or 

       ``(2) for which the Secretary determines that information       on potential meaningful supply disruptions of such device is       needed during, or in advance of, a public health emergency;      shall, during, or in advance of, a public health emergency       determined by the Secretary pursuant to section 319, notify       the Secretary, in accordance with subsection (b), of a       permanent discontinuance in the manufacture of the device       (except for discontinuances as a result of an approved       modification of the device) or an interruption of the       manufacture of the device that is likely to lead to a       meaningful disruption in the supply of that device in the       United States, and the reasons for such discontinuance or       interruption. 

       ``(b) Timing.--A notice required under subsection (a) shall       be submitted to the Secretary-- 

       ``(1) at least 6 months prior to the date of the       discontinuance or interruption; or 

       ``(2) if compliance with paragraph (1) is not possible, as       soon as practicable. 

       ``(c) Distribution.-- 

       ``(1) Public availability.--To the maximum extent       practicable, subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall       distribute, through such means as the Secretary determines       appropriate, information on the discontinuance or       interruption of the manufacture of devices reported under       subsection (a) to appropriate organizations, including       physician, health provider, patient organizations, and supply       chain partners, as appropriate and applicable.  

       ``(2) Public health exception.--The Secretary may choose       not to make information collected under this section publicly       available pursuant to this section if the Secretary       determines that disclosure of such information would       adversely affect the public health, such as by increasing the       possibility of unnecessary over purchase of product or other       disruption of the availability of medical products to       patients. 

       ``(d) Confidentiality.--Nothing in this section shall be       construed as authorizing the Secretary to disclose any       information that is a trade secret or confidential       information subject to section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United       States Code, or section 1905 of title 18, United States Code. 

       ``(e) Failure To Meet Requirements.--If a person fails to       submit information required under subsection (a) in       accordance with subsection (b)-- 

       ``(1) the Secretary shall issue a letter to such person       informing such person of such failure; 

       ``(2) not later than 30 calendar days after the issuance of       a letter under paragraph (1), the person who receives such       letter shall submit to the Secretary a written response to       such letter setting forth the basis for noncompliance and       providing information required under subsection (a); and 

       ``(3) not later than 45 calendar days after the issuance of       a letter under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall make such       letter and any response to such letter under paragraph (2)       available to the public on the internet website of the Food       and Drug Administration, with appropriate redactions made to       protect information described in subsection (d), except that,       if the Secretary determines that the letter under paragraph       (1) was issued in error or, after review of such response,       the person had a reasonable basis for not notifying as       required under subsection (a), the requirements of this       paragraph shall not apply. 

       ``(f) Expedited Inspections and Reviews.--If, based on       notifications described in subsection (a) or any other       relevant information, the Secretary concludes that there is,       or is likely to be, a shortage of an device, the Secretary       shall, as appropriate-- 

       ``(1) prioritize and expedite the review of a submission       under section 513(f)(2), 515, review of a notification under       section 510(k), or 520(m) for a device that could help       mitigate or prevent such shortage; or 

       ``(2) prioritize and expedite an inspection or reinspection       of an establishment that could help mitigate or prevent such       shortage. 

       ``(g) Device Shortage List.-- 

       ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish and       maintain an up-to-date list of devices that are determined by       the Secretary to be in shortage in the United States. 

       ``(2) Contents.--For each device included on the list under       paragraph (1), the Secretary shall include the following       information: 

       ``(A) The category or name of the device in shortage. 

       ``(B) The name of each manufacturer of such device. 

       ``(C) The reason for the shortage, as determined by the       Secretary, selecting from the following categories: 

       ``(i) Requirements related to complying with good       manufacturing practices. 

       ``(ii) Regulatory delay. 

       ``(iii) Shortage or discontinuance of a component or part. 

       ``(iv) Discontinuance of the manufacture of the device. 

       ``(v) Delay in shipping of the device. 

       ``(vi) Delay in sterilization of the device. 

       ``(vii) Demand increase for the device. 

       ``(D) The estimated duration of the shortage as determined       by the Secretary. 

       ``(3) Public availability.-- 

       ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C),       the Secretary shall make the information in the list under       paragraph (1) publicly available. 

       ``(B) Trade secrets and confidential information.--Nothing       in this subsection shall be construed to alter or amend       section 1905 of title 18, United States Code, or section       552(b)(4) of title 5 of such Code. 

       ``(C) Public health exception.--The Secretary may elect not       to make information collected under this subsection publicly       available if the Secretary determines that disclosure of such       information would adversely affect the public health (such as       by increasing the possibility of hoarding or other disruption       of the availability of the device to patients). 

       ``(h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall       be construed to affect the authority of the Secretary on the       date of enactment of this section to expedite the review of       devices under section 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and       Cosmetic Act, section 515B of such Act relating to the       priority review program for devices, and section 564 of such       Act relating to the emergency use authorization authorities. 

       ``(i) Definitions.--In this section: 

       ``(1) Device.--The term `device' means a device (as defined       in section 201(h)) that is intended for human use and is       subject to sections 510(k), 513(f)(2), 515, or 520(m). 

       ``(2) Meaningful disruption.--The term `meaningful       disruption'-- 

       ``(A) means a change in production that is reasonably       likely to lead to a reduction in the supply of a device by a       manufacturer that is more than negligible and affects the       ability of the manufacturer to fill orders or meet expected       demand for its product; 

       ``(B) does not include interruptions in manufacturing due       to matters such as routine maintenance or insignificant       changes in manufacturing so long as the manufacturer expects       to resume operations in a reasonable or short period of time;       and 

       ``(C) does not include interruptions in manufacturing of       components or raw materials so long as such interruptions do       not result in a shortage of finished product and the       manufacturer expects to resume operations in a reasonable or       short period of time. 

       ``(3) Shortage.--The term `shortage', with respect to a       device, means a period of time when the demand or projected       demand for the device within the United States exceeds the       supply of the device.''.       SEC. 4132. GAO REPORT ON INTRA-AGENCY COORDINATION.  

       (a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education,       Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy       and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report       examining the Food and Drug Administration's intra-agency       coordination, communication, and decision-making in assessing       device shortages and risks associated with the supply of       devices, and any efforts by the Food and Drug Administration       to mitigate any device shortages or to take corrective       actions. 

       (b) Content.--The report shall include-- 

       (1) consideration of-- 

       (A) risks of creating, worsening, or extending a shortage       of a device associated with violations of current good       manufacturing practices; 

       (B) corrective and preventative actions with respect to       such violations requested by the Food and Drug       Administration; 

       (C) the effects of potential manufacturing disruptions or       shut-downs on potential device shortages, which may include       the discontinuance of device manufacturing and marketing, or       the manufacturing of device components or parts; 

       (D) efforts to prioritize and expedite the review of       submissions for devices that the Secretary has determined       under section 506J(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic       Act (21 U.S.C. 356j) to be in shortage; and 

       (E) efforts to prioritize inspections of facilities       necessary for approval or clearance of devices described in       subparagraph (D); 

       (2) a description of how the Food and Drug Administration       proactively coordinates strategies to mitigate the       consequences of the violations, slow-downs, and shut-downs       described in paragraph (1) across agencies; and 

       (3) an evaluation of changes in relevant Food and Drug       Administration practices that such agency has proposed but       not yet implemented. 

       (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``device'' has       the meaning given such term under section 506J(i)(1) of the       Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by section       4131.            PART V--EMERGENCY USE OF LABORATORY DEVELOPED TESTS       SEC. 4141. EMERGENCY USE OF LABORATORY DEVELOPED TESTS.  

       (a) In General.--For the time in which the public health       emergency under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 247d) related to the coronavirus (COVID-19),       declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services       (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') on January       31, 2020, is in place (or such other period of time       determined by the Secretary), tests intended to diagnose       COVID-19 that are described in subsection (b) may be lawfully       marketed in accordance with this section. 

       (b) Criteria.--Tests described in subsection (a) may be       lawfully marketed, during the period described in such       subsection, if such test-- 

       (1) is developed in a State that has notified the Secretary       of its intention to review tests intended to diagnose COVID-      19; 

       (2) is developed in a laboratory with a certificate to       conduct high-complexity testing pursuant to section 353 of       the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 263a), and the       developer of such test-- 

       (A) is pursuing an emergency use authorization under       section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21       U.S.C. 360bbb-3) and provides updates to the Secretary on       efforts to pursue such authorization; 

       (B) validates such test prior to use; 

       (C) notifies the Secretary of the assay validation; and 

       (D) includes a statement together with the results of the       test that reads: ``This test was developed for use as a part       of a response to the public health emergency declared to       address the outbreak of COVID-19. This test has not been       reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.''; or 

       (3) is an in vitro diagnostic test for which the developer       of such test meets all of the requirements of subparagraphs       (A) through (D) of paragraph (2) with respect to the test. 

       (c) Disposition of Product.--Notwithstanding the       termination of a declaration under subsection (b) of section       564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or a       revocation under subsection (g) of such section with respect       to a product described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall       consult with the developer of such in vitro diagnostic test       with respect to the appropriate disposition of such test to       ensure that authorization of any in vitro diagnostic test       under this section shall continue to be effective to provide       for continued use of such product to prevent or detect COVID-      19. 

       (d) In Vitro Diagnostic Test.--In this section, the term       ``in vitro diagnostic test'' has the meaning given the term       ``in vitro diagnostic product'' in section 809.3(a) of title       21, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).          Subtitle B--Access to Health Care for COVID-19 Patients            PART I--COVERAGE OF TESTING AND PREVENTIVE SERVICES       SEC. 4201. COVERAGE OF DIAGNOSTIC TESTING FOR COVID-19.  

       (a) In General.--A group health plan and a health insurance       issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage       (including a grandfathered health plan (as defined in section       1251(e) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42       U.S.C. 18011(b))) shall provide coverage, and shall not       impose any cost-sharing (including deductibles, copayments,       and coinsurance) requirements or prior authorization or other       medical management requirements, for the following items and       services furnished during any portion of the public health       emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human       Services pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service       Act on January 31, 2020, with respect to COVID-19, beginning       on or after the date of the enactment of this Act: 

       (1) An in vitro diagnostic product (as defined in section       809.3(a) of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations) for the       detection of SARS-CoV-2 or the diagnosis of the virus that       causes COVID-19, and the administration of such an in vitro       diagnostic product, that-- 

       (A) is approved, cleared, or authorized under section       510(k), 513, 515, or 564 of the Federal Food, Drug, and       Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360(k), 360c, 360e, 360bbb-3); 

       (B) is a clinical laboratory service performed in a       laboratory (including a public health laboratory) certified       to conduct high-complexity testing pursuant to section 353 of       the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 253a) for which the       developer has requested, or intends to request, emergency use       authorization under section 564 of the Federal Food, Drug,       and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-3), unless and until the       emergency use authorization request under such section 564       has been denied or the developer of such test does not submit       a request under such section within a reasonable timeframe;       or 

       (C) is developed in a State that has notified the Secretary       of Health and Human Services of its intention to review tests       intended to diagnose COVID-19. 

       (2) Items and services furnished to an individual during       health care provider office visits, urgent care center       visits, and emergency room visits that result in an order for       or administration of an in vitro diagnostic product described       in paragraph (1), but only to the extent such items and       services relate to the furnishing or administration of such       product or to the evaluation of such individual for purposes       of determining the need of such individual for such product.       SEC. 4202. PRICING OF DIAGNOSTIC TESTING.  

       (a) Reimbursement Rates.--A group health plan or a health       insurance issuer providing coverage of items and services       described in section 201(a) with respect to an enrollee shall       reimburse the provider of the diagnostic testing as follows: 

       (1) If the health plan or issuer has a negotiated rate for       such service with such provider, such negotiated rate shall       apply. 

       (2) If the health plan or issuer does not have a negotiated       rate for such service with such provider, such plan or issuer       shall reimburse the provider in an amount that equals the       cash price for such service as listed by the provider on a       public internet website. 

       (b) Requirement to Publicize Cash Price for Diagnostic       Testing for COVID-19.-- 

       (1) In general.--Each provider of a diagnostic test for       COVID-19 shall make public the cash price for such test on a       public internet website of such provider. 

       (2) Civil monetary penalties.--The Secretary of Health and       Human Services may impose a civil monetary penalty on any       provider of a diagnostic test for COVID-19 that is not in       compliance with paragraph (1) and has not completed a       corrective action plan to comply with the requirements of       such paragraph, in an amount not to exceed $300 per day that       the violation is ongoing.       SEC. 4203. RAPID COVERAGE OF PREVENTIVE SERVICES AND VACCINES                     FOR CORONAVIRUS.  

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding 2713(b) of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-13), the Secretary of       Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the       Secretary of the Treasury shall require group health plans       and health insurance issuers offering group or individual       health insurance to cover any qualifying coronavirus       preventive service, pursuant to section 2713(a) of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-13(a)). The requirement       described in this subsection shall take effect with respect       to a qualifying coronavirus prevention service on the       specified date described in subsection (b)(2). 

       (b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section: 

       (1) Qualifying coronavirus preventive service.--The term       ``qualifying coronavirus preventive service'' means an item,       service, or immunization that is intended to prevent or       mitigate coronavirus disease 2019 and that is-- 

       (A) an evidence-based item or service that has in effect a       rating of ``A'' or ``B'' in the current recommendations of       the United States Preventive Services Task Force; or 

       (B) an immunization that has in effect a recommendation       from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of the       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention with respect to       the individual involved. 

       (2) Specified date.--The term ``specified date'' means the       date that is 15 business days after the date on which a       recommendation is made relating to the immunization as       described in such paragraph. 

       (3) Health insurance terms.--In this section, the terms       ``group health plan'', ``health insurance issuer'', ``group       health insurance coverage'', and ``individual health       insurance coverage'' have the meanings given such terms in       section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       300gg-91).                 PART II--SUPPORT FOR HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS       SEC. 4211. SUPPLEMENTAL AWARDS FOR HEALTH CENTERS.  

       (a) Supplemental Awards.--Section 330(r) of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(r)) is amended by adding       at the end the following: 

       ``(6) Additional amounts for supplemental awards.--In       addition to any amounts made available pursuant to this       subsection, section 402A of this Act, or section 10503 of the       Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, there is       authorized to be appropriated, and there is appropriated, out       of any monies in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,       $1,320,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for supplemental awards       under subsection (d) for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 or the       prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of COVID-19.''. 

       (b) Application of Provisions.--Amounts appropriated       pursuant to the amendment made by subsection (a) for fiscal       year 2020 shall be subject to the requirements contained in       Public Law 116-94 for funds for programs authorized under       sections 330 through 340 of the Public Health Service Act (42       U.S.C. 254 through 256).       SEC. 4212. ALLOWING PERMANENT DIRECT HIRE OF NDMS HEALTH CARE                     PROFESSIONALS.  

       Section 2812(c)(4) of the Public Health Service Act (42       U.S.C. 300hh-11(c)(4)) is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(4) Certain appointments.--If the Secretary determines       that the number of intermittent disaster response personnel       within the National Disaster Medical System under this       section is insufficient to address a public health emergency       or potential public health emergency, the Secretary may       appoint candidates directly to personnel positions for       intermittent disaster response within such system. The       Secretary shall provide updates on the number of vacant or       unfilled positions within such system to the congressional       committees of jurisdiction each quarter for which this       authority is in effect.''.       SEC. 4213. TELEHEALTH NETWORK AND TELEHEALTH RESOURCE CENTERS                     GRANT PROGRAMS.  

       Section 330I of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       254c-14) is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (d)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking       ``projects to demonstrate how telehealth technologies can be       used through telehealth networks'' and inserting ``evidence-      based projects that utilize telehealth technologies through       telehealth networks''; 

       (ii) in subparagraph (A)--  

       (I) by striking ``the quality of'' and inserting ``access       to, and the quality of,''; and 

       (II) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon;  

       (iii) by striking subparagraph (B); 

       (iv) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B);       and 

       (v) in subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, by striking       ``and patients and their families, for decisionmaking'' and       inserting ``, patients, and their families''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) by striking ``demonstrate how telehealth technologies       can be used'' and inserting ``support initiatives that       utilize telehealth technologies''; and 

       (ii) by striking ``, to establish telehealth resource       centers''; 

       (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``4 years'' and       inserting ``5 years''; 

       (3) in subsection (f)-- 

       (A) by striking paragraph (2); 

       (B) in paragraph (1)(B)-- 

       (i) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iii) as       paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively, and adjusting the       margins accordingly; 

       (ii) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated by clause (i), by       redesignating subclauses (I) through (XII) as subparagraphs       (A) through (L), respectively, and adjusting the margins       accordingly; and 

       (iii) by striking ``(1) Telehealth network grants--'' and       all that follows through ``(B) Telehealth networks--''; and 

       (C) in paragraph (3)(I), as so redesignated, by inserting       ``and substance use disorder'' after ``mental health'' each       place such term appears; 

       (4) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``or improve'' and       inserting ``and improve''; 

       (5) by striking subsection (h); 

       (6) by redesignating subsections (i) through (p) as       subsection (h) through (o), respectively; 

       (7) in subsection (h), as so redesignated-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)--  

       (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``mental health,       public health, long-term care, home care, preventive'' and       inserting ``mental health care, public health services, long-      term care, home care, preventive care''; 

       (ii) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``and regional''       after ``local''; and 

       (iii) by striking subparagraph (F); and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``medically       underserved areas or'' and inserting ``rural areas, medically       underserved areas, or''; 

       (8) in paragraph (2) of subsection (i), as so redesignated,       by striking ``ensure that--'' and all that follows through       the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting ``ensure that not       less than 50 percent of the funds awarded shall be awarded       for projects in rural areas.''; 

       (9) in subsection (j), as so redesignated-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``computer hardware       and software, audio and video equipment, computer network       equipment, interactive equipment, data terminal equipment,       and other''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)(F), by striking ``health care       providers and''; 

       (10) in subsection (k), as so redesignated-- 

       (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``40 percent'' and       inserting ``20 percent''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``(such as laying cable       or telephone lines, or purchasing or installing microwave       towers, satellite dishes, amplifiers, or digital switching       equipment)''; 

       (11) by striking subsections (q) and (r) and inserting the       following: 

       ``(p) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of       enactment of the CARES Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the       Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on       Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the       Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives a report on the activities and outcomes of       the grant programs under subsection (b).''; 

       (12) by redesignating subsection (s) as subsection (q); and 

       (13) in subsection (q), as so redesignated, by striking       ``this section--'' and all that follows through the end of       paragraph (2) and inserting ``this section $29,000,000 for       each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''.       SEC. 4214. RURAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES OUTREACH, RURAL HEALTH                     NETWORK DEVELOPMENT, AND SMALL HEALTH CARE                     PROVIDER QUALITY IMPROVEMENT GRANT PROGRAMS.  

       Section 330A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       254c) is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (d)(2)-- 

       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``essential'' and       inserting ``basic''; and 

       (B) in subparagraph (B)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``to''       after ``grants''; and 

       (ii) in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), by striking ``to''       each place such term appears; 

       (2) in subsection (e)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) by inserting ``improving and'' after ``outreach by''; 

       (ii) by inserting ``, through community engagement and       evidence-based or innovative, evidence-informed models''       before the period of the first sentence; and 

       (iii) by striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``shall'' after ``entity''; 

       (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``shall be a rural       public or rural nonprofit private entity'' and inserting ``be       an entity with demonstrated experience serving, or the       capacity to serve, rural underserved populations''; 

       (iii) in subparagraphs (B) and (C), by striking ``shall''       each place such term appears; and 

       (iv) in subparagraph (B)--  

       (I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting       ``that'' after ``members''; and 

       (II) in clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``that'' each       place such term appears; and  

       (C) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ``the local community       or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations       in the local community or region''; 

       (3) in subsection (f)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) in subparagraph (A)--  

       (I) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking       ``promote, through planning and implementation, the       development of integrated health care networks that have       combined the functions of the entities participating in the       networks'' and inserting ``plan, develop, and implement       integrated health care networks that collaborate''; and 

       (II) in clause (ii), by striking ``essential health care       services'' and inserting ``basic health care services and       associated health outcomes''; and  

       (ii) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows: 

       ``(B) Grant periods.--The Director may award grants under       this subsection for periods of not more than 5 years.''; 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``shall'' after ``entity''; 

       (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``shall be a rural       public or rural nonprofit private entity'' and inserting ``be       an entity with demonstrated experience serving, or the       capacity to serve, rural underserved populations''; 

       (iii) in subparagraph (B)--  

       (I) in the matter preceding clause (i)--  

       (aa) by striking ``shall''; and 

       (bb) by inserting ``that'' after ``participants''; and  

       (II) in clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``that'' each       place such term appears; and  

       (iv) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``shall''; and 

       (C) in paragraph (3)-- 

       (i) by amending clause (iii) of subparagraph (C) to read as       follows: 

       ``(iii) how the rural underserved populations in the local       community or region to be served will benefit from and be       involved in the development and ongoing operations of the       network;''; and 

       (ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``the local community       or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations       in the local community or region''; 

       (4) in subsection (g)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) by inserting ``, including activities related to       increasing care coordination, enhancing chronic disease       management, and improving patient health outcomes'' before       the period of the first sentence; and 

       (ii) by striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``shall'' after ``entity''; 

       (ii) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking ``shall''       each place such term appears; and 

       (iii) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting ``or regional''       after ``local''; and 

       (C) in paragraph (3)(D), by striking ``the local community       or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations       in the local community or region''; 

       (5) in subsection (h)(3), in the matter preceding       subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, as appropriate,'' after       ``the Secretary''; 

       (6) by amending subsection (i) to read as follows: 

       ``(i) Report.--Not later than 4 years after the date of       enactment of the CARES Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the       Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on       Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the       Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of       Representatives a report on the activities and outcomes of       the grant programs under subsections (e), (f), and (g),       including the impact of projects funded under such programs       on the health status of rural residents with chronic       conditions.''; and 

       (7) in subsection (j), by striking ``$45,000,000 for each       of fiscal years 2008 through 2012'' and inserting       ``$79,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''.       SEC. 4215. UNITED STATES PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE MODERNIZATION.  

       (a) Commissioned Corps and Ready Reserve Corps.--Section       203 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 204) is       amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``a Ready Reserve       Corps for service in time of national emergency'' and       inserting ``, for service in time of a public health or       national emergency, a Ready Reserve Corps''; and 

       (2) in subsection (c)-- 

       (A) in the heading, by striking ``Research'' and inserting       ``Reserve Corps''; 

       (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``during public health       or national emergencies'' before the period; 

       (C) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``, consistent with paragraph (1)'' after ``shall''; 

       (ii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``during such       emergencies'' after ``members''; and 

       (iii) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``, consistent with       subparagraph (C)'' before the period; and 

       (D) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(3) Statutory references to reserve.--A reference in any       Federal statute, except in the case of subsection (b), to the       `Reserve Corps' of the Public Health Service or to the       `reserve' of the Public Health Service shall be deemed to be       a reference to the Ready Reserve Corps.''. 

       (b) Deployment Readiness.--Section 203A(a)(1)(B) of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 204a(a)(1)(B)) is       amended by striking ``Active Reserves'' and inserting ``Ready       Reserve Corps''. 

       (c) Retirement of Commissioned Officers.--Section 211 of       the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 212) is amended-- 

       (1) by striking ``the Service'' each place it appears and       inserting ``the Regular Corps''; 

       (2) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ``(in the case of an       officer in the Reserve Corps)''; 

       (3) in subsection (c)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) by striking ``or an officer of the Reserve Corps''; and 

       (ii) by inserting ``or under section 221(a)(19)'' after       ``subsection (a)''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Regular or Reserve       Corps'' and inserting ``Regular Corps or Ready Reserve       Corps''; and 

       (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``the Regular or Reserve       Corps of''. 

       (d) Rights, Privileges, etc. of Officers and Surviving       Beneficiaries.--Section 221 of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 213a) is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(19) Chapter 1223, Retired Pay for Non-Regular Service. 

       ``(20) Section 12601, Compensation: Reserve on active duty       accepting from any person. 

       ``(21) Section 12684, Reserves: separation for absence       without authority or sentence to imprisonment.''; and 

       (2) in subsection (b)--  

       (A) by striking ``Secretary of Health, Education, and       Welfare or his designee'' and inserting ``Secretary of Health       and Human Services or the designee of such secretary''; 

       (B) by striking ``(b) The authority vested'' and inserting       the following: 

       ``(b)(1) The authority vested''; 

       (C) by striking ``For purposes of'' and inserting the       following: 

       ``(2) For purposes of''; and 

       (D) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(3) For purposes of paragraph (19) of subsection (a), the       terms `Military department', `Secretary concerned', and       `Armed forces' in such title 10 shall be deemed to include,       respectively, the Department of Health and Human Services,       the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the       Commissioned Corps.''. 

       (e) Technical Amendments.--Title II of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 202 et seq.) is amended-- 

       (1) in sections 204 and 207(c), by striking ``Regular or       Reserve Corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``Regular       Corps or Ready Reserve Corps''; 

       (2) in section 208(a), by striking ``Regular and Reserve       Corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``Regular Corps       and Ready Reserve Corps''; and 

       (3) in section 205(c), 206(c), 210, and 219, and in       subsections (a), (b), and (d) of section 207, by striking       ``Reserve Corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``Ready       Reserve Corps''.       SEC. 4216. LIMITATION ON LIABILITY FOR VOLUNTEER HEALTH CARE                     PROFESSIONALS DURING COVID-19 EMERGENCY                     RESPONSE.  

       (a) Limitation on Liability.--Except as provided in       subsection (b), a health care professional shall not be       liable under Federal or State law for any harm caused by an       act or omission of the professional in the provision of       health care services during the public health emergency       declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services       (referred to in this section as the ``Secretary'') pursuant       to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       247d) on January 31, 2020 with respect to COVID-19, if-- 

       (1) the professional is providing health care services in       response to such public health emergency, as a volunteer; and 

       (2) the act or omission occurs-- 

       (A) in the course of providing health care services; 

       (B) in the health care professional's capacity as a       volunteer; 

       (C) in the course of providing health care services that       are within the scope of the license, registration, or       certification of the volunteer, as defined by the State of       licensure, registration, or certification; and 

       (D) in a good faith belief that the individual being       treated is in need of health care services. 

       (b) Exceptions.--Subsection (a) does not apply if-- 

       (1) the harm was caused by an act or omission constituting       willful or criminal misconduct, gross negligence, reckless       misconduct, or a conscious flagrant indifference to the       rights or safety of the individual harmed by the health care       professional; or 

       (2) the health care professional rendered the health care       services under the influence (as determined pursuant to       applicable State law) of alcohol or an intoxicating drug. 

       (c) Preemption.-- 

       (1) In general.--This section preempts the laws of a State       or any political subdivision of a State to the extent that       such laws are inconsistent with this section, unless such       laws provide greater protection from liability. 

       (2) Volunteer protection act.--Protections afforded by this       section are in addition to those provided by the Volunteer       Protection Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-19). 

       (d) Definitions.--In this section-- 

       (1) the term ``harm'' includes physical, nonphysical,       economic, and noneconomic losses; 

       (2) the term ``health care professional'' means an       individual who is licensed, registered, or certified under       Federal or State law to provide health care services; 

       (3) the term ``health care services'' means any services       provided by a health care professional, or by any individual       working under the supervision of a health care professional       that relate to-- 

       (A) the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of COVID-19; or 

       (B) the assessment or care of the health of a human being;       and 

       (4) the term ``volunteer'' means a health care professional       who, with respect to the health care services rendered, does       not receive compensation or any other thing of value in lieu       of compensation, which compensation-- 

       (A) includes a payment under any insurance policy or health       plan, or under any Federal or State health benefits program;       and 

       (B) excludes receipt of items to be used exclusively for       rendering health care services in the health care       professional's capacity as a volunteer described in       subsection (a)(1). 

       (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect upon       the date of enactment of this Act, and applies to a claim for       harm only if the act or omission that caused such harm       occurred on or after the date of enactment. 

       (f) Sunset.--This section shall be in effect only for the       length of the public health emergency declared by the       Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this       section as the ``Secretary'') pursuant to section 319 of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d) on January 31,       2020 with respect to COVID-19.                     PART III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS       SEC. 4221. CONFIDENTIALITY AND DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS RELATING                     TO SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER.  

       (a) Conforming Changes Relating to Substance Use       Disorder.--Subsections (a) and (h) of section 543 of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) are each       amended by striking ``substance abuse'' and inserting       ``substance use disorder''. 

       (b) Disclosures to Covered Entities Consistent With       HIPAA.--Paragraph (1) of section 543(b) of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2(b)) is amended to read as       follows: 

       ``(1) Consent.--The following shall apply with respect to       the contents of any record referred to in subsection (a): 

       ``(A) Such contents may be used or disclosed in accordance       with the prior written consent of the patient with respect to       whom such record is maintained. 

       ``(B) Once prior written consent of the patient has been       obtained, such contents may be used or disclosed by a covered       entity, business associate, or a program subject to this       section for purposes of treatment, payment, and health care       operations as permitted by the HIPAA regulations. Any       information so disclosed may then be redisclosed in       accordance with the HIPAA regulations. Section 13405(c) of       the Health Information Technology and Clinical Health Act (42       U.S.C. 17935(c)) shall apply to all disclosures pursuant to       subsection (b)(1) of this section. 

       ``(C) It shall be permissible for a patient's prior written       consent to be given once for all such future uses or       disclosures for purposes of treatment, payment, and health       care operations, until such time as the patient revokes such       consent in writing. 

       ``(D) Section 13405(a) of the Health Information Technology       and Clinical Health Act (42 U.S.C. 17935(a)) shall apply to       all disclosures pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of this       section.''. 

       (c) Disclosures of De-Identified Health Information to       Public Health Authorities.--Paragraph (2) of section 543(b)       of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2(b)), is       amended by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(D) To a public health authority, so long as such content       meets the standards established in section 164.514(b) of       title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor       regulations) for creating de-identified information.''. 

       (d) Definitions.--Section 543 of the Public Health Service       Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) is amended by adding at the end the       following: 

       ``(k) Definitions.--For purposes of this section: 

       ``(1) Breach.--The term `breach' has the meaning given such       term for purposes of the HIPAA regulations. 

       ``(2) Business associate.--The term `business associate'       has the meaning given such term for purposes of the HIPAA       regulations. 

       ``(3) Covered entity.--The term `covered entity' has the       meaning given such term for purposes of the HIPAA       regulations. 

       ``(4) Health care operations.--The term `health care       operations' has the meaning given such term for purposes of       the HIPAA regulations. 

       ``(5) HIPPA regulations.--The term `HIPAA regulations' has       the meaning given such term for purposes of parts 160 and 164       of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations. 

       ``(6) Payment.--The term `payment' has the meaning given       such term for purposes of the HIPAA regulations. 

       ``(7) Public health authority.--The term `public health       authority' has the meaning given such term for purposes of       the HIPAA regulations. 

       ``(8) Treatment.--The term `treatment' has the meaning       given such term for purposes of the HIPAA regulations. 

       ``(9) Unsecured protected health information.--The term       `unprotected health information' has the meaning given such       term for purposes of the HIPAA regulations.''. 

       (e) Use of Records in Criminal, Civil, or Administrative       Investigations, Actions, or Proceedings.--Subsection (c) of       section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       290dd-2(c)) is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(c) Use of Records in Criminal, Civil, or Administrative       Contexts.--Except as otherwise authorized by a court order       under subsection (b)(2)(C) or by the consent of the patient,       a record referred to in subsection (a), or testimony relaying       the information contained therein, may not be disclosed or       used in any civil, criminal, administrative, or legislative       proceedings conducted by any Federal, State, or local       authority, including with respect to the following       activities: 

       ``(1) Such record or testimony shall not be entered into       evidence in any criminal prosecution or civil action before a       Federal or State court. 

       ``(2) Such record or testimony shall not form part of the       record for decision or otherwise be taken into account in any       proceeding before a Federal, State, or local agency. 

       ``(3) Such record or testimony shall not be used by any       Federal, State, or local agency for a law enforcement purpose       or to conduct any law enforcement investigation. 

       ``(4) Such record or testimony shall not be used in any       application for a warrant.''. 

       (f) Penalties.--Subsection (f) of section 543 of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) is amended to read as       follows: 

       ``(f) Penalties.--The provisions of sections 1176 and 1177       of the Social Security Act shall apply to a violation of this       section to the extent and in the same manner as such       provisions apply to a violation of part C of title       XI of such Act. In applying the previous sentence-- 

       ``(1) the reference to `this subsection' in subsection       (a)(2) of such section 1176 shall be treated as a reference       to `this subsection (including as applied pursuant to section       543(f) of the Public Health Service Act)'; and 

       ``(2) in subsection (b) of such section 1176-- 

       ``(A) each reference to `a penalty imposed under subsection       (a)' shall be treated as a reference to `a penalty imposed       under subsection (a) (including as applied pursuant to       section 543(f) of the Public Health Service Act)'; and 

       ``(B) each reference to `no damages obtained under       subsection (d)' shall be treated as a reference to `no       damages obtained under subsection (d) (including as applied       pursuant to section 543(f) of the Public Health Service       Act)'.''. 

       (g) Antidiscrimination.--Section 543 of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) is amended by inserting after       subsection (h) the following: 

       ``(i) Antidiscrimination.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--No entity shall discriminate against an       individual on the basis of information received by such       entity pursuant to an inadvertent or intentional disclosure       of records, or information contained in records, described in       subsection (a) in-- 

       ``(A) admission, access to, or treatment for health care; 

       ``(B) hiring, firing, or terms of employment, or receipt of       worker's compensation; 

       ``(C) the sale, rental, or continued rental of housing; 

       ``(D) access to Federal, State, or local courts; or 

       ``(E) access to, approval of, or maintenance of social       services and benefits provided or funded by Federal, State,       or local governments. 

       ``(2) Recipients of federal funds.--No recipient of Federal       funds shall discriminate against an individual on the basis       of information received by such recipient pursuant to an       intentional or inadvertent disclosure of such records or       information contained in records described in subsection (a)       in affording access to the services provided with such       funds.''. 

       (h) Notification in Case of Breach.--Section 543 of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2), as amended by       subsection (g), is further amended by inserting after       subsection (i) the following: 

       ``(j) Notification in Case of Breach.--The provisions of       section 13402 of the HITECH Act (42 U.S.C. 17932) shall apply       to a program or activity described in subsection (a), in case       of a breach of records described in subsection (a), to the       same extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply       to a covered entity in the case of a breach of unsecured       protected health information.''. 

       (i) Regulations.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human       Services, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies,       shall make such revisions to regulations as may be necessary       for implementing and enforcing the amendments made by this       section, such that such amendments shall apply with respect       to uses and disclosures of information occurring on or after       the date that is 12 months after the date of enactment of       this Act. 

       (2) Easily understandable notice of privacy practices.--Not       later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,       the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation       with appropriate legal, clinical, privacy, and civil rights       experts, shall update section 164.520 of title 45, Code of       Federal Regulations, so that covered entities and entities       creating or maintaining the records described in subsection       (a) provide notice, written in plain language, of privacy       practices regarding patient records referred to in section       543(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-      2(a)), including-- 

       (A) a statement of the patient's rights, including self-pay       patients, with respect to protected health information and a       brief description of how the individual may exercise these       rights (as required by subsection (b)(1)(iv) of such section       164.520); and 

       (B) a description of each purpose for which the covered       entity is permitted or required to use or disclose protected       health information without the patient's written       authorization (as required by subsection (b)(2) of such       section 164.520). 

       (j) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this title or the       amendments made by this title shall be construed to limit-- 

       (1) a patient's right, as described in section 164.522 of       title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor       regulation, to request a restriction on the use or disclosure       of a record referred to in section 543(a) of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2(a)) for purposes of       treatment, payment, or health care operations; or 

       (2) a covered entity's choice, as described in section       164.506 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, or any       successor regulation, to obtain the consent of the individual       to use or disclose a record referred to in such section       543(a) to carry out treatment, payment, or health care       operation. 

       (k) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress       that-- 

       (1) any person treating a patient through a program or       activity with respect to which the confidentiality       requirements of section 543 of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) apply is encouraged to access the       applicable State-based prescription drug monitoring program       when clinically appropriate; 

       (2) patients have the right to request a restriction on the       use or disclosure of a record referred to in section 543(a)       of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2(a)) for       treatment, payment, or health care operations; 

       (3) covered entities should make every reasonable effort to       the extent feasible to comply with a patient's request for a       restriction regarding such use or disclosure; 

       (4) for purposes of applying section 164.501 of title 45,       Code of Federal Regulations, the definition of health care       operations shall have the meaning given such term in such       section, except that clause (v) of paragraph (6) shall not       apply; and 

       (5) programs creating records referred to in section 543(a)       of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2(a))       should receive positive incentives for discussing with their       patients the benefits to consenting to share such records.       SEC. 4222. NUTRITION SERVICES.  

       (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``Assistant       Secretary'', ``Secretary'', ``State agency'', and ``area       agency on aging'' have the meanings given the terms in       section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.       3002). 

       (b) Nutrition Services Transfer Criteria.--During any       portion of the COVID-19 public health emergency declared       under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       247d), the Secretary shall allow a State agency or an area       agency on aging, without prior approval, to transfer not more       than 100 percent of the funds received by the State agency or       area agency on aging, respectively, and attributable to funds       appropriated under paragraph (1) or (2) of section 303(b) of       the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3023(b)), between       subpart 1 and subpart 2 of part C (42 U.S.C. 3030d-2 et seq.)       for such use as the State agency or area agency on aging,       respectively, considers appropriate to meet the needs of the       State or area served. 

       (c ) Home-delivered Nutrition Services Waiver.--For       purposes of State agencies determining the delivery of       nutrition services under section 337 of the Older Americans       Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030g), during the period of the       COVID-19 public health emergency declared under section 319       of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d), the same       meaning shall be given to an individual who is unable to       obtain nutrition because the individual is practicing social       distancing due to the emergency as is given to an individual       who is homebound by reason of illness. 

       (d) Dietary Guidelines Waiver.--To facilitate       implementation of subparts 1 and 2 of part C of title III of       the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030d-2 et seq.)       during any portion of the COVID-19 public health emergency       declared under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 247d), the Assistant Secretary shall waive the       requirements for meals provided under those subparts to       comply with the requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) of       section 339(2)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 3030g-21(2)(A)).       SEC. 4223. GUIDANCE ON PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION.  

       Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this       Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue       guidance on the sharing of patients' protected health       information pursuant to section 160.103 of title 45, Code of       Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations) during the       public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health       and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d) with respect to COVID-19, during       the emergency involving Federal primary responsibility       determined to exist by the President under section 501(b) of       the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency       Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5191(b)) with respect to COVID-19,       and during the national emergency declared by the President       under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)       with respect to COVID-19. Such guidance shall include       information on compliance with the regulations promulgated       pursuant to section 264(c) of the Health Insurance       Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2       note) and applicable policies, including such policies that       may come into effect during such emergencies.       SEC. 4224. REAUTHORIZATION OF HEALTHY START PROGRAM.  

       Section 330H of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.       254c-8) is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (a)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, during fiscal year       2001 and subsequent years,''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or increasing above       the national average'' after ``areas with high''; 

       (2) in subsection (b)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``consumers of project       services, public health departments, hospitals, health       centers under section 330'' and inserting ``participants and       former participants of project services, public health       departments, hospitals, health centers under section 330,       State substance abuse agencies''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``such as low       birthweight'' and inserting ``including poor birth outcomes       (such as low birthweight and preterm birth) and social       determinants of health''; 

       (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); 

       (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A), the following:  

       ``(B) Communities with-- 

       ``(i) high rates of infant mortality or poor perinatal       outcomes; or 

       ``(ii) high rates of infant mortality or poor perinatal       outcomes in specific subpopulations within the community.'';       and 

       (iv) in subparagraph (C) (as so redesignated)--  

       (I) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as clauses (ii)       and (iii), respectively; 

       (II) by inserting before clause (ii) (as so redesignated)       the following:  

       ``(i) collaboration with the local community in the       development of the project;'';  

       (III) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by striking       ``and'' at the end; 

       (IV) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated), by striking the       period and inserting ``; and''; and 

       (V) by adding at the end the following:  

       ``(iv) the use and collection of data demonstrating the       effectiveness of such program in decreasing infant mortality       rates and improving perinatal outcomes, as applicable, or the       process by which new applicants plan to collect this data.''; 

       (3) in subsection (c)-- 

       (A) by striking ``Recipients of grants'' and inserting the       following: 

       ``(1) In general.--Recipients of grants''; and 

       (B) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(2) Other programs.--The Secretary shall ensure       coordination of the program carried out pursuant to this       section with other programs and activities related to the       reduction of the rate of infant mortality and improved       perinatal and infant health outcomes supported by the       Department.''; 

       (4) in subsection (e)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``appropriated--'' and       all that follows through the end and inserting ``appropriated       $122,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.'';       and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by adding at the end the       following: ``Evaluations may also include, to the extent       practicable, information related to-- 

       ``(i) progress toward achieving any grant metrics or       outcomes related to reducing infant mortality rates,       improving perinatal outcomes, or reducing the disparity in       health status; 

       ``(ii) recommendations on potential improvements that may       assist with addressing gaps, as applicable and appropriate;       and 

       ``(iii) the extent to which the grantee coordinated with       the community in which the grantee is located in the       development of the project and delivery of services,       including with respect to technical assistance and mentorship       programs.''; and 

       (5) by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(f) GAO Report.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 4 years after the date of       the enactment of this subsection, the Comptroller General of       the United States shall conduct an independent evaluation,       and submit to the appropriate Committees of Congress a       report, concerning the Healthy Start program under this       section. 

       ``(2) Evaluation.--In conducting the evaluation under       paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall consider, as       applicable and appropriate, information from the evaluations       under subsection (e)(2)(B). 

       ``(3) Report.--The report described in paragraph (1) shall       review, assess, and provide recommendations, as appropriate,       on the following: 

       ``(A) The allocation of Healthy Start program grants by the       Health Resources and Services Administration, including       considerations made by such Administration regarding       disparities in infant mortality or perinatal outcomes among       urban and rural areas in making such awards. 

       ``(B) Trends in the progress made toward meeting the       evaluation criteria pursuant to subsection (e)(2)(B),       including programs which decrease infant mortality rates and       improve perinatal outcomes, programs that have not decreased       infant mortality rates or improved perinatal outcomes, and       programs that have made an impact on disparities in infant       mortality or perinatal outcomes. 

       ``(C) The ability of grantees to improve health outcomes       for project participants, promote the awareness of the       Healthy Start program services, incorporate and promote       family participation, facilitate coordination with the       community in which the grantee is located, and increase       grantee accountability through quality improvement,       performance monitoring, evaluation, and the effect such       metrics may have toward decreasing the rate of infant       mortality and improving perinatal outcomes. 

       ``(D) The extent to which such Federal programs are       coordinated across agencies and the identification of       opportunities for improved coordination in such Federal       programs and activities.''.                           Subtitle C--Innovation       SEC. 4301. REMOVING THE CAP ON OTA.  

       Section 319L(c)(5)(A)(ii) of the Public Health Service Act       (42 U.S.C. 247d-7e(c)(5)(A)(ii)) is amended to read as       follows: 

       ``(ii) Limitations on authority.--To the maximum extent       practicable, competitive procedures shall be used when       entering into transactions to carry out projects under this       subsection.''.       SEC. 4302. EXTENDING THE PRIORITY REVIEW PROGRAM FOR AGENTS                     THAT PRESENT NATIONAL SECURITY THREATS.  

       Section 565A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act       (21 U.S.C. 360bbb-4a) is amended by striking subsection (g).       SEC. 4303. PRIORITY ZOONOTIC ANIMAL DRUGS.  

       Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21       U.S.C. 351 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 512       the following:       ``SEC. 512A. PRIORITY ZOONOTIC ANIMAL DRUGS.  

       ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall, at the request of       the sponsor intending to submit an application for approval       of a new animal drug under section 512(b)(1) or an       application for conditional approval of a new animal drug       under section 571, expedite the development and review of       such new animal drug if preliminary clinical evidence       indicates that the new animal drug, alone or in combination       with 1 or more other animal drugs, has the potential to       prevent or treat a zoonotic disease in animals, including a       vector borne-disease, that has the potential to cause serious       adverse health consequences for, or serious or life-      threatening diseases in, humans. 

       ``(b) Request for Designation.--The sponsor of a new animal       drug may request the Secretary to designate a new animal drug       described in subsection (a) as a priority zoonotic animal       drug. A request for the designation may be made concurrently       with, or at any time after, the opening of an investigational       new animal drug file under section 512(j) or the filing of an       application under section 512(b)(1) or 571. 

       ``(c) Designation.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--Not later than 60 calendar days after       the receipt of a request under subsection (b), the Secretary       shall determine whether the new animal drug that is the       subject of the request meets the criteria described in       subsection (a). If the Secretary determines that the new       animal drug meets the criteria, the Secretary shall designate       the new animal drug as a priority zoonotic animal drug and       shall take such actions as are appropriate to expedite the       development and review of the application for approval or       conditional approval of such new animal drug. 

       ``(2) Actions.--The actions to expedite the development and       review of an application under paragraph (1) may include, as       appropriate-- 

       ``(A) taking steps to ensure that the design of clinical       trials is as efficient as practicable, when scientifically       appropriate, such as by utilizing novel trial designs or drug       development tools (including biomarkers) that may reduce the       number of animals needed for studies; 

       ``(B) providing timely advice to, and interactive       communication with, the sponsor (which may include meetings       with the sponsor and review team) regarding the development       of the new animal drug to ensure that the development program       to gather the nonclinical and clinical data necessary for       approval is as efficient as practicable; 

       ``(C) involving senior managers and review staff with       experience in zoonotic or vector-borne disease to facilitate       collaborative, cross-disciplinary review, including, as       appropriate, across agency centers; and 

       ``(D) implementing additional administrative or process       enhancements, as necessary, to facilitate an efficient review       and development program.''.                       Subtitle D--Finance Committee       SEC. 4401. EXEMPTION FOR TELEHEALTH SERVICES.  

       (a) In General.--Paragraph (2) of section 223(c) of the       Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end       the following new subparagraph: 

       ``(E) Safe harbor for absence of deductible for       telehealth.--In the case of plan years beginning on or before       December 31, 2021, a plan shall not fail to be treated as a       high deductible health plan by reason of failing to have a       deductible for telehealth and other remote care services.''. 

       (b) Certain Coverage Disregarded.--Clause (ii) of section       223(c)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended       by striking ``or long-term care'' and inserting ``long-term       care, or (in the case of plan years beginning on or before       December 31, 2021) telehealth and other remote care''. 

       (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 4402. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN OVER-THE-COUNTER MEDICAL                     PRODUCTS AS QUALIFIED MEDICAL EXPENSES.  

       (a) HSAs.--Section 223(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code       of 1986 is amended-- 

       (1) by striking the last sentence of subparagraph (A) and       inserting the following: ``For purposes of this subparagraph,       amounts paid for menstrual care products shall be treated as       paid for medical care.''; and 

       (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: 

       ``(D) Menstrual care product.--For purposes of this       paragraph, the term `menstrual care product' means a tampon,       pad, liner, cup, sponge, or similar product used by       individuals with respect to menstruation or other genital-      tract secretions.''. 

       (b) Archer MSAs.--Section 220(d)(2)(A) of such Code is       amended by striking the last sentence and inserting the       following: ``For purposes of this subparagraph, amounts paid       for menstrual care products (as defined in section       223(d)(2)(D)) shall be treated as paid for medical care.''. 

       (c) Health Flexible Spending Arrangements and Health       Reimbursement Arrangements.--Section 106 of such Code is       amended by striking subsection (f) and inserting the       following new subsection:  

       ``(f) Reimbursements for Menstrual Care Products.--For       purposes of this section and section 105, expenses incurred       for menstrual care products (as defined in section       223(d)(2)(D)) shall be treated as incurred for medical       care.''. 

       (d) Effective Dates.-- 

       (1) Distributions from savings accounts.--The amendment       made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply to amounts paid       after December 31, 2019. 

       (2) Reimbursements.--The amendment made by subsection (c)       shall apply to expenses incurred after December 31, 2019.       SEC. 4403. TREATMENT OF DIRECT PRIMARY CARE SERVICE                     ARRANGEMENTS.  

       (a) In General.--Section 223(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue       Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following       new subparagraph: 

       ``(D) Treatment of direct primary care service       arrangements.-- 

       ``(i) In general.--A direct primary care service       arrangement shall not be treated as a health plan for       purposes of subparagraph (A)(ii). 

       ``(ii) Direct primary care service arrangement.--For       purposes of this paragraph--  

       ``(I) In general.--The term `direct primary care service       arrangement' means, with respect to any individual, an       arrangement under which such individual is provided medical       care (as defined in section 213(d)) consisting solely of       primary care services provided by primary care practitioners       (as defined in section 1833(x)(2)(A) of the Social Security       Act, determined without regard to clause (ii) thereof), if       the sole compensation for such care is a fixed periodic fee. 

       ``(II) Limitation.--With respect to any individual for any       month, such term shall not include any arrangement if the       aggregate fees for all direct primary care service       arrangements (determined without regard to this subclause)       with respect to such individual for such month exceed $150       (twice such dollar amount in the case of an individual with       any direct primary care service arrangement (as so       determined) that covers more than one individual).  

       ``(iii) Certain services specifically excluded from       treatment as primary care services.--For purposes of this       paragraph, the term `primary care services' shall not       include--  

       ``(I) procedures that require the use of general       anesthesia, and 

       ``(II) laboratory services not typically administered in an       ambulatory primary care setting.       The Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of       Health and Human Services, shall issue regulations or other       guidance regarding the application of this clause.''. 

       (b) Direct Primary Care Service Arrangement Fees Treated as       Medical Expenses.--Section 223(d)(2)(C) is amended by       striking ``or'' at the end of clause (iii), by striking the       period at the end of clause (iv) and inserting ``, or'', and       by adding at the end the following new clause: 

       ``(v) any direct primary care service arrangement.''. 

       (c) Inflation Adjustment.--Section 223(g)(1) of such Code       is amended-- 

       (1) by inserting ``, (c)(1)(D)(ii)(II),'' after ``(b)(2),''       each place such term appears, and 

       (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and (iii)'' after       ``clause (ii)'' in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end       of clause (i), by striking the period at the end of clause       (ii) and inserting ``, and'', and by inserting after clause       (ii) the following new clause: 

       ``(iii) in the case of the dollar amount in subsection       (c)(1)(D)(ii)(II) for taxable years beginning in calendar       years after 2020, `calendar year 2019'.' '''. 

       (d) Reporting of Direct Primary Care Service Arrangement       Fees on w-2.--Section 6051(a) of such Code is amended by       striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (16), by striking       the period at the end of paragraph (17) and inserting ``,       and'', and by inserting after paragraph (17) the following       new paragraph: 

       ``(18) in the case of a direct primary care service       arrangement (as defined in section 223(c)(1)(D)(ii)) which is       provided in connection with employment, the aggregate fees       for such arrangement for such employee.''. 

       (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2019, in       taxable years ending after such date.       SEC. 4404. INCREASING MEDICARE TELEHEALTH FLEXIBILITIES                     DURING EMERGENCY PERIOD.  

       Section 1135 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-5)       is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (b)(8), by striking ``to an individual by       a qualified provider (as defined in subsection (g)(3))'' and       all that follows through the period and inserting ``, the       requirements of section 1834(m).''; and 

       (2) in subsection (g), by striking paragraph (3).       SEC. 4405. ENHANCING MEDICARE TELEHEALTH SERVICES FOR                     FEDERALLY QUALIFIED HEALTH CENTERS AND RURAL                     HEALTH CLINICS DURING EMERGENCY PERIOD.  

       Section 1834(m) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395m(m)) is amended-- 

       (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by striking       ``The Secretary'' and inserting ``Subject to paragraph (8),       the Secretary''; 

       (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``The Secretary'' and       inserting ``Subject to paragraph (8), the Secretary''; 

       (3) in paragraph (4)-- 

       (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``The term'' and       inserting ``Subject to paragraph (8), the term''; and 

       (B) in subparagraph (F)(i), by striking ``The term'' and       inserting ``Subject to paragraph (8), the term''; and 

       (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 

       ``(8) Enhancing telehealth services for federally qualified       health centers and rural health clinics during emergency       period.-- 

       ``(A) In general.--During the emergency period described in       section 1135(g)(1)(B)-- 

       ``(i) the Secretary shall pay for telehealth services that       are furnished via a telecommunications system by a Federally       qualified health center or a rural health clinic to an       eligible telehealth individual enrolled under this part       notwithstanding that the Federally qualified health center or       rural clinic providing the telehealth service is not at the       same location as the beneficiary; 

       ``(ii) the amount of payment to a Federally qualified       health center or rural health clinic that serves as a distant       site for such a telehealth service shall be determined under       subparagraph (B); and 

       ``(iii) for purposes of this subsection--  

       ``(I) the term `distant site' includes a Federally       qualified health center or rural health clinic that furnishes       a telehealth service to an eligible telehealth individual;       and 

       ``(II) the term `telehealth services' includes a rural       health clinic service or Federally qualified health center       service that is furnished using telehealth to the extent that       payment codes corresponding to services identified by the       Secretary under clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (4)(F) are       listed on the corresponding claim for such rural health       clinic service or Federally qualified health center service.  

       ``(B) Special payment rule.--The Secretary shall develop       and implement payment methods that apply under this       subsection to a Federally qualified health center or rural       health clinic that serves as a distant site that furnishes a       telehealth service to an eligible telehealth individual       during such emergency period. Such payment methods shall be       based on a composite rate that is similar to the payment that       applies to payment for comparable telehealth services under       the physician fee schedule under section 1848.       Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may       implement such payment methods through program instruction or       otherwise.''.       SEC. 4406. TEMPORARY WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT FOR FACE-TO-FACE                     VISITS BETWEEN HOME DIALYSIS PATIENTS AND                     PHYSICIANS.  

       Section 1881(b)(3)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395rr(b)(3)(B)) is amended-- 

       (1) in clause (i), by striking ``clause (ii)'' and       inserting ``clauses (ii) and (iii)''; 

       (2) in clause (ii), in the matter preceding subclause (I),       by striking ``Clause (i)'' and inserting ``Except as provided       in clause (iii), clause (i)''; and 

       (3) by adding at the end the following new clause: 

       ``(iii) The Secretary may waive the provisions of clause       (ii) during the emergency period described in section       1135(g)(1)(B).''.       SEC. 4407. IMPROVING CARE PLANNING FOR MEDICARE HOME HEALTH                     SERVICES.  

       (a) Part A Provisions.--Section 1814(a) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395f(a)) is amended-- 

       (1) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``, a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as       such terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is working       in accordance with State law, or a physician assistant (as       defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) under the supervision of a       physician, who is'' after ``in the case of services described       in subparagraph (C), a physician''; and 

       (B) in subparagraph (C)-- 

       (i) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse       specialist, or a physician assistant (as the case may be)''       after ``physician'' the first 2 times it appears; and 

       (ii) by striking ``, and, in the case of a certification       made by a physician'' and all that follows through ``face-to-      face encounter'' and inserting ``, and, in the case of a       certification made by a physician after January 1, 2010, or       by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or       physician assistant (as the case may be) after a date       specified by the Secretary (but in no case later than the       date that is 6 months after the date of the enactment of the       CARES Act), prior to making such certification a physician,       nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician       assistant must document that a physician, nurse practitioner,       clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant has had a       face-to-face encounter''; 

       (2) in the third sentence-- 

       (A) by striking ``physician certification'' and inserting       ``certification''; 

       (B) by inserting ``(or in the case of regulations to       implement the amendments made by section 4407 of the CARES       Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations, which shall       become effective no later than 6 months after the enactment       of such Act))'' after ``1981''; and 

       (C) by striking ``a physician who'' and inserting ``a       physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist,       certified nurse-midwife, or physician assistant who''; and 

       (3) in the fourth sentence, by inserting ``, nurse       practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-      midwife, or physician assistant'' after ``physician''; and 

       (4) in the fifth sentence--  

       (A) by inserting ``or no later than six months after the       enactment of this legislation for purposes of documentation       for certification and recertification made under paragraph       (2) by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist,       certified nurse-midwife, or physician assistant,''; and 

       (B) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse       specialist, certified nurse-midwife, or physician assistant''       after ``of the physician''. 

       (b) Part B Provisions.--Section 1835(a) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395n(a)) is amended-- 

       (1) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting       ``, a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as       those terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is       working in accordance with State law, or a physician       assistant (as defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) under the       supervision of a physician, who is'' after ``in the case of       services described in subparagraph (C), a physician''; and 

       (B) in subparagraph (A)-- 

       (i) in each of clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (A)       by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse       specialist, or a physician assistant (as the case may be)''       after ``physician''; and 

       (ii) in clause (iv), by striking ``after January 1, 2010''       and all that follows through ``face-to-face encounter'' and       inserting ``made by a physician after January 1, 2010, or by       a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician       assistant (as the case may be) after a date specified by the       Secretary (but in no case later than the date that is 6       months after the date of the enactment of the CARES Act),       prior to making such certification a physician, nurse       practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-      midwife, or physician assistant must document that a       physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or       physician assistant has had a face-to-face encounter''; 

       (2) in the third sentence, by inserting ``, nurse       practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician       assistant (as the case may be)'' after physician; 

       (3) in the fourth sentence-- 

       (A) by striking ``physician certification'' and inserting       ``certification''; 

       (B) by inserting ``(or in the case of regulations to       implement the amendments made by section 4407 of the CARES       Act the Secretary shall prescribe regulations which shall       become effective no later than 6 months after the enactment       of such Act))'' after ``1981''; and 

       (C) by striking ``a physician who'' and inserting ``a       physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or       physician assistant who''; 

       (4) in the fifth sentence, by inserting ``, nurse       practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician       assistant'' after ``physician''; and 

       (5) in the sixth sentence-- 

       (A) by inserting ``or no later than six months after the       enactment of this legislation for purposes of documentation       for certification and recerification made under paragraph (2)       by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified       nurse-midwife, or physician assistant,'' after ``January 1,       2019''; and 

       (B) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse       specialist, certified nurse-midwife, or physician assistant''       after ``of the physician''. 

       (c) Definition Provisions.-- 

       (1) Home health services.--Section 1861(m) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(m)) is amended-- 

       (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)-- 

       (i) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner or a clinical       nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in subsection       (aa)(5)), or a physician assistant (as defined in subsection       (aa)(5))'' after ``physician'' the first place it appears;       and 

       (ii) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical       nurse specialist, or a physician assistant'' after       ``physician'' the second place it appears; and 

       (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, a nurse       practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician       assistant'' after ``physician''. 

       (2) Home health agency.--Section 1861(o)(2) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(o)(2)) is amended-- 

       (A) by inserting ``, nurse practitioners or clinical nurse       specialists (as those terms are defined in subsection       (aa)(5)), certified nurse-midwives (as defined in subsection       (gg)), or physician assistants (as defined in subsection       (aa)(5))'' after ``physicians''; and 

       (B) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse       specialist, certified nurse-midwife, physician assistant,''       after ``physician''. 

       (3) Covered osteoporosis drug.--Section 1861(kk)(1) of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(kk)(1)) is amended by       inserting ``, nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist       (as those terms are defined in subsection (aa)(5)), certified       nurse-midwive (as defined in subsection (gg)), or physician       assistant (as defined in subsection 1820(aa)(5))'' after       ``attending physician''. 

       (d) Home Health Prospective Payment System Provisions.--      Section 1895 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395fff)       is amended-- 

       (1) in subsection (c)(1)-- 

       (A) by striking ``(provided under section 1842(r))''; and 

       (B) by inserting ``the 1 nurse practitioner or clinical       nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in section       1861(aa)(5)), or the physician assistant (as defined in       section 1861(aa)(5))'' after ``physician''; and 

       (2) in subsection (e)-- 

       (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``or a nurse       practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as those terms are       defined in section 1861(aa)(5))'' after ``physician''; and 

       (B) in paragraph (2)-- 

       (i) in the heading, by striking ``Physician certification''       and inserting ``Rule of construction regarding requirement       for certification''; and 

       (ii) by striking ``physician''. 

       (e) Application to Medicaid.--The amendments made under       this section shall apply under title XIX of the Social       Security Act in the same manner and to the same extent as       such requirements apply under title XVIII of such Act or       regulations promulgated thereunder. 

       (f) Effective Date.--The Secretary of Health and Human       Services shall prescribe regulations to apply the amendments       made by this section to items and services furnished, which       shall become effective no later than six months after the       enactment of this legislation. The Secretary shall promulgate       an interim final rule if necessary, to comply with the       required effective date.       SEC. 4408. ADJUSTMENT OF SEQUESTRATION.  

       (a) Temporary Suspension of Medicare Sequestration.--During       the period beginning on May 1, 2020 and ending on December       31, 2020, the Medicare programs under title XVIII of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) shall be exempt       from reduction under any sequestration order issued before,       on, or after the date of enactment of this Act. 

       (b) Extension of Direct Spending Reductions Through Fiscal       Year 2030.--Section 251A(6) of the Balanced Budget and       Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a(6)) is       amended-- 

       (1) in subparagraph (B), in the matter preceding clause       (i), by striking ``through 2029'' and inserting ``through       2030''; and 

       (2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter preceding clause       (i), by striking ``fiscal year 2029'' and inserting ``fiscal       year 2030''.       SEC. 4409. MEDICARE HOSPITAL INPATIENT PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT                     SYSTEM ADD-ON PAYMENT FOR COVID-19 PATIENTS                     DURING EMERGENCY PERIOD.  

       (a) In General.--Section 1886(d)(4)(C) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(4)(C)) is amended by adding       at the end the following new clause: 

       ``(iv)(I) For discharges occurring during the emergency       period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B), in the case of a       discharge that has a principal or secondary diagnosis of       COVID-19, the Secretary shall increase the weighting factor       for each diagnosis-related group (with such a principal or       secondary diagnosis) by 15 percent. 

       ``(II) Any adjustment under subclause (I) shall not be       taken into account in applying budget neutrality under clause       (iii).''. 

       (b) Implementation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, the Secretary may implement the amendment made by       subsection (a) by program instruction or otherwise.       SEC. 4410. REVISING PAYMENT RATES FOR DURABLE MEDICAL                     EQUIPMENT UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM THROUGH                     DURATION OF EMERGENCY PERIOD.  

       (a) Rural and Noncontiguous Areas.--The Secretary of Health       and Human Services shall implement section 414.210(g)(9)(iii)       of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor       regulation), to apply the transition rule described in such       section to all applicable items and services furnished in       rural areas and noncontiguous areas (as such terms are       defined for purposes of such section) as planned through       December 31, 2020, and through the duration of the emergency       period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(g)(1)(B)), if longer. 

       (b) Areas Other Than Rural and Noncontiguous Areas.--With       respect to items and services furnished on or after the date       that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,       the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall apply       section 414.210(g)(9)(iv) of title 42, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulation), as if the       reference to ``dates of service from June 1, 2018 through       December 31, 2020, based on the fee schedule amount for the       area is equal to 100 percent of the adjusted payment amount       established under this section'' were instead a reference to       ``dates of service from March 6, 2020, through the remainder       of the duration of the emergency period described in section       1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-      5(g)(1)(B)), based on the fee schedule amount for the area is       equal to 75 percent of the adjusted payment amount       established under this section and 25 percent of the       unadjusted fee schedule amount''.       SEC. 4411. PROVIDING HOME AND COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES IN                     ACUTE CARE HOSPITALS.  

       Section 1902(h) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1396a(h)) is amended-- 

       (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(h)''; 

       (2) by inserting ``, home and community-based services       provided under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of section 1915 or       under a waiver under section 1115, self-directed personal       assistance services provided pursuant to a written plan of       care under section 1915(j), and home and community-based       attendant services and supports under section 1915(k)''       before the period; and 

       (3) by adding at the end the following:  

       ``(2) Nothing in this title, title XVIII, or title XI shall       be construed as prohibiting receipt of any care or services       specified in paragraph (1) in an acute care hospital that       are-- 

       ``(A) identified in an individual's person-centered plan of       services and supports (or comparable plan of care); 

       ``(B) provided to meet needs of the individual that are not       met through the provision of hospital services; 

       ``(C) not a substitute for services that the hospital is       obligated to provide through its conditions of participation       or under Federal or State law; and 

       ``(D) designed to ensure smooth transitions between acute       care settings and home and community-based settings, and to       preserve the individual's functions.''.       SEC. 4412. TREATMENT OF TECHNOLOGY-ENABLED COLLABORATIVE                     LEARNING AND CAPACITY BUILDING MODELS AS                     MEDICAL ASSISTANCE.  

       Section 1915 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n)       is amended by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(m) Technology-enabled Collaborative Learning and       Capacity Building Models.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--A State may provide, as medical       assistance, a technology-enabled collaborative learning and       capacity building model used by a provider participating       under the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) without       regard to the requirements of section 1902(a)(1) (relating to       statewideness), section 1902(a)(10)(B) (relating to       comparability), and section 1902(a)(23) (relating to freedom       of choice of providers). 

       ``(2) Requirements.--A State shall be eligible for Federal       financial assistance for providing such medical assistance       under the following conditions: 

       ``(A) A participating provider uses the technology-enabled       collaborative learning and capacity building model to train       health professionals (which may include medical students) in       protocols for responding to a public health emergency during       an emergency period, including any period relating to an       outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). 

       ``(B) In accordance with section 1902(a)(25), there are no       other third parties liable to pay for the use of such model       by a participating provider, including as reimbursement under       a medical, social, educational, or other program. 

       ``(C) The State allocates the costs of any part of the use       such model which is reimbursable under another federally       funded program in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 (or any       related or successor guidance or regulations regarding       allocation of costs among federally funded programs) under an       approved cost allocation program. 

       ``(3) Nonapplication of time limits.--Subsection (h) shall       not apply to the provision of medical assistance for       technology-enabled collaborative learning and capacity       building models under this subsection. 

       ``(4) Definitions.--In this subsection: 

       ``(A) Emergency period.--The term `emergency period' has       the meaning given that term in section 1135(g)(1). 

       ``(B) Technology-enabled collaborative learning and       capacity building model.--The term ` technology-enabled       collaborative learning and capacity building model' has the       meaning given that term in section 2(7) of the Expanding       Capacity for Health Outcomes Act (Public Law 114-270, 130       Stat. 1395).''.       SEC. 4413. ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT AND USE OF DISARM                     ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS.  

       (a) Additional Payment for DISARM Antimicrobial Drugs Under       Medicare.-- 

       (1) In general.--Section 1886(d)(5) of the Social Security       Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d)(5)) is amended by adding at the end       the following new subparagraph: 

       ``(M)(i)(I) In the case of discharges occurring on or after       October 1, 2021, and before October 1, 2026, subject to       subclause (II), the Secretary shall, after notice and       opportunity for public comment (in the publications required       by subsection (e)(5) for a fiscal year or otherwise), provide       for an additional payment under a mechanism (separate from       the mechanism established under subparagraph (K)), with       respect to such discharges involving any DISARM antimicrobial       drug, in an amount equal to-- 

       ``(aa) the amount payable under section 1847A for such drug       during the calendar quarter in which the discharge occurred;       or 

       ``(bb) if no amount for such drug is determined under       section 1847A, an amount to be determined by the Secretary in       a manner similar to the manner in which payment amounts are       determined under section 1847A based on information submitted       by the manufacturer or sponsor of such drug (as required       under clause (v)). 

       ``(II) In determining the amount payable under section       1847A for purposes of items (aa) and (bb) of subclause (I),       subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(1) of such       section shall be applied by substituting `100 percent' for       `106 percent' each place it appears and paragraph (8)(B) of       such section shall be applied by substituting `0 percent' for       `6 percent'. 

       ``(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph, a DISARM       antimicrobial drug is-- 

       ``(I) a drug-- 

       ``(aa) that-- 

       ``(AA) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration; 

       ``(BB) is designated by the Food and Drug Administration as       a qualified infectious disease product under subsection (d)       of section 505E of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;       and 

       ``(CC) has received an extension of its exclusivity period       pursuant to subsection (a) of such section; and 

       ``(bb) that has been designated by the Secretary pursuant       to the process established under clause (iv)(I)(bb); or 

       ``(II) an antibacterial or antifungal biological product-- 

       ``(aa) that is licensed for use, or an antibacterial or       antifungal biological product for which an indication is       first licensed for use, by the Food and Drug Administration       on or after June 5, 2014, under section 351(a) of the Public       Health Service Act for human use to treat serious or life-      threatening infections, as determined by the Food and Drug       Administration, including those caused by, or likely to be       caused by-- 

       ``(AA) an antibacterial or antifungal resistant pathogen,       including novel or emerging infectious pathogens; or 

       ``(BB) a qualifying pathogen (as defined under section       505E(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act); and 

       ``(bb) has been designated by the Secretary pursuant to the       process established under clause (iv)(I)(bb). 

       ``(iii) The mechanism established pursuant to clause (i)       shall provide that the additional payment under clause (i)       shall-- 

       ``(I) with respect to a discharge, only be made to a       subsection (d) hospital that, as determined by the       Secretary-- 

       ``(aa) is participating in the National Healthcare Safety       Network Antimicrobial Use and Resistance Module of the       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or a similar       reporting program, as specified by the Secretary, relating to       antimicrobial drugs; and 

       ``(bb) has an antimicrobial stewardship program that aligns       with the Core Elements of Hospital Antibiotic Stewardship       Programs of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or       the Antimicrobial Stewardship Standard set by the Joint       Commission; and 

       ``(II) apply to discharges occurring on or after October 1       of the year in which the drug or biological product is       designated by the Secretary as a DISARM antimicrobial drug. 

       ``(iv)(I) The mechanism established pursuant to clause (i)       shall provide for a process for-- 

       ``(aa) a manufacturer or sponsor of a drug or biological       product to request the Secretary to designate the drug or       biological product as a DISARM antimicrobial drug; and 

       ``(bb) the designation by the Secretary of drugs and       biological products as DISARM antimicrobial drugs. 

       ``(II) A designation of a drug or biological product as a       DISARM antimicrobial drug may be revoked by the Secretary if       the Secretary determines that-- 

       ``(aa) the drug or biological product no longer meets the       requirements for a DISARM antimicrobial drug under clause       (ii); 

       ``(bb) the request for such designation contained an untrue       statement of material fact; or 

       ``(cc) clinical or other information that was not available       to the Secretary at the time such designation was made shows       that-- 

       ``(AA) such drug or biological product is unsafe for use or       not shown to be safe for use for individuals who are entitled       to benefits under part A; or 

       ``(BB) an alternative to such drug or biological product is       an advance that substantially improves the diagnosis or       treatment of such individuals. 

       ``(III) Not later than October 1, 2021, and annually       thereafter through October 1, 2025, the Secretary shall       publish in the Federal Register a list of the DISARM       antimicrobial drugs designated under this subparagraph       pursuant to the process established under clause (iv)(I)(bb). 

       ``(v)(I) For purposes of determining additional payment       amounts under clause (i), a manufacturer or sponsor of a drug       or biological product that submits a request described in       clause (iv)(I)(aa) shall submit to the Secretary information       described in section 1927(b)(3)(A)(iii). 

       ``(II) The penalties for failure to provide timely       information under clause (i) of subparagraph (C) of section       1927(b)(3) and for providing false information under clause       (ii) of such subparagraph shall apply to manufacturers and       sponsors of a drug or biological product under this section       with respect to information under subclause (I) in the same       manner as such penalties apply to manufacturers under such       clauses with respect to information under subparagraph (A) of       such section. 

       ``(vi) The mechanism established pursuant to clause (i)       shall provide that-- 

       ``(I) except as provided in subclause (II), no additional       payment shall be made under this subparagraph for discharges       involving a DISARM antimicrobial drug if any additional       payments have been made for discharges involving such drug as       a new medical service or technology under subparagraph (K); 

       ``(II) additional payments may be made under this       subparagraph for discharges involving a DISARM antimicrobial       drug if any additional payments have been made for discharges       occurring prior to the date of enactment of this subparagraph       involving such drug as a new medical service or technology       under subparagraph (K); and 

       ``(III) no additional payment shall be made under       subparagraph (K) for discharges involving a DISARM       antimicrobial drug as a new medical service or technology if       any additional payments for discharges involving such drug       have been made under this subparagraph.''.  

       (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 1886(d)(5)(K)(ii)(III)       of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395ww(d)(5)(K)(ii)(III)) is amended by striking ``provide''       and inserting ``subject to subparagraph (M)(vi), provide''. 

       (b) Study and Reports on Removing Barriers to the       Development of DISARM Antimicrobial Drugs.-- 

       (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States       (in this subsection referred to as the ``Comptroller       General'') shall, in consultation with the Director of the       National Institutes of Health, the Commissioner of Food and       Drugs, the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare &       Medicaid Services, and the Director of the Centers for       Disease Control and Prevention, conduct a study to-- 

       (A) identify and examine the barriers that prevent the       development of DISARM antimicrobial drugs (as defined in       section 1886(d)(5)(M)(ii) of the Social Security Act, as       added by subsection (a)); and 

       (B) develop recommendations for actions to be taken in       order to overcome any barriers identified under subparagraph       (A). 

       (2) Report.--October 1, 2025, the Comptroller General shall       submit to Congress a report containing the preliminary       results of the study conducted under paragraph (1), together       with recommendations for such legislation and administrative       action as the Comptroller General determines appropriate.       SEC. 4414. NOVEL MEDICAL PRODUCTS.  

       (a) Expedited Coding of Novel Medical Products.--Section       1174(b)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-      3(b)(2)(B)) is amended by adding at the end the following new       clauses: 

       ``(iii) Expedited coding of novel medical products.--  

       ``(I) In general.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in the       case of a novel medical product (as defined in clause (iv)),       the Secretary shall make modifications to the HCPCS code set       at least once every quarter. 

       ``(II) Request.--Upon the written confidential request of a       manufacturer of a novel medical product, the Secretary shall       make a determination whether to assign a HCPCS code to such       product. Such request may occur on or after the date on which       the product receives a designation as a breakthrough therapy       under section 506(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic       Act (21 U.S.C. 356(a)), a breakthrough device under section       515B of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360e-3), or a regenerative       advanced therapy under section 506(g) of such Act (21 U.S.C.       356(g)). 

       ``(III) Deadline for determination; notification.--The       Secretary shall--  

       ``(aa) not later than 180 calendar days after receiving the       request of a manufacturer under subclause (II), make a       determination under such subclause with respect to the       request; and 

       ``(bb) not later than 30 calendar days after making such       determination, notify the manufacturer of the determination.  

       ``(IV) Monitoring utilization and outcomes.--A HCPCS code       assigned under this clause shall allow for the reliable       monitoring of utilization and outcomes of the novel medical       product as described in clause (vi). 

       ``(V) Effective date of code assignment.--If the Secretary       makes a determination to assign a HCPCS code to a product       under subclause (II), such code--  

       ``(aa) may be assigned within the first quarter after the       manufacturer files, with respect to such product, a new drug       application under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug,       and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(b)), a biological product       license application under section 351(a) of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262(a)), a premarket application under       section 515(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act       (21 U.S.C. 360e(c)), a report under section 510(k) of such       Act (21 U.S.C. 360k), or a request for classification under       section 513(f)(2) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360c(f)(2)); and 

       ``(bb) may not take effect before the date the product is       approved, cleared, or licensed by the Food and Drug       Administration.  

       ``(VI) Trade secrets and confidential information.--No       information submitted under subclause (II) shall be construed       as authorizing the Secretary to disclose any information that       is a trade secret or confidential information subject to       section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code.  

       ``(iv) Novel medical product defined.--For purposes of this       subparagraph, the term `novel medical product' means a drug,       biological product, or medical device--  

       ``(I) that has not been assigned a HCPCS code; and 

       ``(II) that has been designated as a breakthrough therapy       under section 506(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic       Act (21 U.S.C. 356(a)), a breakthrough device under section       515B of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360e-3), or a regenerative       advanced therapy under section 506(g) of such Act (21 U.S.C.       356(g)).  

       ``(v) HCPCS defined.--For purposes of this subparagraph,       the term `HCPCS' means the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding       System. 

       ``(vi) Inpatient products.--The Secretary shall establish a       code modifier within the hospital inpatient prospective       payment system under section 1886(d) to track the utilization       and outcomes of novel medical products that are assigned a       HCPCS code pursuant to the expedited coding process under       clause (iii) and are furnished by hospitals in inpatient       settings.''. 

       (b) Coverage Determinations for Novel Medical Products.--      Section 1862(l) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395y(l)) is amended by adding at the end the following new       paragraph: 

       ``(7) Coverage pathway for novel medical products.-- 

       ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall facilitate an       efficient coverage pathway to expedite a national coverage       decision for coverage with evidence development process under       this title for novel medical products described in       subparagraph (D). The Secretary shall review such novel       medical products for the coverage process on an expedited       basis, beginning as soon as the Secretary assigns a HCPCS       code to the product under clause (iii)(V)(aa) of section       1174(b)(2)(B). 

       ``(B) Determination of coverage with evidence       development.--Such coverage pathway shall include, with       respect to such novel medical products, if the Secretary       determines coverage with evidence development is appropriate,       issuance of a national coverage determination of coverage       with evidence development for a period up to, but not to       exceed, 4 years from the date of such determination. 

       ``(C) Modernizing payment options for novel medical       products.--Not later than 4 years after issuing such national       coverage determination, the Secretary shall submit to       Congress and to the manufacturer of the novel medical product       a report providing options for alternative payment models       under this title for the novel medical product or class of       such products, which may include the utilization of existing       models in the commercial health insurance market. Such report       shall include any recommendations for legislation and       administrative action as the Secretary determines appropriate       to facilitate such payment arrangements. 

       ``(D) Novel medical products described.--For purposes of       this paragraph, a novel medical product described in this       subparagraph is a novel medical product, as defined in clause       (iv) of section 1174(b)(2)(B), that is assigned a HCPCS code       pursuant to the expedited coding process under clause (iii)       of such section. 

       ``(E) Clarification.--Nothing in this paragraph shall       prevent the Secretary from issuing a noncoverage or a       national coverage determination for a novel medical       product.''. 

       (c) Enhancing Coordination With the Food and Drug       Administration.-- 

       (1) Public meeting.-- 

       (A) In general.--Not later than 12 months after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convene a       public meeting for the purposes of discussing and providing       input on improvements to coordination between the Food and       Drug Administration and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid       Services in preparing for the availability of novel medical       products (as defined in section 1174(b)(2)(B)(iv) of the       Social Security Act, as added by subsection (a)) on the       market in the United States. 

       (B) Attendees.--The public meeting shall include-- 

       (i) representatives of relevant Federal agencies, including       representatives from each of the medical product centers       within the Food and Drug Administration and representatives       from the coding, coverage, and payment offices within the       Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services; 

       (ii) stakeholders with expertise in the research and       development of novel medical products, including       manufacturers of such products; 

       (iii) representatives of commercial health insurance       payers; 

       (iv) stakeholders with expertise in the administration and       use of novel medical products, including physicians; and 

       (v) stakeholders representing patients and with expertise       in the utilization of patient experience data in medical       product development. 

       (C) Topics.--The public meeting shall include a discussion       of-- 

       (i) the status of the drug and medical device development       pipeline related to the availability of novel medical       products; 

       (ii) the anticipated expertise necessary to review the       safety and effectiveness of such products at the Food and       Drug Administration and current gaps in such expertise, if       any; 

       (iii) the expertise necessary to make coding, coverage, and       payment decisions with respect to such products within the       Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and current gaps in       such expertise, if any; 

       (iv) trends in the differences in the data necessary to       determine the safety and effectiveness of a novel medical       product and the data necessary to determine whether a novel       medical product meets the reasonable and necessary       requirements for coverage and payment under title XVIII of       the Social Security Act pursuant to section 1862(a)(1)(A) of       such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395y(a)(1)(A)); 

       (v) the availability of information for sponsors of such       novel medical products to meet each of those requirements;       and 

       (vi) the coordination of information related to significant       clinical improvement over existing therapies for patients       between the Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for       Medicare & Medicaid Services with respect to novel medical       products. 

       (D) Trade secrets and confidential information.--No       information discussed as a part of the public meeting under       this paragraph shall be construed as authorizing the       Secretary to disclose any information that is a trade secret       or confidential information subject to section 552(b)(4) of       title 5, United States Code. 

       (2) Improving transparency of criteria for medicare       coverage.--  

       (A) Updating guidance.--Not later than 18 months after the       public meeting under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Health       and Human Services shall update the final guidance entitled       ``National Coverage Determinations with Data Collection as a       Condition of Coverage: Coverage with Evidence Development''       to improve the availability and coordination of information       as described in clauses (iv) through (vi) of paragraph       (1)(C), and clarify novel medical product clinical data       requirements to meet reasonable and necessary requirements       for coverage and payment under title XVIII of the Social       Security Act. 

       (B) Finalizing updated guidance.--Not later than 12 months       after issuing draft guidance under subparagraph (A), the       Secretary shall finalize the updated guidance. 

       (d) Report on Coding, Coverage, and Payment Processes Under       Medicare for New Medical Products.-- 

       (1) In general.--Not later than 12 months after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human       Services shall publish a report on the internet website of       the Department of Health and Human Services regarding       processes under the Medicare program under title XVIII of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) with respect to       the coding, coverage, and payment of medical products       described in paragraph (2). Such report shall include the       following: 

       (A) A description of challenges in the coding, coverage,       and payment processes under the Medicare program for medical       products described in such paragraph. 

       (B) Recommendations to-- 

       (i) incorporate patient experience data (such as the impact       of a disease or condition on the lives of patients and       patient treatment preferences) into the coverage and payment       processes within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid       Services; 

       (ii) decrease the length of time to make national and local       coverage determinations under the Medicare program (as those       terms are defined in subparagraph (A) and (B), respectively,       of section 1862(l)(6) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1395y(l)(6))); 

       (iii) streamline the coverage process under the Medicare       program and incorporate input from relevant stakeholders into       such coverage determinations; and 

       (iv) identify potential mechanisms to incorporate novel       payment designs similar to those in development in commercial       insurance plans and State plans under title XIX of the Social       Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r et seq.) into the Medicare       program. 

       (2) Medical products described.--For purposes of paragraph       (1), a medical product described in this paragraph is a       medical product, including a drug, biological (including gene       and cell therapy and gene editing), or medical device, that       has been designated as a breakthrough therapy under section       506(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.       356(a)), a breakthrough device under section 515B of such Act       (21 U.S.C. 360e-3), or a regenerative advanced therapy under       section 506(g) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 356(g)).                       TITLE II--EDUCATION PROVISIONS       SEC. 4501. SHORT TITLE.  

       This title may be cited as the ``COVID-19 Pandemic       Education Relief Act of 2020''.       SEC. 4502. DEFINITIONS.  

       (a) Definitions.--In this title: 

       (1) Qualifying emergency.--The term ``qualifying       emergency'' means-- 

       (A) a public health emergency declared by the Secretary of       Health and Human Services pursuant to section 319 of the       Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d); 

       (B) an event for which the President declared a major       disaster or an emergency under section 401 or 501,       respectively, of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and       Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191); or 

       (C) a national emergency declared by the President under       section 201 of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601       et seq.). 

       (2) Institution of higher education.--The term       ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning of the       term under section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965       (20 U.S.C. 1002). 

       (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of Education.       SEC. 4503. CAMPUS-BASED AID WAIVERS.  

       (a) Waiver of Non-federal Share Requirement.--      Notwithstanding sections 413C(a)(2) and 443(b)(5) of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b-2(a)(2) and       1087-53(b)(5)), with respect to funds made available for       award years 2019-2020 and 2020-2021, the Secretary shall       waive the requirement that a participating institution of       higher education provide a non-Federal share to match Federal       funds provided to the institution for the programs authorized       pursuant to subpart 3 of part A and part C of title IV of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b et seq. and       1087-51 et seq.). 

       (b) Authority to Reallocate.--Notwithstanding sections       413D, 442, and 488 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 1070b-3, 1087-52, and 1095), during a period of a       qualifying emergency, an institution may transfer up to 100       percent of the institution's unexpended allotment under       section 442 of such Act to the institution's allotment under       section 413D of such Act, but may not transfer any funds from       the institution's unexpended allotment under section 413D of       such Act to the institution's allotment under section 442 of       such Act.       SEC. 4504. USE OF SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANTS                     FOR EMERGENCY AID.  

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 413B of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b-1), an institution of       higher education may reserve any amount of an institution's       allocation under subpart 3 of part A of title IV of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070b et seq.) for a       fiscal year to award, in such fiscal year, emergency       financial aid grants to assist undergraduate or graduate       students for unexpected expenses and unmet financial need as       the result of a qualifying emergency. 

       (b) Determinations.--In determining eligibility for and       awarding emergency financial aid grants under this section,       an institution of higher education may-- 

       (1) waive the amount of need calculation under section 471       of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087kk); 

       (2) allow for a student affected by a qualifying emergency       to receive funds in an amount that is not more than the       maximum Federal Pell Grant for the applicable award year; and 

       (3) utilize a contract with a scholarship-granting       organization designated for the sole purpose of accepting       applications from or disbursing funds to students enrolled in       the institution of higher education, if such scholarship-      granting organization disburses the full allocated amount       provided to the institution of higher education to the       recipients. 

       (c) Special Rule.--Any emergency financial aid grants to       students under this section shall not be treated as other       financial assistance for the purposes of section 471 of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087kk).       SEC. 4505. FEDERAL WORK-STUDY DURING A QUALIFYING EMERGENCY.  

       (a) In General.--In the event of a qualifying emergency, an       institution of higher education participating in the program       under part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965       (20 U.S.C. 1087-51 et seq.) may make payments under such part       to affected work-study students, for the period of time (not       to exceed one academic year) in which affected students were       unable to fulfill the students' work-study obligation for all       or part of such academic year due to such qualifying       emergency, as follows: 

       (1) Payments may be made under such part to affected work-      study students in an amount equal to or less than the amount       of wages such students would have been paid under such part       had the students been able to complete the work obligation       necessary to receive work study funds, as a one time grant or       as multiple payments. 

       (2) Payments shall not be made to any student who was not       eligible for work study or was not completing the work       obligation necessary to receive work study funds under such       part prior to the occurrence of the qualifying emergency. 

       (3) Any payments made to affected work-study students under       this subsection shall meet the matching requirements of       section 443 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       1087-53), unless such matching requirements are waived by the       Secretary of Education. 

       (b) Definition of Affected Work-study Student.--In this       section, the term ``affected work-study student'' means a       student enrolled at an eligible institution participating in       the program under part C of title IV of the Higher Education       Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087-51 et seq.) who-- 

       (1) received a work-study award under section 443 of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087-53) for the       academic year during which a qualifying emergency occurred; 

       (2) earned Federal work-study wages from such eligible       institution for such academic year; and 

       (3) was prevented from fulfilling the student's work-study       obligation for all or part of such academic year due to such       qualifying emergency.       SEC. 4506. ADJUSTMENT OF SUBSIDIZED LOAN USAGE LIMITS.          Notwithstanding section 455(q)(3) of the Higher Education       Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(q)(3)), the Secretary shall       exclude from a student's period of enrollment for purposes of       loans made under part D of title IV of the Higher Education       Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) any semester (or the       equivalent) during which the student was unable to remain       enrolled in school as a result of a qualifying emergency, if       the Secretary is able to administer such policy in a manner       that limits complexity and the burden on the student.       SEC. 4507. EXCLUSION FROM FEDERAL PELL GRANT DURATION LIMIT.  

       The Secretary shall exclude from a student's Federal Pell       Grant duration limit under section 401(c)(5) of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (2 U.S.C. 1070a(c)(5)) any semester (or       the equivalent) that the student does not complete due to a       qualifying emergency if the Secretary is able to administer       such policy in a manner that limits complexity and the burden       on the student.       SEC. 4508. INSTITUTIONAL REFUNDS AND FEDERAL STUDENT LOAN                     FLEXIBILITY.  

       (a) Institutional Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the       institutional requirement in section 484B of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091b) with respect to the       amount of grant or loan assistance (other than assistance       received under part C of title IV of such Act) to be returned       to the title IV programs if a recipient of assistance under       title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070       et seq.) withdraws from the institution during the payment       period or period of enrollment as a result of a qualifying       emergency.  

       (b) Student Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the amounts       that students are required to return in section 484B of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091b) with respect       to Federal Pell Grants or other grant assistance if the       withdrawals on which the returns are based on withdrawals by       students who withdrew from the institution as a result of a       qualifying emergency. 

       (c) Canceling Loan Obligation.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001       et seq.), the Secretary shall cancel the borrower's       obligation to repay the portion of a loan made under part D       of title IV of such Act for a recipient of assistance who       withdraws from the institution during the payment period as a       result of a qualifying emergency. 

       (d) Approved Leave of Absence.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of law, for purposes of receiving assistance under       title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070       et seq.), an institution of higher education may, as a result       of a qualifying emergency, provide a student with an approved       leave of absence that does not require the student to return       at the same point in the academic program that the student       began the leave of absence if the student returns within the       same semester (or the equivalent).       SEC. 4509. SATISFACTORY PROGRESS.  

       Notwithstanding section 484 of the Higher Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091), in determining whether a student is       maintaining satisfactory progress for purposes of title IV of       the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.), an       institution of higher education may, as a result of a       qualifying emergency, exclude from the quantitative component       of the calculation any attempted credits that were not       completed by such student without requiring an appeal by such       student.       SEC. 4510. CONTINUING EDUCATION AT AFFECTED FOREIGN                     INSTITUTIONS.  

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 481(b) of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088(b)), with       respect to a foreign institution, in the case of a public       health emergency, major disaster or emergency, or national       emergency declared by the applicable government authorities       in the country in which the foreign institution is located,       the Secretary may permit any part of an otherwise eligible       program to be offered via distance education for the duration       of such emergency or disaster and the following payment       period for purposes of title IV of the Higher Education Act       of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.). 

       (b) Eligibility.--An otherwise eligible program that is       offered in whole or in part through distance education by a       foreign institution between March 1, 2020, and the date of       enactment of this Act shall be deemed eligible for the       purposes of part D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) for the duration of the       qualifying emergency and the following payment period for       purposes of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 1070 et seq.). Not later than June 30, 2020, an       institution of higher that uses the authority provided in the       previous sentence shall report such use to the Secretary. 

       (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for the       duration of the qualifying emergency and the following       payment period, the Secretary shall submit to the authorizing       committees (as defined in section 103 of the Higher Education       Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003)) a report that identifies each       foreign institution that carried out a distance education       program authorized under this section. 

       (d) Written Arrangements.-- 

       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 102 of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002), for the duration of a       qualifying emergency and the following payment period, the       Secretary may allow a foreign institution to enter into a       written arrangement with an institution of higher education       located in the United States that participates in the Federal       Direct Loan Program under part D of title IV of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) for the       purpose of allowing a student of the foreign institution who       is a borrower of a loan made under such part to take courses       from the institution of higher education located in the       United States. 

       (2) Form of arrangements.-- 

       (A) Public or other nonprofit institutions.--A foreign       institution that is a public or other nonprofit institution       may enter into a written arrangement under subsection (a)       only with an institution of higher education described in       section 101 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1001). 

       (B) Other institutions.--A foreign institution that is a       graduate medical school, nursing school, or a veterinary       school and that is not a public or other nonprofit       institution may enter into a written arrangement under       subsection (a) with an institution of higher education       described in section 101 or section 102 of such Act (20       U.S.C. 1001 and 1002). 

       (3) Report use.--Not later than June 30, 2020, an       institution of higher that uses the authority described in       paragraph (2) shall report such use to the Secretary. 

       (4) Report from the secretary.--Not later than 180 days       after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 180 days       thereafter for the duration of the qualifying emergency and       the following payment period, the Secretary shall submit to       the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the       Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1003)) a report that       identifies each foreign institution that entered into a       written arrangement authorized under subsection (a).       SEC. 4511. NATIONAL EMERGENCY EDUCATIONAL WAIVERS.  

       (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, the Secretary of Education may waive any statutory or       regulatory provision described under subparagraphs (A)       through (C) of subsection (b)(1) if the Secretary determines       that such a waiver is necessary and appropriate due to the       emergency involving Federal primary responsibility determined       to exist by the President under the section 501(b) of the       Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance       Act (42 U.S.C. 5191(b)) with respect to the Coronavirus       Disease 2019 (COVID-19). 

       (b) Applicable Provisions of Law.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Secretary of Education may waive any       statutory or regulatory requirement (such as those       requirements related to assessments, accountability,       allocation of funds, and reporting), for which a waiver       request is submitted under subsection (c), if the Secretary       determines that such a waiver is necessary and appropriate as       described in subsection (a), under the following provisions       of law: 

       (A) The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 6301 et seq.). 

       (B) The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act       of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.). 

       (C) The Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et       seq.). 

       (2) Limitation.--The Secretary of Education shall not waive       under this section any statutory or regulatory requirements       relating to applicable civil rights laws. 

       (c) Requests for Waivers.-- 

       (1) In general.--In addition to any provision waived by the       Secretary under subsection (a), a State, State educational       agency, local educational agency, Indian tribe, or       institution of higher education that desires a waiver from       any statutory or regulatory provision described under       subparagraphs (A) through (C) of subsection (b)(1) that the       Secretary has not already waived in accordance with       subsection (a), may submit a waiver request to the Secretary       in accordance with this subsection. 

       (2) Requests submitted.--A request for a waiver under this       subsection shall-- 

       (A) identify the Federal programs affected by the requested       waiver; 

       (B) describe which Federal statutory or regulatory       requirements are to be waived; and 

       (C) describe how the emergency involving Federal primary       responsibility determined to exist by the President under the       section 501(b) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and       Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5191(b)) with respect to       the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) prevents or otherwise       restricts the ability of the State, State educational agency,       local educational agency, Indian tribe, or institution of       higher education to comply with such statutory or regulatory       requirements. 

       (3) Secretary approval.-- 

       (A) In general.--Except as provided under subparagraph (B),       the Secretary of Education shall approve or disapprove a       waiver request submitted under paragraph (1) not more than 15       days after the date on which such request is submitted. 

       (B) Exceptions.--The Secretary of Education may disapprove       a waiver request submitted under paragraph (1), only if the       Secretary determines that-- 

       (i) the waiver request does not meet the requirements of       this section; 

       (ii) the waiver is not permitted pursuant to subsection       (b)(2); or 

       (iii) the description required under paragraph (2)(C)       provides insufficient information to demonstrate that the       waiving of such requirements is necessary or appropriate       consistent with subsection (a). 

       (4) Duration.-- 

       (A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (B), a       waiver approved by the Secretary of Education under this       subsection may be for a period not to exceed 1 academic year. 

       (B) Extension.--The Secretary of Education may extend the       period described under subparagraph (A) if the State, State       educational agency, local educational agency, Indian tribe,       or institution of higher education demonstrates to the       Secretary that extending the waiving of such requirements is       necessary and appropriate consistent with subsection (a). 

       (d) Reporting and Publication.-- 

       (1) Notifying congress.--Not later than 7 days after       granting a waiver under this section, the Secretary of       Education shall notify the Committee on Health, Education,       Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, the Committee on       Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Education and       Labor of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on       Appropriations of the House of Representatives of such       waiver. 

       (2) Publication.--Not later than 30 days after granting a       waiver under this section, the Secretary of Education shall       publish a notice of the Secretary's decision in the Federal       Register and on the website of the Department of Education. 

       (3) IDEA report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall       prepare and submit a report to the Committee on Health,       Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on       Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Education       and Labor       and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives, with recommendations on any additional       waivers the Secretary believes are necessary to be enacted       into law under the Individuals with Disabilities Education       Act (20 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.) and the Rehabilitation Act of       1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) to provide limited flexibility       to States and local educational agencies to meet the unique       needs of students with disabilities during the emergency       involving Federal primary responsibility determined to exist       by the President under the section 501(b) of the Robert T.       Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42       U.S.C. 5191(b)) with respect to the Coronavirus Disease 2019       (COVID-19).       SEC. 4512. HBCU CAPITAL FINANCING.  

       (a) Deferment Period.-- 

       (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any provision of title III       of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.),       or any regulation promulgated under such title, the Secretary       may grant a deferment, for a period of a qualifying emergency       to an institution that has received a loan under part D of       title III of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1066 et seq.). 

       (2) Terms.--During the deferment period granted under this       subsection-- 

       (A) the institution shall not be required to pay any       periodic installment of principal required under the loan       agreement for such loan; and 

       (B) the Secretary shall make principal payments otherwise       due under the loan agreement. 

       (3) Closing.--At the closing of a loan deferred under this       subsection, terms shall be set under which the institution       shall be required to repay the Secretary for the payments of       principal made by the Secretary during the deferment, on a       schedule that begins upon repayment to the lender in full on       the loan agreement. 

       (b) Termination Date.-- 

       (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the       authority provided under this section to grant a loan       deferment under subsection (a), shall terminate on the date       that is the end of the qualifying emergency. 

       (2) Duration.--Any provision of a loan agreement or       insurance agreement modified or waived by the authority under       this section shall remain so modified or waived for the       duration of the period covered by the loan agreement or       insurance agreement. 

       (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter during       the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying       emergency and ending on September 30 of the fiscal year       following the end of the qualifying emergency, the Secretary       shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in       section 103 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       1003)) a report that identifies each institution that       received assistance or a waiver under this section.       SEC. 4513. TEMPORARY RELIEF FOR FEDERAL STUDENT LOAN                     BORROWERS.  

       (a) In General.--The Secretary shall suspend all payments       due for loans made under part D of title IV of the Higher       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) for 3 months. 

       (b) No Accrual of Interest.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001       et seq.), interest shall not accrue on a loan described under       subsection (a) for which payment was suspended for the period       of the suspension. 

       (c) Consideration of Payments.--The Secretary shall deem       each month for which a loan payment was suspended under this       section as if the borrower of the loan had made a payment for       the purpose of any loan forgiveness program authorized under       part D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) for which the borrower would have       otherwise qualified. 

       (d) Extension.--The Secretary may extend the period of       suspension described under subsection (a) for an additional 3       months.       SEC. 4514. PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL                     AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.  

       (a) Accrual of Service Hours.-- 

       (1) Accrual through other service hours.-- 

       (A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of the       Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et       seq.) or the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42       U.S.C. 12501 et seq.), the Corporation for National and       Community Service shall allow an individual described in       subparagraph (B) to accrue other service hours that will       count toward the number of hours needed for the individual's       education award. 

       (B) Affected individuals.--Subparagraph (A) shall apply to       any individual serving in a position eligible for an       educational award under subtitle D of title I of the National       and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq.)-- 

       (i) who is performing limited service due to COVID-19; or 

       (ii) whose position has been suspended or placed on hold       due to COVID-19. 

       (2) Provisions in case of early exit.--In any case where an       individual serving in a position eligible for an educational       award under subtitle D of title I of the National and       Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq.) was       required to exit the position early at the direction of the       Corporation for National and Community Service, the Chief       Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and       Community Service may-- 

       (A) deem such individual as having met the requirements of       the position; and 

       (B) award the individual the full value of the educational       award under such subtitle for which the individual would       otherwise have been eligible. 

       (b) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding any other       provision of law, all funds made available to the Corporation       for National and Community Service under any Act, including       the amounts appropriated to the Corporation under the       headings ``operating expenses'', ``salaries and expenses'',       and ``office of the inspector general'' under the heading       ``Corporation for National and Community Service'' under       title IV of Division A of the Further Consolidated       Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94), shall remain       available for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2021. 

       (c) No Required Return of Grant Funds.--Notwithstanding       section 129(l)(3)(A)(i) of the National and Community Service       Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12581(l)(3)(A)(i)), the Chief       Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and       Community Service may permit fixed-amount grant recipients       under such section 129(l) to maintain a pro rata amount of       grant funds, at the discretion of the Corporation for       National and Community Service, for participants who exited       or are serving in a limited capacity due to COVID-19, to       enable the grant recipients to maintain operations and to       accept participants. 

       (d) Extension of Terms and Age Limits.--Notwithstanding any       other provision of law, the Corporation for National and       Community Service may extend the term of service (for a       period not to exceed the 1-year period immediately following       the end of the national emergency) or waive any upper age       limit (except in no case shall the maximum age exceed 26       years of age) for national service programs carried out by       the National Civilian Community Corps under subtitle E of       title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42       U.S.C. 12611 et seq.), and the participants in such programs,       for the purposes of-- 

       (1) addressing disruptions due to COVID-19; and 

       (2) minimizing the difficulty in returning to full       operation due to COVID-19 on such programs and participants.       SEC. 4515. WORKFORCE RESPONSE ACTIVITIES.  

       (a) Administrative Costs.--Of the total amount allocated to       a local area under section 128(b) of the Workforce Innovation       and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3163(b)) and section 133(b) of       such Act (29 U.S.C. 3173(b)) and available for administrative       costs for program year 2019, not more than 20 percent of the       total amount may be used by the local board involved for the       administrative costs of carrying out local workforce       investment activities under chapter 2 or chapter 3 of       subtitle B of title I of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3151 et seq.),       if the portion of the total amount that exceeds 10 percent of       the total amount as described under section 128(b)(4)(A) of       such Act is used to respond to the COVID-19 national       emergency. 

       (b) Rapid Response Activities.-- 

       (1) Statewide rapid response.--Of the funds available for       program year 2019 for statewide activities under section       128(a) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29       U.S.C. 3163(a)), such funds may be used for statewide rapid       response activities as described in section 134(a)(2)(A) (29       U.S.C. 3174(a)(2)(A)) for responding to the COVID-19 national       emergency. 

       (2) Local boards.--Of the funds available to a Governor       under section 133(a)(2) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3173(a)(2))       such funds may be released within 30 days to local boards       most impacted by the coronavirus at the determination of the       Governor for rapid response activities related to responding       to the COVID-19 national emergency. 

       (c) Definitions.--In this section: 

       (1) Coronavirus.--The term ``coronavirus'' means       coronavirus as defined in section 506 of the Coronavirus       Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act,       2020 (Public Law 116-123). 

       (2) COVID-19 national emergency.--The term ``COVID-19       national emergency'' means the national emergency declared by       the President under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.       1601 et seq.) on March 13, 2020, with respect to the       coronavirus. 

       (3) WIOA terms.--Except as otherwise provided, the terms in       this section have the meanings given the terms in section 3       of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C.       3102).       SEC. 4516. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.  

       (a) In General.-- 

       (1) Section 6103(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of       1986, as amended by the FUTURE Act (Public Law 116-91), is       further amended by striking ``(13), (16)'' and inserting       ``(13)(A), (13)(B), (13)(C), (13)(D)(i), (16)''. 

       (2) Section 6103(p)(3)(A) of such Code, as so amended, is       further amended by striking ``(12),'' and inserting ``(12),       (13)(A), (13)(B), (13)(C), (13)(D)(i)''. 

       (3) Section 6103(p)(4) of such Code, as so amended, is       further amended by striking ``(13) or (16)'' each place it       appears and inserting ``(13), or (16)''. 

       (4) Section 6103(p)(4) of such Code, as so amended and as       amended by paragraph (3), is further amended by striking       ``(13)'' each place it appears and inserting ``(13)(A),       (13)(B), (13)(C), (13)(D)(i)''. 

       (5) Section 6103(l)(13)(C)(ii) of such Code, as added by       the FUTURE Act (Public Law 116-91), is amended by striking       ``section 236A(e)(4)'' and inserting ``section 263A(e)(4)''.  

       (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply as if included in the enactment of the FUTURE Act       (Public Law 116-91).                        TITLE III--LABOR PROVISIONS       SEC. 4601. LIMITATION ON PAID LEAVE.  

       Section 110(b)(2)(B) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of       1993 (as added by the Emergency Family and Medical Leave       Expansion Act) is amended by striking clause (ii) and       inserting the following: 

       ``(ii) Limitation.--An employer shall not be required to       pay more than $200 per day and $10,000 in the aggregate for       each employee for paid leave under this section.''.       SEC. 4602. EMERGENCY PAID SICK LEAVE ACT LIMITATION.  

       Section 5102 of the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act (division       E of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act) is amended       by adding at the end the following: 

       ``(f) Limitations.-- 

       ``(1) In general.--An employer shall not be required to pay       more than either-- 

       ``(A) $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate for each       employee, when the employee is taking leave for a reason       described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 5102(a);       or 

       ``(B) $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate for each       employee, when the employee is taking leave for a reason       described in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section 5102(a). 

       ``(2) Expiration of requirement.-- An employer's       requirement to provide paid leave with respect to a specific       employee shall expire at the earlier of-- 

       ``(A) the time when the employer has paid that employee for       paid leave under this section for an equivalent of 80 hours       of work; or 

       ``(B) upon the employee's return to work after taking paid       leave under this section.''.       SEC. 4603. REGULATORY AUTHORITIES UNDER THE EMERGENCY PAID                     SICK LEAVE ACT.  

       Section 5111(2) of the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act       (division E of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act)       is amended by striking ``section 5102(a)(5)'' and inserting       ``paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 5102(a)(5)''.       SEC. 4604. UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE.  

       Section 903(h)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.       1103(h)(2)(B)), as added by section 4102 of the Emergency       Unemployment Insurance Stabilization and Access Act of 2020,       is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(B) The State ensures that applications for unemployment       compensation, and assistance with the application process,       are accessible in person, by phone, or online.''.       SEC. 4605. OMB WAIVER OF PAID FAMILY AND PAID SICK LEAVE.  

       (a) Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.--Section 110(a)       of title I of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29       U.S.C. 2611 et seq.) (as added by division C of the Families       First Coronavirus Response Act) is amended by adding at the       end the following new paragraph: 

       ``(4) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget       shall have the authority to exclude for good cause from the       requirements under subsection (b) certain employers of the       United States Government with respect to certain categories       of Executive Branch employees.''. 

       (b) Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act.--The Emergency Paid Sick       Leave Act (division E of the Families First Coronavirus       Response Act) is amended by adding at the end the following       new section:       ``SEC. 5112. AUTHORITY TO EXCLUDE CERTAIN EMPLOYEES.  

       ``The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall       have the authority to exclude for good cause from the       definition of employee under section 5110(1) certain       employees described in subparagraphs (E) and (F) of such       section, including by exempting certain United States       Government employers covered by section 5110(2)(A)(i)(V) from       the requirements of this title with respect to certain       categories of Executive Branch employees.''.       SEC. 4606. PAID LEAVE FOR REHIRED EMPLOYEES.  

       Section 110(a)(1)(A) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of       1993, as added by section 3102 of the Emergency Family and       Medical Leave Expansion Act, is amended to read as follows: 

       ``(A) Eligible employee.-- 

       ``(i) In general.--In lieu of the definition in sections       101(2)(A) and 101(2)(B)(ii), the term `eligible employee'       means an employee who has been employed for at least 30       calendar days by the employer with respect to whom leave is       requested under section 102(a)(1)(F). 

       ``(ii) Rule regarding rehired employees.--For purposes of       clause (i), the term `employed for at least 30 calendar       days', used with respect to an employee and an employer       described in clause (i), includes an employee who was laid       off by that employer not earlier than March 1, 2020, had       worked for the employer for not less than 30 of the last 60       calendar days prior to the employee's layoff, and was rehired       by the employer.''.       SEC. 4607. ADVANCE REFUNDING OF CREDITS.  

       (a) Payroll Credit for Required Paid Sick Leave.--Section       7001 of division G of the Families First Coronavirus Response       Act is amended by inserting after subsection (g) the       following new subsection: 

       ``(h) Treatment of Deposits.--The Secretary of the Treasury       (or the Secretary's delegate) shall waive any penalty under       section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for any       failure to make a deposit of the tax imposed by section       3111(a) or 3221(a) of such Code if the Secretary determines       that such failure was due to the anticipation of the credit       allowed under this section.''. 

       (b) Credit for Sick Leave for Certain Self-employed       Individuals.--Section 7002 of division G of the Families       First Coronavirus Response Act is amended by inserting after       subsection (g) the following new subsection: 

       ``(h) Advancing Credit.--The Secretary of the Treasury (or       the Secretary's delegate) shall issue such forms and       instructions as are necessary-- 

       ``(1) to allow the advance payment of the credit under       subsection (a), subject to the limitations provided in this       section, based on such information as the Secretary shall       require, and 

       ``(2) to provide for the reconciliation of such advance       payment with the amount advanced at the time of filing the       return of tax for the taxable year.''. 

       (c) Payroll Credit for Required Paid Family Leave.--Section       7003 of division G of the Families First Coronavirus Response       Act is amended by inserting after subsection (g) the       following new subsection: 

       ``(h) Treatment of Deposits.--The Secretary of the Treasury       (or the Secretary's delegate) shall waive any penalty under       section 6656 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for any       failure to make a deposit of the tax imposed by section       3111(a) or 3221(a) of such Code if the Secretary determines       that such failure was due to the anticipation of the credit       allowed under this section.''. 

       (d) Credit for Family Leave for Certain Self-employed       Individuals.--Section 7004 of division G of the Families       First Coronavirus Response Act is amended by inserting after       subsection (e) the following new subsection: 

       ``(f) Advancing Credit.--The Secretary of the Treasury (or       the Secretary's delegate) shall issue such forms and       instructions as are necessary-- 

       ``(1) to allow the advance payment of the credit under       subsection (a), subject to the limitations provided in this       section, based on such information as the Secretary shall       require, and 

       ``(2) to provide for the reconciliation of such advance       payment with the amount advanced at the time of filing the       return of tax for the taxable year.''.  DIVISION E--TEMPORARY PERMIT USE TO GUARANTEE MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUNDS       SEC. 5001. NON-APPLICABILITY OF RESTRICTIONS ON ESF DURING                     NATIONAL EMERGENCY.  

       Section 131 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of       2008 (12 U.S.C. 5236) shall not apply during the national       emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19)       outbreak declared by the President under the National       Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).                      DIVISION F--BUDGETARY PROVISIONS       SEC. 6001. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.  

       (a) In General.--The amounts provided under this Act are       designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section       4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.       933(g)). 

       (b) Designation in Senate.--In the Senate, this Act is       designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section       4112(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent       resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT