Supplemental Appropriations Bill


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, last week I described how Congress  could quickly secure supplemental funding to combat the coronavirus.  The way to secure these urgently needed resources with speed and  certainty was to forgo partisan posturing, forgo micromanagement at the  leadership level, and let the bipartisan appropriators do their work. 

  Since then, Senator Shelby, Senator Leahy, and their counterparts in  the House have worked on bipartisan, bicameral discussions. Thanks to  their good work, we are close. The funding legislation appears to be  about at the 5-yard line. I hope to complete the legislation and  deliver this funding this week. We are close. 

  In order to finish up, both sides will need to continue doing what  has worked thus far and resist the temptation to impose any last-minute  ideological demands. In particular, I have heard that the Democratic  leadership may be contemplating a last-minute demand that this funding  legislation also test drive some untried, untested, and controversial  parts of their Medicare for All proposal that relate to the pricing of  new drugs and innovations. 

  So, look, everyone agrees that the potential diagnostics,  therapeutics, or vaccines that might come out of this new funding  cannot only be available to the ultrawealthy. We all agree on that.  Everyone agrees. We already have longstanding, tried-and-true  procedures so the government can buy and distribute new medicines in  scenarios like this to ensure accessibility. These mechanisms are  already in place. There is no need and this is no time to begin  experimenting with ideological proposals that could jeopardize  research, development, and innovation. Like I said, the accessibility  of treatments or vaccines is a priority for everybody, but before new  technologies can be accessible, they obviously have to be available. 

  This is a moment to empower innovators, to incentivize innovators. It  is a time to remove hurdles to innovation, not build new hurdles and  create new uncertainty through ideological experimentation. 

  So I hope these rumors do not prove true. I am optimistic we will be  able to close out the remaining questions and process this legislation  in short order. This moment calls for collaboration  and for unity. Our bicameral, bipartisan talks have made great headway.  It is time to give our public health experts and healthcare  professionals the surge of resources they need at this challenging  time.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT