Supreme Court


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I planned to spend my remarks today  discussing our bipartisan, bicameral agreement to fund the fight  against the new coronavirus. I was looking forward to congratulating  all my colleagues and discussing all the ways this funding will help  our public health experts, frontline healthcare professionals, and  State and local officials combat the spread of this virus and mitigate  its effects. It is a serious agreement to meet a serious challenge, and  today we will send it to President Trump's desk. 

  So today will be an important day for the country, and it was going  to be a proud day for the Senate, but instead the Nation's eyes are on  this body for an entirely different reason. 

  A few weeks ago, I spoke on this floor about a dangerous trend that  threatens our self-governance. I explained how some in the Democratic  Party appear more interested in attacking the institutions of our  government than in working within them, how Democrats increasingly  respond to political disappointments with extreme claims that our  system of government itself must be broken. The failure can't be their  own. It can't be that the left needs better arguments or ideas. No. No,  the fault must lie with the Constitution itself. 

  Democrats have tried to cloak their anger at President Trump in  rhetoric about protecting norms and institutions, but, in reality, it  is their own side of the aisle where anti-institutionalism is rampant.  Rampant. We can talk about attacks on the office of the Presidency, on  the Electoral College, on the First Amendment, on the Senate itself,  but most striking of all has been the shameless efforts to bully our  Nation's independent judiciary, and yesterday those efforts took a  dangerous and disturbing turn. 

  By now many already know what the Democratic leader shouted outside  the Supreme Court yesterday morning. I am sorry to have to read it into  the Record. First, he prompted a crowd of leftwing activists to boo two  of the Associate Justices--as though Supreme Court Justices were  professional athletes and Senator Schumer were jeering from the stands.  Then the senior Senator from New York said this:  

       I want to tell you, Gorsuch! I want to tell you, Kavanaugh!       You have released the whirlwind, and you will pay the price.       You won't know what hit you if you go forward with these       awful decisions.  

  I am not sure where to start. 

  There is nothing to call this except a threat, and there is  absolutely no question to whom--to whom it was directed. 

  Contrary to what the Democratic leader has since tried to claim, he  very, very clearly was not addressing Republican lawmakers or anyone  else. He literally directed the statement to the Justices by name. He  said: ``[I]f you go forward with these awful decisions,''  which could only apply to the Court itself. The minority leader of the  United States Senate threatened two Associate Justices of the U.S.  Supreme Court. Period. There is no other way to interpret that. 

  Even worse, the threat was not clearly political or institutional. As  I will discuss in a moment, these kinds of threats are sadly nothing  new from Senate Democrats. This was much broader--much broader. 

  The Democratic leader traveled to the workplace of the two Justices,  and in front of a crowd of activists, he told those Justices ``you will  pay the price'' right in front of the Supreme Court building and ``you  won't know what hit you.'' He said this right in front of the Supreme  Court building. 

  If any American had these words shouted at them from a sidewalk  outside their office, they would hear those threats as personal, and  most likely they would hear them as threatening or inciting violence.  That is how any American would interpret those words if they were  directed at them. That is certainly how the press and leading Democrats  would have characterized them if President Trump or any senior  Republican had said anything even remotely--remotely--similar. We have  seen much more hay made out of much less. 

  Perhaps our colleague thinks this is absurd. Perhaps he would like  the most generous possible interpretation; that he got carried away and  he didn't mean what he said, but if he cannot even admit to saying what  he said, we certainly cannot know what he meant. 

  At the very best, his comments were astonishingly reckless and  completely irresponsible. Clearly, as the Chief Justice stated in a  rare and extraordinary rebuke, they were ``dangerous'' because no  matter the intention, words carrying the apparent threat of violence  can have horrific, unintended consequences. 

  In the most recent year on record, the U.S. Marshal Service tracked  thousands of threats and inappropriate communications against the  judiciary--thousands of threats against the judiciary. 

  Less than 3 years ago, of course, an unhinged and unstable leftwing  activist attempted a mass murder of congressional Republicans at a  baseball field right across the river. 

  A Senate leader appearing to threaten or incite violence on the steps  of the Supreme Court could literally be a matter of deadly seriousness. 

  So I fully anticipate our colleague would quickly withdraw his  comments and apologize. That is what even reliably liberal legal  experts like Laurence Tribe and Neal Katyal have publicly urged. 

  Instead, our colleague doubled down--doubled down. He tried to  gaslight the entire country and stated that he was actually threatening  fellow Senators, as though that would be much better, but that is a  fiction. A few hours later, the Democratic leader tripled down. Instead  of taking Chief Justice Roberts' sober and appropriate statement to  heart, he lashed out, yet again, and tried to imply the Chief Justice  was biased--biased--for doing his job and defending the Court. Let me  say that again. He tripled down, and he lashed out, yet again, and  tried to imply that the Chief Justice was biased for doing his job and  defending the Court. Our colleague therefore succeeded in attacking 33  percent of the Supreme Court in a space of a few hours. 

  Throughout the impeachment and the Senate trial, for months,  Washington Democrats preached sermons about the separation of powers  and respect among equal branches. 

  So much for all of that. And sadly, this attack was not some isolated  incident. The leftwing campaign against the Federal Judiciary did not  begin yesterday--not yesterday. My colleagues will recall that during  the impeachment trial the senior Senator from Massachusetts and outside  pressure groups tried to attack the Chief Justice, sitting right in  that chair, for staying neutral instead of delivering the outcomes that  they wanted. These same groups came to Senator Schumer's defense  yesterday with gratuitous attacks against the Chief Justice for  condemning the threats against his colleagues. 

  Last summer--last summer a number of Senate Democrats sent an  extraordinary brief to the Supreme Court. It threatened to inflict  institutional change on the Court if it did not rule the way the  Democrats wanted. In other words, give us the ruling we want or we will  change the numbers of the Court. Here is what they wrote: ``The Supreme  Court is not well. . . . '' 

  Really?  

       The Supreme Court is not well. . . . Perhaps the Court can       heal itself before the public demands it be ``restructured .       . . ''  

  What that means is, you rule the way we want or we are going to  expand the numbers and change the outcome--a political threat, plain as  day. As you read the document, you half expected it to end by saying:  That is some nice judicial independence you got over there. It would be  a shame if something happened to it. 

  It couldn't have been more clear. Independence from political  passions is the cornerstone of our judiciary in our country. Judicial  independence is what enables courts to do justice even when it is  unpopular, to protect constitutional rights even when powerful  interests want them infringed. Judicial independence is what makes the  United States of America a republic of laws rather than of men. 

  It has been almost a century since the last time Democrats threatened  to pack the Supreme Court because they wanted different rulings.  History still judges that disgraceful episode to this day. 

  I would suggest that my Democratic colleagues spend less time trying  to threaten impartial judges and more time coming up with ideas that  are actually constitutional. 

  Fortunately, this extraordinary display contains one ironic silver  lining. These clumsy efforts to erode a pillar of American governance  have just reminded everyone why that pillar is so crucial. These  efforts to attack judicial independence remind us that independence is  essential. Every time Democrats try to threaten sitting judges, we are  reminded exactly--exactly--why the Framers gave them life tenure and  salary protection, precisely why they did it. Every time Democrats toy  with packing new seats onto the Court, we are reminded exactly why, as  Justice Ginsburg recently said, ``Nine seems to be a good number.''  Justice Ginsburg said, ``Nine seems to be a good number.'' 

  The distinguished men and women of the Supreme Court do not and must  not serve at the pleasure of angry partisans--must not serve at the  pleasure of angry partisans. They do not need to pay any mind to  unhinged threats, as shameful as they may be. In fact, as the Chief  Justice reminded us yesterday, they are duty-bound to pay such things  no attention at all. Their job description is simple: to apply the law  to the facts, as the Chief Justice put it, ``without fear or favor from  whatever quarter.'' I have great confidence the Court will do just  that. I am confident that if the facts and the Constitution would have  led the Court to disappoint Democrats the day before yesterday, they  would still feel free to do so today, tomorrow, and beyond,  notwithstanding these shameful tactics. 

  I had hoped I would not need to reiterate what every Republican  Senator told the Court in August after Senate Democrats sent their  threatening brief, but today I have no choice but to say it again:  Republicans are absolutely and unshakably committed to the core  constitutional principle of an independent Federal judiciary--the core  constitutional principle of an independent Federal judiciary. 

  As long as this majority holds the gavel, we will never let the  minority leader's dangerous views become policy. This majority will  ensure that the only casualties of this recklessness are the  reputations of those who engage in it.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT