The First Amendment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, yesterday, I explained that we cannot  let the First Amendment become another casualty of this troubled  moment. No matter how charged the issue, peaceful protests must be  protected, from suppression by governments or hijackings by violent  mobs. In the United States of America, people get to protest. 

  In our country, people also get to worship. As I explained yesterday,  local officials cannot selectively enforce health restrictions to  privilege some First Amendment gatherings over others. If mayors are  posing for photographs in massive demonstrations, there is no reason  why small, careful church services should stay banned 

  These are formal constitutional questions, but our American culture  of free expression and open debate is not only threatened from the top  down by the government, it can also dry up from beneath. 

  If we are to maintain the civic discourse that has made us great,  American citizens and American institutions need to want it. In the  last several years, the New York Times has published op-eds from  Vladimir Putin, the foreign minister of Iran, and a leader of the  Muslim Brotherhood. They have published an essay arguing for greater  normalization of pedophilia. As far as I know, none of those decisions  occasioned public revolts from the paper's staff, hand-wringing  apologies from the editors, or an overhaul of the masthead. Presumably,  it was understood that pushing the envelope and airing disagreements  are necessary in a free market of ideas.  

  But 1 week ago, the Gray Lady finally met her match. Vladimir Putin?  No problem. Iranian propaganda? Sure. But nothing could have prepared  them for 800 words from the junior Senator from Arkansas. 

  Senator Cotton wrote an op-ed explaining a position which one survey  found 58 percent of Americans agreed with. He argued that leadership in  several cities had proven they either couldn't or wouldn't stop the  riots, so President Trump should use Federal troops to secure the  peace, as several Presidents have in our history. His view was  controversial, no question, but there is also no question it was a  legitimate view for a Senator to express. 

  Looting and arson were crippling cities nightly. Some local  authorities seemed to be functionally sacrificing their cities' small  businesses to appease the mob. In Chicago, we have since learned, even  Democratic aldermen were literally crying and pleading with their  Democratic mayor to do something, they said. So a U.S. Senator wrote  about it. 

  Immediately, his idea was met with strong criticism. Now, that ought  to be par for the course. In a free and open society, speech begets  speech. Arguments beget counterarguments. We discuss and debate as  fellow citizens. But that is not quite what happened. Instead of trying  to win the argument, the far left tried to end the discussion. 

  By now, we all know the routine. We have seen this movie before.  Rather than actually rebut speech, the far left tried to silence the  speaker with a mixture of misrepresentations, sanctimonious moralizing,  and bizarre, emotional word salads that nobody else could have standing  to question. This silencing tactic has escaped from the ivory tower and  is spreading throughout American life. This sounds like Mad Libs  mixture between a therapy session and a university's H.R. department. 

  So, sure enough, instead of attempting to defeat Senator Cotton's  ideas, the left set out to ban him from polite society. Some New York  Times employees flooded social media to claim their bosses have risked  reporters' physical safety with the Senator's scary words. Outside  leftists blasted the paper for airing the argument. The Times itself  began lying about what Senator Cotton had said. The paper's own Twitter  account has claimed he had called for a crackdown on peaceful protests,  when he specifically distinguished them from violent rioters. 

  One of the Times' own opinion writers devoted her own column the next  day to calling his view ``fascist'' and proclaiming him outside ``the  bounds of legitimate debate.'' 

  Remember, this is a sitting Senator discussing a proposition that had  the majority of support from the American people, discussing a power  that Congress gave to Presidents 213 years ago and which Presidents in  the past have exercised. 

  Oh, but the facts couldn't hold a candle to the hurt feelings. The  New York Times erred grievously by making people confront a different  viewpoint. They had hurt their feelings by making them confront a  different viewpoint. They had to atone. So when the dust settled, a top  opinion editor was gone. His deputy was reassigned. The piece was  pulled out of the print edition, and a wandering multiparagraph apology  now precedes it online. We are talking the New York Times. I understand  the new editor has made it clear that staff should notify her  immediately if any published opinion makes them uncomfortable--if any  published opinion makes them uncomfortable? 

  One of our Nation's most storied newspapers just had its intellectual  independence challenged by an angry mob, and they folded like a house  of cards. A jury of people on Twitter indicted them as accessories to a  thought crime, and instead of telling them to go take a hike, the paper  pleaded guilty and begged for mercy. Their readers' comfortable bubble  was reinflated. Their safe space was safe again. 

  Now, our colleague from Arkansas has a unique job. The far left  cannot write angry emails to a university president or a publisher to  get him fired. He cannot be silenced by professions of outrage or the  use of magic words like ``problematic.'' His only bosses are his  constituents. 

  This broader, leftwing obsession with banning heretics from the  public square will be poison for this country if it persists. Our  Republic can survive a pandemic, it can survive civil unrest, but ideas  and deliberation are our very foundation. America cannot be America if  civil disagreement becomes a contradiction in terms. 

  The liberal tradition in this country used to pride itself on being  broad-minded, but we have spent years watching major universities  slowly exchange debate for uniformity and rigor for psychological  comfort. Now, we see the free press repeating that error. 

  Let's hope we look back on this as a silly anomaly and not a sad  turning point for our democracy    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT