United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, on an entirely different matter, before  the Senate shifts into the trial, we hope to complete an enormous  accomplishment for this administration and, most importantly, for  American families. It has now been more than 1 year--1 year--since  President Trump hammered out the USMCA with the Governments of Mexico  and Canada. 

  These two neighbors buy more than $5 billion of American goods and  services every single year. They buy nearly 30 percent of all the food  and agricultural products we export to the entire world, and for 90  percent of our manufacturing sectors, Mexico or Canada rank as the No.  1 or No. 2 export destination. 

  Over the past quarter of a century, 12 million U.S. jobs have come to  depend on U.S. trade with Mexico and Canada. That includes many  livelihoods in my home State of Kentucky, from agriculture to  manufacturing, to aerospace and motor vehicles, to our signature  industries, like distilled spirits. 

  That is why workers, families, and small businesses in Kentucky and  around the Nation have been clamoring to get this deal done for a year  now. In addition to all the American livelihoods that this commerce  already supports, experts predict the USMCA will create 176,000 new  jobs as well. 

  On behalf of all of these Americans, we were troubled to see Speaker  Pelosi slow walk this agreement for the better part of a year. But,  finally, late last year, the overwhelming bipartisan pressure to move  forward made an impact on the House. So we are finally on the threshold  of approving this agreement and sending it to President Trump's desk to  become law. 

  Our colleagues on the Finance Committee have already approved it by  an overwhelming margin. Other committees of jurisdiction are wrapping  up their consideration as we speak. Very soon, we hope the Senate will  be able to vote on the floor and put this landmark accomplishment right  on the President's desk. 

  It will be a major win for Kentucky and for all 50 States, a major  win for our country, a major win for the Trump administration, and a  major win for those of us who are already ready to move past this  season of toxic political noise and get back to doing even more of the  American people's business.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT