Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, now, on another matter, yesterday the  House of Representatives did come together around a bipartisan  agreement to renew some critical national security tools. The USA  FREEDOM Reauthorization Act of 2020 will reauthorize key authorities  granted to intelligence and national security professionals under the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. 

  First and foremost, this means ensuring that the men and women tasked  with rooting out espionage and stopping terrorist activity on U.S. soil  are equipped with the powers they need to be successful. 

  Today, the threats these professionals confront are as serious and  diverse as ever. Terrorist groups continue to wish us harm. Major  hostile powers like Russia and China remain committed to undermining  the integrity of American institutions, from our infrastructure to our  elections. 

  The targeted powers reauthorized by this legislation are a vital part  of the efforts to protect American communities. That is a fact. It is a  fact that has been reaffirmed time and again by Attorneys General and  by the numerous reauthorizations granted by Congress. 

  This time is no different. We can't mistake the safety and security  that FISA authorities have helped preserve for evidence that they are  no longer needed. At the same time, we cannot mistake a vital process  for a perfect one. The 2016 election showed us perfectly clearly that  the authorities granted under FISA are in need of targeted reforms to  improve accountability. That was backed up by the findings of the  Department of Justice inspector general. 

  That is why this legislation contains a number of specific reforms to  address the kinds of failures that embarrassed the system in 2016: more  oversight over the practices of the FISA Court, more declassification  and more compliance practices, higher level approval for certain  sensitive applications, and more. 

  Our responsibility here is twofold. We have to continue equipping our  national security professionals and the intelligence community to  anticipate, confront, and eliminate the threats facing our country, and  we also have to respond to the failures of 2016 with real reforms that  ensure the public trust is handled appropriately. 

  This legislation, passed by a bipartisan majority in the House and  endorsed by the Attorney General, strikes the right balance. I am  confident that it will pass the Senate as well. It is not a question of  if this passes but when. 

  I hope that our colleagues who may not choose to vote for this  legislation will not deny this body the opportunity to renew these  authorities today to prevent any lapse. I hope none of our colleagues  choose to force these important national security tools to temporarily  lapse for the sake of making a political point, which will not change  the outcome. In fact, I hope we can renew these authorities today. 

  But if we cannot, if some of our colleagues choose to object, the  lapse will only be temporary, similar to past short lapses between  reauthorizations. These national security tools should not lapse. They  do not need to lapse, and I hope none of our colleagues choose to  unilaterally force them to lapse just for the sake of making a point.  But at least it would only be temporary because this bill is going to  pass, these authorities are getting renewed, and that is a great thing  for the security of our Nation and the safety of the American people. I  hope it can happen today.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT