War Powers Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another matter, this week, we  expect the Senate will take up a War Powers Resolution by the junior  Senator from Virginia that would severely limit the U.S. military's  operational flexibility to defend itself against threats posed by Iran.  I will strongly oppose our colleague's effort and urge the Senate to  defeat it. 

  First, let's discuss what prompted this: the President's successful  decision to remove Soleimani from the battlefield last month. This  limited yet decisive precision strike eliminated the terrorist  mastermind who had been responsible for more American military  casualties than anyone else alive. 

  This was not some reckless act. It was a calculated and limited  response to a significant, growing threat of attack against U.S.  personnel in Iraq by an emboldened adversary. Years ago, Soleimani had  concluded America was a paper tiger whose people he could kill with  relative impunity. It was a strike designed to stop an escalation cycle  we all knew was underway and to restore deterrence and reduce the risk  of war. 

  Yet, when Soleimani's record of brutality was brought to an end, some  Washington Democrats immediately suggested President Trump was leading  us into World War III. While the Middle East masses rejoiced at the  death of a principal architect of Iran's campaign of terror, the  Washington elites fretted. 

  Yet, thus far, it appears the Soleimani strike has, indeed, had the  intended effect. As I observed back in January, ``We appear to have  restored a measure of deterrence in the Middle East. So let's not screw  it up.'' Well, I am afraid that is just what our colleague's resolution  would do. Just as we have successfully sent Iran the strong signal of  our strength and resolve, a blunt and clumsy War Powers Resolution  would tie our own hands. 

  With China's and Russia's watching, is it really a good idea to  suggest that we are willing to let a meddling power like Iran push us  around? This self-flagellation and self-limitation would be tantamount  to snatching defeat from the jaws of victory. 

  For 8 years, President Obama and Senate Democrats, like my friend the  Democratic leader himself, frequently said that, when it comes to Iran,  we should never take the military option off the table. Yet, now that  someone else is in the Oval Office, they seem to want to remove all  options from the table. Lest we forget, the fact is that we are not  conducting ongoing hostilities with Iran. This was a one-off operation  to disrupt and deter planned attacks--not a campaign, not a conflict,  not a war. 

  This discrete and limited exercise of American power pales in  comparison to the ways in which past Presidents of both parties have  routinely used Presidential authorities to utilize our military might  without their having the prior consent of Congress--President Clinton  in Kosovo, President Obama in Libya, and so on. 

  Do most of my distinguished Democratic colleagues really agree with  several of their party's leading Presidential candidates who have  suggested President Trump made a mistake by taking this sort of  Executive action to eliminate this brutal terrorist? 

  Do my colleagues really agree with the prominent voices on their side  who have proposed to exit the Middle East altogether rather than to  continue to work to support our local partners and defend our national  security and national interests in this critical region? 

  I have been trying to have this broader debate for more than a year  now. I have repeatedly sought to give my Democratic colleagues the  opportunity to go on record about their actual, big-picture strategic  vision for the Middle East. 

  Are they willing to support a continued military presence in Syria?  in Iraq? Do they believe we can magically support our partners, like  the Kurds, without having a military presence; that we can counter  Iranian and Russian influence if we are nowhere to be found in the  region? Do they believe Israel will be safer in a region without  American influence? 

  Ill-conceived potshots at Presidential authorities--in the wake of a  strike that succeeded--by using the blunt instrument of a War Powers  Resolution is no substitute at all for answering these broader  questions. 

  I will oppose my colleague's resolution tomorrow, and I encourage our  colleagues to do likewise.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT