War Powers Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, on another matter, today, the Senate  will consider a War Powers Resolution offered by the junior Senator  from Virginia. Our colleague's resolution is deeply flawed on a number  of levels. 

  As I explained yesterday, it is too blunt and too broad. It is also  an abuse of the War Powers Act, which was designed to strike a balance  between the President's constitutional war powers and Congress's own  war powers and oversight responsibilities. 

  Some of us believe the War Powers Act went too far in undermining the  separation of powers and infringing upon the authorities of the  Commander in Chief. But apart from that debate, everyone should  acknowledge that it was designed to stop Vietnams--the deployment of  thousands of troops into sustained combat without congressional  authorization, not the one-off  uses of limited force that Presidents have carried out literally for  centuries. 

  Until recently, most in this body recognized the need for Presidents  to have flexibility with respect to the threat of military force. They  saw the deterrent effect and diplomatic utility of keeping our options  open. 

  During President Obama's tenure, Democrats said frequently that when  it comes to Iran, we should never take the military option off the  table. But now they seek to use this privileged resolution to do  precisely that. 

  The collateral institutional damage of this action would fall on our  military. Its ability to operate quickly and adaptively to emerging  threats would be jeopardized. 

  Colleagues, if you want to take the truly significant step of  preemptively taking options off the table for defending our troops, if  you really want to remove troops from Syria or Iraq altogether, why  don't you just be honest about it and make your case? Find 60 votes to  pass legislation. Find 67 votes to override a Presidential veto. Don't  use a blunt and imprecise War Powers Resolution to end-run around the  constitutional structures that make this a difficult proposition by  design. 

  There is no ongoing, protracted combat with respect to Iran. Our  troops are not mired in unending hostilities. The War Powers Act aims  to impose a 60-day clock on combat operations. The strike that killed  Soleimani took maybe 60 seconds. Let me say that again. The strike took  about 60 seconds. 

  Clearly, this is the wrong tool for this subject. 

  We have just come through an impeachment trial because House  Democrats rushed to use this serious tool as a political weapon of  first resort rather than patiently conducting more normal oversight  using the more normal tools that Congresses of both parties typically  use. No patience for ordinary oversight--just rush to grab the bluntest  tool available to make a political statement against the President.  Well, this war powers debate bears an eerie resemblance to that  pattern. 

  To listen to some of the advocates of Senator Kaine's resolution, you  would think that sweeping resolutions like this were the only means  available to Senators to express any discomfort with White House  foreign policy. Of course that isn't so. 

  If Senators' priority is genuine oversight, there are countless tools  in their toolbox. They can hold hearings. They can engage the  administration directly. They can ask questions and raise issues they  feel were not sufficiently addressed in interagency deliberations. 

  Instead, like impeachment, this War Powers Resolution cuts short that  interplay between the branches. It short-circuits the thoughtful  deliberation and debate. It is a dangerously overbroad resolution that  should not pass Congress and is certain to be vetoed if it does. If my  colleagues want to make a real difference, this is not the way to go. 

  The amendments my Republican colleagues and I have filed expose the  shortcomings and unintended risks of this approach. 

  Senator Kaine has drafted a rule of construction that tries to  provide an exception allowing U.S. troops to defend themselves against  an attack if it is ``imminent.'' My amendment exposes the absurdity of  this by simply removing the word ``imminent.'' 

  How imminent, exactly, is imminent enough? When do our men and women  in uniform get to defend themselves? I would like to know. Should our  servicemembers need to sit on intelligence until an attack is a week  away? A day away? An hour away? Until they see the whites of the  enemy's eyes? 

  And who makes the determination about imminence? Five hundred thirty- five Members of Congress? The President? A Pentagon lawyer? A  battlefield commander? Some young private? 

  This resolution imposes a new constraint on the military without  answering any of those questions. 

  If we have intelligence warning that an enemy is planning to attack  our forces, can we not disrupt the plot until the attack is almost  underway? 

  Senators Cotton, Rounds, and Sullivan have also filed amendments.  They propose sensible additions to give our troops and their commanders  more confidence we aren't trying to tie their hands against precisely  the threat they might face if Iran were again to become emboldened  enough to attack us--oh, and to make sure we can defend our diplomats  and Embassies, too, if they were to face renewed threats. 

  So clearly this resolution is not ready for prime time. I believe it  is just an effort to broadcast a political message, but even that  message can be harmful to our troops and to our national security. 

  So what message will the Senate send to American servicemembers?  Should they doubt whether their own leaders are authorized to defend  them? What message should we send to our regional allies and partners?  Can they count on continued solidarity from the United States? What  would it say to real great-power competitors like Russia and China if  we cannot even remain united in the face of a lesser challenge, such as  Iran? 

  Let's send the right message with our vote. Let's defeat this  misguided resolution.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT