Warren County to receive Coronavirus Funding from Senator McConnell's CARES Act


U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) announced today Warren County, Kentucky received $58,008 from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), Bureau of Justice Assistance. These federal resources, made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, will be used to assist the county's coronavirus response efforts. 

The announcement follows Senator McConnell's recent visit to Warren County to thank healthcare workers on the frontlines of the virus. Senator McConnell also discussed his legislation, the CARES Act, which became the largest economic rescue package in American history.

 The funding is part of DOJ's Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program, which allows local governments to support efforts to control the spread of coronavirus. It can be used for overtime pay for first responders and medical professionals, to address the needs of local jails, as well as to purchase personal protection equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizer, and other coronavirus-related priorities. Last month, Senator McConnell announced the City of Bowling Green received $98,376 from the same DOJ program. 

"In Warren County and across Kentucky, medical professionals and first responders are courageously helping heal total strangers as we face the coronavirus.  As Senate Majority Leader, I was proud to bolster their lifesaving efforts with CARES Act," said Senator McConnell. "Working with strong local leaders like Judge Mike Buchanon, I'm constantly working to help Kentucky overcome this crisis and safely and smartly reopen our economy." 

To date, the Warren County community has received more than $14.4 million from the CARES Act, including funding for the Bowling Green-Warren County Primary Care Center, Bowling Green-Warren County Regional Airport, Western Kentucky University, Southcentral Kentucky Community and Technical College, and the Housing Authority of Bowling Green. 

"Even as Senator McConnell has led the national response to COVID-19, he has also made sure Kentucky has what we need every step of the way," said Warren County Judge-Executive Mike Buchanon. "These federal funds are much-needed to support first responders here in Warren County battling this virus and helping to save lives. We can always count on Senator McConnell to deliver."  

In addition to these federal funds, the CARES Act has had an $11 billion impact in Kentucky so far. Senator McConnell's legislation has delivered $3.6 billion in relief to address urgent housing, transportation, healthcare, education and economic development priorities. His legislation also created the Paycheck Protection Program, which is helping more than 45,000 Kentucky small businesses access over $5 billion in loans to keep their lights on and employees on payroll. Kentucky families have also received more than $3.2 billion in Economic Impact Payments from the U.S. Treasury.