Vote Explanation


Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. President, I missed the following votes, but had I  been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 451, Motion to  invoke cloture on Executive Calendar No. 95 Joseph Kent, of Washington,  to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the  Director of National Intelligence. I missed the following votes, but  had I been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 452,  Confirmation of Executive Calendar No. 95, Joseph Kent, of Washington,  to be Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the  Director of National Intelligence. I missed the following votes, but  had I been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 454, On  the Motion to Discharge, Motion to Discharge S.J. Res. 41. I missed the  following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 455, On the Motion to Discharge, Motion to Discharge  S.J. Res. 34. I missed the following votes, but had I been present, I  would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 457, On the Cloture Motion,  Motion to Invoke Cloture: Matthew Kozma to be Under Secretary for  Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security. I missed  the following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 458, On the Motion to Invoke Cloture, Cheryl Mason to  be Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs. I missed the  following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 461, On the Nomination, Confirmation: Cheryl Mason,  of North Carolina, to be Inspector General, Department of Veterans  Affairs. I missed the following votes, but had I been present, I would  have voted no on rollcall vote No. 463, On the Nomination,  Confirmation: Matthew Kozma, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for  Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security. I missed  the following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 471, On the Cloture Motion, Motion to Invoke Cloture:  Luigi Rinaldi to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the  United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. I missed  the following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 482, On the Nomination, Confirmation: Luigi Rinaldi,  of New York, to be Ambassador of the United States of America to the  Oriental Republic of Uruguay. I missed the following votes, but had I  been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 485, On the  Cloture Motion, Motion to Invoke Cloture: Andrew Puzder to be  Representative of the United States of America to the European Union  with the rank of Ambassador. I missed the following votes, but had I  been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 486, On the  Nomination, Confirmation: Andrew Puzder, of Tennessee, to be  Representative of the United States of America to the European Union  with the rank of Ambassador. I missed the following votes, but had I  been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote No. 487, On the  Cloture Motion, Motion to Invoke Cloture: Brian Burch to be Ambassador  of the United States of America to the Holy See. I missed the following  votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on rollcall vote  No. 488, On the Nomination, Confirmation: Brian Burch, of Illinois, to  be Ambassador of the United States of America to the Holy See. I missed  the following votes, but had I been present, I would have voted no on  rollcall vote No. 496, On the Nomination, Confirmation: John Arrigo, of  Florida, to be Ambassador of the United States of America to the  Portuguese Republic.