Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026


Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, God, I love the compassion and the passion  on the other side of the aisle. Democrats are worried about taking  money from families. Well, you know what? You all can do the right  thing and vote ``yes.'' If not, you are the ones who are taking money  from needy families, not us, because yes means we want to feed the  families. We want to have SNAP programs. No means we don't fund those  programs. See how simple that is? Keep on with the rhetoric. I mean, it  is cute, but the American people don't buy it.

Listen, for the past 40 days, Democrats have inflicted needless pain  on hardworking Americans. They stranded millions of travelers. They  denied food assistance for hungry families. How did they do that? When  you vote ``no'' to continue funding, that means you deny food stamps  for hungry families. No means no, you don't want to pay them. Yes, like  the Republicans vote, that means, yes, we do want to pay them.

Democrats left our troops wondering when they would get their next  paycheck, and for what, Mr. Speaker? Democrats did that to use the  American people as leverage. Don't take my word for it. Take theirs. It  was leverage for more wasteful Washington spending, spending that no  one other than the radical left ever wanted.

To remind the American people, Democrats wanted to waste $1.5  trillion of their hard-earned tax dollars. What did Democrats get in  return? Democrats got nothing. Democrats got nothing because  Republicans refused to waste the American people's money.

Democrats did not get a dime for radical climate change, not a dollar  for taxpayer-funded benefits for illegals, and not one single  concession to the radical far-left base.

Millions of Americans whose lives were upended by the Democratic  shutdown will remember this.

Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding  additional time.

Mr. Speaker, the American people will remember who held them hostage  for petty political reasons and who fought to put America first.

Now that the shameful charade is over, House Republicans will  continue our work on behalf of the American people. We will restore  regular order to the appropriations process. We will continue to  fulfill the mandate of the American people, and we will keep delivering  results for American people because that is what we are here to do and  not to play politics.