Promises Made, Promises Kept


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694791/promises-made-promises-kept


Mr. Speaker, House Republicans take the floor today to  share the stories of hardworking Americans who will benefit from the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

All of us spent the August district work period speaking with our  constituents. At least, on the Republican side, we actually spoke to  our constituents. We heard countless stories about how the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act actually delivers wins for them: bigger paychecks,  more jobs, safer communities, and a whole lot more.

Today's Special Order hour will focus on them, the American people. I  will use this hour to highlight their stories. From Michiganders in the  Ninth District to the coast of California, every corner of America  benefits from the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. That is exactly what we  will hear today.

It is a privilege to kick things off and share some incredible  stories of what is happening back home in Michigan's Ninth District as  a result of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

Over the past month, I have had the privilege of meeting with the  people who truly drive our economy and strengthen our communities: our  small businesses, our manufacturers, defense companies, farmers, and  hardworking Michiganders. From shop floors at Allied UV assembly lines  to AJG Aerospace in Clarkston, I heard directly from manufacturers who  are expanding--and I will say it again--expanding production and hiring  more workers, thanks to the R&D tax savings that we enacted.

I visited with small business owners like Lance Hollweg, whose family  owned Armada Grain Company, and they have owned it for generations.  Small business owners like Lance are the backbone of Main Street and  will now be able to grow their companies and further support their  employees.

I met with defense companies like Ascent Aerospace in Macomb,  Michigan. Thanks to our $150 billion generational investment in  national security, Ascent will ensure that our men and women in uniform  have the tools that they need to protect our country and keep us safe.

Lastly, I spent time over the work period with family farms and  family farmers, where the next generation of Michigan farmers can carry  on the tradition of actually feeding America, thanks to the permanent  death tax relief.

At each stop, I heard the same message: Washington needs to get out  of the way and let hardworking Americans do what they do best. That is  why I have been so proud to champion the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

This legislation cuts red tape and gives families, farmers, and job  creators more freedom to succeed. The stories and feedback brought back  from my district aren't just conversations; they are the reason that I  am fighting every day for commonsense policies that actually put people  before politics. Michigan families deserve solutions that make life  easier, not harder. In the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, that is exactly  what we are delivering.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Arrington),  chairman of the Budget Committee and my friend.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gentleman from Kentucky  (Mr. Guthrie), the chairman of the Committee on Energy and Commerce.

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.  Williams), the chairman of the Small Business Committee.

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.  Moore), the vice chairman of the House Republican Conference.

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.  Owens).

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia  (Mr. Allen).

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.  Taylor).

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Texas  (Ms. Van Duyne).

Ms. VAN DUYNE. Madam Speaker, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act that we  passed is wholly focused on unleashing growth for Main Street,  empowering expansion of advanced manufacturing, and delivering the  skilled job opportunities that will enrich people with valued learning  trades that help build American innovation, technology, and  infrastructure.

In north Texas, we are in a perfect position to lead this new era of  American growth. Our businesses and our workforce are ready to take  advantage of these opportunities. Whether they are in energy, advanced  manufacturing, law enforcement, education, or technology, north Texas  has something for everyone.

That is why our 2025 North Texas Job Fair was the biggest one yet and  a true example of the kind of opportunity and growth that we are  delivering through the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

This year, we were joined by 35,000 job seekers who were able to  connect with over 500 employers who were looking to fill more than  30,000 jobs across industries that are vital to our local economy.

One great example is the U.S. Border Patrol, as they are now  expanding their workforce and hiring new agents as a direct result of  our One Big Beautiful Bill Act. This will mean stronger borders, safer  Texas communities, and definitely greater peace of mind for our  families.

America's future is shining brighter than ever. With the economic  policies of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act to lower costs, increase  wages, and expand job opportunities, I know America's industrial engine  will be unleashed to deliver a breadth of career empowerment not seen  at any time in our Nation's history.

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Georgia  (Mr. Carter).

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.  Kennedy).

Madam Speaker, you have just heard a number of stories  from House Republicans about how the One Big Beautiful Bill Act will  benefit their constituents, but you don't have to take our word for it.  These stories come directly from the Americans who actually stand to  benefit the most.

Whether you are a manufacturing worker in Pennsylvania, a Border  Patrol agent in Arizona, or a server in rural America, the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act delivers for all Americans. We spent the August  district work period hearing from them, the people.

Many stories have been written about how the House Republicans were  selling the bill, but the truth is, the bill sells itself.

Every Michigander I spoke with is excited. They are excited for no  tax on tips, tax relief for seniors, the end of the death tax, and  provisions to help small businesses create jobs and grow the local  economies.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act truly puts the American person first.

Now, here is the interesting fact. Instead of joining us to put every  American first, I want to remind everybody--and you need to ask this  question--every single Democrat voted to raise taxes on hardworking  Americans. Every single Democrat voted to raise taxes on every  American. Think about that. We don't hear them talk about that.

Madam Speaker, we need to hold them accountable to that vote because  Democrats want to raise our taxes.

Madam Speaker, our work does not end with this historic legislation.  House Republicans will continue to work to deliver for the American  people. As we return to Washington, we are more determined than ever to  continue our work to enact commonsense policies that benefit all  Americans.

In the days, weeks, and months ahead, I can assure my colleagues more  stories of the benefits of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act will be  heard. The fear-mongering from the Democrats is just going to have to  stop. We are excited to share their stories. Madam Speaker, do you know  what? The American people are excited to share their stories, too.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.