Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690491/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 88, but I will clarify  one thing for my colleague on the other side of the aisle and add a  little bit more color or correct the truth with the other half of the  truth. That is, yes, Trump is trying to claw back some money for the  infrastructure of building these charging stations. Why is that?

It is because the Biden administration gave them approximately $1  billion to build charging stations. Let's see. I think they built less  than 10. I don't know about other Members, but I don't think that is a  real good use of taxpayer money, so I am in support of clawing some of  that money back. I thank President Trump.

Mr. Speaker, moving on to the resolution, this resolution offered by  my good friend from Pennsylvania (Mr. Joyce) would reverse a waiver  granted by the Biden EPA that allows States to ban the sale of gas- powered vehicles. This EPA rule has legitimate constitutional questions  and would increase costs for Americans and manufacturers.

Americans deserve to choose the car of their choice. In fact, Biden  used liberal California to force a one-size-fits-all solution  nationwide. One State should never dictate national policy because I  can assure my colleagues that what works in California sure doesn't  work for the people of my great State of Michigan.

In fact, this policy only hurts Michigan auto manufacturing jobs,  threatening to kill 37,000 jobs in my State of Michigan. I am not for  that.

This is yet another example of House Republicans righting the wrongs  and failings of the previous administration. We are keeping our  promises to the American people to restore common sense, roll back  burdensome regulations, and lower prices.