Recognizing United States Marine Sergeant Major Timothy Babcock As August 2025 Veteran of the Month


Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with profound respect and  gratitude to recognize the extraordinary service and unwavering  dedication of Sergeant Major Timothy Babcock, a proud veteran of the  United States Marine Corps and our distinguished Veteran of the Month  for August 2025 from Michigan's 9th Congressional District. His  exceptional military career and steadfast commitment to duty,  excellence, and patriotism embody the very best of American service.

Timothy Babcock answered the call to serve his country after his high  school graduation, when he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps.  He reported to Marine Combat Training at the School of Infantry in Camp  Pendleton, California in 1996. After completing training at Camp  Pendleton, Timothy attended Personnel Administration School at Camp  Johnson, North Carolina where he earned the Military Occupational  Specialty (MOS) of 0151 Administrative Clerk.

Following his training, Timothy was assigned to the 2nd Battalion,  1st Marines, where he served as an Administrative Clerk. During his  time with the unit, he completed two Western Pacific deployments. His  dedication and preparedness during this period were a reflection of his  deep commitment to duty and honor.

In 2003, Timothy reported to the Commanding General of the 4th Marine  Expeditionary Brigade (Anti-Terrorism), where he served in multiple  roles including Administrative Clerk, Assistant Administrative Chief,  and Information Management Representative. These assignments highlight  not only his strong work ethic but also his unwavering dedication to  supporting the mission and security of our Nation.

Later in 2003, he attended the U.S. Army Airborne School at Fort  Benning, Georgia, where he completed the rigorous training required to  earn his Airborne qualification. In 2005, he reported to the Marine  Aviation Detachment at Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake,  California. There, he served as the Administrative Chief, overseeing  administrative operations for both China Lake and Point Mugu.

Timothy continued his distinguished career as the Administrative  Chief for Marine Special Operations within U.S. Marine Forces, Special  Operations Command (MARSOC), deploying to Afghanistan from 2010 to  2011. He later served as the Administrative Chief for both the Marine  Special Operations Regiment and Marine Aircraft Group 29.

In 2013, Timothy reported to 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines, where he  deployed to Okinawa, Japan, and participated in Exercise Forest Light  and the Korean Marine Exchange Program--strengthening joint  capabilities and international cooperation.

Following this assignment, Timothy transitioned to Tampa, Florida,  where he served as the First Sergeant for Headquarters Company, U.S.  Marine Corps Forces Central Command. In this leadership role, he  continued to exemplify professionalism, mentorship, and unwavering  dedication to the mission and his Marines.

In recent years, Timothy served as First Sergeant of Headquarters and  Service Company, 2nd Tank Battalion, and later as Sergeant Major of  Marine Air Support Squadron 1. Since 2022, he has served as Inspector- Instructor Sergeant Major for 1st Battalion, 24th Marines, continuing  his tradition of exemplary leadership and dedication.

His distinguished service earned him numerous personal decorations,  including the Meritorious Service Medal, Joint Service Commendation  Medal, Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, and the Combat Action  Ribbon, among other service and campaign awards. He is also authorized  to wear the Navy and Marine Corps Parachutist Insignia.

After 30 years of faithful and honorable service, Timothy retired  from the United States Marine Corps. His experience, professionalism,  and devotion to country have left a lasting impact on the lives of  countless Americans. His legacy is one of sacrifice, integrity, and  duty, and we offer our deepest gratitude for his outstanding service to  the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, let us express our sincerest appreciation to Timothy  Babcock and for his outstanding military service and congratulate him  on his retirement. His excellent acts of valor have protected our  country and our freedoms in this great Nation. His story is a testament  to the American spirit of service, sacrifice, and resolve, and it is an  honor to recognize him as our Veteran of the Month.