Recognizing Scott Gatto As June 2025 Veteran of the Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692240/recognizing-scott-gatto-as-june-2025-veteran-of-the-month


Mrs. McCLAIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with profound respect and  gratitude to recognize the extraordinary service and unwavering  dedication of Staff Sergeant Scott Gatto, a proud veteran of the United  States Marine Corps and our distinguished Veteran of the Month for June  2025 from Michigan's 9th Congressional District. His exceptional  military career and steadfast commitment to innovation, leadership, and  mentorship embody the very best of American service.

Scott Gatto answered the call to serve his country after he completed  high school when he enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. He  reported to the 3rd Marine Division on September 11, 2001, just two  hours before the tragic attack on the World Trade Center occurred. Over  a remarkable near-decade career, Scott worked to forge strong  relationships with foreign leaders, serving in diverse and demanding  environments across the globe. Scott and his unit conducted hundreds of  combat missions, demonstrating bravery and commitment.

During the intense second Battle of Fallujah, Scott was one of only  nine Marines from his 41-member platoon to survive. Five of these  survivors were critically wounded. Scott and his unit demonstrated  dedication to our country and made tremendous sacrifices.

After his service with the United States Marine Corps, Scott played a  vital role in working with the Department of Defense. Here, he led  teams responsible for providing essential gear to troops on the  battlefield. In 2013, Scott then transitioned into the pharmaceutical  industry, applying his college education and background to become a top  sales representative. Scott focused on advocating for patients and  helping drive success within his teams. Scott continues to work and  thrive in the industry by helping counteract the social stigmas  associated with the field. He has received several honors and awards  for his efforts.

In 2017, Scott founded a non-profit organization called ``Reunite the  Fight''. The organization is dedicated to supporting veterans who  struggle with PTSD, survivors' guilt and other mental health  challenges. Having been diagnosed with PTSD himself, Scott felt the  call to help other veterans access essential support such as medical  treatments, PTSD therapy workshops, employment opportunities, and  veterans' benefits. His non-profit has successfully helped over 1,500  veterans and continues to make significant contributions to his  community today.

Above all, Scott is a devoted father to three children-Alaina,  Scottie, and Kai. Together, they share a passion for adventure and the  outdoors, while also valuing the importance of learning about new and  diverse cultures.

Mr. Speaker, let us express our sincerest appreciation to Scott Gatto  for his outstanding military service and for his excellent acts of  leadership that have protected our country and also helped his local  community. His story is a testament to the American spirit of service,  sacrifice, and leadership, and it is an honor to recognize him as our  Veteran of the Month.