-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699613/9999


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Here in this Temple of Mammon, we only seem to care  about what we can monetize. So as Budget chair, I drilled hard into how  climate change is coming at American family finances.

Some of it comes at families through grocery costs as climate  disruptions disrupt agriculture. Some of it comes through construction  costs as climate disruptions disrupt lumber markets and supply chains.  Some of it comes through outdoor sports industries--hunting, fishing  and scuba and skiing--as climate disruptions disrupt the natural  environments that they need.

The first biggest shock will come through insurance markets as  climate risks make real estate uninsurable. This disruption kicks off a  cascade: Climate risk collapses insurance markets; insurance collapse  cascades into mortgage markets; mortgage collapse cascades into  property value losses; and the combination of insurance cost, mortgage  collapse, and home value losses thrashes the entire economy.

Don't believe me. Believe the chief economist of the mortgage giant  Freddie Mac who said exactly this. He said it would be as bad as the  2008 recession based only on coastal flood risk. And, of course, now we  have wildfire risk as well. And by the way, investor David Burt, who  predicted that 2008 recession, is now making bets predicting this one.  In a joint editorial, Senator Sheehy and I warned of a ``torpedo to the  hull'' of our economy from extreme weather, whether floods or  wildfires, triggering exactly this cascade.

As the climate danger looms closer, more and more studies are  monetizing that danger. Mammon Hall may have to wake up. Let's go  through some of the recent reporting.

First off, this isn't later. This is now. On home insurance, look no  further than Florida's teetering home insurance market where average  premiums now have soared to over $14,000 or look westward from there  where 92 percent of Texans now are worried about homeowners insurance  costs. The insurance peril comes as no surprise because insurance, to  quote First Street, ``directly prices expected loss.''

First Street describes how insurance is often the first transmission  channel for climate risk into markets through premium increases,  tighter terms, higher deductibles, nonrenewals, and I would add  mandates like homeowners having to build a new roof on their home to  get insurance coverage.

It matters what insurance companies think about this because those  insurance companies have both a fiduciary duty and a financial  incentive to predict well to make that an accurate transmission channel  of climate risk into markets. And they are predicting storm clouds  ahead, and they are battening down.

Other reports show climate change is already reducing Americans'  wealth and income. One study estimated that incomes in the United  States are already lower by around 12 percent since 2000 from where  they would have been if fossil fuel emissions were not causing climate  disruptions. That 12-percent estimated income reduction was a midpoint  in an estimated range between 2-percent income reduction and 22-percent  income reduction.

That study, by the way, looked at general temperature effects, not at  the costs of specific extreme weather effects like hurricanes, sea  level rise, or wildfires. So the actual number is obviously worse.

As to those uncounted extreme weather effects, First Street reports  that natural disaster damages have risen more than tenfold since the  1980s and now cost the global economy over $200 billion per year.  NOAA's 5-year average of billion-dollar disasters in the period from  1980 to 2024 averaged nine of them per year; 1980 to 2024 averaged 9  billion-dollar disasters per year. From 2020 to 2024, that segment, the  average has soared to 23 per year.

Another report notes that the greatest impact of climate change is  from ``the frequency, magnitude, and duration of extreme events.'' So  if you start with 12-percent income reduction and then you add in the  greatest impact of climate change on top of that from extreme events,  well, it is not just obviously worse; it is obviously a lot worse  counting those extreme weather effects.

The study notes that climate change has altered weather in all recent  years and all places. It is everywhere, not just where storms hit or  wildfires burn. So that is now. That is what is already here. What are  we in for? A 2024 study published by the National Bureau of Economic  Research found that each added degree centigrade of warming results in  a 12-percent reduction of GDP. Extrapolate that out, and the numbers  get huge. The World Meteorological Organization estimates that the  global cost of failing on climate, of letting the polluters continue to  run roughshod over policy, is as much as $1,200 trillion by the end of  the century--$1,200 trillion.

Another study has monetized ocean damages. Rhode Island is The Ocean  State. My wife is a marine scientist. I tend to pay attention to ocean  things. But we do tend to overlook ocean damage. It is worth looking  out for the oceans, though, because 90 percent of the excess heat  caused by fossil fuel emissions and 30 percent of the excess carbon  dioxide from those fossil fuel emissions have all been absorbed by the  oceans--90 percent of the excess heat, 30 percent of the carbon  dioxide, all absorbed by the oceans. Without that ocean effect, fossil  fuel emissions would likely have already made planet Earth unlivable  for humankind.

When you account for ocean impacts, when you monetize those ocean  impacts, it nearly doubles the social cost of carbon to humankind. The  effects come through higher ocean temperatures, reduced ability of the  ocean to hold oxygen, acidification of the ocean, increased severity of  extreme weather events, and accelerated sea level rise. Specific  dangers to God's creation include mass mortalities of organisms, large- scale bleaching of coral reefs, and the loss of sea grass beds and kelp  forests.

Putting numbers to all of that gave this:

Market use damages are the largest in absolute terms,       totaling global annual losses of . . . $1.66 trillion in       2100, followed by damages in non-use values amounting to . .       . $224 billion, and non-market use values adding up to $182       billion in annual losses. That sums to over $2 trillion a  year, and it is for sure an undercount.

Again, there is a lot here that is not yet included in ocean social  cost of carbon calculations, damages that the EPA acknowledges as  important but has not yet included in social cost of carbon  calculations. It includes some pretty prominent impacts like on  fisheries and mariculture and tourism and recreation and, of course,  aesthetic values. That is a pretty big suite of harms.

At the end of the day, the oceans damage report prices 2020's ``blue  social cost of carbon'' at $48 in harm per ton of CO2  emissions. By 2030, 4 years from now, it is up from $48 per ton to $72  per ton. The trajectory is not good.

Remember that these numbers are an attempt to monetize a looming  natural systems disaster. As another report pointed out, some of the  benefits that our natural systems provide to humankind ``are not  substitutable, meaning they must be protected as they cannot be  replaced by technology when they are gone.'' Irreplaceability is one  danger; irreversible acceleration is another.

Some of the harms fossil fuel emissions cause hit tipping points that  kick  off ``a cascade of accelerating and unmanageable damage''--``a cascade  of accelerating and unmanageable damage'' leading to dramatic worsening  for humankind in a worsening trajectory of damage.

Tipping points can have a profound effect on markets. Markets are  built around expectations, and one of the main expectations around  which they are built is the expected lifetime of assets. Well, as of  today, the central case estimate for sea level rise is around 3 feet by  2100--not good for homes or businesses that lie around or below 3 feet  above sea level, not great for homes or businesses that are within  range of ocean storms swamping ashore above the 3 feet of sea level  rise, but manageable with respect to considerable amounts of real  estate.

Now, imagine that tomorrow we learn that we have permanently  destabilized the Greenland ice sheet or the aptly named ``doomsday  glaciers'' in West Antarctica. Suddenly, the expected sea level rise by  the end of the century doubles or more, and we know that we are  eventually in for between 12 and 36 feet of sea level rise. Market  expectations around the valuations of trillions of dollars of real  estate will suddenly change, provoking massive value destruction that  will cascade through markets. It will make 2008 look like child's play.

On a more immediate scale, that is what is happening in insurance  markets right now, as homeowners along the gulf coast in Florida and in  wildfire country out West are finding out that the property that they  thought had a certain value is not worth so much any longer. If they  can afford insurance, but it has doubled or tripled, then the present  value of that heightened insurance cost over the time that they hold  the property suppresses the property's value. Their property values go  down. Florida led the country in property value reduction last year--I  think as a result of this.

If you can't get insurance at all, then you have trouble getting a  mortgage on your property, which means, if you are not selling to a  hedge fund or a billionaire, you have to mark your property down; you  have to sell it for cheap because there simply isn't a mortgage  available for it.

Jay Powell, who is useless on climate but knows a little bit about  mortgages and markets and the economy, has predicted that whole regions  of the United States will shortly be unmortgageable. And, of course,  when insurance gets out of control and mortgages become unavailable and  property values crash, that cascades into very a significant and  painful recession.

What else do we know? We know that our estimates of the worst kinds  of damage that fossil fuel emissions are causing humankind have been  wrong. They have been too low. I quote:

The severity and frequency of extreme events are       unprecedented and beyond model projections.

It is worse than we thought, and it is going to get worse faster than  we thought. Remember that, just by its nature, monetizing the human  harm caused by fossil fuel emissions disrupting our climate and natural  systems is an almost disgraceful undercount of the actual damage to  what one writer called our ``planetary solvency.'' As another author  wrote:

While the social costs--understood as costs to people--of       untrammeled pollution are colossal, the ecological costs,       those borne by nonhuman entities, are almost too vast to       grasp.

When you monetize things, you blind yourself to those costs that are  almost too vast to grasp because looking at them through the lens of  money blinds you to them. There are losses, massive losses--and I quote  again here--that ``appear only in [nature], almost never in a form that  capital can see.''

That is the defect of trying to monetize the harm we are causing to  the natural systems that sustain us. Monetization, by definition, fails  to acknowledge most of the harm and the danger. It fails to acknowledge  most of the harm and danger to our species, and it fails by a mile to  acknowledge the harm and danger to the rest of God's creation.

Even so blinkered, the numbers are colossal, and the threat looms.  All this has caused the World Economic Forum to elevate ``ecosystem  collapse as a mid- to high-level global risk.'' Other studies advance  the concept of planetary insolvency. Others warn about our continued  fossil fuel pollution: If left unchecked, ``then mass mortality,  involuntary mass migration, severe economic contraction, and conflict  become more likely.'' Heading into a world of more mass mortality, more  involuntary mass migration, more severe economic contraction, and more  conflict, it is worth paying a little more attention.

Existing modeling practices understate economic impacts, and further,  as one study pointed out, at the extreme, they ``do not recognize the  risk of ruin.'' They presume that this damage will fall into a  predictable center-case scenario. But there are outer-case scenarios-- nontrivial ones, real ones--that create the risk of human ruin.

Researchers have not only looked at the costs of climate change; they  have also studied the economic benefits of eliminating carbon  pollution. An OECD--Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  Development--study suggests that the most advanced economies on our  planet would enjoy an increase of 60 percent in GDP by 2050--those  societies, 60 percent richer by 2050--from getting climate right. And  they suggest that lower-income countries would enjoy an increase of 124  percent in GDP--more than doubling their wealth--from getting climate  right. So this is a two-sided equation: Continue to fail and ignore it  and these warnings of economic calamity become our future. Be  responsible and get it right and greater wealth and prosperity become  our future.

A third of global GDP lost in this century if the climate crisis and  the polluters causing it are allowed to run unchecked is a pretty dire  scenario to subject the people we represent to.

Anyway, back to Mammon Hall. Here we are, where none of this  discussion is taking place, where these risks and dangers are simply  treated as if they don't exist because of a different monetization--the  monetization of our politics defending a $700 billion annual subsidy,  powered by unlimited dark money spending. The fossil fuel industry and  its vast array of front groups have used the power of money in politics  to strangle this discussion.

In our new American petrostate, the power of petromoney and our  corrupted petropolitics have turned this supposedly greatest  deliberative body into a tomb of silence about this danger, a mortuary  of democracy.