Centennial of the Probation Act of 1925


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I rise today to mark the centennial of  the Probation Act, which was signed into law on March 4, 1925. The law  allowed Federal judges to include probation as part of a person's  sentence, leading to the creation of the Federal probation system that  we rely on today.

The probation and pretrial services system have become a backbone of  the Federal judiciary and the Federal criminal justice system. Over the  past 100 years, the Federal probation system has grown to employ around  7,600 personnel who work behind the scenes to assist judges and those  involved in the criminal justice system. Through comprehensive  investigations and reports, these officers and staff prepare judicial  officers to make evidence-based decisions tailored to facts of every  case. They also provide essential support and supervision to people  returning home from prison, helping to rebuild lives while improving  community safety.

At home in Rhode Island, our Federal probation staff is at the heart  of two successful programs to put people on path out of the criminal  justice system for good. The HOPE Court--Helping Offenders Prepare for  reEntry--launched in 2014, is a reentry court program that helps high  risk and high needs individuals returning home from prison overcome  challenges like substance use disorder that might lead them to  reoffend. In 2021, Rhode Island created the Deferred Sentencing Program  to offer a creative treatment and supervision program in place of  incarceration to effectively address offender behavior, rehabilitation,  and the safety of the community. Through both of these programs,  probation officers and staff work with stakeholders to connect people  with community services and resources that set them up for success.

This week, Federal probation officers from across the country,  including my home State of Rhode Island, gathered in our Nation's  Capital to celebrate the progress made over the past hundred years and  look ahead to its future. I extend my sincere gratitude to our Federal  probation workers for dutifully protecting the communities they serve  and for their commitment to promoting the fair administration of  justice. As we mark this important anniversary, let us reaffirm our  commitment to a criminal justice system that is fair, effective, and  rehabilitative.