Climate Change


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I rise today for ``Time to Wake Up''  speech No. 258 and my increasingly battered chart here to urge  colleagues in the Senate to wake up and see the looming danger we face  from climate change. 

  Just look at the recent climate effects in our Southern Hemisphere.  The most devastating wildfires anyone can remember have ripped across  Australia, burned more than a fifth of Australia's forests, destroying  thousands of homes, killing an estimated 1 billion animals, and making  a day of breathing air in Sydney like smoking 37 cigarettes. In the  ocean off Australia, there are new warnings that the Great Barrier  Reef--a Wonder of the World visible from space--is doomed. 

  The warmest temperatures ever were recorded in Antarctica--a 70- degree day when the average February temperature would be 33 degrees. 

  Here is the Thwaites Glacier. Here on Antarctica's Thwaites Glacier,  scientists drilled through 2,000 feet of ice, down to the ocean water  below, and discovered water 2 degrees above freezing. With 70 degrees  above and 2 degrees above, it is a melting sandwich. Losing that  glacier would trigger almost 3 feet of sea level rise, and that glacier  is going. 

  Sea level rise brings me to the crash warnings that are the subject  of this speech, crash warnings that are flashing throughout the  economy. Sea level rise connects to these crash warnings because some  of these crash warnings revolve around sea level rise in its crashing  coastal property values. Other warnings are of a crash in what  economists call the carbon bubble. 

  I have a binder of these warnings that I put together, and I sent  this binder to every Member of the Senate in February of 2019. Every  Senator has all of the warnings that are compiled in that binder. I  have a letter, too, that follows up on the warnings in that binder-- just about the warnings that have emerged since February of 2019--in  fact, mostly just from this year. I sent this letter to all of the  members of the Senate Banking Committee because the economic crashes  that are warned of are within the Senate Banking Committee's  jurisdiction, and that committee has the responsibility to be the  distant early warning system for the rest of us in the Senate about  these warnings. 

   Senate,                                   Washington, DC, February 6, 2020.      Hon. Mike Crapo,      Chairman, Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs,           U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.      Hon. Sherrod Brown,      Ranking Member, Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban           Affairs, U.S. Senate, Washington, DC. 

       Dear Chairman Crapo and Ranking Member Brown: With the       impeachment procedure behind us, we return to regular work,       and I write to bring your attention to further financial       warnings related to the climate crisis.  

       You will recall that I wrote to you on December 2, 2019       about climate-related warnings emanating from the financial       and regulatory community. The two lead warnings were of a       coastal property value crash (which Freddie Mac has warned       could be worse than the 2008 mortgage meltdown), and a carbon       asset bubble crash (described by U.K. financial regulator the       Bank of England as a ``systemic risk''--meaning the crash       could cascade beyond fossil fuel companies out into the       global economy). A copy of that letter is attached for you as       a reference. 

       The warnings continue. 

       The Bank for International Settlements, described sometimes       as the bank of the central banks, has published a report,       ``The Green Swan: Central banking and financial stability in       the age of climate change.'' This report recognizes and       reinforces the many previous warnings that ``[c]limate change       could . . . be the cause of the next systemic financial       crisis'' (p. 1), and that ``[c]entral banks, regulators and       supervisors have increasingly recognised that climate change       is a source of major systemic financial risks'' (p. 65,       emphasis added), indeed that ``climate catastrophes are even       more serious than most systemic financial crises.'' (p. 3) 

       The ``Green Swan'' report goes on to describe the stunning       scale of these risks: that ``[e]xceeding climate tipping       points could lead to catastrophic and irreversible impacts       that would make quantifying financial damages impossible.''       (p. 1, emphasis added; in an odd coincidence, that language       mirrors President Trump's 2009 warning in a New York Times ad       that climate change consequences would be ``catastrophic and       irreversible.'') 

       The ``Green Swan'' report warns that this risk is so       extreme because the risk is dual, and so dangerous because it       is so unpredictable: ``The complex chain reactions and       cascade effects associated with both physical and transition       risks could generate fundamentally unpredictable       environmental, geopolitical, social and economic dynamics.''       (p. 3, emphasis added). Like the ``black swans'' from which       this report derives its title, ``both physical and transition       risks are characterised by deep uncertainty and nonlinearity,       their chances of occurrence are not reflected in past data,       and the possibility of extreme values cannot be ruled out.''       (p. 3, emphasis added). 

       The ``Green Swan'' report warns that this dangerously       unpredictable risk can put our financial stability in danger,       citing ``growing awareness'' that these ``physical and       transition risks . . . would affect the stability of the       financial sector.'' (p. 65); and could be irremediable by       ordinary methods. The impact could be so great as to ``make       quantifying financial damages impossible,'' (p. 1), the       effects would be ``catastrophic and irreversible'' (p. 1),       and these ``climate-related risks will remain largely       unhedgeable as long as system-wide action is not       undertaken.'' (p. 1) 

       In this looming, ominous cloud of danger and uncertainty,       one thing is certain. ``[T]here is certainty about the need       for ambitious actions despite prevailing uncertainty       regarding the timing and nature of impacts of climate       change.'' (p. 3) The report identifies ``an array of       actions'': ``The most obvious ones are the need for carbon       pricing and for systematic disclosure of climate-related       risks by the private sector.'' (p. 2, emphasis added). To       achieve this safe and certain path, the report calls urgently       for an end to ``[t]he procrastination that has been the       dominant modus operandi of many governments for quite a       while.'' (p. 66) (As you know, I take the position that our       procrastination in Congress has been acquired by the fossil       fuel industry through its armada of front groups and dark       money channels, which will make the procrastination all the       more blameworthy when the full story emerges.) 

       The stem warning of the ``Green Swan'' report, and the       certain path to safety from the hazard, are echoed in a       recent open letter from BlackRock CEO Larry Fink. 

       In his letter to CEOs, Fink notes that ``[c]limate change       has become a defining factor in companies' long-term       prospects,'' and that as a result ``we are on the edge of a       fundamental reshaping of finance'' (emphasis in original),       one that is ``compelling investors to reassess core       assumptions about modem finance.'' 

       This extraordinary language is based, as in the ``Green       Swan'' report, on the dual nature of the hazard, ``of how       climate risk will impact both our physical world and the       global system that finances economic growth.'' The conclusion       is harsh: ``In the near future--and sooner than most       anticipate--there will be a significant reallocation of       capital.'' (emphasis in original) The phrase ``significant       reallocation of capital'' couches in bland economic terms a       dramatic and painful human prospect. 

       BlackRock also agrees on the safe path: that ``government       must lead the way in this transition,'' and that ``the scale       and scope of government action'' is ``one of the most       important questions.'' In this regard, ``carbon pricing [is]       essential to combating climate change.'' (emphasis added) 

       In addition to the BIS ``Green Swan'' report and the       BlackRock letter, in the time since my last letter the       following organizations have also brought similar warnings       forward. 

       On December 18, 2019, the Bank of England published a       discussion paper outlining its proposal for climate stress       tests for corporations under its regulatory supervision. 

       In January 2020, the management consultancy McKinsey       released a comprehensive report on the physical risks of       climate change. McKinsey warns that climate change could       ``make long-duration borrowing unavailable, impact insurance       cost and availability, and reduce terminal values.'' It could       ``trigger capital reallocation and asset repricing.'' On       January 15, 2020, the World Economic Forum's Global Risks       Report identified the top five most likely risks facing the       world over the next 10 years, and all were climate-related       risks. 

       A January 2020 report from the Stanford Graduate School of       Business notes that ``the financial risks from climate change       are systemic'' and ``singular in nature,'' and ``[g]lobal       economic losses from climate change could reach $23       trillion--three or four times the scale of the 2008 financial       crisis.'' 

       Given the scope and scale of these warnings, and given that       Senators depend on the Banking Committee as our official eyes       and ears into such hazards, I hope that the Committee will       rapidly hold searching and fair hearings about these danger       warnings.            Sincerely,                                                Sheldon Whitehouse,                                                      U.S. Senator.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, the warnings are serious. They come  from some of our foremost financial experts. So let's walk through what  we have in store if we keep sleepwalking through the climate crisis. 

  As I said, warning No. 1: coastal property value crash. 

  Freddie Mac, not an environmental organization but a giant mortgage  company, warned that rising sea levels will prompt a crash in coastal  property values that will be worse than the housing crash that  triggered the 2008 financial crisis. 

  First Street Foundation found that rising seas have already caused  $16 billion in lost property values in coastal homes from Maine to  Texas. 

  Moody's, the bond rating agency, warned that climate risk will  trigger downgrades in coastal communities' bond ratings. 

  BlackRock--the biggest asset manager in the world--estimated that, by  the end of the century, climate change will cause coastal communities  annual losses that will average up to 15 percent of local GDP with the  hardest hit communities, obviously, hit far worse. Hello, Florida. 

  Warning No. 2: a carbon asset bubble crash. 

  The Bank of England, the Bank of France, the Bank of Canada, and the  European Central Bank--all backed by top-tier, peer-reviewed economic  papers--all warn that fossil fuel assets are dramatically overvalued on  fossil fuel companies' books, that these assets are actually uneconomic  and will become stranded, and that the resulting ``carbon asset  bubble'' crash will swamp the world economy. 

  How bad is it? It is called systemic financial risk. Systemic  financial risk is finance speak for risk to the entire economic system.  Do you remember the 2008 financial crisis? Bad home mortgages blew up  more than mortgage companies; they caused a brutal economic recession,  and millions of people lost their jobs, their homes, and their  retirement savings. We are still recovering from that collapse. That is  a systemic financial crisis, and the warnings are that this one will be  worse. 

  In my recent letter, I looked at the more recent warnings. Here is  the Bank for International Settlements' recent Green Swan report. The  title is a reference to the metaphor of a black swan--an unpredictable  event with calamitous consequences for the economy. 

  Below is what my letter to the Banking Committee quoted from this  Green Swan report. 

  Page No. 1 warns: ``[c]limate change could . . . be the cause of the  next systemic financial crisis.'' 

  From page No. 65: ``Central banks, regulators and supervisors have  increasingly recognized that climate change is a source of major  systemic financial risks,'' and ``climate catastrophes are even more  serious than most systemic financial crises.'' 

  Again, from page No. 1: ``Exceeding climate tipping points could lead  to catastrophic and irreversible impacts that would make quantifying  financial damages impossible.'' 

  Let's slow down and do that one again: ``Exceeding climate tipping  points could lead to catastrophic and irreversible impacts that would  make quantifying financial damages impossible.'' 

  As a little aside here, it is an odd coincidence that the report's  language of ``catastrophic and irreversible'' mirrors President Trump's  warning in a New  York Times ad in 2009 that the consequences of climate change would be  catastrophic and irreversible--the same words, ``catastrophic and  irreversible.'' This was said by Trump in 2009 and was written in the  Bank for International Settlements' Green Swan report just 2 months  ago. 

  Back to the Green Swan report, on page No. 3: ``The complex chain  reactions and cascad[ing] effects associated with both physical and  transition risks could generate fundamentally unpredictable  environmental, geopolitical, social and economic dynamics.'' 

  Fundamentally unpredictable economic dynamics? Fundamentally  unpredictable social dynamics? 

  Again, on page No. 1: ``climate-related risks will remain largely  unhedgeable as long as system-wide action is not undertaken.'' 

  Back to page No. 3 again: Like the black swans from which the report  derives its title, the ``physical and transition risks are  characterised by deep uncertainty and nonlinearity, their chances of  occurrence are not reflected in past data, and the possibility of  extreme values cannot be ruled out''--the possibility of extreme  values. 

  Another big warning that I quoted in my letter to the Banking  Committee came from BlackRock CEO Larry Fink. In his open letter to  CEOs, Fink echoes the Green Swan warning, writing: ``[c]limate change  has become a defining factor in companies' long-term prospects.'' As a  result, ``we are on the edge of a fundamental reshaping of finance,''  one that is ``compelling investors to reassess core assumptions about  modern finance.'' 

  Folks, BlackRock is the biggest asset manager in the world. When its  CEO speaks of a fundamental reshaping of modern finance and a shaking  of its core assumptions, that is serious stuff. 

  In my letter, I cite other recent warnings of this systemic financial  risk, all since I distributed the binder, many just this year. Here are  a few instances. 

  In December, the Bank of England proposed climate stress tests for  corporations under its regulatory supervision. We started bank  financial stress tests after the 2008 mortgage crisis, and central  banks are starting to do the same for the climate crisis. 

  In January, massive management consultant McKinsey--again, not a  green group but, presumably, a pretty smart group--warned that climate  change could ``make long-duration borrowing unavailable, impact  insurance cost and availability, and reduce terminal values.'' Climate  change could ``trigger capital reallocation and asset repricing,''  which is finance speak for the fundamental upheaval of our economy. 

  January: The World Economic Forum puts out its Global Risks Report  that identifies the five most likely global risks facing the world over  the next 10 years. Five for five, every single one of them was climate  related--all five. 

  Finally, from the Stanford business school's Corporations and Society  Initiative is a report that warns ``the financial risks from climate  change are systemic''--there is that word again, ``systemic''--that  these risks are ``singular in nature,'' like the green swan-black swan  warning, and that ``[g]lobal economic losses from climate change could  reach $23 trillion--three or four times the scale of the 2008 Financial  Crisis.'' 

  Pause for a moment, and recall the agony of the 2008 financial  crisis. Losses in the stock market wiped out nearly $8 trillion.  Housing values cratered; retirement savings vanished; and Americans  lost jobs, lost homes, and lost nearly $10 trillion in wealth. Global  economic growth went negative. We all went home to States where we  witnessed extraordinary human suffering. Three or four times that? The  Stanford report is telling us that we are courting financial peril-- systemic risk--the likes of which we cannot imagine. 

  Climate change is a natural force. It has blown carbon dioxide levels  way outside what humankind has ever experienced. It is depositing the  equivalent of four Hiroshima-sized atomic bombs of excess heat per  second into our oceans--per second--and it is an economic bomb  positioned beneath our economy, its detonator ticking down steadily. 

  We have a chance to defuse the bomb. With all of these warnings that  I have described in this binder and that I have described in my letter  to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs comes a clear  description of the solution: Government must act. Here are the  solutions that I quote in my letter to the Committee on Banking,  Housing, and Urban Affairs. 

  On page No. 66 of Green Swan: End ``[t]he procrastination that has  been the dominant modus operandi of many governments for quite a  while.'' 

  By the way, here, it really hasn't been procrastination; it has been  obstruction. It has been obstruction by the fossil fuel industry, its  money, and its minions. Clearly, we haven't done anything serious about  it, so that has to end. 

  On page No. 2 of the Green Swan: ``The most obvious ones are the need  for carbon pricing and for systematic disclosure of climate-related  risks by the private sector.'' 

  It is, indeed, obvious to people in the financial sector. It is only  not obvious to us because fossil fuel money swirls all around this  place, trying to convince us that the obvious isn't true. Yet BlackRock  CEO Fink's letter echoes that call for carbon pricing. 

  He says, ``carbon pricing [is] essential to combating climate  change.'' 

  So we have the warnings, and we have the solutions. We have  everything except the will to act. The reason we don't have the will to  act is because we have dark money, political predators controlling our  behavior in ways that are deeply, deeply inappropriate. 

  Assume that these warnings are correct. When this blows, Senators who  didn't help us act will have to come up with a better excuse than:  Well, we weren't warned--because we were warned. We have been warned  over and over and over again. We have been warned by experts. We have  been warned by major financial institutions. We have been warned by the  custodians of our economy, the central banks. 

  Colleagues, you have the warnings in your inbox. When this blows up,  when coastal property values crash, or when the carbon bubble bursts,  or worse, when both happen--nothing says both can't happen--it is not  going to look good to say: Yes, I was warned, but, you see, my  political party is funded by the fossil fuel industry so naturally I  did nothing. That is how you lose the privilege of representing people. 

  It was a bit of a tempest in a teapot. It happened in Rhode Island 28  years ago, but I have lived through this. We had a financial crisis in  Rhode Island in 1991. I was working for the Governor, who came in to  have to clean up that horrible mess, and I was there for the following  election after the financial crisis hit. 

  The legislators who slept through the warnings lost their jobs in a  tidal wave of popular outrage. In the subsequent election, the 1992  election, more than one-third of Rhode Island's General Assembly was  either voted out or didn't even bother running again. 

  There was a movie, when I went to law school, about the Harvard Law  School. I think it was called ``One L.'' They brought in the freshman  class of the One L class, and the crotchety old dean looked at them all  and said: A third of you are going to be gone before you graduate  because this is so demanding. Look to your right. Look to your left.  One of you will not be here at graduation. 

  When this thing blows, that is going to be a ``Look to your left.  Look to your right. One of you won't be here afterwards'' moment here  in the U.S. Senate. 

  You think people are mad now, wait until this hits. Wait until these  warnings come true, and they know you were warned. Wait for that. 

  It is time to wake up. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT