Climate Change


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, I am here today for the 267th time  to call this Chamber to wake up to the threat of climate change. My  chart here is getting a little dog-eared with use. 

  Let me dive right in with a report from over 30 years ago that was  presented to a major conference here in Washington, DC. On the very  first page of this report it says:  

       Increases in atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide       (CO2) and other key gases . . . that are opaque to       portions of the infrared spectrum result in the ``greenhouse       effect'' or global warming. When short wavelength infrared       radiation from the sun warms the earth's surface, and this       heat is later radiated from the earth, some gases in the       atmosphere are not transparent to the longer wavelength re-      radiation, the heat does not escape, and the atmosphere       becomes warmer, much as does the interior of a greenhouse.  

  That is a flawless description of climate change. I wonder who wrote  it. Well, let me continue. 

  After some hedging about the state of the science and the uncertainty  surrounding how much climate change could be attributed to humans at  that point in time, this same report delves into the expected effects  of climate change on our planet. It reads:  

       There is qualitative agreement among prognosticators that       sea levels will rise, wetlands will flood, salt water will       infuse fresh water supplies, and there will be changes in the       distribution of tree and crop species and agricultural       productivity.  

  Wow. That is really accurate. That is all the stuff we are actually  seeing happen right now. Gosh, I wonder who wrote that. Let's continue  on through the report.  

       A significant rise in sea levels will flood now habitable       land in some countries. . . . Developed countries may be able       to protect their cities, at least for some years, by building       levees and dikes at a considerable cost to avoid major       displacements of people and their economic bases.  

  We are also seeing that. Impressive--whoever wrote this report really  got this quite accurately 30 years ago. 

  Let me go on with the report:  

       These same actions will affect wetlands and it may not be       possible to protect both coastal and wetland areas.  

  Once you have built your dike, it pushes water out into wetland  areas. 

  The report says:  

       Flooding will intrude into water supplies, such as coastal       cities (e.g. Miami and New Orleans) . . . .  

  Wow. Who wrote this? This is good. 

  It continues:  

       Changes in temperature patterns will affect natural       ecosystems by altering the distributions of species, and       affecting forestry and silviculture. Under various scenarios,       commonly harvested species will move north and try to grow in       different soil types. Ranges of particular species are likely       to change because trees in the southern part of the present       range may die off much more quickly than they can propagate       further north . . . .  

  This is all stuff we are seeing now--all predicted 30 years ago in  this report. Wow. I wonder who wrote it. 

  I will continue quoting the report:  

       Similarly, crop lands will change. In present farm areas,       there will be greater reliance on irrigation. The stress will       depend on changes in precipitation patterns, which is now       difficult (at best) to predict. Grain production will move       north and productivity may fall because of differing soil       types. Global warming could expand the northern range of       livestock disease and pests . . . .  

  Still quoting from this report:  

       Global warming will affect snowfall patterns, hence melt,       and affect water supplies. Most of California's water       supplies are from snow melt and if snow is reduced to rain,       or melts quickly during the winter, water supplies in the       summer will be less than now.  

  Wow. Thirty years ago they predicted all of that. That is really  impressive. Fast forward to today, and that is exactly what we are  seeing. All of it is underway already. Sea level rise is already  happening. The tide gauge in Naval Station Newport, in my home State of  Rhode Island, shows over 10 inches of sea level rise over the last  century. Temperatures are up globally, with some areas measuring  increases well above 2 degrees Celsius. Wildlife and plants are indeed  shifting away from the equator, like the maple trees whose range is  creeping out of the United States toward Canada. And, of course, we  have seen water tables continue to drop as temperatures rise and  snowpack dwindles. 

  Wow. This report was so accurate. Who wrote it? 

  Well, let's look for a minute at the prescriptions that the report  lays out. What should we do about this problem it describes so  accurately? Those prescriptions are pretty good for 30 years ago, too.  Here is what its authors reckon typical, sensible governments would do  in response to climate change:  

       (1) Reduce the emissions of CO2 by reducing the       use or mix of fossil fuels; (2) Reduce the emissions of       potential pollutants; (3) Improve energy efficiency; (4) Ban       or restrict the manufacture of certain chemicals; and (5)       Seek to affect the natural emissions of key chemical       compounds.  

  Wow. Indeed, governments around the world have adopted these  policies. There are dozens of carbon pricing regimes in place,  including in some of our biggest global competitors, like the program  China is rolling out this year. There are comprehensive energy  efficiency programs and bans on climate-damaging chemicals like HFCs  and global efforts to harness natural processes like growing trees to  sequester carbon. 

  That is really good prescription, whoever wrote it. This rigorous  analysis was so good that its authors eagerly thrust it into the hands  of political leaders here in the United States. Not only did the  authors present it to the Symposium on Industrial Development and  Climate Change in May 1989, but they submitted it to the U.S. House of  Representatives at a hearing on the same day. In the hearing, the  authors condemned the House committee on climate-related legislation  and expressed support for ``coordinat[ing] federal research and  national global climate change policy efforts.''  

  So who was it? Who was this sensible, forward-thinking group that  lauded a smart bill 30 years ago that was designed to prepare us for  climate change? Who was it over 30 years ago who presented all of these  sound findings and recommendations to international business leaders  and to Members of Congress? Who was it? Hold your breath. It was the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce--the biggest, most powerful trade group in  Washington and one of the biggest obstructors of climate action in  Washington today, according to the nonpartisan watchdog Influence Map. 

  Here is a chart showing the big corporate players in Washington on  climate. The good guys are over here on the green side, and the bad  guys are over here on the red side. The worst is that climate  miscreant, Marathon Petroleum, that is busy messing around with  electronic vehicle taxes and messing around with vehicle fuel  efficiency standards. Yet, right here, lined up with Phillips 66, the  Southern Company, and Marathon Petroleum, is--boom--the U.S. Chamber of  Commerce. It is way over on the far side of climate obstruction and  denial. 

  As Influence Map's Dylan Tanner testified last fall, ``The U.S.  Chamber of Commerce . . . is likely the most authoritative voice of  American business,'' and it has been one of the most ardent opponents  of climate action. 

  It is just gross. The chamber knew about this problem early on. It  took its own sound climate report to business leaders and to the U.S.  Congress in the 1980s. It described then what we are seeing now. It  described then what it has denied since then. It made recommendations  that we are still pushing for now. It was poised back then, in the  1980s, to be a part of the solution to climate change--to get onto this  problem early before it metastasized into the climate crisis we  experience today. 

  Instead, here is what the chamber did: It opposed one comprehensive  climate bill after another in Congress. It opposed them all--the  bipartisan cap and trade bill in 2005, the Energy Policy Act. The  chamber sent out a Key Vote Alert signal that whoever voted  in favor of the bill could face an onslaught of political attacks in  the next election. That is another feature of the chamber's climate  obstruction. 

  It runs TV ads against candidates who might do something about the  climate. Here are some hot moments from some of its climate attack ads:  If we were to do anything about climate change, obviously, you would be  freezing in your bed, wearing your coat while in a sleeping bag with  your covers. Clearly, you would have to cook your breakfast over  candles, in a tin can, and you would have to walk to work. 

  That is its crooked, political electioneering image of what doing  something about climate change would mean for Americans. There is its  logo, proudly, on that whole pack of lies. 

  In 2007, the chamber ran political TV ads against climate  legislation, making all of those threats: People would be prevented  from heating their homes. People wouldn't be able to drive to work.  People would cook over candles. 

  Then, in 2009, the chamber led the charge against the Waxman-Markey  bill. The chamber tanked Waxman-Markey, and since then, the Republicans  in Congress have refused to hold hearings on, to mark up, to debate, or  to vote on any legislation that proposes a policy framework for  economy-wide reductions in carbon pollution. We have a lost decade, in  significant respects, thanks to the misbehavior of the chamber of  commerce--the largest, most powerful lobbying force in our country. 

  The chamber doesn't just try to beat climate action in Congress; the  chamber also has fought climate action in the courts, and it has fought  climate action in the agencies of the executive branch. Here are some  lowlights of chamber mischief: 

  In 2010, the chamber sued the EPA and sought to overturn the finding  that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare.  Disabling the endangerment finding would cripple the EPA's ability to  regulate carbon under the Clean Air Act. When the courts rejected the  chamber's lawsuit, the chamber became central command for corporate  lawyers, coal lobbyists, and Republican political strategists who  devised the legal schemes to fight climate regulations. This produced  another chamber lawsuit to block the Clean Power Plan to reduce carbon  pollution from powerplants. 

  Of course, once President Trump took office, the chamber switched  from defense and obstruction to offense and began attacking Obama  administration rules that limited carbon pollution. The chamber even  funded the phony report that President Trump used as his justification  for leaving the Paris accord. That is the contribution to this of the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce. It authored 30 years ago the report that I  read from. It made the recommendations 30 years ago about fixing this  problem. Then it turned into this climate obstruction, political  monster. 

  Worst of all, the chamber has been fighting science itself. It  actually proposed putting the evidence of climate change on trial in  what its own officials branded as the ``Scopes monkey trial of the 21st  century.'' The chamber said the trial ``would be evolution versus  creationism.'' Of course, the chamber has been the 800-pound gorilla in  elections that every Member of Congress and candidate for Congress  knows all too well. 

  The 2010 Citizens United decision allowed what we call outside  groups, anonymous groups, to spend unlimited sums on electioneering  activities. In the wake of that decision, the chamber has funneled,  roughly, $150 million into congressional races--$150 million. This  makes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce the largest spender of undisclosed  donations on congressional races--the largest spender of what we call  dark money on congressional races. 

  If you dare cross the chamber or don't subscribe to its climate  denial-climate obstruction point of view, you risk its running an ad  against you like this ad, which was run against a U.S. Senate candidate  in Pennsylvania in 2016. This is toward the end of the ad, and the  theory of the ad is that the candidate is so determined to tax energy  that she is going to tax the energy of these women's children who are  running around on a playground. 

  Here are two moms on a playground who are watching their children run  around, and the setup is: Oh, wow. How energetic Johnny and Billy are.  Oh, but don't you know? The Senate campaign is going to tax their  energy. 

  ``Run, Jimmy. Run'' is the punch line. 

  Classy. 

  So what gives? How did the chamber go from being the sensible climate  realist to the hardened climate obstructor? 

  The answer is pretty simple--fossil fuel money. 

  As Influence Map's Dylan Tanner told us at our hearing, big trade  groups like the chamber tend to adopt the lowest common denominator  positions on climate of their most oppositional members. For the  chamber, that lowest common denominator is Big Oil and other fossil  fuel giants. 

  Fossil fuel uses the chamber as its tool to defend--at all costs-- what the International Monetary Fund estimates as being a $650 billion  subsidy in the United States. That was the number estimated by the IMF  for 2015--a $650 billion subsidy to fossil fuel for getting away with  what economists call negative externalities--shoving their costs on  other people. If you believe in market economics, those negative  externalities should be baked into the cost of the product, but they  don't want that. They want the public to bear the cost so they can sell  their products cheaper. That is a subsidy, and it is a $650 billion  subsidy every year. So giving the chamber, let's say, $150 million to  spend is chump change against $650 billion. That is exactly what the  chamber does. It lets itself be used by fossil fuel interests to  deliver this message. 

  What about the rest of the chamber's members? Not everybody in the  chamber is a fossil fuel company. 

  Big tech, what about you guys? You have companies in your ranks who  claim to care a lot about the climate. 

  Google, for instance, has the company motto: ``Don't Be Evil.''  Google warns its investors that climate change threatens its  operations, that its ``systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption  from natural disasters [and] the effects of climate change (such as  sea-level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires, and increased storm  severity).'' 

  Google also tells investors that ``[c]limate change is one of the  most significant global challenges of our time'' and that it has a goal  to reach 100-percent renewable energy for its operations. Google even  signed the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers' Principles and the  American Business Act on Climate Pledge. Yet Google also funds the  chamber's anti-climate crusade. 

  I don't know about my colleagues, but Google does not come to my  office and say: Hey, you need to do something good on climate. Google  has a million issues it lobbies us on, but they are not on climate  change. On climate change, it supports the chamber of commerce, and the  chamber of commerce is our adversary. 

  Look at the big food and beverage companies. They have crops--a  supply chain of grain and fruit and vegetables. They have crops that  the chamber's report of 30 years ago told us would be affected by  climate change. Those crops are the bread and butter--the supply  chain--of these big food and beverage companies. Where are they? 

  Many food and beverage companies say they understand the threat of  climate change. Pepsi signed the Ceres BICEP Climate Declaration and  the Prince of Wales's Corporate Leaders Group Trillion Tonne  Communique. Those were both important commitments to climate action.  There is Pepsi's rival, Coca-Cola. Coke says it plans to reduce  CO2 emissions by 25 percent and that to do so will work to  reduce greenhouse gas emissions across its value chain and make  comprehensive carbon footprint reductions across its manufacturing  processes, packaging formats, delivery fleet, refrigeration equipment,  and ingredient sourcing. Yet both Coke and Pepsi fund the chamber of  commerce's denial and obstruction operation, and they fund the American  Beverage Association--their little beverage trade association--which,  in turn, runs more money to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

  What is the net result here in Congress of all of that? 

  You have two companies that actively reduce their carbon emissions  and enthusiastically, publicly, support  good climate policy, but in Congress, through their funding of the  chamber, they take the position of opposing climate action here in  Washington--the place where it really, really counts. 

  Decades ago, one of most powerful political forces in Washington, the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce, knew climate change was coming. It wrote that  report. It described how global warming happened. It described what the  consequences were going to be in the oceans, in the agricultural  sector, across our country. It made regulations as to how to head it  off. It understood the risks. It knew. It knew what we needed to do to  head off the worst consequences and, even back then, supported  legislation to help us prepare. 

  Then, in came the fossil fuel industry. The chamber will not tell us  how they are funded. I could tell you right now how this all worked  except that the chamber will not disclose how it is funded. But it sure  looks as though floods of fossil fuel money came in and bought the  chamber, caused it to change its position on the facts of climate  change, caused it to change its position on the consequences of climate  change, caused it to change its position on what we needed to do to  head off climate change. 

  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce let itself be bought by the fossil fuel  industry. And thanks to the greed of that one-member industry, the  fossil fuel folks, and thanks to the indifference of the others--thanks  to the indifference of the tech sector, the indifference of the ag  sector--we still have yet to act, 30 years later. 

  At the close of the chamber's report is a really telling quote from  the satirical comic strip ``Pogo.'' ``Pogo,'' in a legendary cartoon  from when I was about as young as the pages here, says: We have met the  enemy, and it is us. 

  The chamber quotes that at the end of its report: ``We have met the  enemy, and it is us.'' 

  Well, that was an observation about what was going wrong with the  planet and how it was our emissions that were causing it. We have met  the enemy; we see this danger; we understand it; and we are the cause  of it. It is us. 

  But at the same time, it is also like a preconfession by the chamber:  ``We have met the enemy, and it is us.'' For 30 years, the chamber has  been the enemy. Since Citizens United, it has been an implacable enemy.  They have been wrong on climate. They knew it 30 years ago; they know  it now. 

  We need to fix this, and we need corporate America to extract itself  from the thrall of the evildoers in its midst, and we need to solve, at  last, this problem. 

  So time to wake up. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT