Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702110/directing-the-removal-of-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-within-or-against-the-islamic-republic-of-iran-that-have-not-been


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, people following the Senate floor will  know that hundreds of times I have come to the floor with my trusty,  increasingly beat up ``Time to Wake Up'' poster to describe the various  manners in which the fossil fuel industry has corruptly obstructed our  ability to solve the problem of climate change that is caused by fossil  fuel emissions.

They might also remember that I have come to the floor dozens of  times to give my ``Scheme'' series of speeches about the corrupt manner  in which the Supreme Court has been captured and put into the service  of a gang of rightwing billionaires who tend to be fossil fuel  billionaires.

In this speech, the ``Time to Wake Up'' series and the ``Scheme''  series converge. I don't know quite how to describe it, but maybe it is  ``Time to Scheme Up'' because, for sure, that is what has been done in  this country by the fossil fuel industry to blockade our efforts to  solve the pollution hazard that they have created for our people--a  pollution hazard that is now real and immediate in our economy.

Look no further than the State of Florida, where climate risk has  thrashed the home insurance markets to the point where the home  insurance market collapse has cascaded into mortgage markets, which  has, in turn, cascaded into real estate values--property values.

Last year, Florida led the country in lost property values. This  year, there was an article in Newsweek just a few days ago about how 6  to 8 percent losses are predicted in Florida real estate values because  of that cascade. Property is very hard to sell if you can't get a  mortgage on it, and it is impossible to get a mortgage on it if you  can't get insurance on it. And even if  you can get insurance, if the insurance costs $14- or $15- or $20- or  $30,000 a year, you add all that up, and it comes off the value of the  home, which is why you are seeing people unsuccessfully trying to sell  homes in Florida for hundreds of thousands of dollars or more less than  they paid for it.

So this is on its way. It is coming right now. I am just going to  continue to dig into how it is that we got here because how we got here  involves a lot of mischief, a lot of real problems. One of those  problems came to light just recently in the form of a number of memos  from within the Supreme Court from the Justices to each other that were  released or leaked--somehow came to the New York Times--that describe  how it was that the captured Court put an end to the Clean Power Plan  of the Obama administration before it even came to life.

Before even a court decision had been made about the merits of the  rule, five Republican-appointed Supreme Court Justices stepped in and  killed that rule in the crib before it could have any real effect.

Charles Pierce has written a pretty good summary of that New York  Times article. He said:

The New York Times published a trove of personal memos from       the members of the Supreme Court outlining the court's       promiscuous use of the so-called shadow docket. It has become       the carefully constructed conservative majority's favorite       work-around to kill policies it doesn't like and support       causes that it and its corporate patrons do.

What appears to have happened here is that the shadow docket was born  in the crib-killing of the Clean Power Plan.

This is quoting the New York Times story:

By a 5 to 4 vote along partisan lines, the order halted       President Barack Obama's Clean Power Plan, his signature       environmental policy. They acted before any other court had       addressed the plan's lawfulness.

Not a Court of final impression, a Court of first impression--the  first one to look at it. That is not the way it ordinarily works.

The decision consisted of only legal boilerplate, without a       word of reasoning.

That is similar to the way the shadow docket has been working--before  briefing, before argument--a decision without legal reasoning provided.

It continues about the Chief Justice:

Chief Justice John G. Roberts, Jr., has cultivated a       reputation for care and caution. [These] papers reveal a       different side of him. At a critical moment for the country       and the court, the papers show, he acted as a bulldozer in       pushing to stop Mr. Obama's plan to address the global       climate crisis.

I will get into this a little bit further as I continue through my  remarks, but the basic summary is that the Court concluded that without  stopping the EPA's rule before it went into effect, before any court  had actually considered it, that would cause irreparable harm to the  fossil fuel industry--specifically, mentioning that private industry  will suffer irreparable harm--this, at a stage in the proceedings,  where the question of whether that harm even existed had still not been  properly litigated.

So I go back a ways on this. In 2015, in one of my ``Time to Wake  Up'' speeches, I said:

The Supreme Court has handed the polluters a heavy cudgel       with its misguided Citizens United decision, allowing big       corporations to spend--or more important, threaten to spend--      unlimited amounts of undisclosed money in our elections. More       than anyone, polluters use that leverage to demand obedience       to their denial script.

Another one, 2017:

The Supreme Court's Republican appointees got in the habit       of doing what they were told by the forces that appointed       them (which include the fossil fuel industry, which asked for       the Citizens United decision), and in a fateful combination       of obedience and political ignorance, they wrecked our       politics.

A year later, I described how:

Republican strategists are expanding their grip to the       Supreme Court, building there a reliable Republican majority.

I warned that we mustn't try to replicate that apparatus. We must  expose it. And when we expose one part of the apparatus, we expose all  because it is the same crew behind packing the courts and denying  climate change and running the dark money machine.

In January of 2010, I said:

The five Republicans on the Supreme Court gave the fossil       fuel industry the Citizens United decision.

I said:

In January 2010, the five Republicans on the Supreme Court       gave the fossil fuel industry the Citizens United decision;       the industry instantly turned its new political weaponry on       the Republican Party; and bipartisanship on climate change       was stamped out by fossil-fuel threats.

This integration between the fossil fuel industry and the Supreme  Court and the dark money power that the fossil fuel industry has used  to crush climate action in Congress is something that has been apparent  for some time.

In 2020, I added:

Citizens United unleashed toxic doses of money, and       unprecedented doses of virulent dark money, into our       political atmosphere. [Once] democracy is poisoned, stunned       by secret fossil fuel money and threats, [it fails] to listen       to plain warnings.

In 2022, I called this ``the Court that dark money built.''

In 2022, I said:

[I]t is probably more accurate to say that we now have the       Court that dark fossil fuel money built.

So it comes as little surprise that these memos from within the Court  should reveal that linkage between the Republican-appointed Justices  and the fossil fuel industry. And, of course, it should come as no  surprise that the roots of this shadow docket that has been used so  politically by the Republican majority on the Court--the roots are  found in an act of service to the fossil fuel industry billionaires who  captured the Court.

If you look at the scheme to maintain the fossil fuel industry's  free-to-pollute business model where they get away with polluting as  much as they like with no cost or consequence, you have to look at the  Supreme Court facilitating this.

Citizens United, of course, signaled the end of climate legislation  because the unlimited dark money that the fossil fuel industry could  use to shut down climate action in this body was successful. Unlimited  fossil fuel dark money was brought to bear on Congress, and our ability  to solve this problem collapsed.

Look before the Citizens United decision. Look back to 2007, 2008,  2009. My first years here, there was robust negotiation on major  climate legislation--four different strategies here in the Senate;  three major bills, bipartisan bills; and a Presidential candidate in  John McCain who ran on a perfectly legitimate climate platform. All of  that dead--dead--the day the Citizens United decision came down and the  fossil fuel industry pounced with its new dark money power.

But it is not enough to stop legislation. If you want to protect your  free-to-pollute business model, you also have to stop regulation, and  that is where this Clean Power Plan decision came in. That is where the  subsequent major questions doctrine came in. That work by the Supreme  Court signaled the end of climate regulation as the Supreme Court  intruded into a decades-long regulatory process and rebooted it to  protect against regulation that would limit the free-to-pollute  business model of the fossil fuel industry.

As I have said in other speeches, that major questions doctrine did  not pop from the heads of the Supreme Court Justices in that decision.  It was cooked up in fossil fuel-funded doctrine factories, massaged,  maneuvered into conferences, propagated by the Federalist Society,  called up at conferences. It was groomed and grown so that the Supreme  Court could pick it up in a decision, which, of course, they did.

So if you shut down climate legislation and you shut down climate  regulation, what is left is climate litigation--that people harmed by  all this damage, by all this pollution, usually have a right to bring a  lawsuit. And sure enough, lawsuits are emerging. So the next project of  the Court is to attack climate litigation, and sure enough, the fossil  fuel industry is all over that Court, asking for it to shut down the  prospect of climate litigation.

And guess what. That little rascal Leonard Leo, who was the fixer,  the implementer of the Court capture scheme, who worked with Trump's  counsel, McGahn, to get the three Supreme Court Justices Trump  supposedly appointed--separate argument: I think they were actually  selected by the Koch brothers' political operation, and Trump was the  chump at the end of the deal who signed off on it.

But Leonard Leo and his billionaires were the ones who put that whole  scheme together. They put the whole concept of a Federalist Society  list together and the completely untrustworthy President Trump being  obliged to say publicly that he would pick off that Koch brothers'  list. They called it the Federalist Society list because calling it a  fossil fuel billionaires list wouldn't sell so well. And then they  ended up with these Justices. The guy in the middle of all of that was  this little fixer, Leonard Leo.

Guess what Leonard Leo is doing now. He has an array of maybe 25  front groups that he orchestrates. Some of them are actual corporate  entities. Some of them are what are called fictitious names for his  corporate entities. So you have a front group, which has a fictitious  name, that you operate through. Why you need to do that is a little  hard to say, but if you are up to no good, I suppose you want as much  camouflage as possible.

What Leonard Leo and his front groups are all over right now is  trying to shut down climate litigation, to make it a clean trifecta so  that one industry is free to pollute as much as it wants with no  legislation, no regulation, and no litigation that can stop it.

Again, it goes without saying that pollution is not something that  should be allowed. It is certainly not something that should be allowed  for free. But money will buy you a lot, and the fossil fuel-funded  phony flotillas of front group amici who come into the Court to tell it  what to do--and have, I would say, a 100-percent winning record before  the Court--are starting to gather around shutting down climate  litigation as well as regulation and legislation. In other words, a  captured Court is delivering the goods for the billionaires who  captured it.

So let's go through these different memoranda as they came out. The  first is from Chief Justice John Roberts dated February 5, 2016. He is  responding to emergency applications seeking to have the EPA's Clean  Power Plan stayed.

On the very first page, he communicates to the other Justices:

Absent a stay, the Clean Power Plan will cause (and is       causing) substantial and irreversible reordering of the       domestic power sector.

That is a factfinding. It is a factfinding made without any court  having found that fact. It is a factfinding by a Court that is not  supposed to engage in factfinding in the first place. It is a disputed  fact in the case before the case is even litigated. Yet here is the  Chief Justice of the United States going with the factual argument of  one of the parties even before arguments related to an emergency stay.

He has to admit to his colleagues that ``the rule does not require  emissions reductions until 2022.'' It is dated 2016. Six years later,  it might require emissions reductions. But then, February 5, 2016, he  says that ``its impact is being felt now.''

He is taking the side of one party on a contested fact and saying  that the impact of that contested fact, as he sees it, is actually  being felt now, 6 years ahead of when anything has to happen.

He says that ``the applicants indicate''--again, an assertion by a  party--the applicants untested, unchallenged--``applicants indicate  that they are currently in the process of committing time and resources  to compliance.''

That is the reason to shut down the Clean Power Plan?

He says that ``the impact of the rule will reduce coal production for  power sector use by 2.0 percent.''

Over a 2-percent reduction, he jumps completely out of his lane,  makes factfinding, and shuts down the regulation before it has even  been considered by the lower courts.

Then he says that the ``harm . . .

That memorandum was responded to rather quickly by Justice Breyer,  who noted:

First, it is unusual for this Court to issue a stay of an       agency's order during the time that the Court of Appeals is       considering its lawfulness.

It is a live legal dispute in the court of appeals, and the Supreme  Court is jumping in to stay it? That was not just unusual; it was  unprecedented. As Justice Breyer points out, ``it is difficult at this  point to say that the absence of a stay will cause irreparable harm.''

Even among the Justices, that is a contested fact, and yet the Chief  Justice is willing to rely on his view of that contested fact even  though it is supposedly not a factfinding body in the first instance.

As I mentioned a moment ago and as Justice Breyer points out, ``the  order does not require any company to take action for six years.'' So  it was hardly an emergency.

Finally, he pointed out that ``all of the applicants'' were ``free to  renew their applications for a stay'' once the DC court of appeals had  done its work and come right back to the Court and get the stay then  rather than to jump ahead of the circuit court of appeals. And it notes  that the circuit court of appeals has agreed to proceed on an expedited  basis.

Well, it didn't take long for the Chief to respond to that. He wrote  right back saying that ``private industry will suffer irreparable harm  from a rule that is--in my view--highly unlikely to survive.''

So now he is not only making factfindings that are contested even  within his Court and that he shouldn't be making in the first place,  but he is also predicting the legal conclusion of how this is going to  end up in his Court.

He says that the ``Court will not issue a decision until 2018 at the  earliest''--still 4 years before that date--``long after the real-world  impacts of the rule would have been felt in the absence of a stay.''

Again, more and more factfinding.

He says there will be ``on-going, cumulative, and irreversible harms  that private parties are incurring each day.''

Again, that is a contested fact, but he is willing to say that as if  it were an actuality and not a point in contention.

Justice Kagan comes back to him to say:

As far as I can tell, it would be unprecedented for us to       second-guess the D.C. Circuit's decision that a stay is not       warranted, without the benefit of full briefing or a prior       judicial decision.

She calls this a ``drastic and unusual remedy'' and points out that  this fact that Chief Justice Roberts has so readily lurched to--the  applicants' assertion--``is both entirely speculative and highly  doubtful.''

So now you have another Justice challenging the fact that the Chief  Justice offers as Gospel.

She says:

It is implausible that such a minor emissions reduction--

Two-percent reduction in coal--

to be achieved six years hence will require substantial and       irrevocable commitments of resources in the coming months.

Then in comes Justice Sotomayor.

I agree with Steve's [Breyer] proposal and Elena's [Kagan]       supplement to that proposal. As Elena notes, it would be       unprecedented for us to grant a stay before any court has       reviewed this complicated and complex case.

She says:

[N]o applicant has identified a single real plant--

An actual, real facility--

as opposed to a hypothetical ``model plant''--that is in       immediate danger of closure absent a stay.

She challenges the costs that have been discussed by the Chief  Justice, and she points out that ``an emergency stay on limited  briefing before the D.C. Circuit will hear argument on this regulation  in just four months.''

Just wait 4 months and get the proper order--circuit court of  appeals, then Supreme Court.

Faced with that, in chimes Justice Alito, brought onto the Court with  Leonard Leo at the White House helping make the selections. He  concludes saying:

A failure to stay this rule threatens to render our ability       to provide meaningful judicial review--and by extension, our       institutional legitimacy--a nullity.

Instead of robust judicial review, our opinion will be a       mere postscript.

Remember, this is a rule that won't have effect for 6 years, where  there will be a proper appellate court decision below in 4 months, and  all of that is intolerable to Justice Alito, a product of the  ``billionaires/Leonard Leo'' court-packing operation.

And the closer is Justice Anthony Kennedy, who writes an unusually  brief  decision, compared to all the others, or a memorandum, compared to the  others, simply concluding: ``[F]airness to the parties counsels that we  should grant [the stay] now,'' and ``I agree with the recommendation of  the Chief.''

That gave the Chief the votes. They granted the stay, and the Clean  Power Plan died.

Mr. President, what is the backdrop to all of this? The backdrop to  all of this is the massive amount of harm that is caused by fossil fuel  emissions. The pollution is really astounding.

The International Monetary Fund most recently assessed the cost of  fossil fuel pollution and of its free-to-pollute business model in the  United States of America at $770 billion in 1 year--$770 billion in  benefit to the fossil fuel industry, a form of subsidy, from being  allowed to pollute for free and not being obliged to clean up its mess.  They are allowed to cause $770 billion worth of harm to Americans for  zero dollars.

When you are allowed to cause $770 billion worth of harm to ordinary  Americans for zero dollars, you have a massive motive to corrupt. You  have a massive motive to apply political influence. You have a massive  motive to take advantage of the dark money that you pressed the Supreme  Court to allow and authorize, and bring that to bear on Congress to  make sure that your $770 billion annual pollute-for-free subsidy is  protected.

What did you note about my discussion about the Court's conversation  on harm? What you should have noted is that 100 percent of the Court's  conversation on harm was on harm to the polluters. It was the only harm  that the Chief Justice mentioned or considered.

The entire argument about staying the Clean Power Plan hinged on  analysis of harm that only looked at the harm to the polluter. There  was no mention of climate change. There was no mention of the harm of  emissions. There was no discussion of the health damage from climate  change and what it is doing now and could be projected back then to do  to insurance markets; what it was causing in sea level rise; what the  ancillary pollution of fossil fuel that isn't climate change pollution  but is lead, mercury, SOX, NOX, particulate  matters, is doing.

They literally turned a blind eye to fossil fuel pollution measured  at $770 billion worth of harm, most recently--total blind eye to it-- and focused only on the harm that would be done to the fossil fuel  industry from having to comply with clean power rules.

Other studies have shown that the amount of money spent on the  operation to capture the Court--a short word on Court capture, it goes  back to the well-acknowledged notions of Agency capture or regulatory  capture in the bad old days. Mining interests would make sure that all  their friends were appointed to the mining safety commission so they  could know the mining safety commission would always give them the  answer that they wanted.

That is Agency capture.

In the bad old days, railroad barons would make sure that all their  friends and lackeys were appointed to the railroad rates commission so  they could be sure that all the railroad rates that were set were  advantageous to them and that they could make sure that they got the  rates that they wanted. That was called Agency capture.

It is a renowned phenomenon. It is written about constantly in  administrative law. There is a whole field of economics that studies  it.

What happened here is that Agency capture or regulatory capture was  brought to bear on the Supreme Court, and it has now turned into, in  essence, a captive body that does this bidding.

The number that I am referring to is the amount that was spent on  that Court-capture operation. People who do really good research have  dug into this, and at this point--more research will make the number  bigger certainly. But at this point, it looks like about $600 million-- million with an ``m''--was spent on the Court-capture operation.

Now, that is a lot of money. But it is not a lot of money if you are  defending a $770 billion annual subsidy that lets you pollute for free  when you shouldn't be allowed to do that and nobody else is allowed to  do that.

Protecting that $700 billion for $600 million is probably the most  lucrative investment the fossil fuel industry has ever made.

And if you pile up the years since the Clean Power Plan was stopped-- that was in 2016. Now, it is 2026--so 10 years. That subsidy number has  grown over the years as the International Monetary Fund has done a more  and more detailed and better job of figuring out all the added harms,  as harms are piling up.

So if you look at 10 years, it is not $7.7 trillion. It is probably a  number closer to $6 trillion. But think about that. What the Supreme  Court did in this one decision, by breaking all of its own rules and  looking only at the fossil fuel industry's harm, is to set loose $6  trillion worth of harm over the next 10 years that all of us have had  to pay for in health, in harm, in lost property values, in increased  insurance, in a myriad of different ways--$6 trillion, call it, over  those 10 years.

That makes $600 million to capture the Court that made that decision  an amazing payback, but a really, really dangerous payback for the  American public.

I will conclude by saying that whether you look at this as an aspect  of the scheme to capture the Court or whether you look at it as an  aspect of the endless fossil fuel pollution that is causing us to need  to wake up before it is too late--either way you look at it--the rot  runs deep around fossil fuel, and it seems to have infected the Court  right over there.

Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al,; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I continue to believe that an immediate stay, as opposed to       the proposed order, remains the appropriate course of action.       Without a stay of the EPA's rule, both the states and private       industry will suffer irreparable harm from a rule that is--in       my view--highly unlikely to survive. The proposed order       simply recites that the applicants hay renew their       applications in light of changed circumstances, which is       always the case.

At the outset, I note that there are no ``aspects of this       rule that are not challenged here.'' The applicants challenge       the EPA's authority to promulgate the rule, period.

Regarding the specific points raised in support of the       proposed order:

As to the first point, I recognize that the posture of this       stay request is not typical, but review is sought of what has       been described as the most expensive regulation ever imposed       on the power sector--net costs have been estimated to run as       high as $480 billion from 2017-2031 (in present value). And       we have the very recent experience of the Mercury Air Toxics       Standards (MATS) rule, which confirms how EPA overreaching in       the absence of a stay in these unusual circumstances       effectively evades judicial review.

As to the second point, all stays--whenever issued--suggest       a view on the merits of the case. Indeed, a view on the       merits is one of the explicitly enumerated stay factors. See       Conkright v. Frommert, 556 U.S. 1401, 1402 (2009) (Ginsberg,       J., in chambers). There is nothing unique in that regard       about issuing a stay here. True, we do not have the Court of       Appeals' view on the matter. But while a reasoned decision       from a Court of Appeals is generally helpful in evaluating       the merits of a stay application, in this well-lawyered set       of applications the merits of the legal positions taken by       both sides seem clear. In my view, it is highly doubtful that       this Court will bless the EPA's expansive definition of the       phrase ``system of emission reduction.'' While the Solicitor       General argues that the word `` `system' is expansive,       encompassing a `set of connected things or parts forming a       complex whole' or a `set of principles or procedures       according to which something is done,' '' SG Response at 35       (quoting Oxford Dictionaries), that definition provides no       limiting principle at all. In any event, the applicable       standard for a stay is simply a ``fair prospect'' of success       on the merits. Conkright, 556 U.S., at 1402 (Ginsburg, J., in       chambers).

As to the third point, the proposed order is insufficient       to avoid irreparable harm. While the D.C. Circuit has       expedited briefing in this case, the court has not ``agreed       to issue       its decision on an expedited basis.'' It remains highly       likely that this Court will not issue a decision until 2018       at the earliest, long after the real-world impacts of the       rule would have been felt in the absence of a stay.

The proposed order forces each state to engage its       regulatory apparatus and expend resources well before that       date, and does nothing to limit the on-going, cumulative, and       irreversible harms that private parties are incurring each       day under the rule. For example, the EPA's models show that       the rule will cause shifts in the nation's power generation       now--a fact supported by the applicants' declarations. See,       e.g., No. 15A778, at 172A.

It does not assuage my concerns to note that if the       applicants lose in the Court of Appeals they ``remain free to       renew their application for a stay'' at that point. I have       little doubt that if the applicants renew their stay request       following the panel's decision, the opposing parties will ask       that we refrain from acting until the conclusion of any en       banc proceedings. And then again while we consider a petition       for certiorari, and then again while we decide the merits of       the case. While each of those discrete periods may only be       ``several months,'' each passing day sees the rule further       entrenched--de facto if not de jure.

The comments of the EPA Administrator herself indicate that       without immediate action from this Court, this rule will       become functionally irreversible--like the ill-fated MATS       rule--before this Court can test its legality. When a BBC       interviewer asked Administrator McCarthy whether the       Administration's climate change policies would persist if a       new President adopted a different view, she responded:

``[O]n issues like the Clean Power Plan, we are, we are       baking that into the system. This is not a policy debate,       this is now a rule that's finalized, and it's [going] be       solid no matter what Congress wants to send. But more       importantly, every state is actively submitting, going to be       submitting their plans. They're working on them now.''       Interview of EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy by BBC World       News America (Dec. 7, 2015).

I am of the mind that a rule designed to transform a       substantial swath of the nation's economy should be tested by       this Court before it is presented as a fait accompli. But it       seems that the EPA is sufficiently confident of this rule's       immediate implications that not even the combined efforts of       Congress and the President could reverse its effects. The       agency, it would seem, has made a compelling case for the       applicants' claims of irreparable harm.            Sincerely,                                                      John Roberts,      Chief Justice.                                   ____            Supreme Court of the United States, Chambers of Justice             Stephen Breyer,                                  Washington, DC, February 5, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I would issue an order in these applications along the       following lines:

Applications for stays having been submitted to The Chief       Justice and by him referred to the Court, the Court denies       the applications with the following qualification: Any State       that, after submitting a request for an extension consistent       with that described on page 59 of the Solicitor General's       Memorandum, does not receive such an extension may renew its       application for a stay with this Court. Any party may renew       its application for stay after the Court of Appeals for the       D.C. Circuit has issued its decision.

I prefer this temporizing order to a grant of these stays       for several reasons.

First, it is unusual for this Court to issue a stay of an       agency's order during the time that the Court of Appeals is       considering its lawfulness.

Second, issuance of the order now may prematurely suggest a       view on the merits of questions that now seem difficult. We       do not yet have the Court of Appeals' view of the matter.

Third, it is difficult at this point to say that the       absence of a stay will cause irreparable harm. With respect       to the private applicants, the order does not require any       company to take action for six years (until 2022). If they       lose in the Court of Appeals, they may ask us for a stay       then. While I concede that advance planning may be necessary,       I do not see how a few extra months will make a significant       difference. With respect to the States, the Solicitor General       points out that, to receive from the EPA a two-year extension       of the current September 2016 deadline (until September       2018), a State need only identify the approaches (if any)       under consideration, describe opportunities (if any) for       public input, and explain why the State requires additional       time. Allowing the EPA to entertain such requests in the       first instance has the virtue of allowing the agency to       proceed with those aspects of the rule that are not       challenged here, as well as giving the EPA the opportunity to       respond to requests for an extended deadline in the first       instance. If the EPA grants the requests, we will have more       than enough time to hear and decide the matter. If the EPA       denies the applicants' requests, they can quickly return to       us.

Moreover, all of the applicants remain free to renew their       applications for a stay when the D.C. Circuit issues its       decision, which it has agreed to do on an expedited basis.            Yours sincerely,      Stephen Breyer.                                   ____           Supreme Court of the United States, Chamber of the Chief             Justice,                                  Washington, DC, February 5, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I have received five emergency applications seeking a stay       of the EPA's Carbon Pollution Emission Guidelines for       Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Generating Units, 80       Fed. Reg. 64,662 (Oct. 23, 2015), also known as the ``Clean       Power Plan.'' Nationwide, by 2030, the rule ``will achieve       CO2 emission reductions from the utility power       sector of approximately 32 percent from CO2       emission levels in 2005.'' Id., at 64,665.

Within two weeks of the rule's publication, 27 states and       several labor unions, businesses and trade associations filed       petitions for review and applications for an immediate stay       from the D.C. Circuit. The D.C. Circuit denied the stay on       January 21, 2016, and the above-captioned applications renew       the request in this Court. On January 27, I requested a       response to No. 15A773, an application filed by 26 states. We       received a response from the Solicitor General yesterday. I       refer the applications to the Conference with my vote to       grant the stay, in order to preserve the status quo pending       judicial review. Absent a stay, the Clean Power Plan will       cause (and is causing) substantial and irreversible       reordering of the domestic power sector before this Court has       an opportunity to review its legality.

A stay is appropriate if there is (1) a ``reasonable       probability'' that four Justices will grant certiorari, (2) a       ``fair prospect'' that a majority of the Court will reverse,       and (3) a likelihood of irreparable harm. Conkright v.       Frommert, 556 U.S. 1401, 1402 (2009) ((Ginsburg, J., in       chambers). In a close case, it may be appropriate to       ``balance the equities.'' Id. See also Nken v. Holder, 556       U.S. 418, 429-430, and n. 1 (2009) (relief hom administrative       action evaluated under stay factors).

I have little doubt that whatever the outcome of the       proceedings in the D.C. Circuit, there will be a petition for       cert. I find it very likely that four members of this Court       will vote to grant the petition, again regardless of the       outcome below.

I also believe that there is a fair prospect for reversal.       The EPA promulgated the rule under Section 111(d) of the       Clean Air Act, which requires ``standards of performance''       for existing utility plants. See 42 U.S.C. Sec. 7411(d)(1)-      (2). The statute defines a ``standard of performance'' as ``a       standard for emissions of air pollutants which reflects the       degree of emission limitation achievable through the       application of the best system of emission reduction.''       Sec. 7411(a)(1). The EPA argues that the ``application of the       best system of emission reduction'' to a coal-fired utility       includes having that utility retire its coal-fired plants and       open (or invest in) natural gas or renewable energy       production.

That interpretation of Sec. 7411 represents a new approach       to the statute. Past rules under Sec. 7411(d) have       contemplated that utilities could comply with the articulated       ``best system of emission reduction'' solely through       installation of control technologies (e.g., scrubbers)--which       seem to fit more comfortably within the statutory phrase. As       we noted two terms ago, agencies will face high hurdles when       they seek to use novel interpretations of a ``long-extant       statute'' to ``bring about an enormous and transformative       expansion in [their] regulatory authority without clear       congressional authorization.'' Utility Air Regulatory Group       v. EPA, 134 S. Ct. 2427, 2444 (2014). The applicants also       raise a strong argument that regulation of power plants under       Sec. 7412 precludes the EPA's promulgation of this rule under       Sec. 7411(d).

The applicants also meet the third criterion for a stay,       irreparable harm. The D.C. Circuit will hold oral argument on       June 2, 2016, so a cert petition is not likely to be       considered by this Court until this winter. Depending on the       timing of the D.C. Circuit's decision--and taking into       account the potential for en banc review--it is possible that       this Court will not rule on the merits until OT2017. Though       the rule does not require emissions reductions until 2022,       its impact is being felt now.

First, under the rule, states have the option to develop       their own suite of state regulations (subject to EPA       approval) to meet the rule's targets. If a state does not       submit a plan or seek a two-year extension by September,       2016, the EPA will impose a federal plan on the state's power       sector. The EPA represents that ``[t]he submission required       by September 2016 to obtain the extension is not       burdensome,'' SG Response at 59, and that extensions are       ``readily obtained,'' id., at 54 but the applicants indicate       that they are currently in the process of committing time and       resources to compliance as the first deadline rapidly       approaches, see No. 15A773, at 41-42.

Second, and more disruptively, the EPA's own models show       that the rule will cause immediate shifts in power       generation, as the       industry must make changes to business plans today to meet       the 2022 requirements. The agency's models show that the       impact of the rule will reduce coal production for power       sector use by 2.0 percent in 2016 and 2017, and by 4.3       percent in 2018. See No. 15A776, at 764A-765A.

That harm, once incurred, is irreversible. Given the long       lead times and high capital expenditures required for the       construction of new plants, once a utility takes steps to       comply with the rule its actions are not likely to be undone.       As the EPA Administrator has stated, the Clean Power Plan is       being ``bak[ed] . . . into the system'' right now. Interview       of EPA Admin. Gina McCarthy by BBC World News America (Dec.       7, 2015). Solar plants are not built in a day.

Past experience makes the case for irreparable harm: On       June 29, 2015, we ruled that the EPA's Mercury and Air Toxics       Standards violated the Clean Air Act. See Michigan v. EPA,       135 S. Ct. 2699. One day later, the EPA announced that it was       ``confident [it was] still on track to reduce'' the targeted       pollutants in part because ``the majority of power plants are       already in compliance or well on their way to compliance.''       Janet McCabe, Acting Asst Admin. for Office of Air and       Radiation, In Perspective: the Supreme Court's Mercury and       Air Toxics Rule Decision. In other words, the absence of a       stay allowed the agency to effectively implement an important       program we held to be contrary to law.

I recommend granting the stay.            Sincerely,                                                      John Roberts,      Chief Justice.                                   ____

Supreme Court of the United States, Chambers of Justice                                                    Elena Kagan,                                   Washington, DC, February 7, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I agree with Steve that we should direct the States to seek       an extension from the EPA before asking this Court to       intervene. We could also include, at the end of such an       order, language along the lines of the following, to       encourage the D.C. Circuit to act expeditiously in its       resolution of this matter: ``In light of that court's       agreement to consider this case on an expedited schedule, we       are confident that it will [or even: we urge it to] render a       decision with appropriate dispatch.'' See Doe. v. Gonzales,       546 U.S. 1301, 1308 (2005) (Ginsburg, J., in chambers); Kemp       v. Smith, 463 U.S. 1344, 1345 (1983) (Powell, J., in       chambers); Holtzman v. Schlesinger, 414 U.S. 1304, 1305, n. 2       (1973) (Marshall, J., in chambers).

The unique nature of the relief sought in these       applications gives me real pause. The applicants ask us to       enjoin a regulation pending initial review in the court of       appeals. As we often say, ``we are a court of review, not of       first view.'' See Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S. 709, 718 n. 7       (2005); cf. Doe, 546 U.S., at 1308 (``Respect for the       assessment of the Court of Appeals is especially warranted       when that court is proceeding to adjudication on the merits       with due expedition.''). As far as I can tell, it would be       unprecedented for us to second-guess the D.C. Circuit's       decision that a stay is not warranted, without the benefit of       full briefing or a prior judicial decision.

On the merits, this is a difficult case involving a complex       statutory and regulatory regime. Although the parties'       abbreviated discussion of the issues at stake here makes it       difficult for me to determine with any confidence which side       is likely to ultimately prevail, it seems to me that at this       stage the government has the better of the arguments. The       Chief's memo focuses on the applicants' argument that the       ``best system of emission reduction'' refers ``solely [to]       installation of control technologies (e.g., scrubbers).'' 2/5       Memo, at 2. The ordinary meaning of ``system'' is in fact       quite broad, appearing to encompass what EPA has done here.       Of course, we would want to consider this term in the larger       context of the Clean Air Act's regulation of stationary       source emissions, and we might well decide to place some       limiting principle on that term. But I think the government       raises strong arguments that the regulation here falls within       a proper construction. Applicants' other statutory challenge,       not discussed in the Chiefs memos, requires us to reconcile       what appear to be two simultaneous and contradictory       amendments to the game statutory provision of a bill.       Applicants' limited submissions at this stage suggest that       the answer to that question will turn on a careful study of       the bill's history and Congress's procedures for codifying       session laws. See No. 15A778, at 13-23. Although those       questions are not easily resolved at this stage, I do note       that the applicants' reading produces a real anomaly: Power       plants producing only nonhazardous emissions would be       regulated under Section 111(d), but if a class of plants       produced any hazardous emissions regulated under Section 112,       that class's emissions of unhazardous emissions would be       wholly unregulable. I find it hard to believe that Congress       intended that outcome.

Further, I agree with Steve that the applicants have failed       to demonstrate the requisite likelihood of irreparable harm.

The State applicants' claim of irreparable harm is based on       their assertion that, absent relief, they will be required to       design and enact regulations to meet the Plan's emissions       targets. As Steve observes, though, a State can obviate those       harms by asking the EPA for a two-year extension of the       September 2016 deadline to submit its plan. I think it wise       to direct the applicants to first seek relief through that       more ordinary route before granting the drastic and unusual       remedy the States seek.

The two-year extension for the States is also likely to       obviate the industry applicants' claims of irreparable harm.       The rule itself imposes no obligations on any regulated       entity--rather, it is the regulations promulgated by the       States that do so. If the States secure extensions until       September 2018, then no State regulations are likely to be       promulgated before that date and, accordingly, no action will       be legally required of the industry applicants.

Moreover, the applicants' assertion that, absent relief,       they will have to begin preparing for those regulations by       taking coal plants out of service or beginning construction       on new, renewable energy plants in the limited time between       now and the issuance of the D.C. Circuit's opinion is both       entirely speculative and highly doubtful. The rule imposes no       requirement that any plant, or class of plant, be shut down.       Nor does it require that any particular type of plant be       constructed. Rather, it requires only that States meet an       overall emissions target--a goal it gives the States       significant discretion to pursue by adopting whatever means       they think best, including the adoption of more effective       scrubber technology, carbon sequestration techniques, or a       cap-and-trade system. I cannot imagine that a regulated       entity would take such extremes measures as shutting down a       coal plant in anticipation of State regulations that, when       promulgated, may not require anything of the sort.

That is especially true because the rule phases in its       requirements over an eight-year period. 80 Fed. Reg. 64786-      64786. While applicants' claims of harm seem to assume that       total compliance is required by 2022, the rule in fact       contemplates only a one percent emissions reduction in that       year. App. to U.S. Memorandum in Opposition 11a. It is       implausible that such a minor emissions reduction to be       achieved six years hence will require substantial and       irrevocable commitments of resources in the coming months. In       any event, under even the most generous reading of the       applications, the applicants' claims of irreparable harm       involve disputed issues of fact ill-suited for resolution by       this Court at this stage.            Sincerely,      Elena Kagan.                                   ____                                                   February 6, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chambers of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I agree with Steve's proposal and Elena's supplement to       that proposal. As Elena notes, it would be unprecedented for       us to grant a stay before any court has reviewed this       complicated and complex case. The statutory questions turn on       the interplay of several provisions of the Clean Air Act. I       agree with Elena that at first glance the government appears       to have the better argument. I do not think that the       Applicants' likelihood of success on the merits is so high as       to justify granting this extraordinary relief. More       importantly, I think our resolution of these issues will be       greatly enhanced by the views of the D.C. Circuit, full       briefing, and our considered, unhurried attention.

Moreover, the factual basis for the Applicants' claim of       irreparable harm seems hotly contested by the Government and       in tension with at least my cursory review of the record. For       example, the Chief's memos note that ``the EPA's own models       show that the rule will cause immediate shifts in power       generation, as the industry must make changes to business       plans today to meet 2022 requirements. The agency's models       show that the impact of the rule will reduce coal production       for power sector use by 2.0 percent in 2016 and 2017, and by       4.3 percent in 2018.'' 2/5 Memo, at 3.

The Government, however, has cautioned that the EPA model       is not intended to predict any immediate changes in power       generation, and that drawing any short-term inferences from       its highly stylized model is fraught with danger. According       to the Government, ``The simplifications and constraints       built into the Model mean that it is not designed to reliably       forecast the Rule's impacts on specific power plants,       particularly in the near-term period at issue here (i.e.,       during the pendency of this litigation).'' SG Br., at 66       (emphasis added). In a declaration an EPA official further       cautions, ``[b]ecause of the inclusion of simplified modeling       assumptions that do not capture all the implementation       flexibilities available to states, near term impacts on the       power sector in the policy case will be overstated.'' SG App.       49a (emphasis added). Indeed, during the notice and comment       period, industry commenters criticized the model for making       predictions about closures in 2016 and 2017 that were       overstated and empirically false. SG Br., at 67-68. To the       contrary, as the SG notes, no applicant has identified a       single real plant--as opposed to a hypothetical ``model       plant''--that is in immediate danger of closure absent a       stay. Id., at 65.

The Government takes the position that, in the short-term,       any plant closures are likely driven by long-term economic       trends towards gas-fired and renewable generation. Id., at       64. Similarly, the EPA noted in the preamble to the final       rule that its expected impact of the rule ``is fully       consistent with the recent changes and current trends in       electricity generation, and as a result it would by no means       entail fundamental redirection of the energy sector.'' 80       Fed. Reg. at 64,785

Similarly, the Chief's memo notes that the rule ``has been       described as the most expensive regulation ever imposed on       the power sector--net costs have been estimated to run as       high as $480 billion from 2017-2031.'' 2/6 Memo, at 1. That       is one view--a likely biased view, as the Chief's memo       recognizes.

The EPA's analysis of the economic costs, however, is       significantly lower. According to the EPA's Regulatory Impact       Analysis, which is specifically ``designed to assess the       overall impacts of the Rule on the energy sector and the       economy,'' the rule is estimated to reach an annual cost of       between $1-3 billion in 2025, and $5.1-8.4 billion in 2030.       SG App. 35a-37a. The cost ranges will firm up depending on       which plans states use--which, of course, underscores the       uncertainty of the impact of the rule on any particular       entity. Notably, the EPA takes the position that ``these       costs are in line with, and in some cases less than, the       costs of other CAA rules for power plants.'' App. 36a-37a       (emphasis added) (comparing with various programs).

Given these--and many other--unresolved factual disputes       and uncertainties, I fail to see how the Applicants have       shown an immediate risk of irreparable harm that justifies an       emergency stay on limited briefing before the D.C. Circuit       will hear argument on this regulation in just four months. I       think our review will be greatly aided by the views of that       court. As Steve notes, if states do not receive the two-year       extensions the Government represents they can easily obtain,       this Court would still be in a position to grant any       appropriate relief six years before any legal requirement       will be imposed on a regulated entity. I vote to deny the       applications for a stay.            Sincerely,      Sonia Sotomayor.                                   ____           Supreme Court of the United States, Chambers of Justice             Samuel A. Alito, Jr.,                                  Washington, DC, February 7, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

I agree entirely with the Chief's most recent memorandum       and continue to believe strongly that a stay is warranted. In       my view, the applicants are very likely to succeed on the       merits of their claim.

I also agree with the Chief that the irreparable harm the       applicants face is immediate and significant. Any suggestion       to the contrary is inconsistent with the EPA's own Integrated       Planning Model (the economic model underlying the EPA's       Regulatory Impact Analysis of the rule), which explicitly       anticipates the rule will begin to reorder the domestic power       industry in 2016 (not 2022). The IPM model projects that the       country's composition of power generation will change in       2016, including through the closure of coal-fired plants. For       example, the EPA predicts that, in 2016 alone, the CPP will       cause the power sector to lose 5.1% of its coal-fired       generation capacity. See No. 15A776, at 765a (projecting, in       2016, 203 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity with the CPP,       compared with 214 gigawatts absent the CPP).

Sonia and the SG note that the EPA's model includes       simplifying assumptions. Certainly that's true of this model,       as it is of all models. Perhaps the model overstates (as the       SG contends is a possibility) or understates (as the industry       applicants contend) the current impacts of the rule. But it       is indisputable that the Agency's own model tells us to       expect a substantial shift in power generation right now       because of the rule. We should hold the EPA to its own best       analysis of when the ``generation shifting'' its rule       requires will begin. Surely the EPA may not rely on this       model to justify the cost-benefit analysis of its regulation,       but then disavow it as too ``uncertain'' on the question of       harm.

And this harm, once incurred, is by nature irreparable.       Coal plants are not shuttered--nor solar plants purchased--at       the drop of a hat. Of course, the Administrator knows this,       which is why she effectively implied that, if the rule is       allowed to continue in force, judicial review will be beside       the point. That leads me to what is, in my view, the most       pressing reason to grant a stay. A failure to stay this rule       threatens to render our ability to provide meaningful       judicial review--and by extension, our institutional       legitimacy--a nullity. Whether the Clean Air Act gives the       EPA the transformative authority it claims here is an       important question. If we fail to stay the rule and maintain       the status quo, our resolution of the merits will not matter       because the regulated parties will have complied. Instead of       robust judicial review, our opinion will be a mere       postscript.            Sincerely,      Samuel A. Alito, Jr.                                   ____

Supreme Court of the United States, Chambers of Justice                                             Anthony M. Kennedy,                                   Washington, DC, February 9, 2016.       Re 15A773--West Virginia, et al. v. EPA, et al.; 15A776--          Basin Elec. Power Cooperative, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A787--Chamber of Commerce, et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A778--Murray Energy Corp., et al. v. EPA, et al.;           15A793--North Dakota v. EPA, et al.                        Memorandum to the Conference

The memoranda from the Conference have been very helpful.       In my view, a stay would be granted in four to six months in       any event, and fairness to the parties counsels that we       should grant it now. Therefore, I agree with the       recommendation of the Chief that the stay applications be       granted.            Sincerely,                                                Anthony M. Kennedy.