Energy Costs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699019/energy-costs


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Might the Senator be willing to retain the floor for  a moment to yield for a question?

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. In Rhode Island, we have a grid. ISO New England it  is called. It is through that grid that electrons get from powerplant  to the grid and from the grid to people's homes, and it is run as a  basically common utility.

I assume Hawaii, which is geographically quite distinct, has its own  grid.

So on our grid, this Revolution Wind project, as I said, is going to  come on at 9 cents per kilowatt hour into a market where the prevailing  rate is 18 cents. So if President Trump and his minions at Interior and  EPW and Energy can stop that plant, they are making Rhode Islanders,  New Englanders, buy 18-cent power instead of 9-cent power. So that  raises the price for everybody.

By the way, for those of you who are listening, the ISO grid, like  almost all the others--the price at any given minute on the grid for  electricity is set by the highest cost plant that has to operate to  meet that level of demand. So if you can get that 9-cent cost to be the  highest cost, that is it for everybody, but if you got to go back to  18, that is also it for everybody. That plant just doesn't raise costs  to pay itself back; it raises grid costs for every electron that is  running at that same time.

So what that produces is, sticking with the 9- and 18-cent example,  the 18-cent cost comes out of ratepayers' pockets. They have to pay  their electric bill at 18 cents. They could have paid only 9 cents;  instead, they are going to pay 18. The difference is going to go to the  fossil fuel industry, to the big donors of Trump.

I call this a scam that Trump and his minions, for their big fossil  fuel donors, are deliberately holding clean energy off the grid, which  is cheaper, so that the grid can't go to it, has to go to higher and  higher cost fossil fuel plants, so consumer costs go up. But that  additional money that consumers have to pay goes to the fossil fuel  industry, which gave him hundreds of millions of dollars to be elected,  and this is payback for them.

Only Trump is no fool. Why pay it back himself or ask his political  supporters to pay it back when he can go to electric consumers and bury  it in their bill and make consumers pay to send hundreds of millions of  dollars to these big donors.

So that is what we see in New England.

On the Hawaii grid, how does this work also?