Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I come to the floor with a bunch of  thank-yous after Thursday evening's happy news that Save Our Seas 2.0  passed the U.S. Senate by unanimous consent. 

  I thank all of the Senate Members of our bipartisan Oceans Caucus.  The Oceans Caucus has been a really good forum for getting these bills  moving to a point at which they can pass by unanimous consent. I and  Senator Murkowski, who is Senator Sullivan's colleague from Alaska, set  it up years ago. It now has over 40 Members. It is very bipartisan, and  it has had a really important role in moving bipartisan oceans  legislation. 

  So, Oceans Caucus, thank you. 

  This bill, Save Our Seas 2.0, had to go through three committees. It  had to go through Commerce, Foreign Relations, and Environment and  Public Works. Let me start in reverse order because Senator Barrasso,  the chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works, is here  on the Senate floor. I express my appreciation to him and my  appreciation to our ranking member, Senator Carper, for having  shepherded this through the committee with unanimous committee support,  and that gave it a lot of momentum to go on to Foreign Relations and to  Commerce. 

  So, my friend Senator Barrasso, thank you, sir. I do appreciate it  very much. I think this is a score, a good win. A good deed was done  here. 

  Foreign Relations was also very important, and Senator Menendez, our  ranking member, is about to speak, so I will not steal his thunder. He  has been an incredibly valuable part of this triumvirate, and I am  extremely grateful to Senator Menendez. 

  Also, on the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation,  Senators Wicker and Cantwell were very helpful about making sure this  got through Commerce and were helpful once it was on the floor. 

  Most of all, though, my thanks go to Senator Sullivan, of Alaska. We  started down this road quite some time ago. We tentatively got into the  space of ocean plastic waste with a simple hearing in the Committee on  Environment and Public Works. He had an essential role in making that  happen because there was a turf conflict between our subcommittee and  the EPW and the Subcommittee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather  within the Commerce Committee. 

  Now, if you are not from the Senate, you think that this is all crazy  talk, but if you are in the Senate, it is a really serious problem to  have to resolve. We had the very good fortune of having the chairman of  the Fisheries Subcommittee of the Commerce Committee and the chairman  of our subcommittee of the Environment and Public Works Committee being  the same individual, none other than Senator Dan Sullivan. So he went  out and had a nice debate with himself and was able to negotiate a  happy resolution of that turf dispute, and the hearing went forward.  Without that, it never would have happened. So that was the opening  bid. 

  Then we got to 1.0, which, admittedly, was not a very big bill, but  it was going to test the proposition: Was the Senate willing to  legislate on marine plastic waste? Yes. We got a big, booming, 100-vote  support for that in the Senate. Senator Sullivan was so happy with that  outcome that we immediately went to work on crafting 2.0, which, as  Senator Sullivan has pointed out, is not just a beachhead but is  significant marine plastic waste legislation. It will push the  administration to do a lot more, for more than half of the waste in the  oceans comes from 5 Asian countries, and more than 80 percent of the  waste in the oceans comes from 10 rivers in Asia and Africa. This is a  solvable problem if we direct attention and resources and solutions to  that problem, and I am really looking forward to following up on that. 

  I am really looking forward to getting right to work on Save Our Seas  3.0 because we are not done here. There is a lot of plastic mess out  there to clean up, and there is a lot of energy around getting even  more done. 

  So, Senator Sullivan, you have my great appreciation. 

  I will close, if I may, with one unlikely thank-you. As Senator  Sullivan mentioned, this reminded me that there are Senators who  supported this who don't even have coasts. They are from those square  end States in the middle of the country that don't have coasts. One of  them who has been very important to this has been Senator Inhofe, of  Oklahoma. 

  Now, on climate change, Senator Inhofe and I are at each other's  throats pretty much all of the time. We are always having fights about  climate change. I call him a climate denier, and he calls me a climate  alarmist. We go back and forth, fighting about climate change. Yet, on  this, he has been an essential ally, and having his support has sent, I  think, a terrific signal to the Senate that, hey, if Senator Whitehouse  and Senator Inhofe can agree on this, there is room for me in there  somewhere. 

  And so a final thank you to Senator Inhofe of Oklahoma, but the  biggest thank you, of course, is to Senator Sullivan, who really made  this happen. 

  With that, I yield to my colleague and friend Senator Menendez, who  has been so important to this, so he can add his thoughts. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I am delighted to close this out.  Again, I thank Senator Sullivan. I think there is reason to hope for a  really good appropriations subcommittee hearing on this subject in the  coming year. I think there is reason to hope for another Environmental  and Public Works Committee full committee hearing on marine plastics. I  expect those things will happen, and that will help us with our  progress. 

  One of the things I have come to admire about Senator Sullivan is  that, as a colonel in the U.S. Marines, he sets himself a mission and  then he goes about it with real vigor. One of the missions that he set  himself was to make sure that the Trump administration followed up on  what Save Our Seas 1.0 did. 

  There were a lot of doors that were knocked on that had their hinges  rattled by Senator Sullivan. There are a lot of administration  officials who probably had to hold the phone an inch or so away from  their ears because Senator Sullivan was trying to get their attention  on this subject. 

  Having seen him in action on Save Our Seas 1.0, I very much look  forward to watching him in action on Save Our Seas 2.0 and to make sure  that its legislative promise is fully realized in executive  implementation. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, on to Save Our Seas 3.0. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT