Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act--


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I join the ranking member of the Rules  Committee with a parliamentary inquiry of my own.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, is it true that unless a piece of  legislation is privileged under a rule or a statutory provision or is  the subject of a unanimous consent agreement, motions to proceed to  that legislation are generally fully debatable?

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. That is correct. And for those of you following this  at home, ``fully debatable'' means 60 votes are required to end debate,  which Republicans do not have.                            Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. President, I have a further parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Is it commonplace for Senate offices and for  whichever Senator is presiding over the Senate to consult with the  Parliamentarian to determine whether and in what manner expedited  procedures apply under a host of statutes, including the War Powers  Act, the National Emergencies Act, the Congressional Budget Act, and  the Congressional Review Act?

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Again, for those of you following this at home, that  means that this is the commonplace way in which the Senate operates and  when it becomes the Parliamentarian's call on a matter and not anyone  else's call.

So in the Congressional Review Act matter before us, here is what  happened: Both sides drafted written memoranda to the Parliamentarian.  Both sides presented oral arguments to the Parliamentarian. The  Parliamentarian asked questions of both sides, and the Parliamentarian,  our neutral referee, reached a decision.

That all took place here in the Senate--actually, over there in the  L.B.J. Room. The GAO was not even in the room when the arguments were  made. And that decision, the decision of the Parliamentarian, is what  is now at hand in what is about to happen here in the Senate.

And with that, let me note the presence on the floor of the  Democratic leader and yield the floor.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, let me start with just a quick  overview of the Congressional Review Act which brings us here to the  floor today.

Under the American legal system, administrative Agencies can make  rules, and there is a very robust process for doing so. The Agency  often gives a notice of proposed rulemaking so the world will know what  they are considering doing and then solicit comment from affected  stakeholders, the public, a wide variety of people.

So you start with an Agency that seeks to make a rule. They have to  follow the processes of the Administrative Procedures Act, which is a  very careful statute, well-policed by the courts, with a very robust  precedent around that. And at the end of the day, the Agency creates a  rule, and they adopt the rule.

Now, you could always appeal that rule to a court, but what Congress  decided many years ago was that in that situation where an Agency had  gone through the APA process and had promulgated a rule, that there  would also be a congressional review of that rule, not just a court.

And the filing of the rule here in Congress triggers a period of  review in which Senators or Members of the House can call up the  Congressional Review Act and seek to disapprove the rule.

So this whole thing was originally designed and--for all the decades  since the Congressional Review Act was first passed--has always been to  address Agency rulemaking under the Administrative Procedures Act.

Well, the fossil fuel industry pretty much runs the Republican Party  here in Washington. And for a long time, it has objected to California  having clean air standards that many States, including my State,  voluntarily follow because it is good for the health of our people to  have clean air; it is good to have less smokestack emissions, less  exhaust emissions.

But it means less gas sales for the fossil fuel industry. Efficient  cars may mean lower costs for consumers, but those lower costs for  consumers are lower sales for the fossil fuel industry.

So the majority here has decided to jump outside that tradition that  it takes a rule developed by an Agency to kick off the Congressional  Review Act.

In this case, again, for decades, pursuant to a statute, California  has had the right to set emissions standards, and it was never done by  rule; it was always done by an Executive action--in this case, called a  waiver. And what is now being done is a real violence to that distinct  and clear process.

This breaks the Congressional Review Act in at least three ways:  First, it breaks the time limits of the Congressional Review Act.  Again, in the ordinary course, a rulemaking goes through its ordinary  process under the APA; and when it is done, it then comes here to the  Senate, and we have got a short period of time in which to make a  determination whether to try to disapprove it or not.

Under the proposal that is threatened here, you will be able to take  any Executive decision in decades and simply by dropping it into the  Federal Register, making that submission, and sending it to Congress,  let the majority party say: OK, we are going to overrule that. Not a  rulemaking, nothing done under the Administrative Procedures Act, just  an Executive decision. So the window back in time outside of the  ordinary 60 days is the first thing that they broke.

The second thing that they break is that it has to be a rule. Like I  said, pretty much any Executive action could be plowed through the  process that is being created here. And so however settled the reliance  on a particular permit or a particular license or a particular  Executive decision from years ago, it is all up for grabs under this.

And the third, of course--other than breaking open the time horizon  of the Congressional Review Act and breaking open the subject matter  horizon of the Congressional Review Act--is to clear out the police of  the Congressional Review Act, and that is the Parliamentarian, who made  what, in my view, was not a difficult decision, to say: This is not a  rule, never was a rule. Year after year, administration after  administration, Congress after Congress, California has used this  waiver, and it was never a rule. And now, the Parliamentarian's plain,  clear, obvious decision that this was not and is not and never was a  rule is what they are planning to overturn.

So you are breaking open the time horizon; you are breaking open the  subject matter boundary; and you are knocking out the neutral police  officer who is supposed to keep us living by the rules. This does not  end well.

By the way, I have heard it said that the argument from the other  side is going to be they are not overruling the Parliamentarian; they  are overruling the Government Accountability Office. Well, if that is  what they wanted to do, there are ways to do that. If the Government  Accountability Office says that the law says a certain thing and we  disagree, we can go back and change that law. We can amend it so that  it is clear what it is that we want the law to say and correct the GAO  decision that way. We can pass a joint resolution that does the same  thing. We could even pass a simple Senate resolution.

But guess what. All of those things are fully debatable. And as I  said earlier, ``fully debatable'' means what? It means 60 votes to end  debate, meaning that the minority party gets a vote, gets  consideration.

They don't want that. They want to ram this thing through for their  fossil fuel donors. Period. End of story. They don't care what they  break. But, please, don't pretend that you are overruling GAO.

My team, along with Senator Padilla's team, was in the L.B.J. Room  making those arguments to the Parliamentarian. There was robust debate.  We filed briefs. Questions were asked. The whole thing was a very  vigorous contest, and she ruled--and she ruled.

And GAO was not even in the room. That stage was long since passed.

The reason we are here is to overrule the Parliamentarian. The reason  for overruling the Parliamentarian is to get a simple majority to get  around this.

There are other ways this could have been done too. EPA didn't have  to do it this way. EPA could have gone through the Administrative  Procedures Act and done a proper rulemaking. We could have amended the  Clean Air Act and had a proper debate about this on the Senate floor.  EPA would have followed regular Administrative Procedures Act order.  The debate about the Clean Air Act would have followed regular Senate  order. But no.

Or the fossil fuel industry could have gone to California and said:  Hey, things have changed a little bit. We would like to figure out a  way to work with you. You change your rule. They are the real principal  party here; Rhode Island follows the California standard. They could  have gone and negotiated with the sovereign State of California instead  of coming here to just roll the State using a sneaky parliamentary  maneuver and choosing to go nuclear to do that.

So this is not a great day in the history of the Senate. We are  opening up a Pandora's box of multiple abuses, and let me just point  out that there actually are a lot of legitimate CRA, Congressional  Review Act, targets out there--many dozens of decisions that have been  made in this Congress that lend themselves to a proper use of the  Congressional Review Act.

And, guess what, it takes 30 signatures to bring one of those up. The  minority can do that.

So if the majority wants to start playing CRA games, well, even under  existing CRAs, where we don't need a 51-vote majority, we can start  bringing up CRAs of our own, expedite them to the floor, have vote  after vote after vote after vote after vote.

There are ways in which we can respond. I intend to work with my  leadership to make sure what the best way is but don't think that this  nuclear option gets deployed here, gets deployed for the fossil fuel  industry, gets deployed against a sovereign State, and gets deployed to  make air dirtier and water dirtier, and we just walk away as if nothing  happened. That is not what will follow.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I join my senior Senator today to  honor our friend Dominick Ruggerio, who was both president and the dean  of the Rhode Island Senate.

President Ruggerio, who passed away last month, was affectionately  known as ``Donny.'' He leaves behind his children Amanda and Charles  and four beloved grandchildren.

Donny was a graduate of two great Rhode Island institutions--La Salle  Academy and Providence College. At La Salle, Senator Reed was his  schoolmate and teammate on the football team.

After finishing college, Donny served as a policy aide for former  Lieutenant Governor Tom DiLuglio, who was a Rhode Island classic in his  own right. Donny went on to spend many years with Laborers' Local Union  271, serving in multiple leadership roles.

Donny's career in public service continued when he was elected to the  Rhode Island House of Representatives, in 1981, where he stayed for a  few years until making the jump to the Rhode Island Senate, in 1984,  where then-State Senator Jack Reed was again his teammate in the State  senate.

The senate was Donny's home. For over four decades, he was the  champion for the residents of District 4, which includes parts of North  Providence and Providence. After holding several leadership positions  in the senate, he was elected by his peers to serve as Rhode Island's  senate president in 2017. His legacy at the statehouse will be defined  by his decades of forceful advocacy for working people and his  practical, highly effective style of legislating.

He never forgot his background as a laborer and never stopped working  to create opportunities for working men and women. To that end, he  fought for a higher minimum wage and for specific projects that would  create union, family-supporting jobs. He also led the charge to  eliminate lead pipes, making our tap water safer to drink for Rhode  Islanders.

Among his many accomplishments was his work to address the State's  opioid crisis. He created a fund to support statewide opioid treatment,  recovery, prevention, and education programs and shaped a law to ensure  that filling a prescription for lifesaving anti-overdose medication  would not create a barrier for Rhode Islanders getting life insurance.

I am grateful, in particular, for Donny's leadership on climate. He  sponsored legislation that put Rhode Island on a path to 100 percent  renewable energy by 2033. When that legislation was signed into law, it  was the most aggressive statewide energy standard anywhere in the  country.

Donny was beloved by his lifelong North Providence community, and he  was always a pleasure to work with. In a profession that is not always  gentlemanly, he was always a gentleman. He  took pride in the senate being a place where people had, as he would  say, always been able to disagree without being disagreeable.

So I thank Senate President Ruggerio for his dedicated and successful  service to our State. I offer my condolences to his family. We will  miss him.