Letter to Michael Hennigan, President and Chief Executive Officer of Marathon Petroleum Corporation - Maloney, Rouda, Tlaib, and Whitehouse Probe Industry Influence Over EPA


Dear Mr. Hennigan:We are seeking information and documents regarding your company's involvement in theTrump Administration's efforts to degrade emissions standards for cars and light trucks and torevoke California's waiver under the Clean Air Act, which allows the state to set its own moreprotective emissions standards.Based on testimony before the Subcommittee on Environment and comments filed inresponse to the Administration's recent regulatory proposal, it appears that the oil industry--andMarathon in particular--are driving forces behind the Trump Administration's decision toweaken tailpipe emissions standards for cars and light trucks.We are concerned that the Safer Affordable Fuel Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule, arollback of the Obama Administration's "clean cars rule," reflects the undue influence of thefossil fuel industry over the rulemaking process and raises serious questions about whether theTrump Administration is endangering the health and safety of the American people for the sakeof higher profits for oil companies.In addition, given the large number of tax exempt, non-profit organizations that appear tohave been activated in support of the oil industry's campaign to weaken emissions standards, wehave questions about the relationship between industry and these organizations, as well aswhether their operations are consistent with their tax exempt status.Background on Tailpipe Emissions StandardsIn 2012, the Obama Administration established a unified federal Corporate Average FuelEconomy (CAFE) and greenhouse gas emissions standard for light-duty vehicles.1 This actionwas the result of extensive negotiations among the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), theNational Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), the California Air Resources Board(CARB), and the auto industry.2The standard was projected to increase average fuel efficiency to 54.5 miles per gallon by2025, cut carbon pollution from cars and light trucks in half by 2025, and save Americanfamilies more than $1.7 trillion in fuel costs, or $8,000 per vehicle by model year 2025.3 InJanuary 2017, as part of a planned midterm review of the standard, EPA issued its FinalDetermination upholding the clean cars rule.4However, in March 2017, soon after President Trump took office, EPA and theDepartment of Transportation (DOT) announced their intent to review the Final Determination.5

In April 2018, EPA provided notice that that it was withdrawing the previous FinalDetermination, stating that the standards were based on "outdated information" and announcedEPA and NHTSA would be initiating a notice and comment period to further consider"appropriate" standards.6

In August 2018, the Trump Administration issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking forthe SAFE Vehicles rule, which would freeze Obama-era car emissions standards at 2020 levels.7EPAS's own Scientific Advisory Board found "significant weaknesses in the analysis supportingthe 2018 notice of proposed rulemaking."

In September 2019, EPA announced its plans to revoke California's Clean Air Actwaiver, which has enabled California to set more protective vehicle pollution standards than thefederal government for almost 50 years.9 This waiver has never been revoked.10Last month, in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, the Trump Administrationannounced the final SAFE Vehicles rule, which was changed from a proposed freeze onstandards to an "increase [in]carbon dioxide emissions standards for the nation's automakers by1.5% a year." These standards have been critiqued by experts as relying on "cherry-pick[ed]numbers" and "messy" modeling.11Reports of Oil Industry InfluenceSince the Trump Administration announced its decision to reverse the ObamaAdministration's rule, evidence gathered by Congressional investigators and journalists hasrevealed that fossil fuel companies, as well as non-profit organizations with longstandingfinancial ties to the oil industry, engaged in "an aggressive, multi-faceted campaign to get theTrump Administration to weaken the standards."12The oil industry has a powerful incentive to weaken tailpipe emissions standards. AsSenator Whitehouse testified during the Subcommittee's hearing on October 29, 2019:While the fuel economy standards would have little effect on the number of cars sold,they would affect the amount of gasoline sold. That $1.7 trillion saved by consumers islost oil industry revenue.13Senator Whitehouse's testimony has been partially confirmed by the statements of GaryR. Heminger, who at the time served as President and Chief Executive Officer for Marathon.Mr. Heminger reportedly informed investors that the Trump Administration's proposed freezewould reap an extra "350,000 to 400,000 barrels of gasoline per day" for the oil industry.In addition, the New York Times reported that Marathon "worked with powerful oilindustry groups and a conservative policy network financed by the billionaire industrialistCharles G. Koch to run a stealth campaign to roll back car emissions standards."15One of these Koch-backed groups, Americans for Prosperity, launched a nationalcampaign urging consumers to support weakening tailpipe emissions standards.16 AnotherKoch-backed organization, the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), worked withMarathon to lobby state legislators with a model resolution in favor of weakening the standardsand eliminating California's ability to set its own standards.17Almost two dozen groups, most incorporated as non-profit organizations under section501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, wrote multiple letters urging Trump Administrationofficials, including President Trump, to weaken emissions standards or revoke California'sauthority under the Clean Air Act to set its own standards.18 While many of these groups do notdisclose their donors, all have received oil industry funding, including from Marathon, areassociated with the Koch network, or both.19In addition, reports filed in 2017 and 2018 pursuant to the Lobbying Disclosure Act showthat Marathon--along with oil refiners Valero Energy Corporation and Andeavor, which waslater acquired by Marathon--lobbied on the standards.The calendars of former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and former AssistantAdministrator for the Office of Air and Radiation William Wehrum show that, throughout 2017,both Mr. Pruitt and Mr. Wehrum met with multiple representatives from oil companies,including Marathon, ExxonMobil, British Petroleum, Chevron, and Royal Dutch Shell.21Marathon also lobbied Congress to weaken the standards. Congressional investigatorsobtained a copy of a draft letter to then-Deputy Administrator of NHTSA Heidi King, which wasdrafted by a Marathon in-house lobbyist. Throughout the summer of 2018, members of theIndiana, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania congressional delegations sent letters to Ms. Kingmimicking the language of the Marathon draft letter by 37 percent, 40 percent and 80 percent,respectively.22American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM), an oil industry tradeassociation of which Marathon is a member, pursued a similar strategy, planting arguments withRepublican governors to undermine the clean cars rule.23 AFPM ran a campaign on Facebook togenerate support for the Trump Administration's proposed rollback of the standards.Request for Information and DocumentsFor the reasons above, we request that you provide us with the following information byJune 11, 2020:1. All documents and communications, including emails, phone logs, and calendarentries, from January 2017 to the present regarding any interaction between anyMarathon employee, lobbyist, or representative and EPA relating to tailpipeemissions standards;2. All documents and communications, including emails, phone logs, and calendarentries, from January 2017 to the present regarding any interaction between anyMarathon employee, lobbyist, or representative and DOT or NHTSA relating totailpipe emissions standards;3. All documents and communications, including emails, phone logs, and calendarentries from January 2017 to the present regarding any interaction between anyMarathon employee, lobbyist, or representative and the following associationsand groups:a. AFPM;b. Koch Industries;c. ALEC;d. American Consumer Institute;e. Less Government;f. Taxpayers Protection Alliance;g. Consumer Action for a Strong Economy;h. American Commitment;i. FreedomWorks;j. Competitive Enterprise Institute;k. Americans for Tax Reform;l. 60 Plus Association;m. Frontiers of Freedom;n. Center for Freedom and Prosperity;o. American Energy Alliance;p. Heritage Action;q. Americans for Limited Government;r. Americans for Prosperity;s. Rhode Island Center for Freedom and Prosperity;t. James Madison Institute;u. Rio Grande Foundation;v. Caesar Rodney Institute; andw. Institute for Energy Research; and4. An itemized list of all donations and other financial assistance Marathon hasprovided since January 1, 2014, to:a. AFPM;b. ALEC;c. DonorsTrust,d. Donors Capital Fund;e. American Consumer Institute,f. Less Government,g. Taxpayers Protection Alliance,h. Consumer Action for a Strong Economy,i. American Commitment,j. FreedomWorks,k. Competitive Enterprise Institute,l. Americans for Tax Reform,m. 60 Plus Association,n. Frontiers of Freedom,o. Center for Freedom and Prosperity,p. American Energy Alliance,q. Heritage Action,r. Americans for Limited Government,s. Americans for Prosperity,t. Rhode Island Center for Freedom and Prosperity,u. James Madison Institute,v. Rio Grande Foundation,w. Caesar Rodney Institute, andx. Institute for Energy Research; and5. A complete list of all meetings from January 2017 to the present between anyMarathon employee, lobbyist, or representative and the following officials:a. President Donald Trump;b. Vice President Mike Pence;c. Former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt;d. Former EPA Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and RadiationWilliam Wehrum;e. EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler;f. Former NHTSA Acting Administrator Heidi King;g. Former NHTSA Acting Administrator and Executive Director JackDanielson;h. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao; andi. Former Deputy Secretary of Transportation Jeffrey Rosen.The Committee on Oversight and Reform is the principal oversight committee of theHouse of Representatives and has broad authority to investigate "any matter" at "any time" underHouse Rule X. An attachment to this letter provides additional instructions for responding to theSubcommittee's request. If you have any questions regarding this request, please contactSubcommittee staff at (202) 225-5051.