Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


Mr. WHITEHOUSE.  290,  S.J. Res. 86.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, coal is America's dirtiest energy  source. Coal pollution from powerplants befouls our air, pollutes our  water, and leaches into our food. Coal pollution causes acid rain. Coal  pollution causes severe health issues, even death.

Between 1990 and 2020, pollution from coal-fired powerplants killed  460,000 Americans--23,000 deaths per year on average. Despite how  massive that death toll is, the trend has been in a good direction.  Coal plant-caused death rates have decreased in the last 15 years as  more and more coal plants have either shut down in favor of cleaner and  cheaper energy sources or--often in answer to Clean Air Act programs-- adopted broadly available pollution reduction technologies which  significantly reduce but do not eliminate the health-harming emissions  and pollution.

One such Clean Air Act program, the Regional Haze Program, addresses  haze and visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas.  Unsurprisingly, coal plants are the Nation's most significant source of  haze. The same coal pollutants that drive severe health issues and  deaths nationwide, including particulate matter, nitrogen oxides,  sulfur dioxide, and volatile organic compounds, also drive haze  formation. Haze is a pollution marker. The Clean Air Act's regional  haze provision requires States to reduce emissions from haze-causing  sources through controls or retirements where necessary to make  reasonable progress toward natural visibility conditions.

The EPA provides guidance regulations that help States develop  appropriate regional haze plans which are due every 10 to 15 years. The  Clean Air Act presumes that additional controls or retirements will be  necessary for reasonable progress. They are thus required each time new  haze plans are due unless the State can demonstrate that no action  would be the reasonable course.

South Dakota took no action in its latest regional haze plan to  address haze pollution over the long term. It made no updates to  significantly out-of-date controls at its three major emitters--a coal  plant, a cement plant, and a lime plant--and it failed to demonstrate  that that inaction was reasonable. The Trump EPA approved the plan  anyway.

The resulting pollution will blow downwind toward Midwestern and  Eastern States. The EPA's approval puts forward a reading of the Clean  Air Act that is blatantly at odds with the text, the context, and the  purpose of the act, and that encourages the spread of harm to the  downwind States from these polluting plants. Well, there is something  we can do about it here.

In 1996, Congress enacted the Congressional Review Act to give  Congress the opportunity to vote on administrative regulations. During  the Biden administration, Republicans in the Senate forced 35 rollcall  votes to try to kill rules that sought to protect consumers' public  health and public lands--35 to 0. It was an astonishing record. Now  that the Trump administration is in power, it has engaged at breakneck  speed to tear down the protections of Americans' health and safety and  our environment.

I know it is an uphill struggle in our polluter-funded Congress and  particularly with this polluter-controlled Trump administration, but I  nevertheless urge support for this commonsense Congressional Review Act  resolution and hope that we can make it a brighter day as well as a  clearer day for the downwind States.