Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689472/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I am here in support of Senator  Kaine's effort to get this body to take a public view on President  Trump's mad declaration that we have a border emergency with Canada  happening right now.

I can tell you that if I go home to Rhode Island and ask people what  the emergency is in their lives, I wouldn't get one person who said:  Oh, we have got a real emergency with Canada. They are a huge threat.  That whole Canada situation, boy, that is dangerous.

This is nutty stuff, and it is dangerous stuff economically. Just in  Rhode Island, Canada is our largest international trading partner.  Twenty-two percent of Rhode Island's exports are to Canada, and we  import from Canada as well. And when the tariffs get reciprocated by  our Canadian friends after this ridiculous behavior from President  Trump, then that is going to affect all Rhode Islanders.

We buy a lot of energy, for instance, from Canada, and that is going  to raise costs for Rhode Island families. It is a direct hit to  people's pocketbooks. And as has been pointed out, this is just a shady  way to hit Americans in the pocketbook, to raise revenue so that this  phony-baloney budget resolution we are about to have to deal with can  open up revenues that they can then use as a justification for lowering  taxes for the billionaires and the big corporations who already pay way  too little in taxes.

Some billionaires pay no income taxes at all. The corporate share of  America's revenue has gone from about 30 percent of America's revenue  down to single digits. That is just a huge sucking sound pulling out of  America's revenue the revenue of the corporate entities, and it is not  the mom-and-pop flower store. It is the huge multinational that goes  and pretends that it is doing its business in Ireland or the Cayman  Islands or someplace and hides profits.

This is a tax racket against the American people that is now being  propped up and made worse by a tariff racket against the American  people. And the excuse is one of the dumbest ones ever: that the  emergency is fentanyl.

Well, Rhode Island was at the heart of the opioid epidemic. That is  why I worked with Senator Portman to pass the CARA bill, the biggest  addiction recovery response bill this body has ever passed. I take this  issue deadly seriously--not the President. Not the President.

Mr. President, 0.2 percent of the fentanyl in America comes across  the enormous Canadian border. If you did it like per mile of the  American border, it would be immeasurably small. And over this fake  excuse that there is a huge fentanyl problem, 0.2 percent, they are  going to dump enormous new expenses on American families.

People have called this a sales tax, and it kind of is because what  it does is it raises prices. It raises prices because the money that  the Federal Government takes in has to be recovered, and it gets  recovered from families, from people who are paying higher prices for  imported goods or higher prices for the domestic freeloaders who are  going to raise their prices to match the imported goods just the way  the fossil fuel industry raised their prices to match the foreign  prices of fuel after the Ukraine invasion and so gorged themselves that  they made the biggest profits off the American people in the history of  corporations.

It was the biggest gouge ever by the scoundrels of the fossil fuel  industry, and now we are opening the door for this to happen across all  industries.

American families are going to be hurt, and they are going to be hurt  hard. And it just puts revenues on the books that the Republicans can  then use to go and do what they really want to do here, which is to  make sure that all their billionaire cronies, everybody who is  surrounding Trump, all the pals in the Cabinet, and all the ones who  write the big checks to the super-PACs and who fund Republican  politicians don't have to pay taxes anymore.

It is ``Leona Helmsley Day'' here in the Senate. Taxes are just for  the little people. This is a disgrace, and I hope there will be a few  voices on the Republican side to recognize that considering the  Canadian border to be an emergency is preposterous.