Unanimous Consent Request--S. Res. 550


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698993/unanimous-consent-request-s-res-550


Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, the world is undeniably round; water  undeniably freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit; and equally undeniably,  the climate is changing, and the changes in the climate are human- caused by fossil fuel emissions. Fossil fuel emissions are the primary  cause.

These are facts, and they are demonstrated by sound science. Not only  is climate change a demonstrated fact recognized by all sound science  on the topic, but human beings have been aware of this scientific fact  for over a century. The fossil fuel industry has worked to suppress  that fact for nearly 60 years, but it is still a fact.

One hundred thirty years ago, in 1896, Swedish scientist Svante  Arrhenius concluded that greenhouse gas emissions from human activities  contributed to a global ``greenhouse effect'' driving global warming.  That was 1896.

In 1968, at a celebration of the hundred-year anniversary of the  fossil fuel industry, the physicist Edward Teller warned that  greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels cause a greenhouse  effect and that increased use of fossil fuels would cause global  warming and severe sea level rise. His audience, obviously, was fossil  fuel executives at that event commemorating the 100 years of the fossil  fuel industry.

This chart is of the famous Keeling Curve, which shows the dramatic  acceleration in CO2 in the atmosphere beginning around 1950.  You can see it start up in 1850, but it really kicked off after 1950.

This data, actually, from back here comes from scientists who collect  core samples in glaciers, date the core samples, and can test the  bubbles that are preserved in those ice core samples from ancient  glaciers. I have actually been to the lab at Ohio State where a married  couple of scientists had this immense freezer in which they had core  after core after core of samples from glaciers, and very often, the  glacier is now gone.

This chart shows the rise in global average temperatures from 1860 to  now. While it jumps up and down a lot seasonally, the red line shows  the average. As you see the CO2 curve accelerating, you see  the global average temperature also accelerating.

Between 1968 and 2003, fossil fuel interests, including American  Petroleum Institute, Exxon, and Shell, commissioned scientific reports  on climate change to look into this, all of which--all of which-- concluded that climate change was happening, that greenhouse gas  emissions from fossil fuel combustion were the primary cause of climate  change, and that the impacts of this change in our climate would be  severe.

The fossil fuel industry suppressed their own scientists' findings  for decades, but in 2015, investigative journalists found and leaked  the suppressed internal memos. These companies knew what their business  was doing all along, and they chose to hide the evidence of their own  scientists and do nothing.

Not only did they know, but their own scientists' work was stunningly  accurate.

This is a chart from Exxon pulled from a 1982 Exxon memo. This line  in black is the predicted rise, back when this was prepared, before  1982, in CO2 concentrations. They start at 1960 and work  their way to 2100. This is what Exxon predicted for CO2  concentration increase, and this lower line is what Exxon predicted for  temperature increase driven by the CO2 concentration  increase. The blue line is what actually happened with respect to  CO2 concentration. The red line is what actually happened  with respect to temperature.

Those Exxon scientists pretty well nailed it. I mean, that is very,  very close, to have actual results track the Exxon predictions. But  that didn't get out even though Exxon knew because the fossil fuel  industry suppressed all of this.

Today, NASA maintains that ``there is unequivocal evidence''-- unequivocal evidence--``that Earth is warming at an unprecedented  rate'' and that ``[h]uman activity is the principal cause'' of this  warming. That is what NASA scientists say.

NASA scientists are pretty good. We are driving remotely controlled  vehicles around the surface of Mars that got sent there by NASA,  driving around collecting data and sending images back to Earth from  Mars. When you can pull that off, you are a pretty good scientist.

This is what NASA said: ``unequivocal evidence that Earth is  warming'' and that ``[h]uman activity is the principal cause.''

The United States has its own National Climate Assessments, which  Congress actually mandated by law. They are the most comprehensive  source for data on climate impacts in the United States. Five have been  published since they were required by Congress--2000, 2009, 2014, 2018,  and 2023. A sixth National Climate Assessment was due for 2028, but in  2025, the Trump administration fired all the scientists and researchers  working on that project. They even shut down the website.

Why, you may ask, is the Trump administration suppressing science,  firing scientists and researchers? Why won't the Trump administration  protect the American people from greenhouse gas emissions? Why are they  even trying to repeal the finding that these greenhouse gases are  pollutants? It is pretty simple: fossil fuel industry pressure from  fossil fuel industry front groups.

This is a graph I have used repeatedly on the floor before. It is put  together by a scientist, Robert Brulle, who studies the science denial  operation as a social and economic phenomenon. Each of these dots  represents a group that propagates the fossil fuel industry's climate  denial fraud campaign. As you can see, there are a lot of them. This is  a big cloud of groups  whose job is to fool the American public, propagate climate denial  fraud about what is really going on, and in some cases actually work on  the political side to put dark money into our politics to corrupt  America's response to this known danger. This web of denial, of fraud,  of corruption costs American lives, and it costs Americans money, too.

By the way, voters are paying attention. A December poll found that  65 percent of American voters understand that climate change is  increasing their cost of living. And we know that to be true. As  chairman of the Budget Committee, I had hearing after hearing that  demonstrated that.

What we see across the country is climate change driving extreme  weather, sea level rise, heat waves, catastrophic wildfires, and toxic  pollution. That not only drives illness and death, but it is right now  as we speak undermining the insurance, mortgage, and real estate  markets in places like Florida. Those parts are already in disarray.  And when you can't get insurance on your home because the climate risk  is uninsurable, nobody can get a mortgage on your home either, which  means that when you try to sell that home, unless you are a millionaire  swapping McMansions--if you are a regular person who needs a buyer who  can get a mortgage on your property to sell it, it means your property  becomes hard to sell. It means its value decreases.

And, in fact, in Florida you are seeing an insurance market that is  in complete collapse, propped up by taxpayers to try to hold it  together. You are seeing a mortgage market that is in disarray as  people find they are unable to sell their properties. And Florida led  the country last year in the decline in property values. It was the top  State in property value decline.

This is coming at us, and it is coming at us hard. In other speeches,  I have given surveys of the multiple, multiple warnings--not from green  groups, not from environmentalists, but from people who understand the  financial system and see this threat that is bearing down on us.

So fossil fuel's climate denial fraud is coming at American families'  finances. It is real, and it is costing them.

So I have a resolution, and the punch line is very simple: One,  climate change caused by fossil fuel combustion is not a hoax. I hope  we can go with NASA on that. I hope we can go with Exxon on that. I  hope we can go with real, measured observation of weather on that.

Second, the reality of human-caused, greenhouse-gas-driven climate  change is sound science. That is essentially undisputed in the  scientific community. There is a microscopic stable of people whose  science usually means they show up here to testify for the fossil fuel  industry to sow doubt. But once you get beyond that tiny stable of paid  climate deniers, it is 99.9 percent. I mean, science is--that is as  close to unanimous as science gets on this, and I urge that this body  should reflect that.

And, finally, the third, Congress should protect legislatively  mandated climate research programs. Science is the headlights for  society. Science predicts and tells us what is coming at us. You would  be a fool to turn the headlights out on your car driving onto a dark  road. We are fools if we turn off the science headlights of our  government as we move into increasing climate danger.

Res. 550; further, that the resolution  be agreed to, that the preamble be agreed to, and that the motions to  reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, let me just remind everyone who is  listening what this resolution resolved--three simple points: One,  climate change is not a hoax. Two, climate science is actually sound  science. And, three, we shouldn't turn off our research headlights that  tell us what is coming at us.

That was all. All we had to agree on was basic facts. So when my  friends on the other side can't agree on facts that are so basic as  climate change is real, the science is sound, and we should keep our  headlights on as we drive into this unprecedented new hazard, it is  hard to see how we move on from there.

I agree very much with my friend from Kansas that energy that is  affordable, reliable, and clean is our common  goal. And I will give an example because the developers of Revolution  Wind have told me that our offshore wind facility is going to send  power ashore at 9 cents per kilowatt hour into a grid whose average  price is 18 cents. It is literally half the price to get power off  Revolution Wind than it is to pay for the primarily natural-gas-fueled  power that drives the New England grid. It is a 50-percent cost  reduction; so it is affordable. Reliable? The wind blows like crazy out  on the ocean; it is highly reliable.

In fact, Iowa, which has the biggest wind component of its electric  grid, has actually treated wind as reliable baseload energy because  where one turbine might not be spinning, there are plenty of others  that are. So the people who plan for making sure that the lights don't  go out--technical people--actually treat wind as reliable baseload  energy through formulas that that ISO has developed.

And clean? Yes, it is clean. It burns no fossil fuel.

And yet the Trump administration twice has tried to shut down that  project--twice. Just yesterday, they got blown up in Federal court for  the second time when they tried for the second time to shut down that  project. After $5 billion had been invested in it, they wanted to shut  it down.

So we have the way to go forward, but the administration doesn't want  to go forward. They want to sabotage a wind project that will bring  power onto the grid at about half the current grid cost.

Our attorney general in those proceedings proposed an affidavit and,  in his pleadings, said that Revolution Wind would save hundreds of  millions of dollars for New England customers.

The Trump Cabinet is running around pretending that that is not true.  They pretend that it is expensive. They lie.

They had a chance to come into court, where it is a little harder to  lie, and say: Oh, no, you are wrong. Your affidavit asserting hundreds  of millions of dollars in savings when this comes online is wrong, and  here is our case for why 9 cents is bigger than 18 cents or 9 cents  isn't real--or whatever it is that they wanted to say.

They didn't. They didn't pipe up at all because they couldn't,  because it is not true, and every grid operator proves that by calling  up clean energy first because it is less expensive.

Again, these are technical people. They don't have a point to make.  Their system calls the least expensive energy up first, and once you  get through nukes and hydro, you are into solar, wind, and battery. And  it is only once you are through all of that that you then get into the  fossil fuel plants, because they are more expensive, and every grid  operator can prove that to you in the way they actually operate our  electric grids. They call up clean energy first because it is less  expensive, period.

So it is unfortunate that here we are with this web of denial  controlling so much of what happens in this building--fossil fuel  industry dark money slashing through this building--and we can't get  agreement that climate change is not a hoax, that climate science is  sound science, and that we shouldn't turn off our research headlights  as we go into the future.

Before I yield, let me just point out that the University of Kansas  teaches climate science. The University of Kansas teaches climate  science. It even teaches about this stuff. It has a course called  ``Anti-Environmentalism and Climate Change Denial in America,'' in  addition to a ``Climate and Climate Change'' course, a ``Climate Change  and Hazards Planning'' course, and a ``Climate Science'' course.

When your home State university is teaching the science of climate  change, you ought to be able to agree that climate science is real and  that climate change is not a hoax.