Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, Shakespeare's great play ``Hamlet''  began with the phrase: Something is rotten in Denmark. 

  Well, something is rotten in Congress, and what is rotten in Congress  is dark money. Citizens United--perhaps one of the most foolish  decisions ever rendered by the U.S. Supreme Court--opened unlimited  spending into our politics, which benefits whom? It benefits those who  have unlimited money to spend and a motive to spend it in politics.  That is not a group of people whose voices were not being heard here  already. That is the favored group. But Citizens United opened the door  for them to spend unlimited money, and then the Supreme Court failed to  police its own decision. Its own decision said this unlimited spending  was going to be independent of candidates and transparent to the  public. Well, they are 0 for 2. It has been a decade, and they have  never even tried to enforce the basic predicates of their decision. It  is a shameful, shameful effort by the Court. Now, as a result, we have  throughout our politics this dark money tsunami of slime. 

  How bad is it? These groups have spent $4.5 billion since Citizens  United--$4.5 billion trying to influence Congress. Do you think they  were doing that in the public interest? Of course not. Do you wonder  why bills die here in the legislative graveyard of the Senate? Take a  guess. 

  Outside groups--these phony-baloney front groups for these big  special interests--are now outspending candidates in races. In fact, in  the decade after Citizens United, outside groups outspent candidates in  126 different congressional races. And it is a very small group of  people behind it. The top 10 donor households gave a combined $1.1  billion to these front groups. Do you think they were looking out for  the public interests? Dream on. 

  Who are the big spenders of this dark money? National Rifle  Association; Americans for Prosperity, which is the Koch brothers front  group; Crossroads GPS, which is Karl Rove's front group; and the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce, the champions of climate denial and obstruction. 

  Do you want to know why we are not getting things done around here?  It is because billions of dollars are being spent secretly by special  interests to shut things down, and it is creeping now even into the  courts. The Federalist Society, which is picking our judges, is at the  center of a $250 million dark money network. A group that ran the  campaigns against Garland and for Gorsuch and then afterward for  Kavanaugh got an individual $17 million donation for each of those two  campaigns. It is actually probably the same donor, which means somebody  out there anonymously gave $35 million to determine the makeup of the  U.S. Supreme Court, and we don't know who that is. We don't know what  business they have before the Court. 

  As I said, Hamlet begins with ``something is rotten in . . .  Denmark.'' Something is rotten in Congress, and the rot is creeping  over to the Supreme Court, and it is dark money, and it is the  patriotic and decent thing to do to extirpate this menace. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT