Bill to Outlaw Wounding of Official Working Animals Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700959/bill-to-outlaw-wounding-of-official-working-animals-act-of-2025


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, we also want to make sure that the work  that we do in this body reflects the priorities of the American people.  Once again, this bill is nothing but an attempt to distract the  American people from Republicans' failure to lower prices.

This morning I went online and I looked at what gas prices are in my  home State of Washington. They are over $6 for diesel and over $5 for  regular unleaded. That is an increase of almost a buck just in the last  couple of weeks.

I know what my constituents care about. It is the fact that they  can't afford their gas. Childcare right now is around $21,000 per child  in the State of Washington. Healthcare premiums have gone crazy since  Republicans have refused to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits.  What people are facing is a complete destruction of their ability to  live decent lives.

Are we addressing any of that here?

At a townhall last week, I had a constituent stand up and tell me  that he was a war veteran from the Afghanistan war. He was a sergeant  in the United States Marines. He said he spent his entire life fighting  in these forever wars. He doesn't want another one.

But we are not talking about any of that here. We are not even making  sure that the President does what he is supposed to do and comes to  Congress for authorization for this war.

In fact, we just heard that the Pentagon is putting forward a request  for $200 billion more for this war. How on earth are we going to pay  for that? It is absolutely ridiculous.

So I think that this is all about trying to go back to the old  playbook of trying to vilify immigrants and trying to make people blame  immigrants for everything that is wrong with their lives.

The reality is, instead of figuring out how we can stop immigration  agents from murdering U.S. citizens on the street or arresting and  imprisoning children, we are back to Republicans' favorite type of  bill: Find a crime, blame an immigrant, make people deportable and  inadmissible without requiring a conviction, deny them basic due  process, rinse, and repeat.

By the way, for people who are listening, who are upset about the  mass deportations that the Republicans do not want to talk about here  because they are incredibly unpopular, this is the pipeline to those  mass detentions and mass deportations. This is the way that DHS, a  lawless ICE and CBP are able to just go out and pick up anybody and  continue to detain and deport people, including U.S. citizens.

This one that is on the floor today is a new one, even for us. It is  moving into the arena of harming animals.

Now, I am speaking as someone who has long been a champion of animal  welfare. I have supported bills that protect animals and prevent  inhumane treatment of them.

My dog, Otis, has been a loved and loving member of our family for 14  years. He is an incredibly resilient guy. Some of my constituents  recognize him more than my spouse because he goes everywhere with us.

I take violence against animals seriously, and so do our immigration  laws. The crime referenced in this bill requires someone to willfully  and maliciously harm a dog or a horse. This is already a crime  involving moral turpitude, which can render someone deportable or  inadmissible from the country.

In 2018, the Board of Immigration Appeals made clear that the crime  of animal fighting is a crime involving moral turpitude, and that is  because there is a clear intent to harm the animal.

In addition to the binding precedent set by the Board of Immigration  Appeals, the 9th and 10th Circuit Courts of Appeals also found that  animal cruelty is a crime involving moral turpitude. This issue is  already well covered under our immigration laws, and this bill is, once  again, largely unnecessary.

If Republicans are concerned about cruelty to animals, why not look  at Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem who shot and killed her 14- month-old dog, Cricket.

Unfortunately, this bill goes too far in eroding due process rights.  Under current law, a person does not need to be convicted of a crime to  be inadmissible. However, under most circumstances, you do need a  conviction to be deportable.

Once again, as they have with so many other bills, my Republican  colleagues do not require someone to be convicted of this crime to be  deportable from the country. That means that a green card holder who  has lived here for decades could be deported.

Ms. JAYAPAL. That means that a green card holder who has lived here  for decades could be deported from the country without even being  convicted of a crime.

This bill was written in response to an incident where a 70-year-old  man kicked a Customs and Border Protection agriculture detector dog at  Dulles Airport. The incident was horrible, and no dog should ever be  kicked or harmed. However, that man was tried and convicted in Federal  Court before he was removed from the country underscoring how  unnecessary this law is.

It has never been more important for people to have their day in  court. Look at what is happening across the country, Mr. Speaker, as  Federal immigration authorities terrorize American communities. We have  seen residential communities tear-gassed without a care for the young  children who have been affected. We have seen a teacher with work  authorization arrested at the daycare where she works, inflicting  irreversible harm on the little kids whom she cares for.

We have seen U.S. citizens brutalized and even killed by ICE and  Border Patrol most recently in Minnesota. We have seen, again and  again, how ICE has accused people of assaulting them only to find out  that it was a lie.

Ms. JAYAPAL. The Wall Street Journal just released an investigation  finding that most accusations against U.S. citizens for attacking  immigration agents were unsubstantiated. The right to being innocent  until proven guilty should be something that every single one of us in  this Chamber can agree to. It is a bedrock principle of fairness, of  due process, and of the rule of law.

Republicans gave ICE tens of billions of dollars to continue the  lawless assault on the American public. Republicans own this mess, but  it is up to all of us to fix it. Republicans want to pass absurd  legislation like this one that only makes the system worse, not better.

Mr. Speaker, oppose this bill.