Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701859/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1689 to designate Haiti  for temporary protected status, or TPS, and I thank Representatives  Pressley and Gillen for their incredible tenacity and leadership in  building the bipartisan coalition needed to get this bill to the floor.  This is a hopeful moment for so many across the country to take a  positive step forward on immigration policy in America after so much  darkness.

TPS was established with broad, bipartisan support in 1990 to provide  people who are already in the United States a safe haven when their  home countries are devastated by armed conflict, natural disaster, or  other extraordinary conditions. TPS is built on the simple idea that  America should not force people back to deadly and life-threatening  conditions, a principle that has guided both Republican and Democratic  administrations for decades.

Today, the Trump administration is dismantling this longstanding  commitment to our core values, attempting to end TPS for countries  where the conditions are still incredibly dangerous.

One country with which the President has seemed obsessed since his  first term is Haiti. The President has called Haiti a S-hole country  and cruelly attempted to end its TPS designation during his first term.  Luckily, that was stopped by the lower courts, but the threat remains.

In less than 2 weeks, the ability of the Trump administration to end  TPS for Haiti will be heard by the Supreme Court. Today, over 350,000  Haitians have TPS. It would be unconscionable to send them back to  Haiti, an action that would lead to people's deaths. That goes against  everything this country is supposed to stand for.

For years, Haiti has been dealing with significant political turmoil  that has resulted in instability all over the country. Our own State  Department has issued a Level 4: Do Not Travel advisory for Haiti. They  say that individuals should not travel to Haiti due to ``kidnapping,  crime, terrorist activity, civil unrest, and limited healthcare.'' The  country has been in a state of emergency since March of 2024.  Terminating TPS means the United States of America is forcing people to  return to real and imminent harm, even death.

However, this isn't just about what is right and wrong for Haitians  or for other TPS holders, Mr. Speaker. It is also about what benefits  Americans. Despite all the lies and misinformation spread by this  administration and its rightwing echo chamber, TPS broadly, and Haitian  TPS holders specifically, are good for our communities and our economy.

TPS has allowed hundreds of thousands of people to work legally and  to contribute to our economy. Haitian TPS recipients, in particular,  regularly work in industries that are currently experiencing severe  labor shortages, like construction and hospitality and healthcare.

In healthcare alone, Haitians are the sixth largest group of workers,  making up one in five nursing assistants, personal care aides, and home  health aides. These workers keep our economy running, helping  businesses that struggle to fill jobs. They pay taxes, support local  businesses, and contribute billions of dollars to our economy every  single year.

Each year, TPS holders from Haiti who reside in the U.S. earn $3.9  billion in total household income. They pay a total of $983.9 million  in taxes, including $600.8 million in Federal taxes and $383.1 million  in State and local taxes, and they hold $2.9 billion in spending power.

Many Haitian TPS holders have lived in the United States for many  years. They have followed our laws, paid their taxes, and demonstrated  their commitment to this country. Instead of stripping them of legal  status and sending them back to dangerous conditions, we should be  providing them with a path to long-term stability.

Donald Trump ran on a false promise, that he would get rid of the  ``worst of the worst,'' but instead his administration has been moving  forward their real goal: Ending all legal immigration to this country.  Just a few days ago, the conservative CATO Institute published a report  showing that Trump has cut legal immigration by 2.5 times as much as  undocumented immigration since coming into office this term.

Unlawful immigration had already fallen substantially, even before  Trump took office, because the Biden administration expanded the legal  pathways that people had to be here with legal presence, work and  contribute. However, instead of maintaining that, Trump and Stephen  Miller have done everything possible to destroy all legal immigration  to this country, including eliminating TPS.

H.R. 1689 provides a glimmer of hope to immigrant communities across  the country, starting with Haitians. It tells them that we value their  work and contributions to our country. It tells them that we won't send  them to their deaths. It tells them that America still welcomes the  huddled masses yearning to breathe free.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Ms. JAYAPAL.  Gillen), the sponsor of this bill.

Ms. JAYAPAL.  Pressley), who has been such a leader on bringing  this bill to the floor.

Ms. JAYAPAL.  Wasserman Schultz), a distinguished member of the  Appropriations Committee.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this measure to restore protections  for our Haitian-American neighbors, and I am grateful for Congresswoman  Pressley and Congresswoman Gillen's leadership on this issue.

Haiti is in collapse. That is not in doubt. Gangs control 90 percent  of the capital. Millions are internally displaced, and most of the  population needs emergency food and medicine.

The U.S. supports a peacekeeping force in Haiti, so it is hard to  argue that it is dangerous enough to send in the military, yet safe  enough to send civilians back to.

Haitian TPS recipients are vetted for any criminal history and came  here to flee the same violence at home. TPS holders are on work  permits, pay taxes, pay into Medicare and Social Security, and get  nothing in return.

It helps no one to take 200,000 people out of the workforce, while  taxpayers foot the bill for detaining and deporting people who haven't  committed a crime.

This is an economic disaster with the enormous taxpayer and moral  cost of deporting hardworking people into chaos when they pose no  threat.

Every dollar we spend to rip apart law-abiding families with legal  status--and I know that is a fact that my friends on the other side of  the aisle refuse to acknowledge because TPS is a legal status--every  dollar taken is a dollar not spent to go after real criminals.

I visited the Everglades detention camp last week, and the horrors I  saw strengthened my resolve. We can't stuff law-abiding people into  cages for months with no trial and then send them to unsafe conditions.

This week, I was proud to lead an amicus brief with Ms. Pressley and  185 congressional Democrats to urge the Supreme Court to reject Trump's  illegal termination of TPS for Haitians.

My Haitian neighbors in Florida are an indispensable part of our  community, economy, and culture. It infuriates me that President Trump  shamelessly peddles lies about Haitians to promote racist, collective  punishment. Haitian Americans deserve better. We all deserve better  than an administration more concerned about hitting Stephen Miller's  ICE quotas than bringing down costs.

If we care about our seniors, our parents, our aunties, and our  grandmothers; if we care about the patients in hospitals and nursing  homes; and if we care about making sure that our economy is  strengthened by incredible Haitian workers who are part of the backbone  of it, then we will vote ``yes'' to save jobs in your community, ensure  that hospitals have nurses, ensure that elderly parents can access  care, and to stand up for our Nation's values.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, temporary protected status was created to  ensure that our country is never forced to send someone back to harm's  way. So long as dangerous conditions exist in someone's country of  origin, TPS is meant to authorize them to remain here until that danger  has passed.

Our government recognizes the real and present dangers right now in  Haiti. Nonessential personnel have been evacuated from the country, and  the State Department continues to tell Americans not to travel to  Haiti. The government instructs people who must go to Haiti to  establish ``a proof of life protocol'' with their family members, to  make funeral plans, and draft a will before they travel to the country.

Yet that same government expects us to believe that it is safer for  Haitians to return to Haiti. They warn us about the imminent risk of  death that comes with traveling to Haiti but have no qualms of sending  350,000 people who have been living in this country and contributing to  their communities right here at home.

The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments later this month on  whether the administration's termination of TPS was lawful. With the  bill before us today, we can send a strong bipartisan message to the  court that this body recognizes the reality that Haiti remains deeply  unsafe, is in no way prepared to accept hundreds of thousands of people  returning, and that the TPS designation for Haiti should remain in  effect.

Now, Mr. Speaker, there has been a lot said on this floor today. I  haven't challenged every single thing, but what I want the American  people to know is there is a lot of misinformation being spread about  Haitian TPS holders, about TPS holders in general, and about  immigrants.

Someone earlier talked about how the American people don't want  immigrants in this country. That is absolutely not true. There is a  record-high support for legal pathways and a general belief that  immigration is good for this country. A record high 79 percent of  Americans now say that immigration is a good thing for the United  States, and only 30 percent of Americans actually want to see decreased  levels of demand. That is in part because this administration promised  to deport only the worst of the worst and then went out and kidnapped  and disappeared people, incarcerates children, and is committing  cruelty, including murdering U.S. citizens in the streets.

The reality is that Haitians are contributing to communities across  this country: 21 percent of Haitians in healthcare, 19 percent in  retail, 15 percent in education and social services, 15,000 Haitians in  agriculture, and 14.5 percent of Haitians are small business owners who  are generating over $1.5 billion in revenue.

We love to take all of the services that immigrants provide to this  country and then establish a level of cruelty toward those same  immigrants. That is not right.

Mr. Speaker, as one of the very few naturalized citizens to serve in  this country, it is difficult for me to constantly listen to the anti- immigrant rhetoric that comes from the other side, the cruelty that  comes from this administration, when I myself know what this process  is. I have been through it.

The reality is immigrants are contributing. Haitian immigrants who  are here are working in their communities. It is why there is also a  record level of support for continuing Haitian TPS. The public polling  on TPS for Haitians: 90 percent of Democrats, 63 percent of  Independents, and almost half of Republicans support that.

I am grateful to the Republicans who came forward to sign the  discharge petition to bring this bill to the floor. I am grateful for  any Republicans who vote today for this bill because what the American  people want is to respect the contributions of immigrants across this  country who are helping to build our communities. That is what Haitians  are doing for us right now, and it is exactly why I hope all of my  colleagues on both sides of the aisle will support this bipartisan,  critically important bill.

Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.