End Cruel Immigration Enforcement Against Kids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701421/end-cruel-immigration-enforcement-against-kids


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Dexter and Tonko  for hosting this incredibly important Special Order hour.

Since Donald Trump was sworn in 14 months ago, DHS has terrorized our  children. Every single day 50 U.S. citizen children have had a parent  detained, on average, and over 11,000 American children in total. After  Trump restarted the cruel practice of detaining families and children,  ICE has jailed about 3,500 adults and children. That includes over 900  children jailed beyond the 20-day legal limit set by longstanding legal  settlement.

More and more children are forced to appear in court alone as Trump  has cut funding for legal representation. Let's talk about what this  all looks like.

In Washington State, ICE arrested a mother dropping off her 4-year- old son at a preschool.

In Oregon, masked ICE agents broke the car windows and arrested a  father dropping off his son at preschool.

In Chicago, ICE dragged a daycare worker out of the facility, slammed  her face against the daycare's glass doors, and arrested her.

Recently, in Vermont, the community surrounded a home for hours as  ICE sought to enter without a warrant. Demonstrators created a human  tunnel allowing a 4-year-old child wrapped in a blanket to escape the  home. Her mother was desperate to get her to safety.

This is horrifying. We can't talk about any of this without  recognizing the toll on our educators and our daycare workers who are  on the front lines doing everything they can to protect our children,  even as many of them are immigrants as well and face threats to their  own safety.

We have also seen Federal agents use physical violence and chemical  weapons indiscriminately.

In Chicago, Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino deployed tear gas  in a residential neighborhood as children were gathering for a  Halloween parade. In the words of a Federal judge: These kids, their  sense of safety was shattered, and it is going to take a long time for  that to come back.

In Minneapolis, ICE deployed tear gas near a family in their car,  causing a 6-month-old baby to stop breathing.

All of this leads to lasting trauma for our children, regardless of  their immigration status or whether they have an immigrant parent or a  family member.

Here is what Allison Bassett Ratto, a child clinical psychologist,  has said about the harms to children: What they see are their  classmates, their family members, and their neighbors often being  apprehended in violent and confusing ways while doing things like  picking up their children from the bus stop or going to their jobs. For  children, this creates a sense that nowhere and no one is safe. The  stress, the anxiety, and the trauma can become chronic, leading to both  immediate and long-term damage to children's mental and physical  health.

Tomorrow, as ranking member of the Immigration Subcommittee, I will  be holding a hearing entitled: Trump's Assault on Our Children, and we  will have legal and medical experts, educators, and directly impacted  people who will testify to the harms and the trauma being caused to our  children.

Donald Trump ran on going after the so-called worst of the worst. It  has been very clear that this was never his intent. He made it clear  that chaos and cruelty go hand in hand with mass deportation. It is  inflicting lasting trauma on our children, regardless of immigration  status.

Do not close your eyes. Do not close your eyes to this harm that our  own government is inflicting on our children. Do not talk about  Christian values or any other religious value and then traumatize our  children.

Mr. Speaker, we will not stop fighting against this horror. We will  not stop because it is our responsibility in this body to make sure  that our government is not traumatizing these kids.