Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697449/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Ramirez for her  incredible leadership on this issue and so many others. I thank the  Congressional Progressive Caucus for the Special Order hour and the  Hispanic Caucus for all the work that has been happening at this very,  very serious moment in time.

I stand here as the top Democrat on the Immigration Integrity,  Security and Enforcement Subcommittee on the Judiciary Committee. I  have been conducting shadow hearings both here in D.C. and across the  country.

In October, we had a shadow hearing in Chicago, Illinois, in the  gentlewoman's home State. I really appreciate all the work she did to  help us facilitate that. We had 18 Members of Congress from all over  the country come to that shadow hearing, and it was the largest act of  congressional immigration oversight since Donald Trump took office.

What we heard was alarming, and I have worked in this space for a  very  long time. Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino and his rogue  immigration agents are terrorizing everyone regardless of immigration  status.

We heard from an Active-Duty servicemember, someone who has put his  life on the line for this country, who was heartbroken because he had  to fly back to this country because his father had been deported and  was gone before he even got back from his deployment. He said: I have  put my life on the line for this country, and my father who has done  nothing wrong was deported.

It was outrageous.

On Halloween weekend alone, Bovino deployed tear gas in a residential  neighborhood as children were gathering for a Halloween parade. Border  Patrol agents dragged a 67-year-old U.S. citizen from his car, breaking  six of his ribs, while children in Halloween costumes watched in  horror.

What was his crime?

Turning down a street to get home. That is what he did.

Bovino then went south to Charlotte, North Carolina, to continue his  reign of terror. Masked agents raided a church. Charlotte-Mecklenburg  school records show that over 27,000 students were absent the first  school day following Border Patrol's arrival in the city. One U.S.  citizen reported Border Patrol tried to arrest him twice within 5  minutes.

In my home State of Washington, we have seen green card holders  taken, people who have lived in the United States for decades with deep  roots in our communities and U.S. citizen family members. In Issaquah,  Washington, agents kidnapped a mother outside her child's preschool and  quickly deported her. This is not unique. Since Trump rescinded the  practice of avoiding enforcement actions at sensitive locations, we  have seen a daycare worker snatched in front of children in Chicago and  a father arrested outside his child's preschool in Oregon.

Let's not forget that many care workers are immigrants. Among early  educators, 26 percent, close to one-half million people, are  immigrants. Many are being forced out of their jobs, whether it is  through Trump's mass forced layoffs when he has abruptly cancelled  entire categories of legal statuses or workers forced to step back from  care work after a loved one's detention and deportation.

Trump's assault on our communities is not possible without the U.S.  immigration incarceration system. Since Donald Trump took office,  people in detention have skyrocketed to unprecedented levels with over  66,000 people incarcerated in immigration facilities. ICE plans to  increase its capacity to detain an average of 107,000 people by the end  of the year using $45 billion that was in the Republicans' big, bad  betrayal bill.

How did Republicans finance that unprecedented spending?

They did it by stealing healthcare from 16 million Americans.

This is cruel and unnecessary. First, let's be clear that immigration  is a civil matter, not a criminal matter. People are held pending  immigration proceedings, and ICE itself has said that detention is not  supposed to be punitive. ICE's own numbers show that 73 percent of  those who have been detained have no criminal record and the vast  majority of the remaining 27 percent have minor convictions, like  traffic violations.

People are detained in horrific conditions. Facilities are  overcrowded, and people are sleeping on the ground next to toilets.  Folks are denied medical care. If the private prison companies running  the facilities provide any protein in meals, it is often undercooked  and, yes, sometimes bloody. Dinner is often served after midnight.

So it is no surprise that these conditions are so poor because about  90 percent of people who are imprisoned are imprisoned in for-profit  facilities which have a record of cutting corners on essential services  to reap profits. Trump has decimated oversight, including by illegally  blocking Members of Congress from doing unannounced inspections.

That is why today, with Representative Ramirez and 124 Members as  original cosponsors, we introduced my Dignity for Detained Immigrants  Act, transformative legislation that would completely overhaul the  system.

What is happening is not normal. We can't allow it to continue.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mrs. Ramirez for her leadership.