No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689715/no-rogue-rulings-act-of-2025


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 1526, a bill  that would prohibit district courts from issuing nationwide  injunctions.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle want you to believe that  somehow these nationwide injunctions being issued by courts across the  country against Donald Trump's illegal and unconstitutional actions are  unfair. Well, here is the message. If you don't like the injunctions,  don't do illegal, unconstitutional stuff. That is simple.

Nationwide injunctions play an essential role in protecting our  democracy and holding the political branches accountable. Without them,  thousands or millions of people could be harmed by these illegal or  unconstitutional government policies.

Just look at Donald Trump's attempt to end birthright citizenship. In  a lawsuit brought in my home State of Washington, a Reagan-appointed  Federal judge--not a Democratic-appointed Federal judge, a Reagan- appointed Federal judge--ruled that the order was blatantly  unconstitutional because the 14th Amendment plainly states that all  persons born in the United States are U.S. citizens.

What is next, stripping citizenship from U.S. citizens? That is in  the Trump extremist playbook, as well. So is apparently kidnapping and  disappearing people, including those with legal status, without any due  process, as well as getting rid of entire departments established by  Congress and suppressing freedom of speech and dissent.

These are the hallmarks of an authoritarian who wants to hold all  power, and the courts are doing what they are supposed to do and  issuing nationwide injunctions against this kind of abuse of power.

Somehow, my colleagues never complained about nationwide injunctions  when dozens were issued against former Presidents Obama and Biden, but  now that it is against Donald Trump, they want to rig the rules to give  the President free rein to do whatever he wants, regardless of whether  it is illegal or unconstitutional.

Well, get this: We do not have kings in America.

Vote ``no'' on this bill.