Recognizing the Contributions of Dow Constantine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691034/recognizing-the-contributions-of-dow-constantine


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Dow  Constantine, who is stepping down after 16 years of service as King  County Executive. Throughout his tenure, Dow has been a transformative  leader, driving significant progress in our region with a relentless  focus on equity, sustainability, and community well-being. His  leadership has made a lasting impact not only in King County, but  throughout our entire region. Thanks to Dow's leadership and his  commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, Martin Luther King, Jr.  County will remain a welcoming place for all to thrive.

Dow has brought significant positive change to King County. A few  notable achievements including the creation of a bold climate action  plan, protecting immigrant communities, expanding affordable housing,  leading efforts to address homelessness, advancing mental health  initiatives and promoting sustainable transportation. His  administration created over  3,800 affordable housing units and acquired 1,400 supportive housing  units through the Health Through Housing program. Dow supported the  creation of the King County Immigrant and Refugee Commission (KCIRC),  provided funding to immigrant-serving organizations and reinforced King  County's commitment to being a welcoming community. He launched the  Crisis Care Centers initiative, providing essential care and reducing  the burden on emergency rooms and jails. Dow's commitment to  environmental conservation resulted in the protection of 30,000 acres  of land and the restoration of 500 acres of fish and wildlife habitat,  including the successful resurgence of the Kokanee salmon population.  Through his advocacy for sustainable transportation, he expanded King  County Metro with the launch of eight RapidRide routes and growing the  Link Light Rail network to 51 stations.

Dow's leadership has always been grounded in the values of equity,  public service and collaboration. His legacy will continue to inspire  future leaders to carry forward the work of building a stronger  community that serves all people. As he moves on to serve as CEO of  Sound Transit, I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating Dow's  accomplishments and service to our country. On behalf of Washington's  7th Congressional District, I thank Dow for making King County a more  inclusive, sustainable, and just place to live.