Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695359/stop-illegal-entry-act-of-2025


Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3486.

This bill is Republicans' latest attempt to scapegoat and fearmonger  about immigrants. With President Trump's poll numbers tanking on  immigration due to his kidnapping and disappearing of immigrants and  U.S. citizens off our streets, House Republicans are, once again,  looking to turn the conversation back to immigration and the border.

I will point out the absurdity of spending this valuable floor time  on a bill that has harsh and ineffective mandatory minimums for  immigrants while the majority effects one of the greatest coverups of  our time, covering up the horrific abuses of Jeffrey Epstein and his  network of child traffickers and sexual predators.

Why not spend our time focused on justice for the incredibly brave  survivors who have spoken out against the rich and powerful men who  abused them?

Why fight a bipartisan discharge petition from   Thomas Massie and Ro  Khanna to release all of the damned files, not just the ones that the  Trump's DOJ allows to be released?

Why not speak out against the cushy deal that Ghislaine Maxwell just  got from Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche to move to a cushy prison  instead of serving her time as one of Epstein's main co-conspirators  and groomers of young girls to be abused by Epstein and his cohort of  rich and powerful men?

Obviously, once again, my colleagues across the aisle want to try to  distract us by returning to their tried-and-true playbook of demonizing  immigrants. That is not actually what the American people want. We have  seen over and over again that the American people actually support  immigration, despite all of the lies that come from the other side.

This summer, a Gallup poll noted a record high, 79 percent, of U.S.  adults say that immigration is a good thing for the country. A Pew poll  showed 64 percent of Americans disapprove of President Trump's  suspension of most asylum applications, which was ruled unlawful in  Federal court.

The American people now see that the Trump administration has  continually lied about what they are going to do on immigration.  According to a CBS poll, a majority of Americans believe that the Trump  administration is not prioritizing the removal of dangerous criminals  and public safety threats, and nearly 60 percent disapprove of how the  Trump administration is using immigration detention facilities.

This is not surprising in the least. As the ranking member said,  ICE's own data revealed that roughly 65 percent of people in  immigration detention have zero criminal convictions--zero.

It is clear that this administration is not targeting the so-called  worst of the worst, as President Trump claimed on the campaign trail.  Instead, they are targeting everyone that they think they may be able  to deport.

Tom Homan, the President's so-called border czar, said that arresting  noncriminals is `` . . . our job.''

In Los Angeles, ICE has been racially profiling people,  indiscriminately arresting and holding people, causing fear and terror  in people of every legal status who simply look Latino or speak Spanish  or congregate on certain corners.

Today's bill is just more of the same scapegoating and lying about  immigrants. Once again, the majority implies that, somehow, we don't  already have consequences for unlawful entry and reentry. That is  absolutely false. Current law already includes harsh sentences and are  some of the most prosecuted laws in our country every single year. This  bill would add ridiculous mandatory minimum sentences, potentially  going up to life, onto the crimes of unlawful entry and reentry.

Mr. Speaker, this makes no sense on multiple levels. If the  administration is seeking to deport ``the worst of the worst,'' why put  them into incarceration facilities? Perhaps this is just another ploy  to give private, for-profit prison companies more money so that they  can build more facilities, make more profit, and, ultimately,  contribute more to the Republican campaign coffers.

In addition, as the ranking member said in his statement, mandatory  minimums just do not work. We have actually seen this over and over  again. Harsh enforcement is not the answer. I don't know why my  colleagues are having such a hard time with this.

The first Trump administration actually tried to weaponize unlawful  entry prosecutions by separating over 5,000 children from their  parents. The entire country--Republican, Independent, and Democrat--was  horrified at this, and the administration, ultimately, had to abandon  their family separation policy.

Still, today, over 1,000 of these kids remain separated from their  parents. Yet, despite this despicable, absurdly cruel policy, a 2018  study found zero--zero statistically significant relationship between  the family separation policy and the number of apprehensions at the  border.

These kinds of indiscriminate, harsh enforcement efforts are a waste  of taxpayer dollars and detrimental to the kind of country that we are  trying to create. The U.S. already has the highest incarceration rate  of any country in the world, and it costs U.S. taxpayers about $182  billion every year, not to mention the social cost to lock up nearly 1  percent of the adult population. This bill would skyrocket that number.

Actually, it was during the first Trump term that Republicans joined  Democrats in actually rolling back some mandatory minimum sentences in  the First Step Act that was signed by--guess who--President Donald  Trump himself in 2018. Yet, I guess all good policy is, once again,  falling to the feet of the divisive political rhetoric around  immigrants and crime that my colleagues across the aisle have embraced  as their salvo to save them from the bleak economic picture that our  country faces today: higher joblessness; Trumpflation; a host of  reckless policies, including trade wars, that have cost the American  people.

The Republican big, bad betrayal bill is unpopular everywhere in the  country no matter how you spin it because Americans know that kicking  17 million Americans off of healthcare just so you can give a $7  trillion tax break to the wealthiest billionaire donors and giant  corporations is outrageous, and the American people want us to roll it  back.

Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Speaker, in just 19 days, government funding  expires. Right now, Americans across the country face rural hospitals  that are closing, higher prices for back-to-school supplies, and  double-digit increases in healthcare premiums. What is the Republican  majority spending their time on? This terrible bill.

What a giant abdication of the huge responsibility that the American  people put on us here in Congress.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.