Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R.  1005, the Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act.

This bill would compel schools to implement new reporting mechanisms,  monitoring procedures, and compliance structures despite the complete  absence of any factual verified threats.

Under current law, K-12 schools are not required to report funding  from foreign governments or contracts with foreign entities, as most  school funding comes from local property taxes, State formulas, and a  little bit from the Federal Government. This bill would require schools  to report funding from or contracts with a foreign source.

Let's be clear. There is no evidence that K-12 schools are under any  threat from misinformation or covert influence by authoritarian foreign  governments in any measurable way.

If passed, school districts already facing shortages of teachers,  counselors, and support staff now will have to divert critical time and  resources from instruction to completing bureaucratic paperwork, like  what qualifies as a foreign source and who qualifies as a foreign  source. Schools have got to have professional development, so every  school principal and superintendent knows exactly who needs to be  reported and how.

Confucius Institutes were mentioned. We have got 15,000 school  systems that will have to comply with this bill. Five Confucius  Institute classrooms have been found to exist in the United States at  last count. Mr. Speaker, 15,000 school systems are going to have to put  up with this paperwork. This is the very definition of unfunded mandate  and imposes obligations without offering the capacity or funding to  meet the mandate.

Instead of strengthening our school system, it distracts from the  urgent challenges our schools are facing, such as widening achievement  gaps, as reflected in the latest National Assessment of Educational  Progress scores, the NAEP scores, and the growing difficulty of  recruiting and retaining quality educators.

Let me underscore the broader point. My colleagues across the aisle  have remained silent as the administration has dismantled or is in the  process of dismantling the Department of Education, undermining its  legitimacy, capacity, and effectiveness. Most recently, the  administration announced plans to move six interagency agreements which  would offload core functions of the Department of Education and spread  them across other Federal agencies.

Yet this bill assigns additional responsibilities to what is left of  the Department of Education. It simply doesn't add up. Who will be left  in the Department of Education to enforce these mandates?

For these reasons, H.R. 1005 does nothing to improve our schools and  everything to bog down schools in administrative red tape. I strongly  recommend a ``no'' vote.

Mr. Speaker, I inform the chairman that I have no additional  speakers.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is not limited to China. This bill says  ``foreign source,'' and under the definition of foreign source, it  includes any individual who is not a U.S. citizen or national of the  United States, so if you have a plumbing contract over $10,000, you  have got to check out the owner of the plumbing company's citizenship  to know whether you have to document and report the contract.

Every one of the 15,000 school systems, every school, every contract  over $10,000, you have got to report, and you have to ascertain the  citizenship of who you are contracting with. I don't know how you do  that. If you order something over the internet, you have got to check  out somebody's citizenship. I don't know how you comply, but that is  just a little gap in the bill.

Every school system, every school would have to comply with this. It  is just not China. It is any person who is not a citizen or national of  the United States.

Mr. Speaker, there is actually no credible evidence that this bill is  even needed. We are under no threat of misinformation or covert  influence by authoritarian foreign governments.

I urge my colleagues to oppose the bill. This bill does nothing to  improve our schools, close the achievement gaps, or increase teacher  pay. It burdens schools with bureaucratic red tape due to imagined  covert influence from foreign governments.

It is so broad that it covers every contract over $10,000. If we  don't know the citizenship of the other side, I don't know how we find  out the citizenship of the other side.

We have real issues that we need to address, and we should address  those issues. For those reasons, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I urge my  colleagues to do the same.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and  nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.