Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 284, the Congressional  Award Program Reauthorization Act.

Since its inception in 1979, the award program has honored young  people for their remarkable achievements through volunteering in their  communities, personal development, physical fitness, and exploration.

The Congressional Award is a unique initiative, completely voluntary  and noncompetitive, allowing young individuals who are ages 13 to 24 to  set and achieve personal goals at their own pace.

It encourages them to engage with their communities and strive for  excellence in all areas of life. By providing this recognition, we give  young people the motivation and push they need to realize their  potential, reminding them that they are the future of this country.

This bill reauthorizes the program through 2029. The award operates  solely on private donations overseen by a bipartisan Congressional  Award Board, which underscores the collective commitment to fostering  the potential of our Nation's youth.

At a time when our youth face unprecedented challenges, it is  essential that we continue to uplift and recognize their efforts. By  supporting the bill, we can take a small step to reaffirm our  commitment to supporting the youth, nurturing their potential, and  celebrating their achievements.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this bill reauthorizes the Congressional Award program  that has been an acknowledgment of achievements by individuals since  1979, recognizing their accomplishments and service within their  communities.

This is more than just an award. It is about empowering our youth to  engage in their communities and realize their full potential.

As young people are being tested in today's climate and atmosphere,  it is crucial that we uplift them and celebrate their accomplishments.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.