Pregnant Students' Rights Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 6359, the Pregnant  Students' Rights Act.

This bill requires schools to provide pregnant students with  information about on campus and community resources and accommodations  to assist them in carrying a baby to term while they pursue an  education.

Unfortunately, instead of sharing unbiased and comprehensive  information, this bill requires schools to distribute only partial  information about a student's rights under Title IX and selective  information and resources that solely encourage students to carry a  pregnancy to term.

It provides no information about rights and accommodations for  students who may find themselves in a medical situation that requires  an abortion. Now, repeating the idea that comprehensive information  must be provided does not make it true.

Title IX entitles the students to the information, but this bill only  requires some of that information to be provided. Now while the bill's  proponents continue to assert that students are  unaware of their rights, they provide no justification or evidence that  students are any more or less aware of their rights or accommodations  specific to carrying a child to term. If we are concerned about  students who do not have a full understanding of their rights, then we  should provide all of the information necessary to address their  concerns.

By shielding students from health information, resources, and the  rights that are available to them, Republicans are denying them the  ability to choose what may be best for them and their families.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Randall).

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  First, I suggest that that big, ugly bill gave tax cuts  primarily to the wealthy, but, meanwhile, it cut healthcare, Medicaid,  SNAP benefits, and ran up trillions of dollars in additional debt.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from over 50  organizations representing civil rights, labor organizations, youth  advocates, women's rights, reproductive rights, and others.                                                   January 20, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: We, the       undersigned organizations, represent a diverse group of       advocates and experts dedicated to advancing civil rights       protections and institutional resources for pregnant and       parenting students. We write       to share our opposition to the Pregnant Students' Rights       Act--a thinly veiled anti-abortion law which would not       address the key barriers to pregnant students' educational       attainment, but would instead further shame and stigmatize       people for their pregnancy outcomes.

This bill that purports to ``protect the rights of pregnant       students'' falls far short of the protections that are       actually necessary for pregnant and parenting students and       their children.

More than 3 million undergraduate students in the United       States are parents, which is nearly one in five. Despite       earning higher GPAs than non-parenting students, parenting       college students are less likely to graduate. This is not due       to personal failing, but rather a lack of institutional       support and recognition of the unique barriers to college       completion for parenting students. Pregnant and parenting       students often experience feeling disconnected from the       larger education community and are not aware of who they can       speak to when they experience discrimination because of their       pregnancy or parenting status.

Students who are pregnant and/or parents deserve to       complete their education free from bias and harassment, in       environments that support them on their educational journeys.       Unfortunately, pregnant and parenting students are routinely       stigmatized, discriminated against, and denied the resources,       accommodations, and support they need to thrive in their       educational institutions. Many pregnant students risk their       health or the health of their pregnancies, because they are       unaware of their right to accommodations, including leaves of       absence, lactation accommodations, academic adjustments--      including virtual learning and extensions on completing       assignments--financial aid eligibility, and child care.       Ensuring that students are informed about their educational       institution's policies that can further their academic       achievement while also supporting their health and caregiving       needs is an important step in addressing the systemic       barriers that can keep pregnant and parenting students from       graduating.

Unfortunately, the proposed bill would do little to       mitigate these harms and instead risks further stigmatizing       pregnant and parenting students. The proposed bill relies on       anti-abortion language and seeks to limit students'       reproductive healthcare decisions. This language is part of a       political ploy that the anti-abortion movement hopes to use       to further its case for a national abortion ban now that the       Supreme Court has overturned the federal constitutional right       to abortion care as established in Roe v. Wade. Furthermore,       the bill language undermines existing legal protections under       Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Title IX) for       pregnant students experiencing a range of outcomes related to       their pregnancies.

Our belief in personal autonomy and respect for every       person's capacity to make their own decisions--including       whether to continue their pregnancy or not--is at the core of       our work to support pregnant and parenting students. This       bill does not contain any meaningful supports that would       actually help pregnant and parenting students be able to       remain enrolled and meet their educational goals.

Such supports are critically needed, and include:

Explicit protections under Title IX

Nondiscrimination protections at the state and local level

Accessible and affordable child care, and increased funding       for on-campus child care

Access to early education and pre-kindergarten services

Transportation access

Support for basic needs, including food, housing, clothing,       etc.

Flexible school attendance policies

Lactation accommodations

Less stigma and shame around young parenthood

Increased accountability measures for institutions who fail       to protect pregnant and parenting students

Federal funding to support campus Title IX offices' work to       prevent and investigate discrimination against pregnant       students

Mandatory data collection on student parents to help       institutions better target supports and meet the unique needs       of this population

As mentioned above, pregnant and parenting students do face       stigma and need adequate resources to combat discrimination.       However, the Pregnant Students' Rights Act contains       little more than a hollow directive for these students to       file complaints with the Department of Education, which       the Trump Administration has been systematically       decimating since taking office, even promising to       dismantle the agency. A series of Executive Orders issued       early in 2025 substantially impacted the Department's       enforcement of civil rights laws, by prioritizing       weaponizing these laws to advance discrimination instead       of protecting students, including pregnant and parenting       students. Education Secretary Linda McMahon fired nearly       half of Department staff--with the Office for Civil Rights       (OCR), which is responsible for ensuring schools comply       with federal civil rights laws, being particularly       impacted. And Secretary McMahon also closed most of OCR's       twelve regional offices that have responsibility to       investigate alleged violations of civil rights laws.       Directing pregnant students to an institution that has       been gutted by the current Administration is little more       than lip service.

There is an alternate path forward. We applaud the       bipartisan legislation put forward by Representatives Lucy       McBath, Deborah Ross, and Don Bacon: the Understanding       Student Parent Outcomes Act of 2025. This bill would make a       meaningful difference by allowing essential data collection       on the barriers to college graduation for pregnant and       parenting students. Legislation like this is necessary to       ensure that pregnant and parenting students can complete       their education and that they and their families are       protected.

Although pregnant and parenting students face many       roadblocks, they can thrive when their educational       institutions listen to them, support them, and prevent       discrimination against them, While balancing their health,       caregiving responsibilities, and educational goals is       challenging, these added responsibilities often renew       students' dedication to their studies. While the decision to       parent and/or continue pregnancy is a personal one, the       barriers that pregnant and parenting students face are not.       This proposed bill would reinforce structural and       institutional bias and scrutiny of the decisions students       make regarding their personal lives.

We welcome the opportunity to have an open dialogue with       the sponsors of the ``Pregnant Students' Rights Act'' and       with any other members of Congress who are ready to be the       champion that pregnant and parenting students in our nation       need and deserve.            Sincerely,

Advocates for Youth, AFT, AFL-CIO, All* in Action Fund,       American Association of University Women (AAUW), American       Atheists, American Civil Liberties Union, American Humanist       Association, Center for Reproductive Rights, Clearinghouse on       Women's Issues, End Rape On Campus, Equal Rights Advocates,       Feminist Majority, Girls for Gender Equity, Guttmacher       Institute, Healthy Teen Network, Ibis Reproductive Health,       Just Solutions, Justice and Joy National Collaborative, Know       Your IX, Legal Momentum, the Women's Legal Defense &       Education Fund.         MANA, A National Latina Organization, MomsRising, National       Council of Jewish Women, National Education Association,       National Family Planning & Reproductive Health Association,       National Institute for Reproductive Health, National Latina       Institute for Reproductive Justice, National Network of       Abortion Funds, National Organization for Women, National       Organization of API Ending Sexual Violence, National       Partnership for Women & Families, National Women's Law Center       Action Fund, National Women's Political Caucus, New America       Higher Education Policy Program, Physicians for Reproductive       Health, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Positive       Women's Network-USA, Power to Decide, Public Justice,       Reproaction.

Reproductive Freedom for All, Rocky Mountain Victim Law       Center, SIECUS: Sex Ed for Social Change, Stop Sexual Assault       in Schools, Tahirih Justice Center, The Pregnant Scholar at       WorkLife Law, Transgender Law Center, UltraViolet Action,       Union for Reform Judaism, University Survivors Movement,       Women Employed, Women of Reform Judaism, Women's Law Project.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, they describe the Pregnant  Students' Rights Act as: ``a thinly veiled anti-abortion law which  would not address key barriers to pregnant students' educational  attainment, but would instead further shame and stigmatize people for  their pregnancy outcomes.''

They further say: ``This bill that purports to `protect the rights of  pregnant students' falls far short of the protections that are actually  necessary for pregnant and parenting students and their children.''

It points out that if you really want to be serious, there are some  things that we could actually do to support the students, such as:  explicit protections under Title IX; nondiscrimination protections at  the State and local level; accessible and affordable childcare; access  to early childhood education and pre-kindergarten services;  transportation services; and others that would actually make a  difference.

Mr. Speaker, we have constantly heard that they are providing  comprehensive information and not amending Title IX. The fact is that  Title IX does have comprehensive rights that are listed under Title IX  that are comprehensive.

This bill, however, only requires partial information about those  rights. When only partial information is given, that could have fatal  consequences to women. Tragically, women have died because of anti- abortion legislation that was passed in some States that require women  to be close to death before they can have what could have been a safe  abortion if performed earlier. If they mistime it and get closer to  death than they thought, many have actually died in those  circumstances.

Legislators voted for those laws. We have to note that we should not  allow colleges to withhold information that could save women's lives.

Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.  Bonamici).

Mr. Speaker, in closing, since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v.  Wade, State abortion bans have undermined healthcare for pregnant  women, causing women to experience life-threatening health conditions  and complications, with some women tragically losing their lives  because of laws that legislators voted for.

Now, House Republicans are going to make things worse by limiting  students' access to information about available resources, including  information about their right to receive accommodations and protections  under Federal civil rights laws available to pregnant or parenting  students on college campuses. Women should have access to all relevant  information so they can make informed decisions about their futures.

By requiring schools to provide only some information that encourages  students to carry a pregnancy to term, this bill could unduly endanger  students' health by keeping them in the dark about their rights and  resources available to them.

The supporters keep saying that they are not amending Title IX, which  entitles students to all of this information. They keep ignoring the  fact that this bill only requires that some, not all, of that important  information be provided. Repeating a misrepresentation does not make it  true.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose the bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.