Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Flexibility for Workers Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Tipped Employee Protection Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Local Business Act


Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, as we stand here, workers' rights  are under attack, and working families are struggling to decide between  paying rent and paying for groceries. Instead of lowering costs, this  week, the Republicans are considering proposals that will reduce  workers' wages, adversely affect their retirement savings, and give  corporations and bosses loopholes to take money out of their pockets.  This is untenable, and these are the proposals that Americans can least  afford.

That is why we must defeat the previous question, so we can bring up  and pass H.R. 20, the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, the PRO  Act, to help workers organize. We know that when they organize, they  will have higher pay, better benefits, and safer workplaces.

The PRO Act will be the most significant upgrade in U.S. labor law in  over 80 years. For too long, workers have suffered from antiunion  attacks and toothless labor laws that have undermined their right to  work safely and be paid fairly.

The PRO Act will help hold lawbreaking employers accountable by  imposing meaningful penalties for violating workers' rights. It will  secure free, fair, and safe union elections by preventing employer  interference. It will crack down on corporations that misclassify  employees to stymie their right to organize.

This is a critical moment for working families. We cannot abandon our  workers, the backbone of the American economy, when they are under  attack from antiworker politicians and lawbreaking corporations.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join  me in defeating the previous question so that, instead of reducing  workers' wages, we can support this bicameral, bipartisan legislation  to ensure that workers can earn the pay and benefits they are owed for  their hard work.