Black History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687895/black-history-month


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congressman from Alabama (Mr.  Figures) and also Congresswoman Bynum from the State of Oregon and the  chair of the Black Caucus, Yvette Clarke of New York, for inviting me  to speak this evening.

Mr. Speaker, as we celebrate Black History Month, I rise to honor an  extraordinary American hero that I had the great pleasure to know from  my home community in Ohio, Lieutenant Colonel Harold H. Brown. He was a  Tuskegee Airman, and this is the bronze statue that was cast in our  region as part of our Air Force museum, honoring his astounding life.

He was a warrior for justice on many fronts and an unwavering  patriot. He was always happy. His story is one of resilience,  excellence, and service, embodying the very best of our Nation's  ideals.

From a young age, Harold dreamed of soaring through the skies. I  don't know where he got that idea, but just at 19 years old, he turned  that dream into reality as a pilot in the legendary Tuskegee Airmen.  These were a heroic group of African-American aviators who defied both  gravity and systemic racism to serve their country during World War II.  As others have referenced tonight, we stand on their shoulders.

Harold flew combat missions with unparalleled skill and valor. He  loved to fly, taking on some of the most dangerous missions over war- torn Europe. His service came at great risk. The plane we see there, he  liked to fly privately also and would wear a scarf around his neck. He  was a great teacher, and he managed community colleges after his  service.

During one of his many missions, his plane was shot down in battle,  and he was captured as a prisoner of war. Even in captivity, Harold  never wavered in his duty to his country.

After the war, he continued to serve, answering the call again during  the brutal Korean war. He answered the call. His legacy extended beyond  the battlefield. He became an educator, beloved, a mentor and champion  for the desegregation of the United States military.

The impact of Harold Brown and his fellow Tuskegee Airmen is  immeasurable in this country. The Red Tails, as they were known, flew  more than--get ready for this--15,000 sorties between 1943 and 1945,  earning a reputation as some of the most skilled pilots in the United  States military.

Bomber crews specifically requested their escort, knowing the  Tuskegee Airmen would protect them against enemy attacks. They were  angels in the sky. They were so brave. They fought not only against the  forces of fascism abroad but, again, the deep-seated racism at home,  paving the way for the desegregation of the Armed Forces with the  leadership from Ohio, setting a precedent for generations to come.

Right in my district of Toledo, the legacy of the Tuskegee Airmen  lives on. The area around us in northern Ohio--Ohio is known as the  State of flight, and 58 of these brave aviators called Ohio home, with  several hailing from the great Toledo area and Harold himself from Port  Clinton and points east.

Their contributions to our Armed Forces and to our communities remain  an indelible part of our history. Institutions such as the Toledo-Lucas  County Public Library, the National Museum of the Great Lakes, and the  Liberty Aviation Museum in Port Clinton, Ohio, where this photo was  taken, have preserved their stories, ensuring that future generations  will remember their courage and their sacrifice.

These men were not just warriors in the sky. They were pioneers who  shattered social and racial barriers, proving their excellence time and  again, despite the discrimination they faced. Despite their heroism,  their place in history has not always been respected. Just recently,  sadly, we witnessed a shameful attempt to erase the legacy of Harold  Brown and countless others who fought with him and for this country.

Under the Trump administration, the U.S. Department of Defense,  following a sweeping executive order, removed diversity, equity, and  inclusion programs, including historical education on renowned figures  including the Tuskegee Airmen and the Women Air Force Service Pilots.

A training program that honored these heroes was halted. Their  history was nearly erased in the name of a stupid and mean-spirited  political agenda that sought to rewrite America's past  to fit a narrow, exclusionary narrative. This was more than an insult  to the African-American community. It was an insult to America itself.  It was an affront to every soldier, airman, sailor, and Marine who  fought not just for our country but for the ideals upon which it  stands.

The removal of these Department of Defense programs was a deliberate  attempt to diminish the contributions of African Americans in the  military and to erase the struggles they overcame in their fight for  justice and equality.

Let this be a lesson. The power of the America people is stronger  than any one administration. When this erasure was exposed, when the  outrage of everyday citizens--not just Black, not just Brown, but  White--demanded justice, the American people forced a reckoning with  the United States Department of Defense and the President of the United  States. Public outcry led to the reinstatement of the course honoring  the Tuskegee Airmen.

Truth cannot be silenced, and history cannot be rewritten to serve  the will of the few. We, the people, hold the power to safeguard our  history. The legacy of Harold Brown and his daring, patriotic fellow  airmen has been restored, not because those in power willingly chose to  do so but because Americans of conscience refused to allow their  contributions to ever be forgotten.

This is a testament to the enduring power of truth and justice and a  reminder that each American must remain vigilant in protecting both  truth and justice. As we honor Harold Brown today--and he never wanted  honor. The entire community, most of whom were Caucasian like myself,  came out. There was music and joy, and there was happiness in his  memory.

We remember his service, but also we remember his fight. Let us carry  forward his mission, not just in the skies but in every arena where  justice is challenged, where history is threatened, and where the  sacrifices of our ancestors and predecessors risk being erased.

We owe it to Harold Brown and his family. We owe it to the Tuskegee  Airmen and their families. We owe it to ourselves and to future  generations of the American family. Harold Brown and the Tuskegee  Airmen of northern Ohio changed the world for the better, and so can  we.