Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698752/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I very much thank Ranking Member DeLauro for  yielding time. I also thank Chairman Cole and the chair of our  committee, Charles Fleischmann, for their cooperation. Please let me  thank our diligent staff for all their hard work on this bill, both  majority and minority, including from the minority staff Scott McKee,  Adam Wilson, Ippo Dellatolas, and on my personal staff Jed Bullock,  Kaitlin Ulin, and Margaret McInnis.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the fiscal year 2026 Energy  and Water Development bill, a measure that chooses progress over  retreat, American energy independence in perpetuity inside our borders,  not dependence on foreign energy supplies.

At $63.3 billion, this legislation provides a critical $2.4 billion  increase over last year. Our bill aims to help address significantly  rising energy and water bills coast to coast for families, as well as  climate-caused water shortages in the West and across our Nation, with  crop losses from coast to coast and increasing flooding across our  beloved country.

Our Nation must help communities reimagine affordable power grids and  water conveyance systems. We must also assure technologies like  artificial intelligence and data centers don't bankrupt the ability of  families to afford to live, nor take our society down dangerous roads  without a roadmap.

For those of us from the industrial and agricultural heartland,  energy and water drive the lifeblood of our economies. This bill  invests $10.4 billion in the indefatigable Army Corps of Engineers.  That is $3.8 billion more than the Trump administration's shortsighted  request.

It includes more dollars for harbor maintenance. It ensures that our  Great Lakes stay vibrant, our ports on all coasts stay open, and our  water infrastructure is built to last for Mother Nature's complexities  in this century and beyond. Our bill maintains our commitment for  critical regional commissions and authorities to build America forward  in the underinvested corners of America right here at home.

While the White House astoundingly proposed eliminating the  Weatherization Assistance Program entirely, this bill restores and  increases that funding to $329 million, a commonsense investment that  puts an average of $372 back into the pockets of thousands of  struggling households in every single congressional district. Every  dollar counts to make ends meet nowadays in an era marred by ill- considered Trump-inflicted tariffs that make living in America more  expensive as prices rise.

To tackle the cost-of-living crisis and affordability head-on, this  bill provides an additional $375 million for electric grid  modernization to help reduce prices to target the primary driver of  skyrocketing utility bills and ensure every American has access to  reliable, affordable power.

This bill provides $3.1 billion for energy efficiency and renewable  energy programs, an increase of $1.3 billion over the Republican bill.  Our goal seeks to secure U.S. energy independence in perpetuity to  drive down prices for the long haul.

Further, with $8.4 billion allocated for the Department of Energy's  Office of Science, we invest in the next generation of technological  breakthroughs. In the past, we have had some--like fracking, for  example, that unleashed the gas deposits of this country, but we want  those investments inside our borders. American innovators,  universities, and labs--not foreign adversaries overseas--must command  the new energy frontiers and not lose the edge on inventing our common  future.

Finally, our bill provides an increase to $25.4 billion for the  National Nuclear Security Administration.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for allowing me to  focus on our National Nuclear Security Administration, where we must  maintain safe, secure, and credible nuclear deterrents that power our  unparalleled, remarkable nuclear Navy--thank God for them--and counter  the threat of nuclear proliferation and terrorism.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. America can  and must meet the new-age frontiers of energy and water. Let us invest  in our workers, protect our water, and power our future. Future  generations are depending on all of us to pass this bill.