Cost of Trump's Iran War


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700949/cost-of-trumps-iran-war


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, on February 28, President Donald Trump made  a unilateral decision to take the United States and the American people  to war against the nation of Iran. Iran is a nation of 93 million  people with sophistication and fundamentalist religious leaders that  imbue Iran's actions intergenerationally.

Iran holds influence across millions of adherents, even across its  borders. Religious ties, affinities, and memories linger across borders  in that undemocratic region of the world.

Without any consultation and in direct violation of congressional war  powers in our Constitution that belongs to the people of the United  States, not just the President, our Nation is now at war with a  religious state.

Valiant members of our Armed Forces have been sent into battle in one  of the most complex and combustible regions of the world. Never in the  entire history of our Nation has any such consequential decision to  take our military and the American people to war been made solely by  any former President without a vote of Congress. Valiant members of our  Armed Forces are being killed.

We, as Members of Congress, must offer consolation to their families  and the communities from which they come, and we must pay tribute to  their bravery and sheer patriotism. However, like their families, we  remain stunned as we, too, were unaware they were being deployed into  war in territory we know to be very dangerous.

Last week, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky was quoted as saying he  would oppose any Iran supplemental. He said that he is hearing from  farmers in his State impacted by rising costs on everything, including  oil, that stem from the war. He thinks Congress should focus on  domestic issues.

Well, we can't do just that, but I do agree with Senator Rand Paul  that the war places a tourniquet on global energy supplies, and prices  on almost everything will continue to rise. I can comment that as  planting season is upon us, diesel and fertilizer costs are through the  roof, and our farmers, producers, and growers are really feeling it.

Now, the Trump administration says that it seeks Congress to  appropriate--get ready for this--$200 billion more of additional  financial support for this undeclared war.

No Member of Congress would abandon our troops in harm's way. I will  repeat that. No Member of Congress would abandon our troops in harm's  way, but here are vital questions that must be asked by the American  people and this Congress and answered by the administration: What does  victory look like? What does it look like? Which nations are our allies  in this struggle and are placing troops on the ground? How many troops  in each adjoining nation are already on the ground? How will the Trump  administration raise the funds to pay for what will likely be a half  trillion dollars or more not just for the war but for the rebuilding of  a very troubled, difficult region?

There will be a lingering instability that could pose more unrest in  that region. Chaos is a possibility. The President has already in his  first and now second administrations added over $6 trillion to  America's debt, and it is rising.

Does the President intend to borrow the funds necessary and from  whom, indebting the American people for generations to come? Trillions  of dollars is a lot of money.

To conduct this undeclared war on Iran and apparently adjoining  countries, the Trump administration is increasing our debt and  borrowing even more money from China to spend against Iran. China,  looking at our debt accounts, can ask for payment on those bonds at any  time.

I don't like the prospect of that. At the same time, with the  billions of defense dollars being spent in the Middle East, too many of  our global assets are being repositioned from the Pacific and the  European NATO commitment.

The President relatedly announced he is going to lift oil sanctions  on Russia. That means he is empowering Russia, the fiercest foe of  liberty, at the same time as he is enriching China.

Did liberty in our world just turn upside down? Have key Trump  officials forgotten the difference between liberty and tyranny?

Mr. Speaker, I ask America to pay attention.

Now, let us be serious about the accounting of these ongoing war  efforts. The first week alone was reported to cost $11.3 billion, not a  penny of that brought before the respective congressional  appropriations committees for approval. Just in the first week, $11.3  billion spent. At a pace of $2 billion per day, that means we are  spending $23,000 per second.

At this pace, spending could reach $1 trillion more by November 2027.  I can guarantee you our Defense Appropriations Subcommittee has not  approved a single penny of this spending for the war on Iran.

This is a war of Presidential choice. Billions have been spent. As of  today, we estimate about $40 billion, the 20th day of President Trump's  war.

The President is erasing money from other accounts, I guess, in order  to put it into this undeclared, fateful military engagement, erasing it  from accounts he has to, like health insurance and food for children.  We are asking where has the President emptied the accounts to pay for  this war?

Our debt gets worse every day, and since he took office 14 months  ago, our national debt has ballooned to $39 trillion. That is $3  trillion more than just over a year ago. That translates into a growing  tax on generations to come and that is wrong.

The President must present to Congress his plan to pay for his war of  choice. Otherwise, our ship of state is going to be tilting in ways  that harm the American people. They are already seeing it in the price  of essentials like food, gas, fertilizer for our farmers, medical care,  diesel, energy prices, water prices are going up, and housing is  unaffordable and rising every day. I can guarantee you the American  people are feeling the raw pinch of this already.

I have questions. Who exactly will be President Trump's emissaries to  negotiate a lasting peace in the Middle East? What background do they  have in that part of the world? What qualifications do they have to  offer in the way of expertise? It is obvious the ones that he assigned,  his son-in-law and Mr. Witkoff, had no success. They had no experience  in that part of the world. They had no experience in negotiating peace.  It is obvious the current negotiators were unable to prevent war.

The only President of whom I am aware who made consequential peace in  the Middle East was President Jimmy Carter, a man I served nearly half  a century ago.

He worked diligently for months and months, and I daresay years, at  that astounding achievement of a peace agreement between Egypt and  Israel. I urge President Trump's associates to contact the Carter  Center and identify some of those who are currently living and  participated in that extraordinary achievement and seek their advice.  This is not a simple engagement, and it will have lasting  repercussions.

Recall it was President Trump during his first term that pulled the  rug out from Afghanistan in 2018 when he withdrew from that deal, and  as we watched greater instability grow, he actually made a deal with  the Taliban who are our enemies and then our allies in Afghanistan  collapsed. He precipitated the U.S. withdrawal, not Joe Biden.

When Joe Biden took office, the damage had already been done. As I  view the road forward, who will be the diplomatic corps that will be  necessary to follow on this major invasion with negotiations for a just  and lasting peace?

In the national interest, partisanship has to be put aside, and the  most intelligent and experienced people in our country must be drawn  together. To find a way forward, levelheaded people with foreign policy  experience and budgetary know-how must be brought to the forefront.  This heedlessness on multiple fronts cannot continue.

Our people deserve a White House focused on resolution and here at  home, affordability for the American people, not another endless  foreign war with no strategy and no way out. What is truly troubling to  me as I watch this engagement is, I don't see some of the richest  tyrannies in the Middle East, like Saudi Arabia and the UAE, where are  their troops on the ground? They are not there.

We need a clear path forward for the American people, and the  President needs to come to Congress as we attempt to negotiate the ship  of state toward a stable Middle East, engaging countries around the  world who are also suffering from this decision.