Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693693/department-of-defense-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, as the senior member on the Defense  Appropriations Subcommittee, I am deeply concerned and disappointed by  this legislation. This bill was written before the  Department of Defense submitted its budgetary needs for fiscal year  2026. Shamefully, the Department still has not provided Congress with a  complete request.

Thus, we have been brought to the floor to vote on an incomplete  bill, with no complete executive branch submission. This is not only  out of order, it is dangerous. Their procrastination yields uncertainty  for those who risk their lives in defense of this Nation.

America deserves better than uncertainty and a Defense Department  that is missing in action. Our troops can't train on promises. Our  allies can't fight with doubt. Our factories can't build American  strength without steady support. This bill fails liberty on all counts.

This bill misses crucial opportunities to strengthen America's  defense industrial base. Shipbuilding is backed up over 2 years. The  Great Lakes region, a cornerstone of American industrial manufacturing,  can play a major role in relieving that backup, but all of America is  put on hold due to the DOD's damaging budget delays.

We must prioritize investments that rebuild our domestic  manufacturing capabilities. Our military should never have to fight  with or depend on foreign sources for materials, critical minerals, or  key military components. Furthermore, by cutting all funding for  Ukraine, this bill dangerously ignores history at our own peril.

At our founding, Patrick Henry heroically proclaimed: ``Give me  liberty or give me death.'' He knew liberty's cost and our new Nation's  responsibility to uphold the values that our European forebears  bequeathed to us, ones that focused on representative government.

Thomas Jefferson knew America does not exist alone on the globe when  he wrote the words: ``Our laws, language, religion, politics, and  manners are so deeply laid in [European] foundations, that we shall  never cease to consider their history as a part of ours.''

More recently, on January 20, 1961, President John F. Kennedy, in his  inaugural address, recognized America's fierce dedication to liberty  when he said: ``We shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any  hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and  the success of liberty.'' Then he warned that those who ride the back  of the tiger would end up inside it. He warned against that, and I hope  our Nation never goes down that lonely, dark path.

In a contemporary era on June 6, 1984, President Ronald Reagan stood  in Normandy, France, commemorating the day in history `` . . . when the  Allied armies joined in battle to reclaim this continent to liberty. .  . . Here the Allies stood and fought against tyranny in a giant  undertaking unparalleled in human history,'' and they did it together.

Mr. Chair, these quotes and sacrificial deeds of our forebears  explain why I rise to express my deep opposition to this bill's  irresponsible and shortsighted exclusion of any funding for the Ukraine  Security Assistance Initiative.

Throughout generations, the fundamental purpose of our Nation is to  guarantee liberty, to develop the kinds of relationships with our  democratic allies who stand with us against tyranny in any form, and to  fill our constitutional duty to provide for our Nation's common  defense. Common defense, the Constitution says.

Ensuring that the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative is properly  funded is essential to fulfilling our charge in defense of liberty on  our watch. If you haven't noticed Ukraine's struggle against the  spiderweb of tyranny fostered by Russia, China, Iran, Belarus, and  North Korea, it is real, and it is lethal.

Ukraine is in a historic fight now, not of her own choosing but for  her very survival. The poorest nation in Europe has fought back  mightily against the third largest military in the world after Putin's  murderous aggression that began in 2014.

Russia and its spiderweb of tyranny are a threat to liberty  everywhere, and Ukraine stands on the front line. If support for  Ukraine is withdrawn, Russia and its allies' assault on fundamental  freedoms will spread.

May no one in this generation become swallowed by the tiger. Those  who do not know and study history are doomed to repeat it.

Proper funding in this bill will boost our domestic defense  industrial base and affirm critical security and mineral alliances. It  supports our NATO partners. It is our privilege and, yes, duty to  support our allies and the brave people of Ukraine by appropriating  funds for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.

My amendment would reinstate funding for the Ukraine Security  Assistance Initiative. I include in the Record the text of this  amendment.

Ms. Kaptur moves to recommit the bill H.R. 4016 to the       Committee on Appropriations with the following amendment:

At the appropriate place, insert the following:

Sec. __. Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the       heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for the       Defense Security Cooperation Agency, $300,000,000, to remain       available until September 30, 2027, shall be for the Ukraine       Security Assistance Initiative: Provided, That such funds       shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, with the       concurrence of the Secretary of State, to provide assistance,       including training; equipment; lethal assistance; logistics       support, supplies and services; salaries and stipends;       sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and       national security forces of Ukraine, and to other forces or       groups recognized by and under the authority of the       Government of Ukraine, including governmental entities within       Ukraine, engaged in resisting Russian aggression against       Ukraine for replacement of any weapons or articles provided       to the Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the United       States, and to recover or dispose of equipment procured using       funds made available in this section in this or prior Acts:       Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not       less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made available in       this section, notify the congressional defense committees in       writing of the details of any such obligation: Provided       further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not more than       60 days after such notification is made, inform such       committees if such funds have not been obligated and the       reasons therefor: Provided further, That the Secretary of       Defense shall consult with such committees in advance of the       provision of support provided to other forces or groups       recognized by and under the authority of the Government of       Ukraine: Provided further, That the United States may accept       equipment procured using funds made available in this section       in this or prior Acts transferred to the security forces of       Ukraine and returned by such forces to the United States:       Provided further, That equipment procured using funds made       available in this section in this or prior Acts, and not yet       transferred to the military or national security forces of       Ukraine or to other assisted entities, or returned by such       forces or other assisted entities to the United States, may       be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon       written notification to the confessional defense committees:       Provided further, That any notification of funds made       available in this section shall specify an estimated timeline       for the delivery of defense articles and defense services       provided and shall identify if any equipment provided       requires enhanced end-use monitoring: Provided further, That       the Secretary of Defense may accept and retain contributions,       including money, personal property, and services, from       foreign governments and other entities, to carry out       assistance authorized for the Ukraine Security Assistance       Initiative in this section: Provided further, That the       Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense       committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the       obligation of any contribution, delineating the sources and       amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such       contributions: Provided further, That contributions of money       for the purposes provided herein from any foreign government       or other entity may be credited to this account, to remain       available until September 30, 2027, and used for such       purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense       shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense       committees on the use and status of funds made available in       this section.