Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695604/devastating-harm-caused-by-trump-administration


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, today what a privilege it is to join with a  dear dozen Members from across the Congressional Labor Caucus and  Congressional Steel Caucus to address the devastating harm the Trump  administration and DOGE have exacted on people, our communities, the  cost of living, and job losses across our Nation.

Job loss and the withholding of funding by the Trump administration  of awarded contracts, Federal contracts, withdrawing those from  investment across our country, has caused real ruptures in district  after district after district. We are going to summarize just some of  those tonight.

Today, the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates by a quarter  percent. Why did they do that? It was to soften the ongoing damage of  an unsteady economy.

From our region of northwest Ohio all the way to Illinois, New  Jersey, New York, Louisiana, New Mexico, Maryland, Michigan, Hawaii-- the list is long--please listen to the stories of real U.S. companies,  workers, and communities that are being devastated by job losses and  broken promises. Meanwhile, inflation and prices are steadily on the  rise due to the GOP's reckless tariffs.

First, we must ask why the Trump administration is stopping the  investment of billions upon billions of dollars in projects that were  awarded to make America great again. The answer is the Trump trade war.  Well, but then on top of that, this tariff regime is raising prices on  everything for American households. The American people are  being squeezed hard every time they try to buy a home, buy a car,  afford health insurance, go to the grocery store, or go shopping for  clothes, toys, tools, and school supplies. It is a reality that our  Nation functions under the weight of unfair global supply chains.

While we can all agree that it is great to manufacture as much as  possible in America, that requires real investment in companies and in  their workforce. It means building new factories and production  capabilities that can compete in the 21st century.

For example, in my district of northwest Ohio alone, the Trump  administration just canceled $107 million in investment for three major  projects aimed at modernizing U.S. manufacturing production and  distribution. All of those projects were debated and passed last year  in both Chambers of Congress under regular order. They were the result  of compromise within the Budget and Appropriation Committees, as well  as the authorizing committees, and then advanced to the floor for a  vote in both the House and the Senate. That is called regular order.

They were signed by the President and awarded--first of all, they  were vetted inside these departments and awarded, then, based on merit  back in March of 2024. In essence, they were legal, following standard  procedure, and were regulated by Federal agencies with receivables  awarded and contracts signed.

The recent appointees to the Cabinet agencies, however, reneged on  all of these promises. That is not just unfair, it is a breach of legal  contract. These breaches of contract for strengthening U.S.  manufacturing included $45.1 million taken from Libbey Glass in Toledo,  Ohio; $16 million taken from Kraft Heinz in Fremont, Ohio; and $57.3  million taken from Owens-Illinois Glass, which is headquartered in  Perrysburg, Ohio, and also operates a facility in Zanesville, Ohio.

These cancellations, these upendings hurt Ohio manufacturing jobs.  The Trump administration should reconsider where and who is being  harmed. These projects based in our country were part of 24 projects  approved by the Department of Energy for a total of $3.7 billion to  modernize and make more efficient facilities across America to combat  fierce foreign competitors like China, Mexico, Korea, and others. Make  America Great Again means investing in America to improve and modernize  here at home.

I have other companies to mention who had the rug pulled out from  under them, but I yield now to the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.  Budzinski) from Illinois' 13th District, who is vice chair of the Labor  Caucus. I thank her for participating.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman and Labor Caucus  members for participating this evening and for their tremendous  leadership, and I thank them for being with us tonight and telling this  story.

Mr. Speaker, when we had the joint session here not so many months  ago, I said to the new Vice President, who ran from the State of Ohio  as a Senator, then-Senator JD Vance, now Vice President Vance, please  don't forget Ohio.

The biggest of the cancellations of these investments that was stolen  back in Ohio by the Trump administration was another major Ohio  company, steel producer Cleveland-Cliffs.

Please let me remind folks that steel helps create America's spine,  certainly for manufacturing, and Cliffs traces its roots in our Great  Lakes region back to 1847. Get ready for this: Their canceled project  amounted to over $500 million, half a billion dollars, in an industry  where China manufactures four times as much as the world uses and then  strategically dumps, including in countries like ours, and diverts  production in order to get in here through the back door.

Shockingly, Vice President Vance himself helped cancel this hydrogen- based modern steel project in his own hometown of Middletown, Ohio.

Our Ohio community knows that China produces way too much steel and  knows exactly how to wipe out elements of production. Thus, the Vice  President's actions make absolutely no sense.

Mr. Speaker, also joining us this evening is Congressman Bill Foster,  a real leader, including in the scientific community, and he  represents, as co-chair, the Research and Development Caucus.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congressman for participating  and for that excellent information that we will share across both  Chambers.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Mrvan.

I have traveled over to Indiana many, many times. When I first ran  for office, it was part of the Congressional Steel Caucus and remained  one. I saw the U.S. steel industry crushed, and I have spent my entire  career trying to help rebuild it in America. Mr. Speaker, I am so proud  to serve with Representative Mrvan because I know he shares that same  commitment. I thank him for coming down to the floor tonight.

After Mr. Tonko's presentation, I will turn to Representative Val  Hoyle from Oregon's Fourth District. She is also a vice chair of the  Congressional Labor Caucus.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Tonko for his time. He  is such a leader. He doesn't have to be here this evening, but I know  how hard he works on his committee and on his subcommittees. I know how  grateful the people of New York are to have his service here.

I thank him for helping to trace the history of the Great Lakes-St.  Lawrence Seaway, which connects his part of America, all the way west  to Duluth, Minnesota. It takes us to the Atlantic and to the world. I  thank him so very much for being here tonight, and it is an honor to  serve with him.

Mr. Speaker, before I call on Congresswoman Hoyle, I thank her for  coming. I am reminded, as I was listening to Congressman Tonko, there  is a plaque way up practically at the top of the ceiling here. We have  to have really good eyes to see it.

For those who can't be with us in the Chamber tonight, let me remind  them of the quote of Daniel Webster, one of the Founders of our  Republic, who called on us to: ``Let us develop the resources of our  land, draw forth its powers, build up its institutions, promote all its  great interests and ask whether we also in our day and generation may  not perform something worthy to be remembered.''

That is why we are here tonight. Each of us is working in our regions  to perform something worthy to be remembered. It is quite painful when  the President of the United States and his minions inside the  administration take away something that was legally passed, signed,  juried, awarded, and then taken back.

Hoyle), who  represents Oregon's Fourth Congressional District and is the vice chair  of the Congressional Labor Caucus. Coast to coast, New York to Oregon,  I thank her for joining us.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman so much for  participating and for her focus on tariffs and how devastating those  have been.

In our part of the country we call ourselves the Great Lakes nation,  and we work with Canada in almost a seamless economy. We are the third  largest economy in the world.

These tariffs are wreaking havoc every time parts cross the border.  Just in automotive, for example, a part can cross the border seven  times from Ohio to Ontario, Canada, and back again and back again and  into Michigan, so we really are being harmed deeply every day by these  tariffs.

I wanted to just place on the record a few extra details of the  plight of Libbey Glass in Toledo, Ohio, in my  hometown. I mentioned that $45.1 million was canceled by the Department  of Energy to Libbey Glass, and it was part of $6 billion in funding  through the Department of Energy for industrial decarbonization.

This is where America lost so much ground, as Congressman Foster  talked about, to China. We are trying to rebuild the muscle of America.  The company was going to retrofit its plant with a new electric furnace  technology to reduce CO2 emissions significantly. The award  aimed to add to the capacity of the plant that still operates in its  original facility and creates living-wage jobs in the heart of Toledo,  Ohio. They call Toledo the Glass City. It is our identity, but now that  opportunity has been quashed unnecessarily, so carelessly and  thoughtlessly.

Instead of new, modern furnaces that could have lasted more than a  decade, the plant will be forced to invest in less efficient and  environmentally unfriendly furnaces that will last for 2 to 3 years  only.

Because the Trump administration has cut the funding for 2025, the  firm will be forced to spend even more in 2028, 2031, 2034, and 2037.  You get the picture, Mr. Speaker. It is backwards math that just  doesn't add up. It means America becomes less competitive in  manufacturing. That does not make America great again.

Please, please, Trump administration, pay attention to the details. I  don't think the President would want this outcome. I think there must  have been a blip somewhere in the bureaucracy.

Representative Glenn Ivey is a distinguished judge, as well as a very  great intellect, and I am very grateful for his participation this  evening.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Ivey. We sure are glad  that cancer research resulted in extending his life for these many  decades because we sure need him here in Congress. His constituents  have really elected a great man here. I thank him so much for being  here tonight and working with us to bring these issues before the  American people.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining?

Ms. KAPTUR.  Stansbury), who is an active member of the Labor Caucus.

I will say to anyone who is listening to us here this evening, these  Members have worked all day. They started very early this morning. You  can say they are doing a double shift, in my part of the country. They  haven't eaten dinner. I just want the American people to know that  there are Members of Congress who work very hard, who respect our  Constitution, and who respect the laws of this country. It is now  almost nearly 8 o'clock in Washington, D.C., moving on that, and they  are here to represent you.

Congresswoman Stansbury is amazing, and I thank her for joining us.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms.  Stansbury) for that impassioned plea, and I stand with the gentlewoman.

Coming from New Mexico, with everything happening there with the  climate and so forth, the gentlewoman really is such an excellent  Representative. I thank her for joining us as a member of the Labor  Caucus. The gentlewoman gave just a fantastic delivery.

I thank the gentleman for  waiting this evening. It is now 7:45 p.m., and the gentleman is still  on the job.

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Mannion for his passion  and for his obvious dedication throughout his life to restore the  economic might of his district. I know that struggle. Our Federal  Government has been too slow to respond to the washout of jobs and  capacity across this country, and that is what is making our politics  so rocky.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your generous gavel this evening.

Mr. Speaker, I will include in the Record some materials that we were  not able to verbally enter this evening.

Mr. Speaker, I will invite Secretary of Energy Wright, President  Trump, and Vice President Vance to come and stand with the workers at  Libbey Glass in Ohio so they completely understand what it takes to  rebuild manufacturing in America. I hope they will show up.