Introduction of the Appropriations Compliance and Training Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693088/introduction-of-the-appropriations-compliance-and-training-act


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, today alongside my dear friend and  colleague, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee Rosa DeLauro,  I introduced a new bill called the Appropriations Compliance and  Training Act. Unfortunately, this Administration has repeatedly  demonstrated their lack of understanding and respect for the direction  provided through the Appropriations process.

The Power of the Purse rests with the Article I branch here in  Congress. That is established quite clearly in the Constitution, and it  has been repeatedly affirmed by the Supreme Court.

We set policy, we provide direction, and we allocate funds. Then,  based on those policies, directions, and allocations, the Article II  branch, the Executive branch, can Execute what we, the Congress,  dictate on behalf of We the People.

Instead of recognizing our authority, DOGE, Elon Musk, Russell Vought  and the rest of the Executive Branch have ignored the will of the  people. They withhold funds and cancel projects, they move money from  one purpose to another without legal authority, and they just spend the  money however they want, regardless of what Congress has directed.

Our legislation requires senior executive branch employees to  complete yearly trainings on appropriations law. These trainings would  include essential legal topics including: the Purpose Statute, the  Antideficiency Act, and the Impoundment Control Act.

The trainings will also include a review of the direction provided by  Congress in the annual Appropriations Act regarding each employee's  agency so that they are unambiguously instructed of their  responsibilities vis-a-vis Congress.

We must ensure that the Executive Branch follows the law and ensures  Appropriated and obligated funds are used for their intended purpose.

I urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this  commonsense legislation.