President Truman's Words Still Ring True Today; the Failings of the State of the Union


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700295/president-trumans-words-still-ring-true-today-the-failings-of-the-state-of-the-union


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today and include in the Record a  portion of President Harry S. Truman's Address in St. Paul at the  Municipal Auditorium on October 13, 1948. While this speech is over 50  years old, the sentiments still remain today, as highlighted by the  President's recent State of the Union. Millions have lost access to  much needed food assistance, while prices at the grocery store continue  to rise. Daycare centers and rural hospitals are closing. Ill- considered tariffs have cost every hardworking family more than $1,750  and caused untold inflation which is making everyday life unaffordable.  We cannot pretend all is well when many of our fellow citizens know it  simply is not. I hope that my colleagues across the aisle will join me  in this pursuit, because all the people we represent surely need it.

Well, I have been studying the Republican Party for over 12       years at close hand in the Capital of the United States. And       by this time, I have discovered where the Republicans stand       on most of the major issues.

Since they won't tell you themselves, I am going to tell       you.

They approve of the American farmer--but they are willing       to help him go broke.

They stand four-square for the American home--but not for       housing.

They are strong for labor--but they are stronger for       restricting labor's rights.

They favor a minimum wage--the smaller the minimum the       better.

They indorse educational opportunity for all--but they       won't spend money for teachers or for schools.

They think modern medical care and hospitals are fine--for       people who can afford them.

They approve of social security benefits--so much so that       they took them away from almost a million people.

They believe in international trade--so much so that they       crippled our reciprocal trade program, and killed our       International Wheat Agreement.

They favor the admission of displaced persons--but only       within shameful racial and religious limitations.

They consider electric power a great blessing--but only       when the private power companies get their rake-off.

They say TVA is wonderful--but we ought never to try it       again.

They condemn ``cruelly high prices''--but fight to the       death every effort to bring them down.

They think the American standard of living is a fine       thing--so long as it doesn't spread to all the people.

And they admire the Government of the United States so much       that they would like to buy it.