Priceless Coin Collection Heads to the Toledo Museum of Art


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share a story of renewal, of  history and heritage rediscovered, and of deep respect for heritage in  the American heartland.

For 167 years, one of the world's greatest collections of coins-- doubloons, silver dollars, and denari--that tell the story of  civilization and economic progress itself sat largely unseen in vaults  in Manhattan, New York. These coins crossed oceans, witnessed empires  rise and fall, and marked the turning points of human history, and they  rested largely unseen.

In New York, this priceless collection had few visitors, little  space, and no real home, but now these treasures are coming to  northwest Ohio to the world-class Toledo Museum of Art.

The American Numismatic Society has chosen Toledo, located on  beautiful Lake Erie, as the place where its future can flourish. We are  so grateful that the society saw what we know so well: a community that  opens its doors wide to history and also a world-class museum that  inspires.

Mr. Speaker, children will be able to learn about heritage in this  great location. I will thank and congratulate Adam Levine, the director  of the museum, and the inspired board of the Toledo Museum of Art. We  give Mr. Levine a salute and congratulate him.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a New York Times article titled  ``After 167 Years in New York, a Priceless Coin Collection Heads to  Toledo.''                  [From The New York Times, Nov. 20, 2025]     After 167 Years in New York, a Priceless Coin Collection Heads to                                   Toledo                               (By Dan Barry)

On the 11th floor of a downtown Manhattan building, just       around the corner from the Holland Tunnel, sits one of the       world's finest collections of coins. Stored behind a series       of locked doors in a massive, climate-controlled vault, the       coins tell the story of civilization, from antiquity to       today.

A Sumerian clay tablet from about 2000 B.C.E. Early Chinese       forms of money shaped like miniature tools. A silver French       penny from the age of Charlemagne. A medal given by the       Lincoln administration to a Native American chief, pierced by       a bullet. More than 800,000 other telltale coins, medals and       objects of wonder.

But apart from scholars, members and the occasional       enthusiast, almost no one sees this treasure, which is one       reason its guardian, the American Numismatic Society, is       leaving the city where it was founded in the mid-19th       century--and moving to Toledo, Ohio.

The society announced today that it will be making a       ``strategic'' relocation to an Art Deco building on the       spacious campus of the Toledo Museum of Art. The $20 million       plan, to be completed in 2028, would make possible its long-      harbored vision of a state-of-the-art money museum, a dream       that has proved elusive in New York.

``One of our members said that this will mean a terrible       loss to New York City,'' the society's executive director,       Ute Wartenberg Kagan, said. ``But if no one uses it, what's       the loss?''

Wartenberg Kagan, a scholar of ancient Greek coinage, left       the British Museum in 1998 to join the American Numismatic       Society and someday establish a proper money museum where one       belonged, in the city of Wall Street. But exorbitant costs       and space constraints conspired against those plans, as did       an apparent indifference to the charms of numismatics.

So: Hello, Toledo!

Wartenberg Kagan said that she and several other colleagues       are eager to make the 560-mile move west, where the society       has already bought the building that will house its       collection as well as a library, auditorium and education       center. The population of the Toledo metropolitan area is       about 650,000, less than one-tenth that of New York City, but       there are many buts.

The cost of living is lower. The campus has plenty of space       to accommodate the school buses that never pulled up to the       current location because there was nowhere to park. And there       is the opportunity to work in concert with the museum,       integrating collections to produce dynamic exhibits for an       engaged community.

``We're not just buying real estate,'' Wartenberg Kagan       said. ``We're buying a relationship.''

But as one relationship begins, another ends. The American       Numismatic Society traces its origins to 1858, when a teenage       boy named Augustus B. Sage invited other coin obsessives to       his family's Manhattan home to discuss the creation of a       society dedicated to all matters numismatic. Sage, who would       go on to serve in the Civil War and die young, of pneumonia,       donated the first object: an 1825 American half-cent.

In 1908, the society built a neoclassical building at 155th       Street and Broadway, in the city's Washington Heights       section, to accommodate its growing membership, library and       collection. The numismatic cognoscenti gathered there for       lectures and exhibits, for celebrations of National Coin Week       and debates about the aesthetics of the buffalo nickel.

But as the years passed, fewer people traveled to Upper       Manhattan to see and discuss coins. Mentions of the society       sometimes appeared in newspaper roundups of out-of-the-way       places to visit in Manhattan.

Excitement occasionally paid a call. In 1977, four armed       men overpowered two society guards, meticulously taped cloth       over display cases to muffle the sound of glass being broken       and made off with about 300 rare coins worth as much as       $100,000. As they calmly exited the building, the thieves       told three impatient visitors at the door that the place was       closed.

And in 1989, a heart surgeon and coin collector from       California arrived in New York to be honored by the society       for his beneficence, only to be arrested--and later       convicted--instead. During his occasional visits, the good       doctor had been pocketing rarities worth about $1 million: a       gold coin of the Roman Emperor Hadrian here, six gold coins       of the Visigoths there.

Facing a yawning deficit, the society sold its Washington       Heights building and moved to the Wall Street area in 2004,       with plans to open a money museum. But the plan never came to       fruition.

In 2008 the society moved again, to leased space on the       llth floor of an old building at 75 Varick Street. Over eight       hours one late-spring Saturday, its entire collection,       cocooned in bubble wrap and packed in more than 400 plastic       crates, was transported to the new location as quietly as can       be done with a police escort.

Both the appeals and challenges of the society's current       home were evident during a recent tour. An extensive library       all but begged the visitor to pause and flip through a book,       any book: on heraldry or mythology, shipwrecks or excavation.       Then, once past the several locked doors that guard the       vault, Wartenberg Kagan and Peter van Alfen, the chief       curator, shared with glee just the smallest hint of the       society's immense treasure.

In this sliding drawer, a silver coin from the reign of       Alexander the Great, one of many, portraying him in battle in       India. And in this drawer, the famous silver denarius, minted       to commemorate the murder of Julius Caesar and depicting two       daggers and the bust of his assassin, Brutus. Here, a 1787       doubloon made by a New York City goldsmith, and here, a rare       1861 Confederate half dollar, struck in New Orleans.

A year could be lost in the vault of the American       Numismatic Society.

But the society's leased space is too expensive ($1.8       million a year, including taxes), too small to accommodate       its ever-growing holdings and not conducive to public       engagement. A few years ago, a travel guide included the       society among its list of free attractions--open by       appointment and closed on weekends--in Lower Manhattan. Even       then, only a half-dozen or so tourists might wander in every       week.

``This is both a big and a small place,'' Wartenberg Kagan       said. ``That's one of its problems.''

For the last several years, the society--which has 1,400       members, including 265 outside the United States--has       searched for more suitable quarters. Plans to move to the       University of Chicago fell apart, as did those to move to the       University of Pennsylvania, Long Island City in Queens and a       warehouse in Fall River, Mass.

Then came a bit of numismatic serendipity. It just so       happened that Adam M. Levine, the president and director of       the Toledo Museum of Art, had spent the summer of 2009 at the       American Numismatics Society, studying the iconography of       Justinian II coinage. He contacted Wartenberg Kagan, whom he       knew, and suggested that she consider Toledo, where he just       happened to know of a four-story building on the museum's 37-      acre campus that would soon become available.

Levine, who grew up in the Riverdale section of the Bronx,       expressed great affection for his native city. But he is now       imbued with what he called the ``zeal of the convert,'' and       he vouched for Toledo's cultural amenities, community spirit       and easy, relatively short ride to the Detroit Metropolitan       Wayne County Airport.

``I feel very confident that there is life after New       York,'' Levine said. ``And Toledo is made special by being       the only place where you can pretty much guarantee that       you'll like the next person you meet.''

A dubious Wartenberg Kagan visited Toledo--and came away       persuaded. It checked every box for the society's trustees,       including a supportive, good-sized city, reasonable housing       costs and proximity to major research facilities.

Other staff members also made the trip to Toledo and liked       what they saw. About half of the 17-member staff will be       making the move, including Wartenberg Kagan and van Alfen.

``They will be welcomed with open arms,'' Levine predicted.       ``And they'll have more visitors in their first year than       they've had in the last five.''

``Probably 10 years,'' Wartenberg Kagan added.