Protecting Social Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699878/protecting-social-security


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Social Security.  It is a sacred trust and a solemn promise to generations of America's  workers. It is a promise that includes a retirement benefit that is  earned. It is a disability benefit in the event of injury. It is also a  survivorship benefit, an insurance benefit for families if the earner  becomes ill or is fatally hurt and dies.

This belongs to all Americans who work. Workers pay into this earned  benefit system, and they do it through their FICA taxes. It comes out  of a check every month. Social Security is earned.

Yet, President Trump and his administration, especially the DOGE  boys--I bet you nobody in this Chamber even knows their names--have  worked to weaken this 90-year-old security benefit.

The Trump administration and their approach threatens the Social  Security Administration's ability to operate. They have already cut  over 7,000 jobs of employees who administer this program to millions of  Americans from coast to coast.

In my district alone, there was an 11 percent decrease in Social  Security field office workers. That means appointments are delayed, and  questions can't be answered for months. Sometimes the phone isn't  answered through no fault of their own.

I want to say to every single public employee who works in a Social  Security office across this country that they are patriots. We thank  them for the work they do. We salute them. We salute them for their  patriotism.

Meanwhile, the Social Security Administration says they are not  closing any offices; but the so-called Department of Government  Efficiency, DOGE, is attempting to weaken and dismantle a system which  has stood tall for almost a century, created by Franklin Delano  Roosevelt.

More than 11,000 Americans turn 65 each day. Many will graduate to  access benefits and, ultimately, Medicare for their own health.  Congress must ensure that our citizens have a guaranteed safe and  secure retirement. They worked for it.

DOGE not only threatens Social Security by removing vital staff  across our country but by mistreating and exposing beneficiaries'  private and personal information.

In my entire lifetime, I have never seen strangers go into the U.S.  Treasury Department and peek at other people's private beneficiary  records. This is un-American. We can't even name the names of those who  did this.

The private information of the American people should not be fed into  AI software somewhere or made open for the entire internet, which is  full of hackers to access. We must protect the assets of our people and  those who trust this program.

Social Security information has always been private until now. Social  Security is often the only resource that keeps our seniors out of  poverty. For more than 7 million Americans over the age of 65, at least  90 percent of their income comes from Social Security, which they  earned.

Of those 7 million, almost half would not be able to afford  essentials such as food, housing, and clothing without Social Security  benefits. Now due to tariffs and inflation caused by Trump, those costs  continue to go up, up, and up for everybody including seniors. It is  hardest on them.

Every county in Ohio has at least 20 percent of its population  receiving some form of Social Security benefits, and this means Social  Security plays a huge role economically in northwestern Ohio's economy.

Standing up for our region and our seniors is one of my highest  priorities in Congress, and that is why last year, when Social Security  celebrated its 90th birthday, I introduced a resolution to demonstrate  continued support from Congress for this program. It must be  strengthened to support Americans and the next generation throughout  their retirement for decades to come.

Raising the retirement age would reduce benefits for millions of  Americans, placing an unnecessary burden on  seniors and those who are close to retirement.

I promise to oppose any changes to the retirement age for these  vital, national retirement, disability, and insurance programs. If  seniors choose to keep working after age 60 or age 65, that is okay,  but they will be taxed on their income. That is only fair, but that  FICA tax will go into Social Security.

I thank all of our colleagues who joined in supporting my resolution  and urge others to consider supporting this resolution, which  demonstrates the House of Representatives' dedication to protecting  retirement security by not raising the retirement age. I support  strengthening Social Security, not cutting and gutting it.

Mr. Speaker, I end with Social Security is a sacred trust from one  generation to the next, and we intend to keep it.

God bless every senior in this country and those who will access that  important age of 65-66 very soon.