Recognizing the 118th Anniversary of the Founding of the United States Army Reserve


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701997/recognizing-the-118th-anniversary-of-the-founding-of-the-united-states-army-reserve


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 118th  anniversary of the founding of the United States Army Reserve.

Our Nation first created the Army Medical Reserve Corps in 1908 to  remedy wartime challenges. Since that historic origin, the Army Reserve  has played a critical role in combat support and humanitarian aid both  at home and abroad. Over the last 118 years, Citizen-Soldiers have been  tested in the crucible of combat, transforming from a strategic  supplemental reserve into an essential, operational force upon which  the Nation routinely calls.

Today, we honor the nearly 172,000 Army Reserve Soldiers and 11,000  Civilians serving across 50 states, five U.S. territories, and 23  countries. On any given day, upwards of 9,000 of these dedicated  servicemembers are mobilized or deployed in support of combatant  commands globally. Operating out of 1,200 American communities, these  individuals possess high-demand civilian career skills that are crucial  to our national defense. The Army Reserve provides the bulk of  sustainment forces to the Joint fight. Our Joint Force simply cannot  deploy, fight, and win without them. Whether executing Innovative  Readiness Training missions that deliver vital services to our local  communities, or maintaining a steadfast global presence, their daily  impact is immeasurable.

As we look toward the future, the Army Reserve is undertaking its  most significant transformation in several decades to ensure dominance  in large-scale combat operations and multi-domain environments. These  modernization efforts are actively enabling the force to become leaner,  more mobile, lower signature, and more lethal. Guided by their vision,  the Army Reserve is continuously adapting to provide trained and  equipped units at the scale and speed required to meet the challenges  of tomorrow. I am deeply grateful for the unwavering service and  sacrifice of every Army Reserve Soldier, Civilian, and their Families.  As they step into their next year of service, they remain: ``Twice the  Citizen, Combat Ready.''