Three-Year Anniversary of Russia's Brutal Attack on Ukraine


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687991/three-year-anniversary-of-russias-brutal-attack-on-ukraine


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congresswoman so very much for  allowing me to speak this evening and to also thank her for her service  to the United States of America in our military. She knows the cost of  liberty. There couldn't be a better Member of Congress than Chrissy  Houlahan, I will tell you that.

A lot of Americans perhaps in the newer generations don't understand  what Russia is capable of, so I refer them to two books if they are  interested, and I hope they are. One is ``Bloodlands'' by Dr. Timothy  Snyder, now at Yale University, who discusses the history of the region  that we are talking about and what happened yesterday at the United  Nations. Another book is ``Red Sparrow.'' I would recommend people  don't read that in the evening, but during the day because they will  learn more about how Russia both operates now and has always operated.

To give a little history, before the collapse of the murderous  dictatorship that was called the Soviet Union that occurred in 1991 and  had extended all the way from Russia all the way across Europe to  Germany to East Berlin, which has been free since 1991, a great  President, Ronald Reagan, served this Nation. He was elected twice.

He correctly identified Russia as the ``evil empire.'' Ronald Reagan  had been an actor in Hollywood and fought to remove Communists from the  ranks of the Screen Actors Guild in California, where he met his wife.  That particular  effort by Reagan took great courage because he could have been killed.  That is what it is like to deal with Russia as the Soviet Union or the  empire now.

Another Republican President during my service was George W. Bush. He  named Russia and North Korea as the ``axis of evil.'' We could add Iran  and other countries. Never before at the United Nations has any U.S.  President ever stood with the dictators of Russia.

Those countries that voted with Russia yesterday are state sponsors  of terrorism. Russia understands terror. That is what she does. For the  United States to stand beside Russia, North Korea, and Belarus at the  United Nations, it is appalling. It is appalling.

Russia's atrocities go back hundreds of years. During World War II on  the soils of Ukraine, 14 million people were murdered. This is the  tradition of Putin. If you do not know that, you are naive. Wake up.  Wake up.

Even China abstained from the vote yesterday.

Aligning with these countries which past Presidents have called the  epitome of evil on Earth is shocking. The very fundamental purpose of  this Nation is liberty. That is why we are here. This isn't some game,  and it is not about strategic metals or very precious items that are  underground somewhere. It is about something much more precious-- liberty.

To see that happen at the U.N. yesterday, I thought, what have they  been drinking up there?

Ukraine is the scrimmage line for liberty on the Continent of Europe  today, and no President of the United States should cavort with  dictators. We have always been the bastion of freedom. Our people have  died for it, defending these ideals around the world. Yesterday,  President Trump cowered and appeased one of the most dangerous  dictatorships in the world.

Mr. Speaker, it is shameful. It is un-American. It is not patriotic.  It is almost traitorous--maybe it is traitorous to do that. We know  Russia. We know North Korea. We know Iran. They don't stand for  liberty. They are part of the new spiderweb of tyranny that is poised  against us, if anyone is paying attention anywhere in this country.

The actions to vote with them and against Ukraine is a blotch on  America's record as a champion for a free world. Most of the world is  not free. If people haven't traveled to these places, try. They might  learn something.

Tomorrow is another day. I urge those who lead foreign policy for  this administration to remember who we fight for, who our friends are,  who our allies are, and who our enemies are united against us.

I also just wanted to place on the record a reminder that when  Ukraine was beginning to be free after the collapse of the Soviet Union  in 1991, a great man, Viktor Yushchenko, was President of the young  Ukraine. What did Putin do? Putin had him poisoned. Yushchenko survived  somehow when they flew him to Europe and they tried to pump him out  with some kind of horrible, strategic metal that he had been made to  swallow when he ate with the dictators who continued to control Russia.  Putin had just killed Alexei Navalny in a terrible Arctic prison  because he wanted to run against Putin.

That is how someone gets elected in Russia. Kill the opposition. My  friends, pay attention. Be informed. If we want to understand how a  tyranny operates, look at the film on YouTube. It takes 30 minutes. It  is called, ``Freedom Means Never Surrender.'' It is a documentary about  how a tyranny functions. It just won the Telly Award. Take the time to  do it. Recall the preciousness of the liberty we enjoy.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman very much for allowing us to  speak on this Special Order.