Trump's Reckless Tariff Policies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694099/trumps-reckless-tariff-policies


Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I am deeply concerned about the devastating  impact that President Trump's reckless tariff policies are having on  our American automotive industry and its workers.

The latest financial figures from Jeep Stellantis, for example, the  proud maker of Jeep and Ram vehicles--and they are so popular--paints a  deeply disturbing picture. Nearly $2.7 billion in losses are tied  directly to these tariffs. That translates into plant shutdowns,  canceled programs, and over 900 American workers already laid off.

Similarly, the General Motors chief executive officer said tariffs  cost GM $1.1 billion this quarter and that the next quarter will be  worse. This is real money.

In an industry that America has been striving to bring back to full  production in this country, we have lost so many jobs abroad to cheap  labor and places that have no labor rights. This is what happens with  tariffs when we lead with flashy headlines instead of well-thought-out  trade strategy.

Tariffs without a plan don't punish China. They don't balance our  trade accounts. Our trade accounts get worse. They punish Toledo. Bad  tariff policy punishes manufacturing America.

These tariffs punish Ohio. They punish Michigan. They punish Indiana.  They punish Illinois, America's manufacturing heartland. Tariffs punish  Missouri. They punish Wisconsin.

They punish every worker on the line who is just trying to build a  better life for themselves. The families and the workers who work in  these plants do hard work. They deserve to earn a fair wage with good  working conditions and benefits, including health and retirement  benefits.

Mr. Speaker, American workers need real trade reform, balanced trade  accounts, and sensible tariff policies, not gimmicks. I urge the Trump  administration to stop the damage now before the bleeding gets worse.

Our chief trading partner in northern Ohio is Canada. We like Canada.  Our industry is integrated. Parts pass over the border sometimes six or  seven times. Tariffs make no sense in an integrated economy.

The American automotive industry needs investment here at home, on  our continent, not more outsourcing. We don't need that. We need job  insourcing before more jobs disappear and more families pay the price.

Our communities need economic certainty, not higher prices, not pink  slips, not utter chaos, and not tariff regimes that change every couple  of days. America needs a trade and tariff regime that yields good jobs,  well-paid workers, and prices for cars, trucks, and consumer goods that  Americans can afford to buy.

I urge Members of this House and the Trump administration to take a  look at what is happening in the real economy. Let's fix it before it  gets much worse. America doesn't need that.                         Advancing Geothermal Energy

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak about the new horizons  of advancing geothermal energy.

Geothermal energy is one of the most fascinating, promising, yet  underused clean energy sources in our country. The problem with it? You  can't see it.

You can't see it, so a lot of people, when they are walking, when  they are in the woods, when they are going to work, they never think  about the power of the Earth. Beneath our feet, due to the temperature  differentials between the air we breathe and the temperatures in the  soil, lies a constant supply of heat from the Earth's core.

In developed communities, we have vast subterranean water and  wastewater lines that have been built over the last hundred years. Not  just in this country but all over the world where we have more  developed societies, there is waste energy that is renewable, reliable,  and constantly available in those vast, underground, big pipes that run  through all of our cities and towns.

Geothermal energy doesn't depend on the weather. It doesn't depend on  the season or geographical conditions. It exists as a consistent and  dependable source for a clean energy grid. When you go underground,  generally, you have a 45- to 75-degree constant temperature all year  long.

The United States has enormous untapped geothermal potential, enough  to power millions of homes while slashing greenhouse gas emissions and  lowering energy bills. We estimate--just think about this--Cleveland,  Ohio, a big city--I had the privilege of representing part of it for a  long time. There, their water and wastewater purification systems are  the highest cost for that city.

The energy cost of wastewater processing is the largest cost in any  city. Think about that. Every year, the purified water is thrown back  into the lake when it leaves the plant. That city throws into Lake Erie  the equivalent of a waste heat load of nearly 400,000 barrels of oil  annually. Think about that. That is waste heat that we, as a country,  could be capturing.

That is just one untapped location along just one great lake, Lake  Erie. Imagine if we could add in Cleveland, Lorain, Avon Lake,  Sandusky, Oregon, and Toledo in Ohio. That doesn't even count going  north up into Detroit and, on the north side of Lake Erie, the cities  in Canada.

There is a whole lot of energy wasted, being dumped into the lake. We  have to capture it.

By investing in geothermal technology, communities across our country  and the world can strengthen energy security; reduce reliance on dirty  fuels; create good-paying jobs in engineering, drilling, and  maintenance; and lower energy costs for industry, public facilities,  neighborhoods, and all kinds of companies.

Geothermal energy has a small land footprint. It can even be co- located with other renewables or energy-hungry data centers, which so  need it.

If we are serious about building a resilient energy-independent  future, we need an all-of-the-above energy strategy, including  unpacking the power that is already beneath us in the Earth and being  wasted.

Check out Vancouver, Canada, and what it has accomplished with  geothermal energy since the 2010 Olympics. They have really had a plan  and strategy that is remarkable.

Check out a city in Europe called Szeged, in Hungary. That is Toledo,  Ohio's sister city for 40 years.

The good news is the Trump administration appears ready to posture  across America to draw forth geothermal power, and we are interested in  doing exactly that, particularly in manufacturing America.

I am privileged to also represent a vast agricultural region in grain  drying. It is so expensive when we have to dry corn, soybeans, and so  forth. The agricultural community uses huge amounts of energy.

Let's create new jobs. Let's lower the consumer's energy bills. Let's  strengthen America's energy security. Geothermal energy holds the  potential to achieve all of those goals. Let's get it done and move  America to an affordable and energy-independent future for the decades  to come.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for letting me put on the record the future  for this country in energy, including geothermal energy.                         Honoring Marigene Valiquette

Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the extraordinary life  and legacy of Ohio State Senator Marigene Valiquette, a towering figure  in Ohio's politics and history and a trailblazer for women across Ohio  and our Nation.

Born and raised in Toledo, Ohio, Marigene broke barriers as the  longest serving woman in the history of the Ohio Legislature. With her  intelligence, fierce conviction, and unmatched oratory--she was a tough  lawyer--she served our community for 24 consecutive years, often as the  only woman in the Ohio Senate. Can you imagine that?

She was a champion for working families and labor rights, a defender  of women's rights, and an early advocate for the equal rights  amendment. Her work helped create the Ohio Lottery to support  education. She never wavered in her fight for fairness, dignity, and  opportunity for all.

Though she chose a quiet retirement, her impact will echo for years  and generations to come. She was always present. She always cared. She  took her family's experience and moved it into the highest levels of  lawmaking in the State of Ohio.

May she rest in peace, and may her courage, her grit, and her fierce  dedication inspire us all. We miss her, and we know that her work in  Ohio has made a difference in the lives of our 12 million people.