Weaponization of Ice


Mr. IVEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with deep concern over the  weaponization of ICE by the Trump administration.

Just this weekend, I had a chance to see Trump Border Czar Tom Homan  talking about how the administration is conducting the sweeps on the  streets and that they are doing it to prioritize public safety and  national security. Yet, the facts tell a different story.

According to CBS, only 8 percent of those detained have been  convicted of violent crimes. The conservative Cato Institute found that  only 7 percent of detainees were violent criminals.

In fact, most detainees aren't even criminals at all. Of the people  in detention, about half of them have criminal records. That is 300,000  people who are detained and who do not have criminal records at all.

This administration is not actually prioritizing the most dangerous  people, even though President Trump promised on the campaign trail that  that is exactly what he would do.

Mr. Homan also said that this administration always follows the law.  However, last week, a Federal judge ordered ICE to stop conducting  roving patrols, stop the sweeping arrests without reasonable suspicion,  and stop denying access to lawyers.

Mr. Speaker, the findings in this case are shocking. This is some of  the worst examples of racial profiling I have seen even during my 12  years as a prosecutor.

For example, some people were waiting at bus stops and having coffee  when they were then surrounded by ICE agents in unmarked vehicles that  sped up in their direction. They leapt out with masks on and their guns  drawn and ran immediately toward these individuals. They then  handcuffed these individuals and forced them into vehicles and drove  them away. All of this was done before they had even asked them for  identification.

The men thought they were being kidnapped. Some of them had their  feet, hands, and wrists shackled, and another man even had a gun  pointed at him.

The court who was reviewing these cases questioned what it was about  the bus stop that caused these ICE agents to believe they had  reasonable suspicion to detain these men. Reasonable suspicion means  that there is evidence at the time that each of these men had committed  a crime or were in the process of committing a crime.

What was the basis of the ICE agents' reasonable suspicion? The court  reviewed it and found that the government said: It was based on their  past experiences that have demonstrated that illegal aliens utilize and  seek to work at certain places, like getting their car washed or  waiting for the bus.

Nothing about these men suggested that they were in the country  illegally or about to commit a crime at the time that they were  stopped.

They didn't even ask for ID before they were gun-faced and then  handcuffed and taken away. The bottom line is that these men were taken  into custody simply because they were Latino.

Clearly, these tactics are unconstitutional. The use of race as the  basis for grabbing people on the street the courts have long ago ruled  are across the line and illegal.

These tactics threaten some of the most basic and important  principles that serve as the backbone for our Nation: the rule of law.  Like the unlawful deportation of Kilmar Abrego Garcia and the willful  defiance of a unanimous Supreme Court decision to bring him back, the  Trump administration is unapologetic in its efforts to target  immigrants, the Constitution, and the law be damned.

Now, in addition to being unconstitutional, this wastes a great deal  of tax dollars because they are detaining masses of people in these  large sweeps, only to have to release them when proof of their legal  status is shown. It also horrifies the citizens who have to go through  this experience.

We now have Latino citizens who are afraid to leave their house to go  to work or even to go to court. Remember the so-called Venezuelan  violent gang members deported to the gulag in El Salvador. As it turns  out, according to the Cato Institute, 50 of those men were not  criminals. Their paperwork was in order. They were in the United States  legally, and they hadn't committed any kind of crimes in El Salvador or  Venezuela.

Instead of focusing on criminals, they are grabbing people like the  64-year-old mother who was gardening in New Orleans, the father of  three marines who had been working in the United States for decades, or  yesterday when ICE raided a baseball summer camp. This is not the best  use of our Federal law enforcement agents.

I am a former Federal and State prosecutor. I deeply respect the rule  of law and understand the responsibility elected officials have to  protect it. We have got to do better than this. Let's focus on getting  violent criminals off the street. There are more than 100,000 open  warrants in the United States on any given day. Let's focus on those,  and let's move forward in a way that respects the Constitution.