Broad Support for Drafts of Bipartisan Water Infrastructure Legislation


A bipartisan group of senators and stakeholders are voicing support for the draft water resources development legislation, America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 (AWIA 2020), and the draft drinking water legislation, the Drinking Water Infrastructure Act of 2020. The two draft bills were released by Senate Environment and Public Works Committee (EPW) Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY) and  Ranking Member Tom Carper (D-DE) on April 21, 2020.

What They Are Saying About the Draft Legislation: 

EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Shelley Moore Capito:

 "Strengthening and improving America's infrastructure has always been a top priority of mine. As chairman of EPW's Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee, I'm proud of the role I played in negotiating this draft legislation and the way we worked across the aisle to do so. During these negotiations, I was able to secure many provisions that will have a positive impact in West Virginia--including improvements to our water and wastewater systems, unlocking more funding for our inland waterways infrastructure, and providing more support for our flood control infrastructure. Additionally, I was especially proud to have included a $120 million program I authored for water and wastewater infrastructure in Central Appalachia. This bipartisan legislation makes important changes and updates such as these that will help not only improve the health and wellbeing of West Virginians, but also others in communities across the nation. I look forward to moving this legislation into the final stages and making sure these measures and other legislative solutions remain in the bill throughout the process." --EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Capito

EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Ben Cardin:

"WRDA is important legislation for the State of Maryland and the health of our economy and our environment. For example, the Port of Baltimore plays a key role in the economic competitiveness of Maryland and the country. The Chesapeake Bay is a national treasure whose ecosystems and landscapes are central to the identity and livelihood of our State, but it continues to face serious challenges from environmental degradation and climate change that must be addressed. I am pleased that the draft America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 that is now available for comment takes steps to address many of these concerns." --EPW Subcommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Cardin

EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife Chairman Kevin Cramer:

"America's Water Infrastructure Act is bipartisan legislation with practical solutions which benefit North Dakotans and Americans across the country. It would create jobs, bolster interstate commerce, protect local communities' access to safe drinking water, and provide much-needed Congressional oversight and direction for the Army Corps of Engineers. I thank Chairman Barrasso and Ranking Member Carper for their leadership. This bill is an important step toward completing a comprehensive infrastructure package, and I urge my colleagues to pass it swiftly." --EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife Chairman Cramer

EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife Ranking Member Tammy Duckworth:

"Thank you to this Committee, particularly Chairman Barrasso and Ranking Member Carper, for its leadership in drafting legislation that makes critical investments in our Nation's water infrastructure. As members of this Committee are well aware, access to quality drinking and wastewater services is necessary to ensuring that every American has a shot at living a healthy life." -- EPW Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and Wildlife Ranking Member Duckworth

National Rural Water Association (NRWA):

"Our main message to the Committee today is that small and rural communities in all states support your water legislation. We appreciate the balanced approach you took in crafting the legislation that has allowed for the broad bipartisan and stakeholder support that is necessary for passage in Congress. We urge the committee and the Senate to pass it as soon as possible to help small communities with the operation of their drinking water and wastewater utilities and compliance with all the federal regulations under the Clean Water Act and Safe Drinking Water Act." --Dan Coughlin, Board Member of Wyoming Association of Rural Water Systems on behalf of NRWA

Portland Cement Association (PCA):

"Thank you for your continued leadership in advancing critical water infrastructure legislation. Portland Cement Association looks forward to working with you to advance both pieces of legislation." -- Sean O' Neill, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs at PCA

American Shore and Beach Preservation Association (ASBPA):

"I want to thank Chairman Barrasso and Ranking Member Carper of the Environment and Public Works Committee for their strong leadership in bringing "America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020' forward. It is encouraging to see Congress working so well across the aisle to address the Nation's water resources infrastructure challenges. We applaud the EPW for its accomplishment of maintaining the biennial schedule for a Water Resources Development Act and for the vision and foresight contained in the bill. American Shore and Beach Preservation Association is very much in support of the draft legislation and we look forward to helping advance it in any way that we can." --Tony Pratt, President of ASBPA

The WateReuse Association:

"On behalf of our hundreds of municipal agencies, businesses, and institutional members, we thank you for your commitment to developing strong, bipartisan water infrastructure legislation in 2020. The two bills released last week - America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 and the Drinking Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 - include important policy changes and critical investments in water management programs, including programs that support use the water recycling programs across the country." -- Patricia Sinicropi, Executive Director of WateReuse

National Onsite Wastewater Recycling Association (NOWRA):

"National Onsite Wastewater Recycling Association commends the Committee for producing draft legislation that takes important steps forward in improving the nation's water infrastructure. We hope the Committee incorporates these recommendations into AWIA 2020 as it moves forward. NOWRA stands ready to work with the Committee in this process in hopes of improving and enacting this legislation as soon as possible." -- Carl Thompson, President of NOWRA

Background Information:

The draft of AWIA 2020 provides roughly $17 billion in new federal authorizations to invest in our infrastructure for projects across the country. It cuts red tape by setting a two year goal for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) to complete its feasibility studies for potential projects, consistent with the standard set by President Trump.

The draft Drinking Water Infrastructure Act of 2020 reauthorizes Safe Drinking Water Act program that support drinking water infrastructure and provide resources and technical assistance to communities facing critical drinking water needs.