Deutch, Meng, Zeldin to Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Commemorating 75 Years since Auschwitz Liberation


Today, U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-NY), Ted Deutch (D-FL), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY) announced that they will introduce a bipartisan resolution in the House of Representatives to commemorate 75 years since the liberation of Auschwitz next Monday.

The resolution honors the 6 million Jews who were murdered by the Nazi regime and the millions of other minorities whose lives were tragically cut short. The measure also reaffirms the United States' shared commitment to combating anti-Semitism and all other forms of bigotry whenever and wherever they arise. In addition, it supports continued educational efforts to teach future generations about the Holocaust, and pays tribute to Holocaust survivors who have shared their painful stories that serve as a warning to future generations. There are over 80,000 Holocaust survivors still living in the United States.

"I will never forget what I experienced during my visit to Auschwitz this week - the gas chambers, the crematorium, the hair and glasses and personal belongings that were taken from murdered Jews," Rep. Deutch said. "I walked through the gates where more than 1.1 million people perished, mostly European Jews. Many were subjected to torture, starvation, experimentation, and ultimately, mass execution in gas chambers. We must give real and powerful meaning to "never again.' Let us honor the Survivors and ensure their dignity in their remaining years, and work to make sure our children learn of the horrors of the Holocaust so it never happens again. We can also honor the memories of all who were murdered by standing united against anti-Semitism and fighting hatred in all of its forms."

"Nearly 75 years ago, Allied troops liberated Auschwitz and saw with their own eyes the Nazi regime's evil and barbaric persecution of Jews and other minorities," said Rep. Meng. "Since then, the United States has resolved to teach future generations about the Holocaust, and why anti-Semitism and bigotry must be fought whenever and wherever these acts of hate occur. We must do all that we can in order to ensure that the adage "never again" is realized. That is why I am proud to introduce this bipartisan resolution that reaffirms our shared commitment to these goals. We stand together, united in our resolve to combat the rise of anti-Semitism in the U.S. and around the world."

"In commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, we remember the 6 million Jews and millions of others who lost their lives during one of the darkest periods of our world and renew what must be a permanent, never-ending, never-yielding pledge to never allow this form of evil to ever rise again," Rep. Zeldin said. "Never again in any form can we allow this horribly unjust ending for the innocent lives of so many children, women and men. Thankfully, with the will and courage of our greatest generation and their service and sacrifice, ultimately, good triumphed over evil, but not before millions of lives were unfathomably cut short, tearing apart families, communities and nations. This resolution strongly reaffirms this important pledge and resolves to combat anti-Semitism in our modern world wherever and however it may rear its ugly head."

The resolution is endorsed by: the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, Jewish Federations of North America, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Union of Reform Judaism, Union of Orthodox Congregations of America, American Jewish Committee, Anti-Defamation League, HIAS, B'nai Brith International, National Council of Jewish Women, American Zionist Movement, Jewish Women International, MERCAZ USA, National Association of Jewish Legislators, and Hadassah.

As of today, original cosponsors include: Reps. Julia Brownley, André Carson, David Cicilline, Gil Cisneros, Yvette Clarke, Steve Cohen, TJ Cox, Danny Davis, Madeleine Dean, Rosa Delauro, Brian Fitzpatrick, Bill Foster, Adriano Espaillat, Tulsi Gabbard, Ruben Gallego, John Garamendi, Alcee Hastings, Brian Higgins, Ro Khanna, Rick Larsen, Ted Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, James McGovern, Joseph Morelle, Jerry Nadler, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Frank Pallone, Jr., Chris Pappas, Katie Porter, Jamie Raskin, Max Rose, Bobby Rush, Brad Schneider, Jose Serrano, Brad Sherman, Haley Stevens, Thomas Suozzi, Eric Swalwell, David Trone, Mark Veasey, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Randy Weber, Susan Wild, and John Yarmuth.

Senators Jacky Rosen (D-NV), James Lankford (R-OK), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), and Ben Cardin (D-MD) introduced a bipartisan resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz in the Senate.