Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, first of all, I just want to associate  myself with the words of my colleague Senator Blunt. I couldn't say it  as eloquently. I certainly couldn't improve upon it. I am just going to  say I completely agree. Thank you. 

  The real purpose for my coming to the floor today is to demonstrate  my support for MG Scott Spellmon of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 

  General Spellmon is up for a promotion to Lieutenant General and has  been nominated to become the Chief of Engineers and Commanding General  to replace General Semonite as he retires. 

  Since coming to the Senate, General Semonite and I have become well  acquainted with each other. While we haven't always agreed, I do  appreciate his service, his very hard work, and his accessibility,  especially during this COVID-19 pandemic. 

  His retirement is well earned, and I thank him for his service and  wish him well. 

  As a member of the Armed Services Committee and the Environment and  Public Works Committee, I serve on two of the Army Corps committees of  jurisdiction. As many of my colleagues can attest, it is a rare  occasion that I compliment the Corps. It is an agency that is the  epitome in many cases of cumbersome bureaucracy. 

  I am not unique in my frustration. During our last EPW hearing with  the Corps, criticism was both bipartisan and tangible. From Rhode  Island to North Dakota to Oregon, each of us expressed frustration with  a seemingly tone-deaf bureaucracy, which either doesn't do what it is  supposed to do or does what it is not supposed to do. 

  That frustration brings me here today: Major General Spellmon's  pending nomination and promotion. Throughout this process, I have  worked closely with General Spellmon on numerous issues important to  North Dakota and other Western States. 

  Early on, I spoke with him regarding the Spring Creek embankment in  Central North Dakota. Due to the poor maintenance of relief wells, the  Corps was going to move forward with a water control plan that could  potentially devastate water supply and irrigation needs in eastern  parts of my State. 

  As per usual, the Corps' decision matrix was overly complicated and  did not adequately reflect the needs and realities of rural America.  When I brought the issue to General Spellmon, he promised to take a  fresh look and reassess the economic impacts of the project. He then  worked with me to craft legislation supporting these efforts, which was  added to the water infrastructure legislation we unanimously passed out  of the EPW not too long ago. He listened to the problem and is working  with me to help solve it. 

  I also challenged General Spellmon on Western State water rights--a  problem that has plagued Western States that operate under the prior  appropriation doctrine. On a bipartisan basis, Democrats and  Republicans from Western States have been frustrated by an Army Corps  that either ignores States and Tribes or needlessly inserts extra  bureaucracy into decisions that are really not theirs to make. Once  again, General Spellmon listened intently to the concern and provided  thorough, honest responses to be used as a guidepost for Corps policy  moving forward. 

  Of equal importance, he acknowledged the flaws within his own  organization. In my time in Congress, honesty sometimes seems to be  missing but not with General Spellmon. He has proven he is willing to  listen and be responsive in a forthright manner, and I thank him for  that. 

  I am confident General Spellmon will continue to listen to Western  States and provide the necessary deference to them pursuant to  congressional intent and to our Nation's Constitution. I have  appreciated getting to know the general, and while my oversight and  questions may not have always been the most enjoyable to him, he has  proven to be up to the task of replacing General Semonite. I support  his nomination and promotion, and I hope his exemplary service will be  replicated by the rest of the bureaucracy he is going to lead. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT