Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Madam President, I thank my colleague Senator Hoeven, and  I associate myself with everything he said about Officer Holte. He is  right. It was an appropriate celebration of Officer Holte's life on  Tuesday of this week as we attended the funeral, along with Congressman  Armstrong, Governor Burgum, Adjutant General Gorman, and a whole bunch  of other friends, family, members of law enforcement, community  leaders, and even strangers who came to provide that heroes celebration  that Cody earned. 

  An interesting thing about what Cody went into, he and a fellow  officer from the Grand Forks Police Department were called to a scene  where shots had already been fired and the deputy sheriff had already  been hit by somebody who was simply being served an eviction notice,  assigned by a judge--somebody who was very well armed with an AK-47. He  had shot 41 rounds before doing the damage that he had done and before  he was stopped. When Cody arrived, like all good officers do, he didn't  run from the fire but ran to it. He saved lives by giving up his own.  It is what heroes do. It is what all of our men and women in law  enforcement who wear the badge are prepared to do. 

  We live in an interesting time. It was ironic, to say the least, that  we in North Dakota, along the Red River, Grand Forks, are just up the  interstate from Minneapolis, paying tribute to a hero, and yet that  hero doesn't seem to get the same attention that a criminal gets. That  hero and his brothers and sisters who wear the badge don't seem to be  as respected by our media as criminals are. In fact, the restrictions  and the restraint that our heroes exercise in carrying out their  duties, the vast majority of them, are really rarely, if ever,  highlighted. 

  Yet we celebrate the life of Cody Holte--29 years old, the father of  a 10-month-old son and a husband to Mandy. It is just really important  that we stand in this Chamber today and give Cody the respect and the  honor that he earned here in these hallowed halls and tell his story to  a nation that is intrigued and fixated, in many respects, on those that  Cody protects us from. 

  It was a great honor to be there with his family and with hundreds-- thousands, perhaps--of other law enforcement officers to pay tribute to  a real hero. I think it is important to note that this hero is also a  real person. I thought that his chief of police gave an absolutely  marvelous speech, and I want to just reiterate a couple of things that  the Grand Forks chief of police said about Cody at the funeral. 

  Chief Mark Nelson said that he and Cody had formed a close bond--by  what?--in part, by sharing baby photos, the chief's of his grandchild  and Cody's of Gunnar, his son. He recalled that Cody was a friend to  all. Now, who doesn't want a cop who is a friend to all and with a grin  that could brighten anyone's day? More importantly, he said that Cody  was a cop's cop, whose heart was bigger than his courage and who had  passion and an unwavering dedication for protecting and serving his  community. He said, when Holte was on duty, there was never any need to  worry. 

  So we pay tribute today to this hero, but we are reminded that he was  also a husband to Mandy and a father to Gunnar. He was a son to Bret  and Tracy. I know Bret and Tracy very well. I have known Bret nearly  all of my life. He was a brother to Brady and Alexis, as Senator Hoeven  said. Brady is his twin brother and a police officer in Fargo, which is  just an hour down the interstate from Grand Forks. 

  Bret and Tracy are raising heroes, but, today, they are mourning the  death of a son. I know something of that, as you know. It has been an  interesting experience for Kris and me to share our journey, after the  loss of our son a couple of years ago, with Bret and Tracy. I want them  to know how very, very much we love them and that, in the valley they  are in, as deep as it is, they are not in it alone. 

  Just as King David walked through the Valley of the Shadow of Death  with the confidence that God was with him, they, too, can do that but  that, in addition to God, there are a whole bunch of other people who  are holding them up in prayer, who have their backs, with love, hugs,  and whatever is needed and that, likewise, Mandy, as the wife of a  fallen hero, has all of the brothers and sisters who wear the badge as  part of her extended family. It is an incredible group. In addition to  being a hero, Cody was these things, these very personal things. 

  I thought the eulogy that was provided by his uncle, Anthony Carter,  was exceptional. Anthony reminded us, as did other speakers but  particularly Anthony, that when Cody swore an oath 3 years ago, he  said, in protecting the city of Grand Forks, he likely knew there would  be challenging days, which is why he wore a medallion around his neck  that bore his favorite Bible verse, Philippians 4:13: ``I can do all  things through Christ, who gives me strength.'' 

  Cody has left--because somebody left for him--a legacy of faith. I  know that to be true. I know that to be true because I know the Holtes  so well. In fact, his Grandpa Pete was in my very first TV ad for  Congress in 1996. It was a losing cause, but Pete was in the ad. His  Grandma Sue was my mom's very best friend. They were prayer partners.  They did Bible study together. They ministered together. They might  have gossiped a little, but they were forgiven. Sue and Pete left for  Bret and his sisters a legacy of faith, and Bret and Tracy left for  Cody and Brady and Alexis a legacy of faith. It is that legacy of faith  in a risen Lord and in a Father who knows the grief of losing a Son,  who died for freedom, too, you see. That faith is what sustains them  today. 

  It is really important that we as national leaders, as community  leaders, as local leaders, and as family members stand in this valley  with the family, and that is what we are doing today in addition to  paying honor. 

  Finally, to Cody's brothers and sisters who wear the badge, it seems  like the world is upside down. It feels like the country is on fire.  Yes, there is the occasional criminal police officer who does something  really awful, and that person needs to be brought to justice, and, in  Minnesota, that is happening. Yet the heroes far, far outnumber the  criminals in our police officers. So I think it is important, as we pay  tribute to a fallen hero, that those who are still out there protecting  us, as we stand in this building and express our views, and who are  standing in the gap throughout our country and throughout our  communities protecting the rights of people to assemble and express  themselves peacefully that they know we are in their corner, that we  have their backs, and that we honor them along with Cody today. We  respect them, and we hold them up because we love them--because we love  them for what they do for us. I ask their forgiveness for taking them  for granted and for not expressing the gratitude often enough.  

  Cody's short 29 years of life, with his last 3 years as a police  officer and his several years as a member of the North Dakota National  Guard--his testimony in his life and now in his death--reminds us to  never take for granted our own safety and security. 

  Say thank you to a police officer in honor of Cody, who I know is OK.  I know that he is OK today. I hope he is with his Grandpa Pete and his  Grandma Sue somewhere. I hope that my Isaac, my son, bumps into him. We  had a lake cabin right next door to the Holtes when those kids were  growing up. So I stand with confidence that he is OK, but I continue to  pray for those left behind, especially his family--especially his young  son and beautiful wife and mom and dad and brother and sister--in that  they, too, are confident that they will be OK but that, while we are in  this valley, they are not alone. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT