Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I rise today to officially declare that I  will vote against both Articles of Impeachment brought against  President Trump by the very partisan and, quite frankly, ridiculous  House of Representatives. I know my position is hardly a surprise, but  it is almost as unsurprising as the House impeaching the President, to  begin with. 

  Since the moment he was sworn into office, Democrats have schemed to  remove Donald Trump from office. It is not my opinion. I take them at  their word. Their fixation on his removal was a conclusion in search of  a justification, which they manufactured from a phone conversation  between world leaders leaked--leaked--by one of the many career  bureaucrats who seem to have forgotten that they work for the elected  leaders in this country, not the other way around. 

  So the two Articles of Impeachment before this body today, in my  view, are without merit. They are an affront, in fact, to this  institution and to our Constitution, representing the very same  partisan derangement that worried our Founding Fathers so much that  they made the threshold for impeachment this high. 

  The Senate exists exactly for moments like this. I didn't arrive at  my conclusion to support acquittal hastily or flippantly, and I don't  believe any of my colleagues did either, including those who come to a  different conclusion from mine. Despite being sent such flawed Articles  by the House, the Senate did in fact dutifully and solemnly follow its  constitutional obligation. During the last days of the trial, we heard  sworn testimony from 13 witnesses, read 17 depositions, asked 180  questions, viewed 193 video clips, and poured over 28,000 pages of  documents. 

  But even more than the House managers' shallow arguments and lack of  evidence against and due process for our President and the obvious  derangement at the very root of every investigation, beginning with the  corrupt FBI Crossfire Hurricane counterintelligence investigation  during the 2016 election cycle, the Articles of Impeachment we will  vote on in a few hours should have ended at their beginning. 

  Can we agree that if a Speaker of the House unilaterally declares an  impeachment inquiry, it represents the opinion of one Member of  Congress, not the official authorization of the entire Congress? Can we  agree that a vote to begin an impeachment inquiry that has only  partisan support and bipartisan opposition is not what the Founders had  in mind and in fact is what they firmly rejected and cautioned about?  Can we agree that impeachment articles passed by a majority of one  party and opposed by Members of both parties on their face fail, if not  the letter of the law, certainly, the spirit of the Constitution? 

  Yet, even under the cloud of purely partisan politics of the House of  Representatives, the Senate conducted a complete, comprehensive trial,  resulting, in my view, in a crystal clear conclusion: The Democratic- led House of Representatives failed to meet the most basic standards of  proof and has dramatically lowered the bar for impeachment to  unacceptable levels. It is deeply concerning, and I believe we must  commit to never, ever letting it happen again to the President of any  political party. 

  That can start today. In just a few hours, the Senate will have the  opportunity to cast a vote to end this whole ordeal, and, in doing so,  can make a statement that the threshold for undoing the will of the  American people in the most recent election and undoing the will of a  major political party in the upcoming election should be higher than  one party's petty obsession. 

  I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle join me in voting  against these charges. But whether he is acquitted or convicted and  removed, it is my prayer, as we were admonished many times throughout  the last few weeks by our Chaplain Black, that God's will is the one  that will be done. 

  Then we can move on to the unifying issues the American people want  us to tackle--issues like infrastructure, education, energy security  and dominance, national security, and the rising cost of healthcare,  among many others. These are issues the American people care about.  These are issues that North Dakotans care about. These are issues that  the people have sent us here to deal with. Let's do it together. Let's  start now. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT