Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I seek recognition today regarding the  recent impeachment trial of President Donald Trump. This was a rare  moment in our young Nation's history. We had little to guide us other  than the Founding Fathers' collective wisdom and sparse precedent. 

  The process may seem daunting, and the debate over even the most  basic mechanics of the trial could leave the future Members of this  body susceptible to deception or misinformation. I therefore want to  offer my thoughts for future Senators when this issue inevitably rises  again. 

  The impeachment trial proceedings are unique. It is an inherently  political process analogous to a legal trial. There is a prosecution,  represented by the House managers, as well as a defense, representing  the President. There is also a presiding judge, the Chief Justice of  the Supreme Court. 

  As in a courtroom, the prosecution and defense take opposite sides of  the judge as they make their arguments. The burden of proof is on the  prosecutors, who must present their evidence, and it is the job of the  defense to refute the arguments.  

  There is also a jury, the U.S. Senate. Like a courtroom jury, we sit  in silence throughout the trial listening to the arguments of both  sides and are asked to render a verdict at the conclusion. However,  unlike a courtroom but as instructed by the Constitution, we are not  jurors subject to peremptory challenge; we are elected officials  instructed to offer impartial justice based on the evidence presented  to us. 

  We are not expected to check our knowledge or our existing  relationships at the door. If this were a true trial, all Senators  would have to recuse themselves for the inherent bias connected to the  election certificate they earned. As Alexander Hamilton wrote in  Federalist Paper 65, ``In many cases, it [impeachment] will connect  itself with the pre-existing factions, and will enlist all their  animosities, partialities, influence, and interest on one side or on  the other.'' Rather, we are asked to follow our conscience, to hear the  arguments of both sides with an open mind and deliver a verdict. We  also differ from courtroom jurors in that we establish the rules for  the proceedings. This is done through organizing resolutions we debate  and pass. 

  Before considering the merits of this particular case, it is  important to discuss the idea of impeachment itself in light of the  present context. During President Trump's hearing, the President's  legal team alluded to the idea that a President can do essentially  whatever he or she wants, and it will not be considered an impeachable  offense as long as that President's interests in doing so align with  the interests of the United States. 

  ``If a President does something which he believes will help him get  elected in the public interest, that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo  that results in impeachment,'' said Alan Dershowitz, a member of the  President's legal team, during the trial. 

  I feel that particular statement is wrong. The Constitution grants no  President absolute power. There is a threshold that can be reached.  Thankfully, this was later clarified by Mr. Dershowitz in an opinion  piece he wrote for The Hill entitled ``I never said the President could  do anything to get re-elected.'' In it, he said:  

       Any action by a politician motivated in part by a desire to       be reelected was, by its nature, corrupt. Moving to my       response, I listed three broad categories of relevant       motives, which are pure national interest to help the       military, pure corrupt motive to obtain a kickback, and       mixed-motive to help the national interest in a way that can       also help a reelection effort. I said the third motive was       often the reality of politics, and helping your own       reelection effort cannot by itself necessarily be deemed       corrupt.  

  In the end, it is the duty of every Senator to determine whether the  President acted in a purely self-interested manner without any regard  for the national interest. Given the full context of his actions, it is  clear President Trump did not act in a purely selfish, boundless  manner. 

  While the question of whether a President can commit a crime and  therefore be impeached is firmly settled, there arises another question  this impeachment trial did not sufficiently answer but must be  addressed in the future. 

  The Constitution says it is the job of the House of Representatives  to impeach a President whose trial is held before the Senate. According  to current Senate rules, our body must move forward with impeachment  proceedings, but is that according to the Constitution? 

  Article I, section 3 of the Constitution states:  

       The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all       Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on       Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States       is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person       shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two-thirds of       the Members present.  

  With this impeachment behind us, now is the time we as a body need to  evaluate the constitutionality and wisdom of our rules requiring the  Senate to move forward with any impeachment articles. We must reaffirm  our right to dictate what is considered on the Senate floor and when it  is considered, which is not without precedent. 

  Article II, section 2 of the Constitution says:  

       He [the President] shall nominate, and by and with the       Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors,       other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the Supreme       Court, and all other Officers of the United States.  

  In 2016, after the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia,  President Barack Obama appointed a Supreme Court nominee to replace  him. However, with the election of a new President just months away,  the Senate declared it would not consider this particular nominee and  would instead let the people decide whom they would like to nominate a  Supreme Court Justice. 

  The Senate was well within its right to decide the timing and  consideration, or lack thereof, of this constitutional obligation to  consider judicial nominations, and the same should be true of  impeachment trials. 

  This is a question in need of an answer for future impeachment  proceedings because impeachment articles brought by the House  completely derail Senate legislative activity. We are unable to  consider legislation, nominations, or conduct any floor activity. 

  While I agree such an enormous responsibility should elicit our  undivided attention, it seems illogical to automatically grant primacy  to impeachment articles, especially those as flawed as the ones  presented by House Democrats. 

  The House's impeachment process was entirely partisan. Since the  moment he was sworn in, Democrats schemed to remove Donald Trump from  office. By May of 2017, 26 Democratic Members of Congress had called  for the impeachment of President Trump. Speaker Pelosi herself said  impeachment was 2\1/2\ years in the making. 

  When House Democrats finally agreed on a reason to impeach the  President, their vote to begin the process received no Republican  votes, and multiple Democrats voted against it. It does not seem  unreasonable to me that a vote to begin an impeachment inquiry which  has only partisan support and bipartisan opposition--as this one did-- is not what the Founders had in mind and is what they firmly rejected  and cautioned us against. 

  ``Complaints are everywhere heard from our most considerate and  virtuous citizens, equally the friends of public and private faith, and  of public and personal liberty, that our governments are too unstable,  that the public good is disregarded in the conflicts of rival parties,  and that measures are too often decided, not according to the rules of  justice and the rights of the minor party, but by the superior force of  an interested and overbearing majority,'' Founding Father James Madison  wrote in Federalist Paper 10. ``However anxiously we may wish that  these complaints had no foundation, the evidence, of known facts will  not permit us to deny that they are in some degree true.'' 

  When it came time for the House to vote on impeaching the President,  the same ``overbearing majority'' outcome occurred. No minds were  changed, but the country was further torn apart and the process strayed  beyond the original intent of the Founding Fathers. The two Articles of  Impeachment before this body were, in my view, without merit. They were  an affront to this institution and to our Constitution, representing  the very same partisan derangement that worried our Founding Fathers so  much that they made the threshold for impeachment so high. 

  I think it would be universally agreeable that Impeachment Articles  passed by a majority of one party and opposed by members of both  parties at the very least fail the spirit of the Constitution. To this  point, detractors could say the partisan nature of this impeachment  proceeding is the fault of Republicans who blindly follow President  Trump, rather than Democrats whose hatred for this President compels  them to act more than the facts in front of them. 

  Such an argument quickly falls apart when you read the statements of  Republicans who found the President's actions inappropriate but did not  believe they rose to the level of impeachment. That argument further  corrodes when you consider the content of the Impeachment Articles and  the partisan and secretive process House Democrats followed in writing  them. 

  Fundamentally, the Articles of Impeachment were incomplete. Democrats  did not complete their own investigation before drafting and ultimately  passing the articles, which is why Senate Democrats spent most of their  time demanding witnesses and more documents. The House also did not  provide  due process to the President, nor to the minority during the House  investigation. In October of 2019, as the House began formally  considering impeachment in earnest, Senator Lindsey Graham led several  Senators in introducing S. Res. 378. It laid out specific issues we had  with the House process in hopes it would remedy the situation before  sending the articles to the Senate. 

  In it, we mentioned five rights President Trump was being denied,  although the House had provided similar due process to Presidents Nixon  and Clinton during their impeachments. The denied rights included  allowing the President to be represented by counsel, permitting the  President's counsel to be present at all hearings and depositions,  permitting the President's counsel to present evidence and object to  the admission of evidence, allowing the President's counsel to call and  cross-examine witnesses; and giving the President's counsel access to  and the ability to respond to the evidence offered by the Committee. 

  The impeachment process against President Trump had been nothing more  than secretive hearings and selective leaks designed to sway public  opinion and hurt the President politically. It was a hyper-partisan  process completely void of due process, and that never changed until it  reached the Senate. In our resolution, we also highlighted the fact  that ``the main allegations against President Trump are based on  assertions and testimony from witnesses whom he is unable to confront,  as part of a process in which he is not able to offer witnesses in his  defense or have a basic understanding of the allegations lodged against  him.'' 

  The issue of evidence, both its origin and the lack of compelling  proof from the House managers, became the foundation of this  impeachment. This investigation began because an anonymous national  security official approached Democratic chairman Adam Schiff with a  secondhand claim that President Trump sought to withhold aid to a  foreign country to force it to announce it would launch an  investigation into one of the President's political rivals. 

  President Trump was quick to offer the transcript of the phone call  where this allegedly occurred. He did, and it showed there was, in  fact, no quid pro quo, and House Democrats in their investigation were  never able to produce a firsthand witness to testify otherwise. 

  Future Senators should be sure to note the eagerness or reluctance of  an accused President to share clarifying information. President Trump  took unprecedented action to release the transcript of the conversation  Democrats called into question--an action he was not legally required  to take and most of his predecessors have never done. Contrast that  with President Nixon, who fought until the end to hide his recorded  conversations because he knew the contents were damning. Contrast  President Trump's actions even further with the House Democrats who  pursued a secretive, one-sided process to craft the narrative they  wanted. 

  Despite several pieces of information demonstrating the President's  innocence and none to the contrary, House Democrats continued this  crusade. Their fixation on his removal was a conclusion in search of a  justification. 

  They manufactured criminality from a simple phone conversation  between world leaders, leaked by one of the many career bureaucrats who  seem to have forgotten they work for the elected leaders in this  country, not the other way around. Motives matter. In the future,  Senators should be vigilant in figuring out an accuser's intention. 

  There is a common narrative that career bureaucrats are simply  righteous, opinion-less civil servants. This impeachment and the  actions leading up to it prove the exact opposite. By no means are all  of them evil or ill-willed, but this proceeding showed they are far  from unbiased, and they are capable of weaponizing the tools and access  they are given. 

  Unsurprisingly, this led to two Impeachment Articles being sent to  the Senate on a party-line vote that were without merit. They were an  affront to this institution and to our Constitution, representing the  very same partisan derangement that worried our Founding Fathers so  much they made the threshold for impeachment this high. 

  The Founders created the Senate for moments just like this. When  Impeachment Articles are sent to the Senate, it is not our job to fix  the mistakes made by the House, and it is not our job to finish an  investigation it admittedly did not complete. It is the Senate's solemn  duty to set aside the heat of the moment, prevent short-term stress  from leading to long-term decay, and deliver impartial justice. 

  As James Madison said at the Constitutional Convention, ``The Senate  is to consist in its proceeding with more coolness, with more system,  and with more wisdom, than the popular branch.'' That is why, even  under the cloud of purely partisan politics of the House of  Representatives, the Senate conducted a complete, comprehensive trial.  The obvious result of which was the conclusion that the Democratic-led  House of Representatives failed to meet the most basic standards of  proof and dramatically lowered the bar for impeachment in the future to  unacceptable levels. 

  With all of this established, we as a Congress and as a nation must  unite around some commonsense changes, both to institutional rules and  to our understanding of the impeachment process. Lowering the bar for  impeachment undermines our shared democratic principles. 

  Impeachment must be a tool employed only when the evidence is  overwhelming and well-founded. We must discourage future House actions  like what we just witnessed from ever occurring again. 

  We must also find ways to take on a bureaucracy run rampant.  President Trump was impeached because an unelected bureaucrat provided  falsehoods to an overly receptive Democratic House chairman's office  with a directive to remove President Trump. The opinion of Federal  career staff is not sacrosanct. Without further action, these  impeachment proceedings will be interpreted as empowering to them,  rather than a reminder of who holds constitutional power. 

  Finally, as we seek to apply the lessons learned from this historic  time, I was reminded of the words Chaplain Black offered to us during  his daily opening prayer. ``We must pray for God's will to be done.''  There is a higher power than any of us, and our country would benefit  from remembering that more often.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT