MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President: ``This is a tremendous opportunity to  restructure things to fit our vision.'' 

  This is an opportunity to fit our vision. 

  That is a quote--not from some Communist activist leader somewhere in  the United States, not from some Third World general. No, that is from  the third ranking Democrat in the House of Representatives. Let that  sink in for a minute. 

  Read it again: ``This is a tremendous opportunity to restructure  things to fit our vision.'' 

  I thought a bogus impeachment was shameful enough but clearly not.  People in this country are dying. They are dying, literally. People are  losing their jobs every day, literally. More and more people are  getting sick every day. And that is why Senators rushed back here. We  rushed back here to pass the House bipartisan legislation that was  negotiated between the President and Speaker Pelosi. 

  Then we let both sides work on the next steps. We passed that bill  within less than 24 hours of receiving it from the House. As imperfect  as it was, we passed it with 90 Senators voting for it. That is how  bipartisanship works. We worked around the clock to craft a plan, and  we succeeded. 

  Here we sit, listening to our Democratic colleagues pretend this is a  partisan plan, as if they weren't sitting in the room as it was being  negotiated, and many of their ideas are in this bill.  

  Why are they doing that? I will tell you why they are doing it. When  we see a rising body count, they see a political opportunity. Shame on  them. The Trump derangement syndrome is accelerating the coronavirus.  They should be ashamed of themselves. They see a chance to impose their  vision--their leftwing, radical vision on our country because they  think they can force it past us during this crisis. Their extreme  partisan obstruction has blinded them. 

  What has happened to this place? Why are they even here? 

  Attempts to work across the aisle--honest attempts, attempts by rank- and-file Republicans and rank-and-file Democrats--have resulted in our  Democratic colleagues having created a revisionist view of what we have  been doing, and it has resulted in blind, political opportunism just to  advance their extreme leftwing agenda--an agenda that includes things  like the Green New Deal, which is something that actually had a vote on  the floor of the U.S. Senate. Guess how many of them voted for it-- none. It was that nutty--none. Yet, now, that is the agenda. That is  their vision. That is the opportunity they see. 

  How about socialism for the entire economy? It was not enough just  for the energy sector. It was not enough just for the healthcare  sector. It was not enough just for the manufacturing sector. Let's just  have socialism. Let's debate which Democratic Presidential candidate is  the best Socialist. How about hurting our farmers, our ranchers, our  oil workers, our truckdrivers, our restaurant owners, our  manufacturers, or our welders--everybody? 

  We are not even asking them to vote on this plan. The vote last night  was not on the bill, and the vote this afternoon was not on the bill.  It was simply a procedural vote to begin the debate, to continue the  negotiations on the bill. Not one moment would have been lost. Guess  what. Now over a day has been lost while we have dithered. We are  asking--when we do finally agree to help the American people--that  instead of killing the economy and the jobs, as they have been doing,  that we be ready to act on the bill. No, that is not good enough for  them. 

  Many of my colleagues have talked about what is in the bill. There is  $4 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Do you  think it could use it? 

  How about $9 billion for child nutrition? Do you care, Democrats,  about child nutrition? We have often heard you talk about it. Where is  it now? 

  How about $20 billion for veterans? Do they not care about that? 

  How about $50 billion for our farmers? I spoke about it. How about  $75 billion for our healthcare providers? Do you think your healthcare  providers could use a little more assistance, Democrats? I think they  could, and they need it now. They needed it yesterday. 

  How about $350 billion for the small businesses that employ all of  those people who are now getting fired because they can't keep their  doors open? Yet that is not even worth a debate to our Democratic  colleagues. Oh, no. 

  Apparently, it is now all back open for debate. The reports today are  that the minority leader is holding the $50 billion for farmers hostage  so they can get more of the opportunity to restructure things to fit  their vision. 

  Apparently, the majority leader either forgot or he never knew that  food doesn't come from the deli. 

  Mr. Minority Leader, food comes from the farmer. There is no sandwich  in the New York deli without the farmers' growing the grain. There is  no meat in that sandwich without the ranchers' raising the livestock.  No, they don't make that food in the deli, Mr. Minority Leader. 

  Who started all of this? It was not he. He tried to be helpful for a  while or at least it appeared so. No, it was not he. It was not even an  uprising of the rank-and-file Democrats who have been filing in,  occasionally, into this Chamber. It wasn't even the breakdown in  negotiations between the Republicans and the Democrats. It was the  House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who flew in here on an airplane that was  powered by fossil fuels. Maybe those fossil fuels were even made by  some oil from Alaska or North Dakota or Texas. She demanded an  expansion of--what?--the renewable energy tax credits and other parts  of her extreme leftwing, radical, partisan agenda. 

  What in the hell does that have to do with the coronavirus? 

  The absurdity of it speaks for itself. That is what we have learned  to expect from the majority of our colleagues on the other side of the  aisle and in the other Chamber of Congress--ever since the freshman  Democrat from New York became the de facto Speaker of the House. That  is the House. We are not the House. We are the Senate. We are supposed  to be the adults in the room. Some of our colleagues are here, acting  like petulant children when there are people who are suffering and who  don't know what to do or where to turn for help. They are turning to  us. We are it. We are the help. We are driving the ambulance. All the  while, the Speaker of the House tries to steer us into the ditch while  the minority leader of the Senate hangs on for dear life in the  passenger's seat. 

  Why would those people come to us for help anymore? The House Speaker  doesn't care about them. For crying out loud, she cares about renewable  fuel tax credits. Where is rural America supposed to go? The Democratic  leader sees them as, simply, political pawns. Being held hostage is $50  billion for farmers. Let's hold that one up. Maybe we could get more of  what fits our vision, our radical agenda. 

  Apparently, helping these people doesn't matter to them. Well, I have  news for him. I have news for the minority leader. While the Democrats  dither, Americans are dying. That is a real fact. Let's get back in  here tonight, and let's pass this legislation.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT