National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696136/national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, in a little while, we are going to vote to  proceed to S.J. Res. 62, which I introduced with Senator Hoeven to  repeal the Biden administration's Bureau of Land Management resource  management plan for North Dakota.

Of course, H.J. Res. 105, which mirrors our bill, introduced by  Congresswoman Fedorchak, has already passed the House of  Representatives, and final passage is scheduled for later this evening.

The Bureau of Land Management--or BLM, as we call it--is the landlord  of 745 million acres of land and subsurface deposits nationwide. BLM's  management of these public resources is governed by what is known as  the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, otherwise known as FLPMA,  which requires--I stress ``requires''--the Bureau to develop resource  management plans or RMPs to guide management decisions.

And, when created, Congress was clear: These RMPs must abide by the  multiple-use mandate.

Now, ``multiple use'' is a term that is thrown around a lot in the  public lands discussions. It was championed by President Theodore  Roosevelt, who drew from his experience in his two ranches in North  Dakota, the Maltese Cross and the Elkhorn Ranch, and throughout the  West.

And, by the way, North Dakota is where his Presidential Library is  being built, and it will be open next July 4--unpaid announcement.

``Multiple use'' means that land is sustainably used by the State and  local population, rather than preserved like a national park or a  wildlife refuge. Multiple use lands are used by miners, cattle grazers,  oil and gas developers, and recreationalists alike. They are not meant  to be locked up.

Multiple use is a mandate, as I said earlier. It is not a suggestion.  And that is what brings us here today.

In the final days of the Biden administration, they approved the  North Dakota resource management plan, which governs the management of  58,500 surface acres and 4.1 million acres of mineral estate across our  State for the next 15 to 20 years.

Despite vocal objections from the State, the people who actually use  the  land, the final plan prohibits coal leasing on over 4 million acres by  inexcusably prohibiting all future development outside of a 4-mile  radius from current development--over 90 percent of North Dakota's  affordable, reliable coal, out of touch. It is gone.

It also blocks 213,000 acres, or 44 percent, of federally owned oil  and gas acreage from future development. This restriction alone  deprives the State--and we are a small State--of $34 million annually  and--get this--the State's Common Schools Trust Fund a minimum of $50  million.

And if that wasn't enough, non-Federal minerals are also held hostage  to the Federal Government's management plan. As I mentioned earlier,  these RMPs govern subsurface acreage. Whether it is coal, oil, or gas,  federally owned subsurface minerals are intermingled with State and  private mineral owners. In plain speak, the Biden resource management  plan is a de facto taking from the State and private mineral owners.

Throughout the rulemaking process, this point was made very clear,  but BLM ignored it. And it is unacceptable and needs to be undone. And  I will add that it needs to be undone by Congress so it is clear to the  bureaucracy that this sort of resource management plan is out of  bounds.

By passing this resolution, we reassert congressional intent and  remind the bureaucracy: Our boundaries are not optional.

Mr. President, this rule will need to be replaced once we repeal it.  Thank goodness Congress had the foresight in the Congressional Review  Act to say no replacement rule could be substantially similar to the  one it is replacing. But by no means does it preclude the proper  replacement of a rule.

I have the utmost confidence in Secretary Burgum and Deputy Secretary  MacGregor to get this done right, but this cannot sit on the back  burner.

Nearly 6 years ago, during the first Trump administration, I wrote a  letter on behalf of a single constituent advocating for this RMP to be  updated so he could develop some of his privately held minerals. They  started the work, but unfortunately the Biden administration finished  the work.

While Congress is acting to repeal their disastrous plan today, the  administration must swiftly replace this RMP, ensuring North Dakota  gets the best long-term plan possible to responsibly utilize our  natural resources.

I urge my colleagues to support this resolution.