Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696152/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan


Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, before I pay tribute to Pastor Bjorge, I  just want to say thank you to my colleagues who supported that  resolution that you just announced that passed. It is very meaningful  to North Dakota, and I express my appreciation for the support.                       Remembering James Richard Bjorge

Mr. President, ``James Richard Bjorge, child of God, went home to be  with his Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, on September 29, 2025. He was  94.''

That is the opening paragraph of an obituary for Pastor Bjorge, whose  funeral is tomorrow. I will obviously miss it, being here in  Washington, but I did want to, first of all, seek unanimous consent to  submit his obituary to be printed in the Record tonight.

He       was 94.

James (Jim) Bjorge was born April 10, 1931 in Windom,       Minnesota to Johs and Esther (Johnson) Bjorge, the second of       three sons. He was raised in a loving Norwegian (with a touch       of Swedish) home. Growing up in Windom was a special time of       friendships for Jim. He experienced multi-denominational       youth groups, boyish pranks, a respect for others, and most       importantly the knowledge of Jesus' love for him.

After graduating from Windom High School, Jim attended St.       Olaf College and graduated with honors. He went on to Luther       Seminary and received his M.Div. Jim always credited his       older brother `Big John' for encouraging him to attend       seminary. Although this was not Jim's original path choice,       he received the calling from God and enrolled in seminary.       Some years later he attended Westminster Theological Seminary       in Escondido, California and earned his Doctor of Ministry       degree.

Along with being an excellent scholar, Jim had a love for       basketball, tennis, and high jumping. His 6'4" frame broke       high jumping records in college and in varsity at seminary.

After seminary graduation in 1957, and before Jim began his       first call to Belgrade, Minnesota, he met Frances Erickson,       an Augustana graduate. After a few dates the courtship       continued with many letters sent during Fran's first year of       teaching in California. They were married the next summer.       Five children were born to this union.

Jim, with Fran and family, served parishes in Belgrade,       Litchfield, and Roseville, Minnesota, Viroqua, Wisconsin,       Sioux City, Iowa, and lastly First Lutheran in Fargo, North       Dakota. Jim retired from full-time parish ministry after       serving 17 years at First Lutheran. He continued to share the       Word by accepting an interim position in Sioux Falls, South       Dakota.

After Fran's death in 2002, Jim continued with interim       preaching at Wahpeton, Fargo, Portland, Grand Forks, Valley       City, Horace, and Enderlin, all in North Dakota. In addition       to serving his parishes, Jim authored 15 books, which include       sermon series, lessons from nature and 2 books on nature.

In 2010 during a short interim at Faith Lutheran in Valley       City, Jim met Carol Winter, also widowed, with a heart for       music ministry through her singing. The LORD had a plan for       Jim and Carol. After a brief courtship, they were married in       the Chapel at Mount Carmel Family Bible Camp near Alexandria,       Minnesota. Jim had attended Mount Carmel since its beginning       in 1938, first as a young boy with his parents, then as a       young handsome lifeguard during college summer breaks. He was       later a guest preacher for many years at summer adult camp       sessions. He continued to speak God's Word with joy until       health issues halted him at age 88. The desire to continue       sharing the Gospel never left him, even from his bed at       Sanford Hospice House.

Jim served on many boards in all of these parish       communities. He especially enjoyed being chairman of the Red       River Valley Billy Graham Crusade in 1987, and being a member       of the Lutheran Health and Banner Health Systems boards from       1990-2005. Being on these boards sparked his love of travel,       taking trips to the British Isles, Scandinavia, Europe, the       Middle East, and Australia. He led many bus tours throughout       the U.S. and tour groups 19 times to Israel, Jordan, and       Egypt. Two trips to the Passion Play Performance in Germany       were tucked into his travels also.

A noted and gifted motivational speaker, Jim spoke to       several varied groups locally and around the country       including the Fellowship of Christian Athletes national       gathering. As Joe Dill, a former Fargo Forum editor, stated,       ``Jim Bjorge is among the best speakers I have heard--stands       in front of a group with no cards, and it just rolls out''!

Throughout his life, Jim was a sports enthusiast and a       lover of the outdoors and creation. He was an avid hunter of       deer and pheasant. Antelope, other game birds, various animal       pelts, and fish also adorned his man cave walls. He ruled the       remote when his favorite basketball, baseball, and football       games were on TV. Another pastime he enjoyed was hobby       ranching and always had horses.

Jim is survived by his wife, Carol; children, Barak       (Katie), Debbie, Nate (Kate), Tim (Amy), Ben (Renata) Bjorge;       Carol's two children, Dawn and Brian Winter; sixteen       grandchildren; fifteen great grandchildren; and a number of       nieces and nephews. He was preceded in death by his parents,       Johs and Esther; brothers, John and Mark; grandson, Willie       Bjorge; and his first wife, Fran.

A visitation will be held at 4:00-6:00 p.m. on Thursday,       October 9, 2025 in the chapel at First Lutheran Church. A       Funeral Service will be held at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, October       10 with a visitation one hour prior, all at First Lutheran       Church, Fargo. Lunch will be served in the dining hall       following the service. Burial will be at Ellsborough Lutheran       Church Cemetery near Lake Wilson, Minnesota.

To send flowers to the family in memory of James Bjorge,       please visit our flower store.

Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, Pastor James Bjorge was--well, he was a  pastor. He was a Lutheran pastor, a big Norwegian American from  Minnesota. He loved sports, loved the Lord, loved the church, loved his  family, loved his community. And he was my pastor. He was a pastor for  our family when we attended First Lutheran Church in Fargo, ND.

But Pastor Bjorge was especially gifted. He was also an evangelist.  He was, I remember, the chairman of the Red River Valley Billy Graham  Crusade in Fargo in 1987. And that is not common for Lutheran pastors.  It was more so back then than it is today, to be part of something so  evangelical.

But some of Jim's gifts included, of course, being a great orator.  Every pastor preaches, but not every pastor preaches well. James Bjorge  preached exceptionally well, and I still remember several of his  sermons.

One of the gifts that Jim had that I admired so much is he could  recite poetry by heart. He had a photographic memory, it seemed to me.  He could recite about anything he read, but especially poetry. And I  remember some of the poems that he would use as illustrations in his  sermons that still stick with me, some of them that were even anonymous  in terms of who wrote them.

I remember one where he started out: I had walked life's way with an  easy tread, followed to where pleasures and comforts led, when by  chance in a quiet place, I met the Master face to face.

He went on to recite this poem perfectly, and I thought: Wow, I would  like to be able to do that. I learned one poem--that one.

But I remember him quoting Robert Browning Hamilton when he said:

I walked a mile with Pleasure; She chatted all the way; But       left me none the wiser For all she had to say. I walked a       mile with Sorrow; And ne'er a word said she; But, oh! The       things I learned from her, When Sorrow walked with me.

And I was thinking about that poem and him delivering that poem and  me remembering that poem from probably 30 years ago in his sermon  because of how profound it was and how profound it is to think about on  this sad day.

But while he was all those things--he was a great motivator, great  with illustration, great with stories--he was first and foremost a  really, really learned teacher of Scripture. He loved the Scriptures.  He knew the Scriptures, and he taught the Scriptures with incredible,  incredible skill. And he brought the Scriptures to life. He was a  profound teacher. He was a solid doctor.

And I remember, of all the many lessons I learned from him--and I am  just going to wrap up with this one story. And I remember it so well  because I remember reciting it back to him in a letter one time. In one  sermon, he said: We should all live with one eye on Heaven.

And there are lots of scriptural references that sort of touch on  that, but his point--his point, I believe--was if you live with one eye  on Heaven, particularly knowing that you are focused on your eternal  destiny, that that would somehow impact how you lived your life on  Earth.

And for somebody who taught the Pauline epistle so beautifully,  emphasized every single Sunday God's salvation by His grace through  faith alone, not by anything we do, it was a good reminder that if you  live with one eye on your eternal destiny that you have not earned but  rather have been given as a free gift from God, it would affect how you  approach your journey here on Earth.

So I think of Pastor Bjorge today. I think of his family, and I wish  I could be at the celebration of his life. Tomorrow, no doubt, there  will be lots of great stories told and a few tears shed.

But I know this--and in my life, the pastors of my youth, right up to  my current pastor, have always left a profound mark on my life, and I  know this for sure: While I could never and never have been able to  achieve his level of living with one eye on Heaven, because I knew him,  I am a better person than I would be if I hadn't known Jim Bjorge.

And when I think about the testimony not only of his words--I mean,  he was gifted with words but the fact that he lived with one eye on  Heaven gives me great comfort knowing that he is now there--that he is  now there--and that his 94 years walking on this Earth, his walk  reflected his view of Heaven and the certainty of his destination.

So with that, I just say thank you Pastor Bjorge for making me  better.  Thank you for your ministry. Thank you for your testimony and witness.  I just wish his family well and just know that I am going to miss him.  I am going to miss him but grateful that I knew him.