Recognizing the North Dakota State University Bison Football Team


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I thank the President for yielding the  floor and thank you for your previous speech. It is a great honor for  me to follow the senior Senator from North Dakota, Senator Hoeven, in  congratulating this remarkable, singular accomplishment by this  remarkable, singular football team: the North Dakota State University  Bison. 

  Senator Hoeven did a great job of highlighting the highlights of this  singularly great team as, last weekend, they did win their eighth out  of nine FCS national championships; that is, NCAA Division I Football  Championship Subdivision. 

  He went through the statistics that are very impressive: the stretch  of 37 victories in a row; the 16-0 season; the singular accomplishment  of Trey Lance, this redshirt freshman from Marshall, MN, who threw, by  the way, in the course of the season, 29 touchdown passes and a grand  total of 0 interceptions--remarkable to say the least. He was just  named, in fact, the 2019 FCS National Performer of the Year. 

  Senator Hoeven paid tribute appropriately to Coach Entz. Senator  Hoeven is exactly right--an incredible individual; an incredible,  undefeated head coach. Not only was he named the Missouri Valley coach  of the year, he was just named the AFCA FCS coach of the year--a  tremendous person. 

  We can talk about all the great things that the Bison football team  does, and it is appropriate that we do that and that we celebrate them  in North Dakota and Fargo and the region and all of Bison Nation, as  Senator Hoeven said. There is something they don't do that I appreciate  so much. I watched the game on ABC, as we have watched lots of football  games lately on the national networks, and the one thing they don't do  that I love is they never point to the name on the back of their jersey  because they don't put their names on the backs of the jerseys because  this is always a team effort. This is a legacy of a team. It is a  culture of a team. It is the equality of a team. As great as every  performer is, they are a team. That is the way they win; and, if they  ever lose, that is the way they lose, but they don't do that much. 

  They really have defined--redefined--excellence, but their excellence  doesn't end on the field. I don't think it should surprise anybody to  learn of a few other statistics of North Dakota State University. For  example, just last year, for just the second time in our Division I  history, all NDSU athletic teams reached a cumulative grade point  average of 3.0. Let me say that again: All NDSU athletic teams reached  a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or greater, while also  achieving our highest overall student athlete GPA of 3.43. Over 280  student athletes at NDSU scored a 3.0 or better, with 72--72--of their  student athletes receiving a 4.0--earning, I should say, a 4.0. 

  As you can tell, Senator Hoeven and I are proud Senators. We are  proud of our team. We are proud of our university. We are proud of the  entire university system in our State for lots of reasons. I think what  the excellence of the North Dakota State University football team has  illustrated is an excellence that can be achieved and can be applied  not only to the gridiron, not only to the fields of athletic  competition, but to life. As the Presiding Officer knows, their motto  is that the strength of the herd is in the bison and the strength of  the bison is in the herd. It is a good lesson in athletics and a good  lesson in life. 

  I join Senator Hoeven in congratulating the Bison. 

  Go Bison. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT