Sen. Cramer Outlines Agriculture Assistance in COVID--19 Phase Three Relief Package during Call with Producers, Elected Leaders


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) spoke with members of North Dakota's agricultural community today about the assistance for agriculture found in the Phase Three Coronavirus (COVID--19) relief package and about ongoing efforts to assist agriculture during the pandemic.

"COVID--19 knows no vocational bias. It threatens every sector of our economy, including our agricultural producers, who already have to overcome recent extreme weather and natural disasters," said Senator Cramer. "Our legislation equips the Trump Administration with additional resources to help rural America as we weather this pandemic and its economic consequences. We plan to keep fighting for them and all North Dakotans who need assistance."

In addition to its holistic support for American workers and businesses such as the Paycheck Protection Program, the Phase Three package contains support for agriculture, such as:

$14 billion to replenish the Commodity Credit Corporation;flexibility for Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to extend the term of crops currently in the Marketing Assistance Loan from 9 months to 12 months; and$9.5 billion for a new program created specifically to support for agricultural producers of specialty crops, livestock, and dairy, as well as producers who supply local food systems.Senator Cramer is already working to ensure this program properly benefits North Dakota, joining South Dakota Senator John Thune in writing a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue urging him to use the new $9.5 billion program to deliver targeted, timely, temporary, equitable relief to cattle producers. He also joined Senators Jerry Moran and Mike Rounds in their efforts to help cattle producers receive assistance.

Governor Doug Burgum and Agriculture Commissioner Doug Goehring hosted today's call, which -- along with Senator Cramer -- also featured Senator John Hoeven, Representative Kelly Armstrong, and state legislators and officials in North Dakota.

For more information, visit cramer.senate.gov/covid19.