Sen. Cramer Statement on the Trump Administration Releasing the SAFE Vehicles Final Rule


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND), a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee member, issued the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Transportation releasing the final Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule:

"The Trump Administration's SAFE Vehicles Rule proves we can make vehicles safer and more environmentally friendly without the burdensome regulations the Obama Administration and some states adopted. Unaffordable prices mean fewer low emission cars on the road, which puts energy and manufacturing jobs at risk while higher emission cars keep harming the environment. Today's final rule is a win for auto makers, middle-class Americans, and the environment."

Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao and EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler announced the final rule earlier today.

"This rule reflects the Department's #1 priority--safety--by making newer, safer, cleaner vehicles more accessible for Americans who are, on average, driving 12-year old cars.  By making newer, safer, and cleaner vehicles more accessible for American families, more lives will be saved and more jobs will be created," said Secretary Chao. "Today, President Trump is keeping his promise to autoworkers made three years ago that he would reinvigorate American auto manufacturing by updating costly, increasingly unachievable fuel economy and vehicle CO2 emissions standards, and that is what the Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient Vehicles Rule accomplishes."

 "We are delivering on President Trump's promise to correct the current fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions standards," said Administrator Wheeler. "Our final rule puts in place a sensible one national program that strikes the right regulatory balance that protects our environment, and sets reasonable targets for the auto industry.  This rule supports our economy, and the safety of American families."

Senator Cramer praised the proposed rule in August of 2018 in an opinion piece for The Hill, saying it "opens a transparent process with a wide range of regulatory options to enhance safety and continue environmental improvement while not ignoring low- and middle-income families and changes in the energy marketplace." Read the piece here.

According to the EPA, the SAFE Vehicles Rule will lead to:

$100 billion in total reduced regulatory costs,$1,400 reduced in the total consumer cost of ownership per new vehicle,More than $1,000 reduced in the price per each new vehicle, and2.7 million additional new vehicles sold.