Sen. Cramer Leads Bipartisan Legislation to Help WWII Veterans Receive Health Benefits


Ahead of Memorial Day, U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND), a member of the Armed Services and Veterans Affairs committees, with Bob Menendez (D-NJ) introduced the WWII Veterans Hospital and Medical Eligibility Act. 

This bipartisan legislation would ensure all World War II (WWII) veterans are eligible for health care services provided by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

"The United States would not be a free country today without the sacrifice and service of those who fought for our country in World War II. We are obligated to provide them with the highest quality care available," said Senator Cramer. "Our bipartisan legislation eliminates loopholes to ensure these veterans have access to the care they need."

"As we head into Memorial Day Weekend, let us remember the sacrifices of our fallen soldiers and honor those still living by providing them with the care and services they need and deserve," said Senator Menendez. "This bill will cut the red tape and ensure our World War II veterans have access to the benefits they're entitled to. This is the least we can do to pay our respects to the Greatest Generation who put their lives on the line to defend our freedom."

Due to current limitations in the law, there are WWII veterans who are prevented from receiving VA health care benefits. The VA determines a veteran's eligibility for cost-free health care benefits based on a variety of factors such as military service history, disability rating and income level.

The Veterans Health Care Eligibility Act of 1996 exempted all Spanish American War and World War I veterans from having to meet certain requirements in order to receive VA health care benefits. The WWII Veterans Hospital and Medical Eligibility Act would extend this exemption to include WWII veterans.

The legislation is cosponsored by Sens. Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Steve Daines (R-MT).

"The fighting men and women of our nation's greatest generation deserve the utmost respect and care for their service in World War II," said Senator Daines. "This bipartisan bill is about ensuring that all World War II veterans have access to VA services. It important our veterans who served bravely in defense of our country have access to the care they need."

"There are roughly 11,000 World War II veterans residing in New Jersey, and nearly 400,000 nationally. Unfortunately, due to bureaucratic loopholes, many heroes of this Greatest Generation don't have access to the healthcare benefits they've earned," said Senator Booker. "This bill would fix that problem by extending health care benefits to all World War II veterans, ensuring they can live out their final years with the dignity and respect they deserve."