Sen. Cramer on Senate Passage of USMCA


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) issued the following statement today after the Senate passed the United States-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) trade agreement:

"USMCA is a huge win for our producers. Its implementation will stimulate the economy, create new jobs, and increase exports with two of North Dakota's top trading partners," said Senator Cramer. "It's a shame this agreement was held up for over a year, but I'm thankful we got this done."

USMCA will reduce trade distorting policies and improve transparency while ensuring non-discriminatory treatment for American agricultural product standards with two of North Dakota's biggest trading partners. Specifically, this deal will: 

-Ensure North Dakota grain is no longer graded as sub-par feed;-Provide increased access to the Canadian market for poultry, eggs, and dairy;-Mandate that vehicles, built with 75 percent North American content, are imported without tariffs; and-Require any member of the agreement to give three months' notice to the other countries if it starts negotiations with a non-market economy, which is what the United States considers China.

This deal will impact over 90 percent of North Dakota's exports. In 2018, North Dakota exported $7.9 billion worth of goods to the global marketplace. Of that $7.9 billion, $6.9 billion went to Canada, accounting for 88 percent of the state's total exported goods. North Dakota exports an additional $228 million to Mexico. 

After quickly voicing his support for the agreement in October of 2018, shortly after it was announced, Senator Cramer made fighting for USMCA a hallmark of his first year in the Senate, meeting with President Trump, U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Chief Agriculture Negotiator Gregg Doud and Canadian Ambassador David MacNaughton to discuss the deal and to stress its importance to North Dakota. He also met with local constituents such as the North Dakota Stockmen's Association, Tyson Foods, CHS; and constituents at Beulah's and Williston's Coffee with Cramer town halls to provide updates and to ensure their voices were heard.

In addition to working with the Administration and stakeholders on this deal, Senator Cramer was a vocal advocate for USMCA, making frequent appearances on Fox News, Fox Business, Bloomberg Television, and CNBC urging his colleagues to support the agreement. Senator Cramer gave a floor speech imploring the House to move USMCA forward when it began to stall.

"I applaud President Trump for delivering on his promise to secure an improved and superior North American trade deal. This agreement is a win for North Dakota and the country, and I hope Congress will ratify it as soon as possible," said Senator Cramer in his October speech.