Sens. Cramer, Loeffler, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Halt Taxpayer Funds for Abortion Providers, Allow PPP Access for Larger Faith-Based Groups, Nonprofits


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) joined Senator Kelly Loeffler (R-GA) today in introducing the "Limiting Infant Fatality and Empowering Nonprofit Organization Workforces (LIFE NOW)" Act.

This legislation eliminates the affiliation rules and 500-employee cap for 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations to allow larger nonprofits to receive PPP loans. It also prohibits taxpayer dollars from funding abortion providers.

"Paycheck Protection Program funds are for saving jobs and helping people, not ending lives," said Senator Cramer. "Our legislation prohibits taxpayer-funded bailouts for abortion providers and allows larger nonprofits seeking to better their communities to access the assistance they need." 

"At a time when one in three Georgians have lost their job because of the coronavirus pandemic, many families are struggling to afford their rent or mortgage and put food on the table," said Senator Loeffler. "One pillar of my USA RISE Plan is focused on providing targeted relief for families and children. Churches, YMCAs and other organizations are doing amazing work during this difficult time to provide childcare, meals and other support for families and children. This legislation will allow them to access loans to help them keep their doors open and continue serving their communities while ensuring no taxpayer dollars go to abortion providers."

Senators James Lankford (R-OK) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) also joined as cosponsors.

"Subjecting not-for-profit organizations to affiliation rules has left out large nonprofits like the YMCA and numerous churches and faith-based organizations that serve our communities with food, shelter, and other important assistance before, during, and after this pandemic," said Lankford. "We need them to be able to keep their doors open now more than ever. I am grateful for Senator Loeffler's efforts to help ensure we provide flexibility for PPP funds for those who help save and protect lives and continue to prevent federal tax dollars from funding abortion services."

"Countless Americans are struggling to make ends meet during the COVID-19 pandemic, and faith-based nonprofit groups are once again stepping up to the plate to provide relief," said Senator Rounds. "Our legislation would allow churches, YMCAs and other faith-based organizations to apply for loans through the Paycheck Protection Program so they can continue to support struggling families during this difficult time. Importantly, it also prevents abortion providers from receiving taxpayer funding."

The LIFE NOW Act is supported by March for Life Action, the Susan B. Anthony List and the Family Research Council.