Sens. Cramer, Schumer, Shaheen Request Unanimous Consent to Pass USS Frank E. Evans Act


U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) requested unanimous consent on the Senate floor today to pass the USS Frank E. Evans Act, a bipartisan bill to honor the 74 sailors who died in the sinking of the USS Frank E. Evans during the Vietnam War.

"The Lost 74, their loved ones, and their shipmates have waited long enough," said Senator Cramer. "No matter how it could be spun, the choice before this chamber is whether to give these veterans the recognition they deserve, or to stand in their way."

In his remarks, Senator Cramer told the story of the USS Frank E. Evans and the longstanding efforts to add these sailors' names to the Vietnam Memorial wall in Washington DC, where they have been excluded because of a technicality. He also addressed the poorly-constructed criticism of the bill offered by career bureaucrats.

"I am yet to hear any opposition to this legislation voiced except by the bureaucrats and special interests who would be charged with making it happen," said Senator Cramer. "The idea that we should continue to turn a blind eye to forgotten veterans because the work would be "substantial" is ludicrous. The country which landed a man on the moon the same year these sailors died can't figure out how to fix a wall honoring them?"

This follows a floor speech in March where Senator Cramer vowed to make this request if tangible progress was not made.

"The bureaucracy's excuses have found welcoming ears here and the bill remains stuck with no explanation or reasoning. It has equal bipartisan support, yet it remains stuck in the bureaucracy of this body. If we do not see movement soon, I will be returning to the Senate floor to attempt to pass the bill by unanimous consent," Senator Cramer said in March. "I will not join the bureaucracy by standing in the way, and I hope none of my colleagues do either."

Senator Cramer was joined on the floor in support of the bill by USS Frank E. Evans cosponsors Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a fellow Senate Armed Services Committee member.

"These were living, breathing boys who lost their lives wearing the uniform of this great country," said Senator Schumer. "To inscribe their names on a memorial is but a small measure of peace for the families they left behind. The rightful act of a nation that recognizes the sacrifices of all its sons."

"As we recognize the sacrifices of our fellow Americans, I think it's appropriate that the Senate take up and pass the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans Act, legislation that I'm really honored to cosponsor with my colleague, Senator Cramer from North Dakota," said Senator Shaheen. "It's legislation that will ensure 74 men, those Lost 74, are rightfully honored by adding their names to the Vietnam War Memorial."

Unfortunately, Senator Cramer's unanimous consent request was objected to by Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), meaning the Senate did not pass this legislation. However, Senator Murkowski said she will work with the senators to find resolution on this issue. Senator Cramer concluded by vowing to continue his efforts and to never stop fighting to see the names of these sailors added to the wall where they belong.

Steve Kraus, President, USS Frank E. Evans Association, thanked Senator Cramer for his effort today and joined his vow to keep fighting to honor these fallen sailors.

"On behalf of the USS Frank E. Evans Association and myself we extend our sincere thanks and appreciation to Senator Cramer for his unending support to add the names of fallen 74 USS Frank E. Evans Sailors to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Words cannot express our frustration!  Over 50 years ago these 74 sailors left our homeland to fight in a war in Vietnam," said Kraus. "It is difficult to imagine that a select few continue to believe an imaginary line in the water can be used to distinguish between those that deserve recognition and those that do not.  Our 74 gave up their lives in the Vietnam War, it is as plain as that! Through the years we have gained consensus of Congress and other organizations in support of our cause.  The Veterans of Foreign Wars, Vietnam Veterans of America and American Veterans have adopted resolutions supporting the addition of the names to the Memorial.  The exclusion of the names on the wall is a grave injustice and our Association will continue to fight to add their names to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial."

Patrick Murray, Director of National Legislative Service for the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), also issued a statement in support of this legislation.

"The VFW has long held the belief the sailors from the USS Frank E. Evans should have their names etched alongside their comrades on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall. These brave sailors who died June 3, 1969, should not be excluded from this memorial. The USS Frank E. Evans was supporting the Vietnam War efforts in the South China Sea at the time of its collision and the sailors lost on that day should be recognized the same as other Vietnam War veterans. The VFW fully supports S. 849 the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans Act and calls for its swift passage to right a 50-year-old wrong."

Senator Cramer first learned of this issue during a talk radio townhall and subsequently authored legislation for it in 2018. While it passed the House, it failed to be considered in the Senate. Senator Cramer then introduced this bipartisan legislation, gaining 10 Democratic and 10 Republican supporters, in March of 2019.

The bill received its first hearing in June before the Senate Energy Subcommittee on National Parks, where it received the support of both the Chairman and the Ranking Member. Since then, Senator Cramer has fought for its passage, both in the NDAA and through support from the Administration.