Sens. Cramer, Daines Speak with Commerce Secretary about Administration Efforts to Fight for Pulse Crops Producers


U.S. Senators Kevin Cramer (R-ND) and Steve Daines (R-MT) received an update today from U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross about the Trump Administration's efforts to fight for American pulse crops in trade negotiations.

"I thank President Trump for giving our producers a voice as we fight to get them better market access, and I appreciate Secretary Ross providing an update on this North Dakota priority," said Senator Cramer. "I am hopeful this will lead to positive results as trade negotiations continue, and I look forward to working with United States Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer as he leads these efforts."

"I am grateful to President Trump for standing by Montana's pulse farmers during the ongoing trade negotiations with India and for Secretary Ross's update on the status of the pulse crop negotiations," said Senator Daines. "Securing this trade opportunity will help boost Montana ag and strengthen Montana's position as the number one producer of pulse crops. I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump and the Administration and securing more trade wins for Montana ag!" 

Secretary Ross reached out to Senators Cramer and Daines following President Trump's trip to India, where the President presented their letter urging the inclusion of favorable pulse crop provisions in trade negotiations to the Indian Prime Minister.

Senator Cramer wrote this letter with Montana Senator Steve Daines because Montana and North Dakota are the number one and two producers of pulse crops in the United States. India is one of the world's largest consumer of pulse crops and has levied substantial tariffs on those American pulse crops.

"Engaging Prime Minister Modi on pulse crop tariffs as part of larger discussions to enhance the economic cooperation between our countries would be mutually beneficial to American producers and Indian consumers," the Senators wrote.