U.S. Senate Confirms Katharine MacGregor as Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior


Today, the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Katharine MacGregor to be the Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior with a 58-38 vote. MacGregor has been serving as the Deputy Chief of Staff exercising the authority of the Deputy Secretary since May of 2019.

"Kate will be a tremendous leader and serve the American people admirably," said U.S. Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt. "I am pleased that the Senate finally confirmed her."

"I am humbled and so grateful to President Trump, Secretary Bernhardt and the Senate for this incredible opportunity. Now I look forward to getting back to work to fulfill the Presidents priorities to promote economic strength for all American's and to advance the mission of DOI. And Happy Birthday Dad!" said U.S Deputy Secretary of the Interior Katharine MacGregor.

MacGregor has served in several positions at the Department since joining the Trump Administration in January 2017, including Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary - Land and Minerals Management and Deputy Chief of Staff. MacGregor has worked on issues that include improving responsible domestic energy and mineral development, combating missing and murdered American Indians and Alaskan Natives, enhancing rural broadband and executing on other Administration priorities.

Prior to joining the Department, MacGregor worked on Capitol Hill for 10 years, serving for two Chairmen of the House Natural Resources Committee.

She is a native of Pennsylvania and a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

Over 200 elected leaders and external stakeholder organizations throughout the country expressed their support for Katharine MacGregor's nomination to be the next Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Interior.

"Kate MacGregor clearly knows the issues surrounding energy development, wildlife, water and other natural resources," said Governor Mark Gordon (R-WY). "She understands the federal government should be a good neighbor when dealing with landowners, mineral split estates and state agencies."

"Kate MacGregor approaches each task with energy, determination and excellence, never tiring of the work before her," said Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND). "She illustrated a true passion for good governance, public land management, energy independence and conservation stewardship."

 "Kate MacGregor has a strong record of supporting responsible renewable energy development, which is critical to an all-of-the-above energy approach that moves our nation toward energy independence and vital for the leadership role for which she has been nominated," said Tom Kiernan, President of the American Wind Energy Association. "AWEA supports her confirmation and looks forward to continuing to work with her to advance our priorities".

"Under the leadership of Secretary Bernhardt, the DOI is an indispensable partner in the management of our Federal forests," said Bill Imbergamo, Executive Director of the Federal Forest Resource Coalition. "Kate MacGregor's demonstrated experience with DOI and working as the acting Deputy Secretary of the DOI makes her uniquely prepared for this position."

"Kate MacGregor's deep knowledge and experience of natural resources, environmental, energy, public lands and wildlife issues mean she understands how to strike the balance between conservation and productive uses of public lands," said Kathleen Sgamma, President of Western Energy Alliance. "Western Energy Alliance strongly supports Katharine MacGregor's confirmation as the next Deputy Secretary of the Interior."

"We believe Kate MacGregor will make decisions in a way that advances tribal sovereignty and the trust responsibility between the United States, including the Gila River Indian Community," said Stephen Roe Lewis, Governor of the Gila River Indian Community.

"Kate MacGregor has demonstrated her vested commitment to advancing public access opportunities on federal lands and waters for a diversity of outdoor recreationalists, including America's sportsmen and women, while also advancing sound conservation policies," said Jeffrey Crane, President of the Congressional Sportsmen's Foundation.

"Kate MacGregor's experience on Capitol Hill and with the Department of the Interior, has shown and she has proven to be a more than capable leader, administrator, and strong proponent of the Department's mission," said Conrad Stewart, Board of Directors for National Tribal Energy Association. "She has been a strong advocate for Tribes, Tribal Sovereignty, and the issues important to us."

"Kate MacGregor has an exceptionally strong background that has prepared her extraordinarily well to serve in this capacity," said Ryan Flynn, Executive Director of the New Mexico Oil and Gas Association.

"Kate MacGregor was a strong advocate for Indian Country while working on the House Natural Resources Committee, particularly with respect to supporting responsible energy development on Indian lands," said Christine Sage, Chairman of the Southern Ute Indian Tribe. "She has furthered policies related to the serious concern over missing and murdered Native Americans, addressing domestic violence in Native communities and highlighting the cold cases that plague tribal communities across the Country."