Expressing the Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701381/expressing-the-support-of-the-house-of-representatives-for-the-department-of-homeland-security


Mr. FONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 1128, Expressing  the Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of  Homeland Security.

As lawmakers, we have a fundamental obligation to govern responsibly  and to protect our communities from emerging threats, both foreign and  domestic.

Twice on this very House floor, we passed a bipartisan funding  package for the Department of Homeland Security. However, Senate  Democrats have chosen to walk away from that bipartisan, bicameral  deal, threatening operations that ensure the safety and security of  American communities from our transportation systems to our  cybersecurity, critical infrastructure, and emergency response  capabilities.

Today marks 41 days since Democrats made the reckless decision to  shut down the Department of Homeland Security. A prolonged government  shutdown undermines our national security, creates financial hardship  for Homeland Security workers and their families, and leaves critical  emergency response and preparedness efforts at risk.

Yet again, dedicated public servants, like TSA security officers,  Coast Guard civilian personnel, FEMA personnel, and cybersecurity  teams, are working without the certainty of their next paycheck, while  others have been furloughed. That is why my colleagues and I on this  side of the aisle have consistently voted to fully fund the Department  of Homeland Security.

Yesterday, I had the opportunity to hear directly from frontline  security agencies about the negative impact that this shutdown has had  on their missions and workforce. As TSA's Deputy Administrator shared:  ``What I am hearing from our workforce is that what is happening to  them is nothing short of cruel.''

Mr. Speaker, it is dangerous for Democrats to keep weakening our  national security posture for their own political gain, especially amid  a heightened threat environment. Every day this shutdown continues, our  Nation's security is put at greater risk, and the men and women who  protect us are further sidelined.

The 260,000 Americans employed by DHS should be focused on their no- fail mission to keep our country safe, not worrying about how they will  pay their bills, rent, and groceries, or find another job in order to  do so. Every agency tasked with America's homeland security needs to be  operating at full strength right now.

Today, I reaffirm my commitment to public safety and those who are  sworn to uphold it. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to come to  their senses, immediately reopen the Department of Homeland Security,  and end the shutdown immediately.