Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700519/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. FONG. Mr. Speaker, last month, the U.S. House of Representatives  passed a bipartisan funding package for the Department of Homeland  Security. It is regrettable that Senate Democrats chose to abandon a  bipartisan and bicameral deal on full-year DHS funding, jeopardizing  our safety and security here at home.

Today, we face growing threats as our Nation encounters the real  danger posed by the Iranian regime, as well as other adversaries around  the world. It is critical that we ensure the agencies tasked with  protecting our Nation are fully operational, are at full strength, and  have the resources needed to neutralize any potential threats to our  homeland.

As congressional Democrats continue to play partisan games, they are  weakening our cybersecurity operations,  disrupting critical intelligence sharing, and forcing over 250,000  public servants supporting our national security to go without pay.  This includes critical personnel from TSA, who work every day to  prevent terror attacks, and from FEMA, who support our communities in  the wake of disasters.

This is the second time in the past 4 months that TSA workers are  working without pay. During the last shutdown, TSA saw increased rates  of unscheduled absences and localized spikes in wait times, which are  expected again during the shutdown as spring travel begins to rise.

In my home State of California, we continue preparations to host  major international events like the 2026 FIFA World Cup, which begins  this coming June, followed by the 2028 Summer Olympic Games. The World  Cup will be the largest sporting event in history, with upward of 5  million international fans traveling to the United States.

The safety and success of these global events hinge on DHS' ability  to maintain mission readiness. The longer this partial shutdown  continues, the weaker our ability to prepare for these events becomes.  To delay any longer is to risk the lives of countless Americans and  millions of international visitors alike.

This week, the House will vote once again to reopen DHS and reaffirm  its commitment to public safety. I urge my colleagues across the aisle  to join us in voting to reopen the Department of Homeland Security so  it can get back to its core mission of safeguarding American  communities.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.