Reauthorization of Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700719/reauthorization-of-integrated-coastal-and-ocean-observation-system-act-of-2009


Mr. FONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the Save  Our Sequoias Act. I thank Chairman Westerman for his leadership and  collaboration.

I introduced this legislation with my California colleague  Representative Scott Peters to safeguard our remaining giant Sequoia  groves, the most in my district, by cutting red tape and restoring  resilience to our forests.

Giant sequoias, the world's largest trees, are only naturally found  in 70 groves across 37,000 acres in California.

Unfortunately, over the last century, fire suppression practices and  forest mismanagement have led to a dangerous buildup of fuels, which,  in combination with increasingly intense wildfires, has caused the  unparalleled destruction of these iconic trees.

In the last 5 years alone, there has been a nearly 20 percent loss of  our giant sequoias. That is not to mention that at its current pace it  would take the U.S. Forest Service 52 years to treat just the 19 most  at-risk giant sequoia groves.

Our giant sequoias are a true national treasure. We cannot afford to  let burdensome regulations prevent us from safeguarding them.

My bipartisan bill would enhance interagency coordination between  State, Federal, and Tribal partners, accelerate forest restoration  efforts, and provide important science-based resources to land managers  to protect these ancient trees from further destruction.

The world's only giant sequoia groves provide critical economic,  scientific, and cultural benefits for our local Tribes, researchers,  and our communities. Speeding up fuels reductions and wildfire  mitigation practices in these remaining groves will boost the  resilience of our forests and protect these giants for years to come.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the 29 Members from both sides of the aisle who  cosponsored this bill, as well as the staff on the House Committee on  Natural Resources for helping to pass this important bipartisan bill,  which would ensure California's remaining sequoias endure for  generations to come.