Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697028/researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act


Mr. FONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 3109,  the REFINER Act.

This legislation is critical to unleashing our energy potential,  lowering costs for hardworking families, and protecting our national  security.

U.S. refineries are vital to our energy ecosystem. They convert crude  oil into fuels and countless products, ranging from shoes and plastics  to cell phones, computers, solar panels, medical devices, and even  space suits. They make gasoline and diesel for our cars and trucks, and  they make jet fuel for our planes.

Yet, over the past few years, our refining capacity has declined due  to burdensome Federal and State policies.

I know this bitter reality all too well in my home State of  California.

From 2020 to 2022, we lost more than 1 million barrels of production  capacity per day, and refinery closures are projected to slash that  capacity by 20 percent over the next year. Twenty percent of our  refining capacity is going to disappear overnight.

Since 2018, over 360 energy companies have left California. Oil  production has dropped by 47 million barrels over the past 5 years, and  foreign imports now account for over 60 percent of our crude supply in  California.

Californians pay nearly $5 a gallon. In fact, Californians are paying  the highest gas and electricity prices in the Nation, thanks to  Governor Gavin Newsom's radical-left failed energy policies. California  has an affordability crisis that Governor Gavin Newsom created, but  this crisis also goes well beyond the pump.

As California fuel production declines, it jeopardizes our national  security and undermines our military readiness, as multiple strategic  military bases rely on California fuel. With threats from our foreign  adversaries, like China, only continuing to grow, we cannot risk  leaving our defenses weakened.

The REFINER Act is common sense. It will help identify ways to expand  refining capacity, protect our energy infrastructure, and strengthen  our national security.

Mr. Speaker, we must act now to restore American energy dominance,  secure affordable fuel for families, and protect our Nation's military  defense. I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3109.