Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695160/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. FONG. Madam Chair, I rise today in support of my amendments 390,  737, and 745, which would deliver vital resources to the military  installations of California's 20th Congressional District, their  personnel, and surrounding communities.

These critical provisions would ensure our servicemembers and their  civilian counterparts have the resources they need for success.  Specifically, my amendments will improve healthcare access for Navy  personnel at Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, strengthen the  readiness of the Naval Air Warfare Center Weapons Division, and the Air  Force Test Center, including Edwards Air Force Base.

At China Lake, the local community hospital, which serves both the  Ridgecrest community and base personnel, is facing significant  challenges. My first amendment would direct the Department of Defense  to assess the healthcare resources available to our Navy personnel at  the base and provide recommendations to improve them.

My second amendment focuses on strengthening the largest component of  China Lake, the Naval Air Warfare Center Weapons Division. It would  direct the Secretary of the Navy to review the challenges NAWCWD is  facing and report back to Congress on how they are working to address  them.

My third amendment supports Edwards Air Force Base by extending an  existing provision for several more years, helping to further  strengthen the base's vital mission. With new technology like the B-21,  our Nation's newest bomber, it is critical Edwards Air Force Base has  the tools to test these modern technologies so they can be utilized by  our warfighters.

I am proud of the incredible men and women, both civilian and  military, who provide our military with the best technology to keep our  Nation safe.

I urge my colleagues to support these amendments which would ensure  China Lake and Edwards Air Force Base have the resources they need to  continue their critical work of research, development, testing, and  evaluation of our latest military technology.