Aggressive Immigration Enforcement Tactics in Oregon


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696911/aggressive-immigration-enforcement-tactics-in-oregon


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my profound  opposition to the aggressive, cruel, and dangerous immigration  enforcement actions that are taking place in Oregon and across the  country.

During the past few months, we have seen a dramatic increase in  agents from ICE, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Oregon,  fueled by hatred and Donald Trump's inhumane, out-of-touch mass  deportation agenda.

I am infuriated by story after story of extreme overreach, excessive  force, and brutal tactics being used by masked ICE agents to arrest and  detain Oregonians.

In Portland, ICE wrongfully separated a young, loving mom from her  four little children for 4 months.

In Hillsboro, multiple unmarked SUVs circled a man in a parking lot.  He was simply going to pick up groceries. In Beaverton, ICE was parked  on the street, randomly scanning license plates of cars, and then  checking names. They wrongfully arrested a man who would have been sent  to detention had his lawyer not intervened at the very last minute.

At the ICE facility in Portland, ICE staff are lying to lawyers,  pepper spraying people who are peacefully protesting, and recklessly  exposing residents who live nearby, including seniors, veterans, and  children to toxic fumes.

ICE detained one of my constituents, Victor Cruz, because he has the  same name as someone with a criminal record. My constituent showed the  ICE agents his identification. It didn't matter. He doesn't have a  criminal record, nor was there a warrant for his arrest. It didn't  matter. He has a valid work permit, a job, and a pending visa case. It  didn't matter. He has a heart condition and a pacemaker. It didn't  matter.

Victor is a well-respected member of the community with, as you can  see, adorable grandchildren. He was arrested, detained, and sent to the  Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, Washington. Then immigration  officials tried to deport him.

I visited Victor in Tacoma, where he was kept in bleak conditions and  spoke about his experience and his hopes to be reunited with his  family.

After almost 4 weeks of being wrongfully detained, Victor Cruz was  finally released after an outpouring of support from the community, his  friends, and neighbors, and with the assistance of his lawyer.

I am overjoyed, but he should never have been arrested and detained  in the first place. For far too many others, they aren't as fortunate.

ICE is now moving people from the detention facility to other  immigration facilities across the U.S. to block legal action. As this  headline says, ICE's strategy is to ``Detain people first and ask  questions later.''

Simply put, ICE is not following the law. They are part of an out-of- control Federal agency, indiscriminately kidnapping people off the  streets, and sowing terror in our communities. This is not how a  civilized Nation treats its people.

There are countless stories of ICE drawing their weapons and pointing  them at bystanders, driving into oncoming traffic to deter bystanders  from filming them. To make matters worse, now the Trump administration  is demeaning and scapegoating immigrants.

The United States of America is a country of immigrants and our  Nation is stronger because of its diversity, but the Trump  administration's actions are actually making America more dangerous.

This isn't about safety. Nobody wants violent criminals in their  neighborhoods and districts, but that is not the issue here. In fact,  ICE is spending so much time targeting people based on their race or  ethnicity that they aren't focused on the real criminals.

Recently, I spoke with a high school student who is terrified that  his family and friends will be kidnapped. I spoke with education  leaders who were in tears about the trauma they are seeing in their  school districts and with students who are afraid for themselves and  their families. This trauma will last for years and will affect the  ability of these kids to learn and thrive in schools.

I met with Latino businessowners who have seen significant reductions  in people visiting their shops and restaurants. The common thread in  their interactions was the word ``terror.''

Earlier this week, high school students were here advocating for  humane immigration policies. They spoke about how the Trump  administration is dehumanizing immigrants and making it more difficult  for people to call America home. High schoolers know this is wrong. You  and I know this is wrong.

I urge my colleagues to show some empathy and understanding. Let's  show some respect for civil and human rights. Work with us on humane  immigration reform.

Mr. Speaker, we cannot allow these abuses of power and lawless  actions to continue. We must all speak out. Let's work together to put  an end to this ugly chapter in our country's history.