Big, Bad Bill is Cruel


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691580/big-bad-bill-is-cruel


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, the news today is about a bill. It is a  big bill. The Republicans' big, bad bill is cruel, coldhearted, and  completely unnecessary. It is not even fiscally responsible. It is  actually going to add to the deficit.

This massive bill, which is more than a thousand pages, was and is  being negotiated behind closed doors. The debate started at 1 o'clock  in the morning, in the darkness of night. This bill is going to strip  healthcare and food assistance from millions of Americans so  billionaires can get trillions of dollars in tax breaks.

Mr. Speaker, who is afraid of the big, bad bill? A lot of people are,  and for good reason. Make no mistake, if you rip healthcare away from  millions of Americans, people will die.

Right now, this is the largest Medicaid cut in American history. In  fact, a headline today summarizing the Congressional Budget Office  score on this bill said: ``Wealthy gain, low-income people lose from  GOP megabill.'' They are right.

There are about 1.4 million Oregonians on Medicaid, including one in  three children. I challenge my colleagues to go to a pediatric cancer  wing and tell a child with leukemia and their parents that they can no  longer afford lifesaving treatment. If my colleagues don't have the  courage to tell them to their face, then don't support this bill.

This bill takes food from hungry children. SNAP helps more than  775,000 Oregonians, 50 percent of whom are children, put food on the  table. This bill would lead to a significant reduction in food benefits  for families.

I guess billionaires can eat caviar in their mansions or on their  yachts while launching celebrities in rockets on vanity tours of space,  but everyday Americans will be left unsure about whether they will have  enough to feed their families.

The top 20 percent of income earners are going to get at least 68  percent of the benefits in the bill, while Oregonians and Americans who  benefit from Medicaid and SNAP will be left to suffer.

Student loan borrowers could be in debt until they die because of  this big, bad bill. Many students who get Pell grants will be harmed.  The bill will raise monthly student loan payments for working- and  middle-class borrowers, affecting 15 million people across the country.  That includes more than 50,000 Oregonian students and families who,  with this bill, will have limited options for repayment relief. No  question, unless you are from a wealthy family, this bill will close  the doors of opportunity for the next generation to access affordable  college.

Families will pay more for groceries, gas, insurance, and utilities,  but oil companies and corporate executives will get tax breaks. This  bill will hike the average household electricity bill by about 10  percent, forcing families to pay more while corporate polluters are  getting a windfall. Nationwide, families would pay an extra $6 billion.

Republicans are going to make it easier for corporate polluters to  poison our water and air. We will see an increase in the number of  wildfires and floods that devastate communities, and that will lead to  continued skyrocketing insurance premiums and property damage.

Farmers and ranchers are collateral damage. This bill green-lights  more drilling and mining that will spoil water supplies used for  irrigation and livestock, poisoning the land while fossil fuel CEOs  profit.

Public lands belong to all Americans, not billionaire donors, but  Donald Trump and congressional Republicans are going to privatize,  drill, and destroy them for profit. That will eviscerate the very  spaces that make us America the beautiful.

Finally, tucked into this bill is a 10-year block on State regulation  of artificial intelligence, which might make sense if we had policies  at the Federal level for safety, security, and bias. We don't, so the  public will face uncharted and unchecked harm.

For all these reasons and more, I oppose this misguided legislation,  and I urge every one of my colleagues to vote ``no.''