Blocking Resolutions of Inquiry


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690500/blocking-resolutions-of-inquiry


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to condemn the decision of my  colleagues to block the House from  considering resolutions of inquiry, a procedure that is designed to get  Members of Congress factual information from the executive branch.

Education Committee Ranking Member Scott and I introduced a  resolution of inquiry that was scheduled to be considered yesterday  during the Committee on Education and Workforce's reconciliation  markup.

Unfortunately, while the markup was in recess, the Republicans  adopted a rule that blocks resolutions of inquiry from being  considered. It was especially frustrating because we could have debated  the resolution yesterday morning, but apparently the majority delayed  consideration so they could pass this language in fine print that  blocks us from conducting important oversight of policies and programs  that are in the committee's jurisdiction.

Our resolution is simple. It asks the President and the Department of  Health and Human Services to tell Congress why they plan to eliminate  the Administration for Community Living, an agency that administers  programs designed to support older adults and people with disabilities  and helps them stay in their homes. The public deserves to know what  will happen if these programs are eliminated.

The Administration for Community Living, known as ACL, was founded  around the fundamental principle that older adults and people of all  ages with disabilities should, whenever possible, be able to live where  they choose, with the people they choose, and with the ability to  participate fully in their communities. Bringing programs that serve  those two populations together and sharing expertise actually made the  programs work better and more efficiently.

Unfortunately, at the end of March, the Trump administration  announced a dramatic restructuring of the Department of Human Services  that includes the elimination of the Administration for Community  Living. Now is not the time to dismantle an agency that supports older  adults and people with disabilities.

More than 11,000 people turn 65 every day. In 2022, the people who  are age 65 and older represented at least 17 percent of the U.S.  population, and more than one in four adults experience a disability,  including most adults over 75.

The Administration for Community Living's programs improved the lives  of millions of older adults and people with disabilities and also  benefits their families and their caregivers. It is the only government  entity that advocates across the Federal Government for these  populations.

Because my colleagues blocked consideration of this resolution, I  want to take this opportunity to tell you more about what is at risk.

Through the Older Americans Act, the Administration for Community  Living runs senior centers and distributes more than 200 million meals  every year to older adults and people with disabilities through the  Meals on Wheels program.

Seniors need access to nutritious food so they can lead healthy  lives. It is not just the food. The person delivering the meal is often  the only social contact the client will have that day, which is  especially important in addressing social isolation.

It is disheartening to see this administration advocating for  policies that will put essential food assistance for older Americans at  risk.

The ACL does more than food assistance. They support paid and unpaid  caregivers, including family caregivers and Native American caregivers.  They study better ways to support older adults living with HIV. They  protect seniors from abuse through the Adult Protective Services  Program. They provide programming to reduce social isolation and  loneliness. They support protection and advocacy programs for people  with disabilities. They conduct research into fall prevention, chronic  disease management, and Alzheimer's disease. They safeguard vulnerable  adults through the Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program, and they address  elder justice issues like abuse, neglect, and exploitation. They  provide legal assistance for disabled people and more.

These are just some of the reasons that we introduced the resolution  of inquiry: to ask what will happen to these important programs with  the administration's plan to eliminate ACL. We are a coequal branch of  government, and we need this information to make prudent decisions on  behalf of our constituents. Yet, as of yesterday, the majority blocked  our ability to get those questions answered.

Unfortunately, the Republican majority is also using the same shady  tactic to take away the authority of Congress to legislate tariff  policy, likely because Republicans know their positions are wildly  unpopular and proper oversight would highlight these failings.

This is yet another example of the erosion of separation of powers  that we are seeing in this administration and this Congress.

I have heard many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  talk about the importance of transparency and accountability. I hope my  Republican colleagues live up to that and prove that by stopping the  block on resolutions of inquiry.