Challenges Facing Our Students


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689733/challenges-facing-our-students


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, as someone who has dedicated years of my  career to education striving to create a better future for children, I  find it disturbing and ironic that my colleagues in the majority pass  bills that they say are to protect students but, in fact, do nothing to  address the real challenges children are facing in schools today.

The majority is willing to pass a bill to protect students from the  Chinese Communist Party, something no parent or educator has ever  mentioned to me, but not willing to address gun violence, increasing  behavioral health needs, or, importantly, the stress and fear that the  Trump administration has created by giving ICE free range to raid  sensitive locations, including schools.

Don't take my word for it. Listen to the words of a fourth grade  student in Oregon who wrote me this letter:

``Hi. I am a local student, and I am in fourth grade. Ever since the  rules were changed to allow ICE agents to enter schools, I have felt  scared for my safety and the safety of my classmates, friends, and  neighbors. I feel scared and distracted in class sometimes because I am  worried ICE might come in our school. I worry what might happen to me  if I refuse to answer their questions to protect my friends and  classmates. I also worry about ICE agents trying to talk to me on the  bus ride from school. I worry about what I should do if ICE agents come  up to my neighbors when I am walking with them home from the bus stop.  Some of the things I worry about are: Do I hide my friends if they are  getting taken? If ICE enters my school and takes someone, what will the  school do? If ICE takes my classmate, what should I do? Where does ICE  take people? And what do I do if my friends come home to an empty house  because their family got deported?

``I wish I did not have to worry about these things, and I wish even  more that my friends, classmates, and neighbors did not have to either.  Thanks for your time.''

Mr. Speaker, this administration said they were going to go after  dangerous criminals and drug dealers, but what they are doing instead  with this disastrous mass deportation effort is creating fear and  stress across the country including among young children.

``I wish I didn't have to worry about these things,'' the student  said. So do I and so should anybody in this body with an ounce of  compassion. These are kids. Let that sink in, and let's do what we need  to do to truly protect students.