Majority of Americans Support Department of Education


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689037/majority-of-americans-support-department-of-education


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to condemn in the strongest  terms possible President Trump's executive order that threatens  millions of students and local public schools through the dismantling  of the Department of Education.

This is an illegal and unconstitutional abuse of power straight out  of the Project 2025 playbook. Congress created the Department. Only  Congress can dismantle it, something I will fight every step of the  way.

I note that Donald Trump and Elon Musk have likely never set forth in  a public school, and they certainly do not understand what the  Department of Education actually does and why it is important, but  students, families, and teachers in Oregon and across the country  understand.

In the past few weeks, several Oregon parents have told me they are  terrified that their kids will lose access to vital educational  services. One mom said she worries about sending her two kids with  special needs to kindergarten next year if there are cuts to IDEA, the  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.

Unlike Secretary McMahon, I actually know what IDEA stands for and  what it means for students. I have been an education advocate for  decades, and no one has ever said we need less money to meet the needs  of students with disabilities. It is always a plea to fully fund IDEA.

Another mom told me that her kids attend a title I school and get  enough to eat because of school breakfast and lunch programs. It is a  fact that high-poverty schools, about half the schools in the U.S.,  have greater educational needs, and that is why title I dollars provide  flexibility so districts can determine how to best meet the needs of  their low-income students. Cutting that funding will widen, rather than  close, the achievement gap.

Nonsensically, Trump and Musk are rejoicing at the idea of returning  power to States and local communities. Return what? States and local  districts already have power over core functions of education,  including curriculum, staffing, and budgeting. In fact, it is against  the law for the Federal Government to set curriculum.

Donald Trump also makes a bogus argument that declining test scores  justify abolishing the Department, but test scores don't make the case  for slashing Federal investment in education. On the contrary, they  show us where we need to direct resources and support to students,  especially low-income students and students with disabilities.

Unfortunately, we are losing an important research tool about what  students need because the Trump administration has taken a chain saw to  the National Center for Education Statistics.

We know that more than 51,000 public schools serve concentrated  populations of students from low-income families and receive title I  funds. Almost 7.5 million students with disabilities receive a free,  appropriate public education because of IDEA.

I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to speak with  your local and State legislators and ask them if they have extra  resources to fill these gaps.

Also, the majority of Federal funding through the Department of  Education is to open doors of opportunity to higher education for  students who choose to attend college but can't afford the cost. This  includes Pell grants, Federal work-study, and low-interest loans to  those who qualify.

I would not be where I am today without the Federal aid I got to  first attend community college, then college, then law school.

Importantly, the Department of Education is a civil rights agency.  The Office for Civil Rights enforces Federal laws prohibiting  discrimination and harassment, investigating thousands of civil rights  cases every year, primarily from students with disabilities. This work  will be more difficult, if not impossible, with the Trump  administration firing at least 240 employees in the Office for Civil  Rights and closing more than half of its regional offices.

Donald Trump also says he wants to shut down the Department but keep  its  core functions. Get rid of the people with expertise and give the core  functions to other agencies without the expertise or the staff to  handle them? That is not government efficiency. It is absurdity.

Last month, I introduced H. Res. 94 in defense of public schools and  the Department of Education, and more than 85 of my colleagues have  signed on. We will fight all efforts to defund and dismantle the  important work the Department does, and we won't back down.

The consequences are clear: Closing the Department of Education will  harm students, families, communities, and the economy. The majority of  Americans support the Department of Education, and I know public school  advocates will be working tirelessly to maintain the strong and vital  Federal investment in our system of public education.

Donald Trump and Elon Musk might think that this ill-conceived abuse  of power will go unchecked. They are about to find out how wrong they  are.