Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698934/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Hayes for leading  this important conversation and bringing her expertise as National  Teacher of the Year to the Congress and to the Education Committee.

Mr. Speaker, I have been an education advocate for decades, and I  speak with students, parents, and educators in Congress and at home in  Oregon, and I can't count the number of times where parents have said  to me: Please, please fully fund IDEA.

According to the Department of Education, Secretary McMahon is now  exploring additional partnerships to move the administration of special  education programs under IDEA, the Individuals with Disabilities  Education Act, to other Federal agencies. The most likely choice for  this unconstitutional and illegal transfer? It is to the Department of  Health and Human Services.

Mr. Speaker, this means that Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., would  be in charge of administering IDEA. This is the man who disregarded  established science to advance policies based on conspiracy theories,  including claiming that Tylenol and vaccines cause autism and that  autism destroys families.

This agency should not be administering funding or providing guidance  to schools on educating students with disabilities, especially with its  current Secretary.

IDEA is an education program, not a medical program. It is designed  to provide students with disabilities access to a free and appropriate  public education, often through individualized education programs, or  IEPs.

Those with the expertise and data to best administer the program are  already at the Department of Education, or at least they were until  Secretary McMahon fired them.

A special education teacher in Beaverton, Oregon, recently wrote to  my office. She is extremely concerned, as are so many, about the Trump  administration's plans for special education, and this is what she  said: ``When I tell you that schools are in dire straits already, I  mean it--and yet I know it can get worse.

I am terrified for my students. The mass layoffs and restructuring  within the Department of Education's Office of Special Education have  left only a fraction of the staff to manage billions in IDEA funds and  ensure States follow the law.''

She continued: ``Without Federal oversight, States will have less  accountability, fewer resources, and more leeway to deny or reduce  services. Families will be left without recourse, and the promise of a  free and appropriate public education will be broken.''

These are challenging enough times for students, families, and  schools. In Portland, the public school district recently redirected an  additional $25 million from their general fund to fill the gap to help  provide students with disabilities the resources that they need that  State and Federal funding aren't covering, and it is still not enough.

The Trump administration's proposals to disrupt the administration on  such an important program risks further harming the people we  represent. A mother in Portland wrote to me and said that she is a  full-time caregiver, has two sons with disabilities, and that she has  only been able to work 2 of the last 8 years because of the lack of  reliable care.

Unfortunately, she was just laid off again from her most recent job.

She told me: ``We are exhausted and doing everything we can, but the  system leaves too much on families.''

She begged us to protect access to services for students with  disabilities and to continue advocating for these children and their  caregivers. In her words: ``We need policies that recognize the reality  we're living, not ones that make it harder.''

These are the families, teachers, and the people who will be affected  by decisions we make about IDEA. What we should be doing is fully  funding IDEA, not disrupting the support that already exists by forcing  schools and families to work with multiple Federal agencies instead of  one.

HHS is not equipped to manage this critical program. I will keep  fighting. I will keep fighting the Trump administration's efforts to  abandon and dismantle the Department of Education and its core  responsibility, especially its core responsibility to students with  disabilities.

I thank Representative Hayes for her leadership.