Providing for Consideration of H.R. Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pregnant Students' Rights Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  the time.

Mr. Speaker, I thought maybe I was in the wrong place when I heard  the debate when I walked in today. I do want to add that I agree it is  not pro-life to cut services to families and to make childcare more  expensive. These bills are anti-choice.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to these two deceptively  titled bills: H.R. 6945, the Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women  and Families Act, which allows Health and Human Services funds to be  sent to crisis pregnancy centers, and H.R. 6359, the Pregnant Students'  Rights Act, which unfairly limits the information it requires colleges  to provide to students and the students it chooses to support.

Most crisis pregnancy centers are sham organizations. They have the  sole purpose of advancing an anti-choice  agenda. They routinely engage in deceptive advertising to get people in  the doors, hold themselves out as medical clinics, and then use blatant  misinformation about the services they provide.

For example, a pregnancy resource center in Pennsylvania told a  pregnant woman that she had a miscarriage, so she left. Then, later,  she was still experiencing pregnancy symptoms, so she went to a real  doctor who told her she still had a viable pregnancy.

This deception is wrong on so many levels, and these centers should  be held accountable, not receive government funds.

I introduced the Stop Anti-Abortion Disinformation Act to prohibit  unfair or deceptive advertising about abortion services and services  that crisis pregnancy centers do and do not offer.

Also, pregnant students deserve access to medically accurate,  comprehensive planning resources and a full range of reproductive  healthcare options. Yet, the Pregnant Students' Rights Act only  requires colleges to provide information about carrying a child to  term.

I offered an amendment to this bill that would have colleges also  provide comprehensive, medically accurate information to students, but  my Republican colleagues rejected it.

Deciding whether and when to have a child is a deeply personal--

Ms. BONAMICI. Deciding whether and when to have a child is a deeply  personal decision. It should not be made by politicians, and it  certainly should not be made by anti-choice extremists.

The biased, anti-choice efforts underpinning these two bills will  make it harder for students to make informed decisions about what is  best for them. They are the ones who should be making these decisions.  Promoting partisan legislation that fails to address the full  healthcare needs of students does not lead to academic success.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing these bills,  reject H.R. 6359 and H.R. 6945, and instead stand up for those who are  making that personal decision themselves.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.

Mr. Speaker, I know a lot of people who work in these centers. They  are honest, dedicated, hardworking people who care about the pregnant  mothers and the unborn children. I think that the attacks on them are  unfounded, unwarranted, and unprofessional.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers on the rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.