Supporting the Women's Bureau At the Department of Labor


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691209/supporting-the-womens-bureau-at-the-department-of-labor


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to condemn in the strongest  terms the attack by DOGE on the Women's Bureau at the Department of  Labor, the only Federal agency representing women in the workforce.

Last week, Elon Musk's unelected, unqualified, inept team at DOGE  canceled millions of dollars in grants funded through the Women's  Bureau by calling them wasteful.

These terminations decimated the important work of the Women's  Bureau, including programs to support survivors of gender-based  violence and Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations,  which has successfully expanded pathways for women to enter the  workforce and lead in all industries, including the trades.

A Department of Labor spokesperson claimed that the Women's Bureau  funds discriminatory DEI experiments. I would like to know why exactly  they think helping women enter and succeed in the workforce is a  discriminatory DEI experiment. Canceling more than $20 million  in congressionally authorized funds is both illegal and  unconstitutional, and we must hold DOGE and Secretary Chavez-DeRemer  accountable.

Congress established the Women's Bureau 2 months before women  officially gained the right to vote, 105 years ago this year. Instead  of celebrating its achievements and recognizing the benefits of these  grant programs, the Trump administration is trying to send us backward  in time, harming millions of women in the process.

Mr. Speaker, I am not going back. I encourage my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to stand with me in support of the Women's Bureau  and the crucial opportunities and protections it provides for women in  the workforce.        Congratulations to Lincoln High School and Sprague High School

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate and congratulate  two high school teams on their recent cochampionship win of the We the  People: The Citizen and the Constitution competition.

Run by the Center for Civic Education, this competition tests the  knowledge of high school students from around the country about the  U.S. Constitution and American Government. Students display  understanding about historical and contemporary constitutional issues,  and their breadth of knowledge is incredibly impressive.

I am proud to report that both top teams are from public high schools  in Oregon. Lincoln High School and Sprague High School won the national  competition in Virginia after competing at the State level and then  spending 3 days here in the D.C. metro area at the finals answering  tough questions with confidence, intelligence, and grace.

Both teams showed deep knowledge of constitutional law and U.S.  history, and this year we saw something amazing. The average team size  is 21 students, but the Sprague team had only two. Impressively, the  Lincoln team was mostly sophomores, but they all worked hard and it  showed. A scoring anomaly resulted in both the Sprague and Lincoln  teams earning the title of cochampions for the first time in the  competition's history.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Center for Civic Education for making this  opportunity available. I also thank the teachers and coaches who worked  with the teams and these impressive students for giving us hope for the  future at a time when it is desperately needed.

Please join me in congratulating Lincoln High School and Sprague High  School on their cochampionship win of We the People: The Citizen and  the Constitution competition.