Trump Administration Dismantling Department of Education


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to condemn in the strongest  possible terms the illegal and unconstitutional dismantling of the  Department of Education by the Trump administration.

Congress created the Department of Education. Only an act of Congress  could eliminate it. The administration knows this, so they are trying  to circumvent the separation of powers by chipping away at the  Department until it is gone. What a sad and terrible message that sends  to the country and the world.

The administration's latest attack on the Department of Education is  with six interagency agreements that will move critical programs and  services out of the Department of Education to other agencies without  the needed expertise, funding, or staff.

The programs this administration illegally reassigned to other  departments include Title I, which provides funding for schools with  high populations of low-income students; the McKinney-Vento grant  program for youth experiencing homelessness; grant programs for English  learners, rural schools, literary initiatives; and more.

Programs like TRIO and GEAR UP help underserved students access and  succeed in higher education, and they moved those, too. They moved  programs that support HBCUs and other minority-serving institutions.

These are statutory responsibilities that Congress directed the  Department  of Education to fulfill. Instead of fulfilling those legal  responsibilities, Secretary McMahon decided to follow the Project 2025  playbook by outsourcing the work as part of the Trump agenda to abolish  the Department of Education.

These actions will make it more difficult for local schools to get  the funding they need. Now, they will have to navigate multiple Federal  agencies instead of one. It is inefficient, unnecessary, and unpopular.

Poll after poll shows that the majority of parents support the  Department of Education, and that is especially true with parents of  students with disabilities. These parents know what is at stake if  schools lose the Federal resources they rely on to educate every  student, no matter their background or ability.

Unfortunately, the Trump administration has endangered these  resources by intentionally burying them behind additional layers of red  tape and bureaucracy.

There is a lot we could be doing to improve public education. To  prepare future students, they need a well-rounded education that  inspires critical thinking, confidence, communication, creativity, and  a love of learning. Students need arts and music education, hands-on  project-based lessons that teach teamwork, and a wide range of career  and technical education classes. We must invest in, not cut,  educational research, and we need to promote, rather than politicize,  family, parental, and community engagement.

To fully learn and thrive, students need to have enough food to eat,  and they deserve the best physical infrastructure in which to learn.  They need access to behavioral healthcare, and they need to be safe and  feel safe.

Unfortunately, right now, many students across the country are  terrified to go to school because ICE is in their community. In Oregon,  ICE agents are stalking school parking lots and school routes and  detaining parents in front of their children. In one instance, ICE  agents surrounded two high school students at a coffee shop and pointed  rifles at them. This is beyond unacceptable.

Students as young as 9 years old know these actions are wrong. A  fourth grade student gave me a handwritten letter, saying she is  worried that ICE will take her friends away and that her friends will  go home and their parents won't be there because they got deported. How  is a student supposed to focus on learning if they are afraid that  armed, masked agents are going to take their family and friends? These  are children.

Unfortunately, House Republicans are taking their cues from Donald  Trump, Stephen Miller, and others who do not grasp the damage they are  causing to children as they try to close the Department of Education  and slash education funding, food assistance, and health insurance but  somehow manage to find and give $170 billion to the Department of  Homeland Security to carry out an inhumane mass deportation agenda. It  is tragic, and it is pathetic.

This administration has declared war on public education, but we are  not backing down. We will not stop fighting against the dismantling of  the Department of Education and the weaponization of immigration  enforcement.

House Democrats understand how much better our country would be if we  had a mass education plan instead of a mass deportation plan.