Wildfires in Oregon


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692450/wildfires-in-oregon


Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call attention to a crisis  in the American West and across the country. Extreme wildfires now  ravage my home State of Oregon every summer, and the threat is growing.  I am here today to speak out against cuts to programs that support  wildland firefighters and their frontline crews.

For years now, American families in the Pacific Northwest have lived  on the edge, wondering if this will be the year they are forced to flee  their homes at night with only their children, their pets, and whatever  few mementos they can frantically grab in the moments after the  evacuation alert.

I have spoken with Oregonians who lost everything in the blink of an  eye; homes, family heirlooms, beloved pets, and, tragically, family  members.

I have spoken with people who demonstrate extraordinary bravery and  step into the line of duty as wildland firefighters, sacrificing their  safety to protect their neighbors and their communities.

The 2020 Labor Day fires were the most destructive in our State's  history. Mr. Speaker, 1.4 million acres burned. More than 4,000 homes  were destroyed, and at least nine people died. Smoke filled the air for  days throughout the region.

Last year, Oregon saw 1.9 million acres burn, setting a new record.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to set aside political differences  on this issue because the danger is spreading. Wildfire season now  stretches for much of the year. That threat has reached States that  never expected to see megafires. From the scorched hills of Hawaii to  smoke-filled skies in New York, this is no longer just a Western States  problem. It is a national emergency.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please listen to the American  West when we say that this is a crisis that will kill thousands more  until we act. Let's work together on real solutions, like investing in  wildfire preparedness and providing better pay and benefits for  wildland firefighters.

The administration's current plan of slashing volunteer wildfire  crews is a disingenuous attempt to cut costs. It is shortsighted and  will cause more loss of property and lives.

I stand ready to work with anyone who is willing to take this threat  seriously.              Funding Citizenship and Assimilation Grant Program

Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak out against the  weaponization of our Federal Government and the Trump administration's  actions to distort agency missions and cancel valuable grant programs.

In March and again in April, I wrote to the U.S. Citizenship and  Immigration Services, USCIS, at the Department of Homeland Security  regarding a decision they made to abruptly cut funding for the  Citizenship and Assimilation Grant Program.

The Immigration and Nationality Act established USCIS to administer  immigration benefits and citizenship programs. USCIS oversees lawful  immigration into the United States and provides services, including  determining eligibility for citizenship, verifying employment  eligibility, administering humanitarian programs, and promoting  instruction and training on citizenship rights and responsibilities.

As I wrote in my letter to the USCIS, the Citizenship and  Assimilation Grant  Program furthers this mission by providing grant funding to  organizations that support eligible, lawful permanent residents with  the U.S. citizenship application process, civics instruction, and other  services to help prepare for naturalization.

If my colleagues haven't been to a naturalization ceremony, I  encourage everyone to do this. These are the types of people we want to  be U.S. citizens.

In response to my letter, USCIS Acting Deputy Director Kika Scott  tried to justify the decision to cancel this program by stating that it  no longer effectuates the agency's priorities. That is unacceptable and  a frustrating explanation.

First, we frequently hear from our colleagues across the aisle who  say that people need to come here legally. As I said, this is a program  that helps eligible, legal permanent residents with the U.S.  citizenship process.

Second, Congress already appropriated this funding, so it is illegal  and unconstitutional for the administration to block the grant funding  just because a President doesn't like immigrants and is doing  everything in his power to vilify them.

The United States was built by people who came to this country to  seek a better life for themselves and their families. This thoughtless  decision is an abuse of power and just one more example of how the  Trump administration is scapegoating immigrants.

Today, during Immigrant Heritage Month, I am, once again, calling on  USCIS to reinstate the remainder of the canceled grant awards that  helped refugees and other aspiring Americans who came to the United  States through legal pathways to assimilate and contribute positively  to our vibrant communities and the economy.