Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Chair, on behalf of myself and Representative Moore of Alabama, I  encourage all my colleagues to vote in strong support of my amendment,  which eliminates the general ban on purchasing conventionally powered  vehicles and repeals the statutory preference for EVs and hybrid  nontactical vehicles within the Department of War.

I am grateful to Chairman Rogers for his leadership on this act. I  also thank Congressman Moore for supporting this good amendment.

How in the world can the most powerful military in the whole world  live up to that reputation while driving a bunch of weak EVs that  require charging? My amendment builds on President Trump's executive  order that we must put the mission at the core of what we do forward.

Under the Biden administration, the Air Force previously planned for  acquisitions of all light-duty, nontactical vehicles to be electric by  2027, Mr. Chair. Now, what they forgot is in many of the defense  facilities in my district, and also across the globe, that they are  near saltwater.

We have all seen the horrible fires that occur when saltwater and  batteries mix. They are horrific, runaway fires. In the Joe Biden  Department of Defense, I can only imagine a scenario where a natural  disaster causes critical installations, just like in my district, to be  stuck with a large fleet of vehicles both burning and inoperable.  Congress cannot allow this to happen to our troops.

Beyond the expense of the sudden increase in electric vehicles, this  would bring further excessive spending on chargers. As such, we should  repeal this costly, unwise policy. My amendment does just that. It  eliminates the ban on purchasing conventionally powered, nontactical  vehicles which would start in 2035. It also removes the statutory  preference for electric and hybrid nontactical vehicles.

Congress must give the Department of War the proper authorities to  protect this great country that we call home. I encourage my colleagues  to support this amendment that builds upon both what the President's  executive order does and Secretary Hegseth's charge to restore the  Department of War to greatness.

Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Chair, the good gentleman may be the only mechanic  in the Chamber, but I am the one who was a State fire marshal who saw  firsthand how our lithium-ion battery-powered vehicles are not ready  for prime time.

If you look at what happened when Hurricane Ian devastated south  Florida, there were over 25 runaway fires because of EVs that had  gotten flooded with saltwater. Heavy metals bridge the batteries and  short them out. You can do nothing but park them and watch them burn.

These devices are fantastic technology, but they are not battle- tested for our men and women, especially when they are putting  themselves in harm's way. A lot of times, the encroachment of those  areas that they may be dealing with is going to be in saltwater venues.  Any type of flooding, and EVs do not work.

In the middle of America, they can have them all they want. Along our  coastal regions where our military has to count on reliable vehicles,  combustion engines are the only things that are battle-tested that can  do the job.

Mr. PATRONIS. Mr. Chair, obviously, my colleagues are not familiar  with northwest Florida and what we call the Gulf of America range. This  is a place where we train our best and brightest who are defending our  country around the globe.

Unfortunately, in order to have access to a range like that, you are  going to have installations that are going to be on the Gulf of America  as they train. As you have anywhere along the United States, coastal  cities are going to exist. They are not going away. Unfortunately,  electric and hybrid vehicles and saltwater do not mix.

I understand the point my colleagues want to make about tactical  vehicles, but they are not seeing the big picture. These particular  vehicles cannot sustain any type of saltwater flooding. They create a  thermal runaway. Fortunately, they may not have experience with what a  thermal runaway is where they live, but these are catastrophic events  that ultimately affect not just that vehicle but everyone around that  vehicle. It ties up precious resources babysitting a fire that does not  need to exist in the first place if we ensure that these vehicles are  never part of the military missions of the United States of America and  the Department of War.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.