Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairman Calvert not only for  his leadership on this but for the fight to make sure that our men and  women in the field have the resources, tools, and capabilities to win  the next generation of fight.

Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 4016, particularly our  amendments, the wireless power transmission, No. 371, as well as the  MAPS Generation II, a precision navigation and timing system.

As a combat veteran myself, I know firsthand how critical it is to  provide our warfighters with the tools they need to be able to achieve  mission success.

To that end, I am proud to offer two bipartisan amendments with my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle to make sure that we  strengthen this bill and help our warfighters on the front lines.

This first amendment increases the investment in wireless drone  charging. This keeps our unmanned aircraft operational longer and  reduces the need for a long-term resupply.

We know this is important. As we see in Ukraine today, this is not  the fight of the future. This is the fight of today, and the U.S. gets  to be a leader in our ability to help present this.

The second supports the MAPS Generation II, a next-generation system  that allows vehicle crews to operate in GPS-denied environments,  preserving our battlefield advantage.

As someone who has flown combat operations in environments where GPS  denial can be a critical disablizer to our U.S. forces, this allows us  to not only fight forward but to make sure that we can have precision  both on target as well as defending ourselves.

This system, I will note, is proudly manufactured in the heart of the  heartland, in my home State of Iowa. It is creating American jobs while  protecting American troops.

I thank Chairman Calvert for his leadership and urge my colleagues on  both sides of the aisle to support these amendments.

Let us give our servicemembers the tools they need to succeed and  honor their sacrifice by defending them on the front line as we defend  them right here on the home front.