Providing for Consideration of H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, and for Other Purposes


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman Foxx for the  incredible work of the Rules Committee. I know we worked through the  night on something that is very important. That is ethanol--E15, to be  specific.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today on behalf of the farmers, families, and  small businesses in Iowa's Third District and, really, rural  communities across America right now who need someone to be a fighter.

We have a good group here in Washington on both sides of the aisle  who are championing the importance of renewable biofuels, giving  Americans the freedom to choose cleaner, more affordable, American-made  fuel at the pump.

That fuel is E15. E15 is simply gasoline blended with up to 15  percent ethanol, or corn. Ethanol is grown, produced, and refined right  here in the United States, often in towns and communities where  agriculture is the backbone of the local economy, where every dollar  spent at the co-op, in the grain elevator, and at the plants and  refineries that support it is directly invested back into the families  and communities that produce it.

Authorizing year-round E15 nationwide, a free market approach that is  American-made, benefits not only farmers but consumers, the  environment, and our national security.

Approximately 33 percent of all U.S. corn produced is used for  ethanol, so imagine this the next time you drive down the road: a  cornfield where every third row goes toward helping to fuel this  Nation.

Permanent E15 could boost corn demand by up to 2.4 billion bushels  annually. It would increase our domestic market access for corn farmers  and support viability for farmers, manufacturers, and our community.

E15 clearly saves up to 30 cents per gallon. E15 provides higher  octane for better engine performance. E15 is vital for national  independence, especially in light of national conflicts.

The Nationwide Consumer and Fuel Retailer Choice Act of 2025 aims to  authorize year-round E15 sales nationwide to eliminate the annual  uncertainty of whether it can be completed.

This legislation that we are leading adds to the billions of dollars  that could be grown right here in the U.S. economy. It saves every  American, and if you come to Iowa right now, at the local Casey's, it  is $1.85 per gallon. That is a pretty good return on investment for  your family's minivan or your truck.

Mr. Speaker, right now, Iowa farmers see this not as an abstract  policy but a direct threat. This is about demand for their crops,  stability for markets, and the ability to plan for the next season  without wondering whether Washington will pull them out of their  challenges or pull the rug out from under them by failure to act. For  Iowa families, this is about affordability.

E15 consistently costs less than standard gasoline. At a time when  families are watching every dollar, and this House is supposed to be  focused on affordability and cost savings, this is a direct win. For  our country, this is energy independence, but what is more, it is  national security for all of us.

Every gallon of ethanol blended in our fuel supply is a gallon that  we don't have to buy from overseas. It means less reliance on unstable  foreign markets and more reliance on American farmers, American  workers, American innovation, and American families.

It is good for our economy. It is good for our Nation. E15 is a must- pass bill.