Recognizing Emily Tuttle-Millard


Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  incredible accomplishments of Emily Tuttle-Millard our Deputy Chief of  Staff. Over the course of her tenure, she served in numerous roles,  consistently demonstrating professionalism and an extraordinary work  ethic with a steadfast dedication to excellence. Emily was not only a  vital member of our team but also an integral force behind our success.

As Deputy Chief of Staff, Emily tackled our strategic goals,  including passage of legislation to address Veteran Suicide with the  ``Adam Lambert Act,'' helping support couples start a family with the  ``HOPE Act,'' and delivered on U.S. security priorities enshrined in  the National Defense Authorization Act. As a fighter for folks in the  heart of the heartland, Emily worked with out legislative team to  ensure Iowa garnered the most priorities in the Farm Bill. Further,  Emily worked across the State and across the aisle to earn our team the  Top 10 most bipartisan member of Congress distinction.

As Communications Director, Emily's tenacity ensured Iowa's  priorities always received national attention, from in-depth coverage  ranging from ``Face the Nation'' to ``Fox & Friends,'' as well as a  commitment to local journalism showcasing Iowa's best accomplishments  as a roadmap for national solutions. Her focus on individual  constituents became legend, earning her the Congressional  Administrative Office's model for tailored mail engagement. Emily  navigated challenges with grace and mastered the art of turning vision  into reality.

Equally, Emily was an original plank holder on Team Nunn. Coming  aboard from the very  beginning as Director of Operations, where she scheduled hundreds of  meetings and listening sessions for Iowans visiting Washington, D.C.  and in the district.

Most importantly, though, Emily is a mentor and friend to the team.  Her ability to foster collaboration and encourage growth made our team  stronger and more united. Despite her University of Illinois pedigree,  Emily is as Iowa as they come, from corn dogs at the State Fair, to  winning friends under the Golden Dome in Des Moines, to the marble  steps of the U.S. Capitol.

We wish Emily success in her next endeavors and have no doubt she  will continue to make a difference. The distinctive accomplishments of  her service reflect effect greatly herself, the people of Iowa, and the  United States.