Recognizing Clinton Community College Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691529/recognizing-clinton-community-college-day


Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize May 22, 2025, as  Clinton Community College Day.

Clinton Community College was established in 1966 by the Clinton  County Board of Supervisors on the grounds of the old Hotel Champlain  on Bluff Point in Plattsburgh, New York, under Governor Nelson  Rockefeller's Administration. The College opened its doors to 216  students in 1969 and graduated its first cohort of students in 1971.

The College has since expanded to include the William Forrence  Health, Physical Education, and Recreation Building, the Ronald B.  Stafford Center for Arts, Science, and Technology, and the Institute  for Advanced Manufacturing among other improvements. The growth has  stemmed from their responsiveness to the needs of the local community  and businesses. This dedication is further seen in the development of  programs and coursework that meet the workforce development needs in  the region, along with their assumption of the Small Business  Development Center and the Zone 9 Police Training Academy. Clinton  Community College and its leadership have always worked towards  building the best outcome for their students. As hard times arose, the  College made the difficult decision to revamp and relocate its campus  to a shared space with the State University of New York at Plattsburgh,  a university with whom the College has a long history of partnership,  to maintain their effort to provide the best outcome for their  students.

With the College primed to begin this new chapter in its life with  the start of the Fall 2025 semester the administration feels it is only  right to celebrate both the storied past and bright future of the  College by holding Clinton Community College Day on May 22, 2025.

On behalf of New York's 21st Congressional District, I am proud to  celebrate Clinton Community College, its board, its staff, its faculty,  and most especially its students, past, present, and future.