Resolving the Akwesasne Mohawk Land Claim in the State of New York


Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative  Crank, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2916, my bill to ratify the  land claim settlement agreement between the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe,  the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne, New York State, Franklin and St.  Lawrence Counties, the towns of Fort Covington and Bombay, and the New  York Power Authority.

For more than 40 years, the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Mohawk  Council of Akwesasne have worked diligently to resolve the Akwesasne  land claim in northern New York in my district. The last decade has  seen very focused efforts between the Tribe, local, and county  officials, and our congressional office to realize this long-sought  agreement dating back to the 1796 Treaty with the Seven Nations of  Canada.

This historic settlement provides long-term certainty and remedies in  terms of lands, land acquisition, payment of past property taxes, and  will greatly benefit our North Country community.

For the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe, today's action represents the  resolution of a generations-long fight, and finalizing this settlement  allows the Tribe to restore portions of their homeland, strengthen  self-governance, and expand economic opportunities for the North  Country.

Unfortunately, I was dismayed to watch the agreement sit on the  Governor's desk for over 6 months while she refused to review the  documents and then pushed last-minute changes, leaving members of the  Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe and the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne, who  worked alongside my office on this legislation, in limbo and long  awaiting the culmination of over 40 years of their leadership's hard  work.

Our office worked swiftly and diligently to pass this out of  committee, and I am proud to have gotten this across the finish line in  the House. I look forward to getting this legislation passed in the  Senate and on to the President's desk for his signing.

Mr. Speaker, this moment is the culmination of the dedicated work by  many past and present Mohawk leadership, elders, and community members  from Akwesasne, as well as county and local officials, and I am honored  to pass this bill in Congress.