Strengthening America's Turning Point Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691016/strengthening-americas-turning-point-act


Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for yielding me  time.

I rise today in support of my legislation, the Strengthening  America's Turning Point Act.

I am always proud to share with my colleagues in Congress and with  the American people that upstate New York and the North Country are  known as the cradle of the American Revolution, home to numerous  battlefields and historic sites that were critical in shaping our  Nation's founding and history.

As we approach the U.S. semiquincentennial and the 250th anniversary  of the Battles of Saratoga, there is no better time to recognize the  pivotal role this site played in our Nation's war for independence.

The Battles of Saratoga were the most significant turning points and  one of the most decisive American battles of the Revolution. British  General Burgoyne tried to seize control of the strategically important  Hudson River Valley, but his campaign ended in defeat at the Battles of  Saratoga, where he surrendered to General Horatio Gates.

The American victory against British forces at the Battles of  Saratoga marked a changing of the tide in the Revolutionary War, hence,  the turning point, securing foreign support from France and bolstering  domestic support for the American patriots and their righteous cause.

This bipartisan legislation would rename Saratoga National Historical  Park to Saratoga National Battlefield Park to more accurately reflect  the historical significance of the site and emphasize the crucial  military engagement that took place there.

The historic site was originally actually named Saratoga Battlefield  Park, but when it became a national park in 1938, the word  ``battlefield'' was left out of the name.

Unanimously supported by the Saratoga County Board of Supervisors,  this significant fix will help increase public understanding of the  deep significance the site holds in our military history and honor the  site where so many gave their last full measure of devotion.

Mr. Speaker, I express my gratitude to my great friend and classmate,  Chairman Bruce Westerman, for his partnership in ensuring our  battlefields and historic sites in upstate New York and across America  are preserved and protected for generations to come.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  bipartisan bill, the Strengthening America's Turning Point Act.