Congratulating J.J. Spaun


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692888/congratulating-jj-spaun


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate  John Michael Spaun, Jr., or J.J. Spaun, on his U.S. Open victory.

J.J. is a proud product of California's 31st Congressional District,  a graduate of San Dimas High School, where he played on the golf team  and was a CIF Southern Section finalist 2 years in a row. He went on to  play for San Diego State University, and after graduation he went  professional.

On the morning of Sunday, June 15, Father's Day, J.J. woke up early  to tend to his daughter who wasn't feeling well. Just a few hours  later, he was on his way to the U.S. Open.

On the 18th hole, J.J. sunk a 64-foot putt to clinch his first major  championship. The 31st Congressional District wants to congratulate him  on his incredible victory, and we wish him the best of luck at The Open  Championship in Northern Ireland.               Honoring the Retirement of Captain Daniel Regan

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the retirement of Captain  Daniel Regan of the Covina Police Department.

He was promoted to captain in 2022 and managed the Investigations,  K9, Firearms, and Records units. As a well-distinguished and awarded  police officer, Captain Regan's 35-year-long career exemplifies true  service and sacrifice. He has defined what it means to protect and  serve our community.

Mr. Speaker, I thank him for all he has done to keep our families and  our communities safe. I congratulate him on his well-deserved  retirement and we wish him all the best.    Commending Glendora and San Dimas High School's Varsity Baseball Teams

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Glendora  and San Dimas High School's baseball teams for reaching the CIF  Southern Section Division 3 championship game.

After a hard-fought pitchers' duel, Glendora was victorious with a 2- 0 shutout victory. This was Glendora High's first baseball CIF  championship in 15 years. It was a remarkable season, capped by a  historic victory.

Mr. Speaker, both teams are to be commended for their hard work and  dedication, and I wish them both good luck for next season. Go Tartans.