Disastrous Implications of A Yearlong Cr


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688483/disastrous-implications-of-a-yearlong-cr


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, Republican leadership has called for a  yearlong continuing resolution ahead of next week's government funding  deadline.

That is a horrible idea. To be clear, the government funding bill  should have been completed last year, but House Republicans made the  political decision to punt it to this year because my colleagues wanted  to wait for President Trump to move into the White House.

Mr. Speaker, House Republicans got what the majority wanted but still  haven't been able to pass any new funding because their party refuses  to accept the responsibility of governing. That is what has led us to  this yearlong CR.

Both the President and the Speaker have called for a ``clean'' CR,  but neither of them can articulate what that means.

Not only is Republican leadership struggling to say what my  Republican colleagues want to see in it, but a yearlong CR would  negatively impact our economy. A yearlong CR creates economic  uncertainty and job insecurity because it prevents Federal agencies  from making new hires and starting new programs. It delays contracts  and applications for grants, which reduce the level of services  agencies provide while also increasing costs. It reduces funding for  nearly every Federal program that America relies on, such as VA medical  care and food assistance programs.

Donald Trump and shadow president Musk have already thrown hundreds  of thousands of public employees in limbo. A CR would only exacerbate  that uncertainty and endanger their livelihoods.

Mr. Speaker, that is not the only disastrous implication of a  yearlong CR. A yearlong CR would undermine our military readiness and  our national security. The Department of Defense would have to slow  recruiting efforts and delay servicemember moves, throwing our military  families into limbo, not to mention it would potentially negate the  14.5 percent pay raise for junior-enlisted servicemembers, delay  military housing projects, and undercut initiatives to improve  servicemember quality of life and mental health.

Also, since a yearlong CR would not account for inflation, thousands  of DOD programs would see cuts. That includes programs that deal with  nuclear triad modernization, shipbuilding and ship  maintenance, munitions production and replenishment, and U.S.  priorities in the Indo-Pacific.

Ultimately, a yearlong CR would force too much uncertainty and stress  on our servicemembers and their families, and it would impede our  ability to react to national security threats.

Even some of my Republican colleagues agree with me on this point.  One Republican colleague has said: ``A continuing resolution, CR, is  bad for our military and weakens our national security. A CR means new  weapons programs cannot get started.'' Shipbuilding will be delayed.  ``A yearlong CR means we are not serious about building a military that  will deter China, Russia, and Iran.''

The White House may be out of touch with reality when it comes to  Ukraine and supporting our allies abroad, but their fealty to Vladimir  Putin doesn't mean the United States can resign its role in standing  for Ukraine and democracies around the world.

Washington Republicans need to get it together. My colleagues on the  other side of the aisle control the White House and Congress. If we  have a government shutdown, it falls on the majority and their  inability to govern.