Ending Pay-For-Play Political Gifts


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, Donald Trump was elected with a mandate to  improve the lives of hardworking Americans, to lower housing costs, to  make groceries, childcare, and medicine more affordable, and to help  our seniors get the care they need.

What has he done instead? He has used his position to inflate his own  wealth and pad the pocketbooks of billionaire donors, all at the  expense of the very people who elected him.

Unlike every single President before him, Donald Trump has refused to  divest his business interests. He didn't even put them in a blind  trust. Instead, he handed them over to his family, who continues to  profit.

In the past year alone, Donald Trump has doubled his fortune from  $2.3 billion to $5.1 billion. He now has over $5 billion. How is he  doing that? By treating public office like a personal business  opportunity.

Crypto investments make up $2.9 billion of the Trump family's net  worth. Just days after the inauguration, Trump announced a Trump meme  coin used to funnel money into his and his family's pockets. Now, the  Trump family crypto mining scheme is going public as their payouts grow  larger.

This is more than a conflict of interest. It is blatant corruption.  He is now considering accepting a $400 million jet from Qatar dubbed a  ``palace in the sky.'' How is this even ethical? Even some of my  Republican colleagues agree that not only is this wrong, but it is a  national security risk.

As a Member of Congress, I can't even accept a gift of more than $50,  let alone $400 million. It is a slap in the face of millions of people  who work long hours just to put food on the table and afford the roofs  over their heads.

He isn't looking out for the best interests of the American people.  He is only looking for what is good for the Trump business.

While House Republicans are out here snatching SNAP benefits away  from children, Trump is making sure his billionaire buddies get higher  tax breaks.

While families stress over how to make ends meet with high costs,  Trump is flaunting hotels and golf courses.

While House Republicans debate which critical funding to cut, Donald  Trump is raking in the excess to expand his personal empire.

Donald Trump is making a mockery of public office by continuing to  enrich himself at the taxpayers' expense. If a Democrat were in the  White House, my friends across the aisle would be losing their minds  right now. Wrong is still wrong, regardless of which party this  President belongs to.

We need to put an end to Donald Trump's pay-for-play political gifts  for the sake of our reputation, our democracy, and our future.