Made in America Manufacturing Finance Act


Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak as we take up  a set of five bipartisan bills that will expand services available to  our country's 36 million small businesses.

These businesses are crucial to our economy and national security,  creating two-thirds of all new jobs, employing half the private-sector  workforce, and generating almost half of our Nation's economic  activity.

Despite forming the bedrock of our local communities, small  businesses are increasingly feeling uncertain about the future of the  country. The small business landscape is littered with obstacles like  finding qualified workers, dealing with supply chain disruption as they  adjust to the President's tariff regime, and adopting new technologies  in order to stay competitive. These economic headwinds make SBA  services more important than ever.

The bills before us today reflect the monthslong, bipartisan effort  to strengthen the services offered by the SBA and bolster the support  for small businesses across the country. These five bills were  negotiated in good faith and in the spirit of collaboration.

Together, they help expand access to capital for businesses central  to our national security, expand the reach of the SBA's Office of Rural  Affairs, hold fraudsters accountable for exploiting the pandemic relief  programs, and modernize the SBA's IT infrastructure.

These bills are quite simply common sense and would meaningfully  improve SBA services for small businesses across the country. I am  proud to support them, and I thank my colleagues for the bipartisan  effort.

Mr. Speaker, turning to the first bill, I rise today for H.R. 3174,  the Made in America Manufacturing Finance Act.

Small manufacturers account for more than 98 percent of U.S.  manufacturing firms and employ 4.8 million Americans. They play a  critical role in regional economies and in maintaining supply chain  resilience.

There is no doubt that reshoring manufacturing is a top priority. We  all lived through the pandemic and saw the downsides of streamlined  just-in-time supply chains. When it comes to industries critical to our  economic and national security, such as pharmaceuticals and weapons,  ensuring the viability of domestic supply chains is paramount.

Let's all be honest, as a result of the crushing use of tariffs  imposed unilaterally by the President, small businesses are clamoring  for options in their supply chains that avoid massive and ever-changing  taxes at points of entry, but a renewed economic focus on making things  in the U.S. cannot happen at the snap of a finger.

It takes large investments and longtime horizons. This bill is a way  to approach filling the gaps in manufacturing financing. It raises the  loan limits for the SBA 7(a) and 504/CDC loan program from $5 million  to $10 million for small manufacturers.

In fact, helping small firms with the upfront capital investment is  one of the main goals of the 504/CDC program, and there is broad  support for increasing the loan limits in particular. Whether this is a  prudent use of the 7(a) program is a conversation that is still up for  debate, and one I look forward to continuing to work through with our  Senate counterparts.

Mr. Speaker, I support the bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I will close by thanking the chairman for  his commitment to working on behalf of small businesses to open up  avenues of financing for small businesses hoping to contribute to the  reshoring of manufacturing.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I yield back the balance  of my time.