Office of Rural Affairs Enhancement Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697282/office-of-rural-affairs-enhancement-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this commonsense legislation to  enhance the Office of Rural Affairs at the SBA. I commend  Representatives Goodlander, Wied, and Golden for their commitment to  making this office operate more effectively for rural small businesses.

Rural small businesses are powerful drivers of economic growth across  the United States, fueling the agricultural, tourism, manufacturing,  and energy sectors.

Unfortunately, they receive disproportionately fewer SBA loans and  resources than their urban counterparts and face greater challenges,  including access to affordable capital, unreliable internet access, and  access to talent.

Created in 1990, the Office of Rural Affairs at the SBA could play a  key role in helping small businesses overcome these challenges.  However, throughout its existence, the office has either been dormant  or the collateral duty of a regional administrator.

In 2020, an acting SBA director was named, and in 2021, the SBA  appointed a permanent, full-time career deputy director to stand up the  office. This bill would elevate the role of director to an assistant  administrator, ensure that assistant administrator meets certain  qualifications, and requires the office to host webinars and outreach  events.

With clear lines of communication and the outreach that will come  from the office, small businesses will be able to access resources that  should be readily available to them.

I will, once again, thank Ms. Goodlander, Mr. Wied, and Mr. Golden  for their bipartisan efforts on behalf of America's rural small  businesses.

Goodlander).

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, I will, once again, thank my colleagues, Ms. Goodlander,  Mr. Wied, and Mr. Golden, for their bipartisan efforts to pass this  legislation.

By strengthening the Office of Rural Affairs, we can ensure all small  businesses have adequate access to the resources at their disposal.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.