Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692102/save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-2025


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for her  leadership on this issue and in the committee.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation does not actually address the safety of  the SBA. Workers are small businesses. Since my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle disagree with the city's policy, the majority chooses  to punish all small businesses in that area.

Let's be clear: This bill strips resources not from cities but for  millions of small businesses, and it makes it harder for Americans to  access assistance to start and grow their businesses.

Supporting small businesses should not be a partisan issue. We in the  Committee on Small Business have heard in our hearings that targeting  SBA resources in major cities will be critically detrimental.

For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to  recommit this bill back to the committee.

If the House rules permitted, I would have offered this motion with  an important amendment to this bill. My amendment would prevent the  legislation from taking effect until Congress receives reporting from  the SBA on the proposed relocation of covered offices, including a  justification for how these moves could possibly serve small  businesses.

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in  voting for this motion to recommit.

I also submitted a separate amendment for consideration that would  have prevented the implementation of this bill if the cost of  relocating these offices out of Main Street would be more than zero  dollars. Unfortunately, the Republican majority has blocked my  amendment from receiving a floor vote today.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and to vote in  favor of my motion to recommit.

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.