Sba It Modernization Reporting Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697272/sba-it-modernization-reporting-act


I rise today in support of my bill, the SBA IT Modernization  Reporting Act, and I thank the chairman for his support. I also thank  Representative Jack for joining me in introducing this bill, which will  go a long way to help SBA modernize its IT infrastructure and improve  its services to small businesses.

Billions of dollars in Federal contracts are awarded to small  businesses every year, and the SBA plays a vital role in promoting  small business participation; however, over the years the SBA's  outdated and inefficient IT systems have made it harder for  entrepreneurs to access the resources they need.

After repeated unsuccessful attempts to develop and deploy a platform  that would be a one-stop-shop for contracting certifications, the  committee requested the GAO review the SBA's efforts to figure out why  they failed. The report identified the critical gaps in the SBA's  modernization efforts from risk management to cybersecurity and  budgeting.

My bill directly addresses these issues by requiring the SBA  administrator to implement the 11 recommendations in the GAO report,  mandating a clear plan of action and ensuring Congress is kept in the  loop. This means better oversight, better execution, and most  importantly, better services by the SBA for all small businesses.

An efficient and fully operational IT platform is critical for the  SBA to conduct the certifications that allow for so many small  businesses to participate in the Federal marketplace. The SBA IT  Modernization Reporting Act will ensure that the SBA addresses the root  causes that lead IT projects to fall behind schedule, increasing costs,  or outright fail.

I am grateful for the partnership of Representative Jack to introduce  this commonsense, bipartisan legislation which shows that modernizing  how the SBA works is not a partisan issue. Together, we can ensure that  the SBA is prepared to meet the evolving needs of small businesses.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill to ensure we  give the SBA the modern tools it needs to support the success of  America's small businesses.

Mr. Speaker, I close by once again thanking my colleague  Representative Jack for partnering with me on this important  legislation.

By bolstering SBA's IT infrastructure, we can improve services to  small businesses and open up doors to thousands of new entrants in the  Federal marketplace. I encourage my colleagues to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.