Small Business Saturday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696998/small-business-saturday


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge and uplift  Small Business Saturday this year.

Every year, our country celebrates Small Business Saturday the  weekend after Thanksgiving. This year that will be November 29, and I  encourage my constituents in California's 31st District and all  Americans to participate by shopping small business and supporting our  local businesses.

Coming from California's 31st District, I am proud to represent a  thriving and diverse community of small businesses in the San Gabriel  Valley. From cafes and restaurants, to bookstores, toy shops, party  supply stores, and many more, our district is fortunate to have an  abundance of locally owned small businesses bringing life and community  to our cities.

Mr. Speaker, as we approach Small Business Saturday and the holiday  season, I encourage everyone to shop small and take some time to  support your local businesses. By doing so, you are supporting your  neighbors, growing your local economy, and making your community  stronger.                      Recognizing Mr. Kenneth Singleton

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an extraordinary  military servicemember now serving our public schools.

Mr. Kenneth Singleton has dedicated decades of service to our  community. From serving in the U.S. Army and completing several tours,  including in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Saudi Arabia, his commitment to  service earned him the Meritorious Service Award five times.

For Mr. Singleton, public service didn't end after the uniform came  off, though. His second mission serving our next generation began in  the Monrovia Unified School District as the director of food service.

He has been a vital part of the school district, ensuring our  students have healthy, nutritious meals every day to focus and thrive  on their studies.

Mr. Singleton has brought discipline, leadership, and a commitment to  service to our schools in Monrovia Unified. Our community is fortunate  to have a dedicated public servant like him.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Singleton for his military service and his  exemplary public service to our students and schools.                         Recognizing Penny Stevenson

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding  community member, veteran, and leader in California's 31st District in  the city of San Dimas.

Penny Stevenson is the board president of the San Dimas H.E.R.O.E.S.  Organization, whose mission is to honor all San Dimas veterans by  engraving their names on a permanent monument at Freedom Park in San  Dimas, California.

As a U.S. Marine veteran herself and with a family of veterans, Penny  has shown incredible commitment, sacrifice, and leadership serving as  president to this organization dedicated to honoring our veterans and  servicemembers. This is Penny's last year serving as board president, a  position she has held since 2009.

Mr. Speaker, I thank her and commend her for all the work she has  done to recognize our servicemembers for the past 16 years. Just this  past Veterans Day, I was honored to visit the H.E.R.O.E.S. monument at  Freedom Park, and I can attest to the honor it brings to our veteran  community. I, again, thank her for her leadership and tireless efforts.                      Honoring 2026 Teachers of the Year

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the exciting  achievement of two dedicated educators in California's 31st District.

Mr. Rene Romero and Dr. Heather Povinelli were both named 2026  California Teachers of the Year.

Mr. Romero is an 11th and 12th grade international baccalaureate  language and literature teacher at South Hills High School in the  Covina Valley Unified School District. He has been teaching for 21  years and has developed an outstanding reputation for his creativity,  compassion, and dedication to his students.

His inclusive and supportive classroom has exemplified good teaching,  and he has well-earned the title of Teacher of the Year.

Dr. Heather Povinelli is a second grade teacher at Bradoaks  Elementary Science Academy in the Monrovia Unified School District.

For 25 years, she has dedicated her career to teaching in elementary  classrooms. Living with dwarfism, Dr. Povinelli uses her own lived  experience as an opportunity to empower students and teach about  disabilities, inclusion, and equity.

Not only is she an incredible teacher, but she is an inspiration and  a trailblazer to students of all backgrounds.

Mr. Speaker, I thank both Mr. Romero and Dr. Povinelli for their  commitment to teaching our future generations and congratulate them on  these immense achievements.