Vaccines Protect Our Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695621/vaccines-protect-our-communities


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the dangerous  actions of the Health and Human Services Secretary in regard to  vaccines.

Vaccines play a critical role in protecting our entire population in  the United States. They are the most powerful tool we have against  serious infectious diseases. They help our immune system learn how to  fight against viruses and prevent disease from spreading to our  neighbors, communities, and loved ones.

A 2024 CDC study showed that routine vaccines have prevented over 508  million cases of illness in children. The impact is immeasurable. That  is hundreds of millions of children who are saved from having to suffer  through a miserable illness. On top of that, their family, friends,  neighbors, classmates, and loved ones are all able to stay guarded from  these viruses and diseases.

It is really all thanks to modern medicine, science, research, and  the proven success of vaccines.

The United States military administers 17 vaccines to military  personnel on the basis of occupation, location of their deployment, and  mission requirements.

Once common diseases like polio, tetanus, and hepatitis B are now  almost unheard of, thanks to routine vaccinations.

Vaccines have become so effective that people have forgotten the  serious threat that they guard against in our communities, and now,  they are trying to politicize one of the most revolutionary  developments of modern medicine.

Health and Human Services Secretary Kennedy has been on a mission to  spread misinformation and fear-mongering to scare parents away from  getting their kids lifesaving vaccines. Not only that, he is attacking  the research and medical institutions that advance our health systems.  He has canceled nearly $500 million in contracts to develop vaccines.

This blatant disregard for the health of our communities is reckless  and puts all of us in danger.

As Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness at the  Pentagon, I oversaw public health efforts at the Pentagon during the  COVID-19 pandemic, which included acquiring and distributing vaccines  to military personnel.

In order to maintain the strength of our military, we need people  equipped for whatever the world throws at them, and that includes  diseases.

Operation Warp Speed was a success. Over 95 percent of Active-Duty  personnel were vaccinated. While no vaccine is perfect, only three  individuals who took the vaccine while on Active Duty died from COVID- 19 complications.

Operation Warp Speed was so much of a success that Secretary Esper  included a binder labeled ``Operation Warp Speed'' in his official  portrait. It is just too bad that no one can any longer see it hanging  in the Pentagon.

I find it ironic that the President who spoke out against the  distribution of the vaccines for so long is now trying to embrace its  success.

Our society has become healthier and more productive because of  vaccines. Vaccines have become a global investment in a strong public  system.

In our modern times, we no longer need to worry about sending our  kids to school, going to large sporting events or concerts, or even  traveling, all because of the major reduction in the spread of disease.  Vaccines are to thank for that.

There are several consequences to rejecting vaccines and the science  behind them. Mr. Kennedy's recent comments attacking vaccines are  destroying decades of work and community trust that has fostered safer  and healthier communities, trust that is based on good science. It is  careless and dangerous, but he continues to follow in the footsteps of  the President and create false narratives to spread fear and distrust.

This anti-vaccine mission he is on is going to prevent families and  children from getting the proper healthcare that they need. It is going  to significantly limit the resources that families have to keep  themselves healthy and protect themselves against infectious disease.

It should not be a political issue. This is about the health of our  people, the health of our Nation.

Every American should be alarmed about the detrimental impact that  this will have on our communities across the Nation and globe, which is  why I am fully committed to keeping our country safe and healthy,  lowering the cost of healthcare, and making medical resources more  accessible.

All Americans deserve access to quality healthcare, including  critical preventive care like vaccines.

Secretary Kennedy should be lauded for his campaign to remove dyes  from food, and I think that is admirable, but removing dyes from drinks  and foods won't protect kids from the threat of measles, chicken pox,  polio, or other diseases.

Vaccines are safe, effective, and our best defense against life- threatening diseases.

I urge all Americans to trust our scientists, our doctors, and  decades of research. Get vaccinated to protect yourself, your families,  and our communities. We have the power to maintain a healthy society  and prevent deadly infectious disease.