National Medal of Honor Day


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  yesterday as National Medal of Honor Day, a solemn occasion when our  Nation pauses to reflect on the extraordinary heroism and selflessness  of those who have received our country's highest military award for  valor, the Medal of Honor.

National Medal of Honor Day is an opportunity to pay tribute not only  to their acts of courage but also to the profound sacrifices made in  the defense of our freedoms.

Over 150 years ago, on March 25, 1863, the very first Medals of Honor  were presented, establishing a tradition of recognizing those who  displayed unparalleled bravery in the face of overwhelming danger.

More than a century later, in 1990, Congress designated March 25 as  National Medal of Honor Day, ensuring that future generations would  never forget the servicemembers who went above and beyond the call of  duty.

Since its inception, the Medal of Honor has been awarded 3,547 times  to servicemembers who have demonstrated extraordinary bravery and  devotion to their fellow troops and our Nation. Among those, 380  recipients have called Pennsylvania home, a testament to the courage  and selflessness of the sons and daughters of the Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania.

One of those remarkable Pennsylvanians was Army Specialist Ross  McGinnis, a young man from Clarion County who, at just 19 years old,  made the ultimate sacrifice to save the lives of his fellow soldiers.

On December 4, 2006, while on patrol in eastern Baghdad, Specialist  McGinnis and his unit came under attack. An enemy insurgent positioned  on a rooftop hurled a grenade into his Humvee.

Without hesitation, Specialist McGinnis threw his body onto the  grenade, saving the lives of his fellow soldiers. For this incomparable  courage and sacrifice, President George W. Bush posthumously awarded  him the Medal of Honor in 2008.

Today, the post office in Knox, Pennsylvania, bears his name,  ensuring that his legacy of heroism endures in the community he once  called home.

Another Pennsylvanian whose bravery is etched in history is Private  First  Class Foster Sayers, a 20-year-old infantryman from my hometown of  Howard, Pennsylvania, who answered the call to serve during World War  II.

On November 12, 1944, while fighting near Thionville, France, Private  Sayers singlehandedly charged enemy positions, drawing fire away from  his unit and allowing his fellow soldiers to successfully flank and  capture the enemy stronghold.

His courage, sacrifice, and dedication to duty earned him the Medal  of Honor. Eighty years later, his name remains a symbol of the price of  our freedom.

In November of last year, I had the privilege of presenting two flags  to Foster Sayers, Jr., and Foster Sayers III, in honor of their father  and grandfather's legacy.

Foster Sayers was married to his wife, Ellen, at the time he  deployed. He never met Fos, who actually was my neighbor for a lot of  years, for decades, and married to my dad's cousin. Foster's wife,  Ellen, was actually my babysitter when I was growing up. They are a  remarkable family.

Behind every Medal of Honor recipient is a family that has also  sacrificed. Our military families often bear the weight of their loved  one's service. I also thank them for their sacrifice.

Mr. Speaker, when we observe National Medal of Honor Day, we honor  these heroes, and we affirm our sacred obligation to all who wear the  uniform. We must ensure that our veterans and servicemembers are  treated with the dignity, care, and gratitude that they have so  courageously earned.

Let us continue to build a country worthy of the sacrifices of our  veterans. May God bless our veterans, our fallen heroes, and our great  Nation.