Recognizing Jim Decker


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Jim Decker as he retires from the Warren County Chamber of Business and  Industry.

Jim's professional life is deeply intertwined with the economic  vitality of Warren County, Pennsylvania. Since 1989, he has served in  some capacity with the Warren County Chamber of Business and Industry.

Since 1997, he has led the WCCBI as president and CEO. He also serves  as executive director of the Warren County Development Association.

Jim is a native son of Warren County and a 1975 graduate of Warren  Area High School. He proudly raised his family in Warren. He and his  wife, Kathryn, have three adult children and many grandchildren.

Jim's dedication to Warren County is second to none. His community  involvement is extensive, and he is a board member of numerous regional  and State organizations, including but not limited to the Northwest  Commission, the Northwest PA Job Connect, and the Leadership Warren  County Steering Committee.

Jim has been a driving force behind major economic and recreational  initiatives in the county, including the facilitation of the Warren  County Industrial Complex, which is a business incubator that supports  a dozen small to large midsized manufacturing tenants and is the  financial anchor of the Warren County Chamber of Business and Industry.

Jim also oversaw the development of the 300 2nd Avenue Bank Building  project, a key venture that now houses the Northern Pennsylvania  Regional College and is a multimillion-dollar economic development  rehabilitation project in the heart of downtown Warren.

A strong advocate for expanded outdoor opportunities, Jim has worked  to make Warren County a prime destination. He was instrumental in  expanding the Trails at Jakes Rocks mountain bike system, which  features 35.2 miles of premier hiking and biking trails in the  Allegheny National Forest. This is a significant regional asset that  has an economic impact of more than $10 million annually.

Through Jim's efforts, Warren County has hosted major events,  including the United States Canoe Association's national championships,  Cabela's 3D Archery and Walleye championships, and the International  Bowhunters Organization tournament.

This year, the Pennsylvania Association of Chamber Professionals gave  Jim the Keystone Award. Established in 1963, it is the highest honor  for the PACP awards. It recognizes outstanding service in and  contributions to the profession of Chamber management in Pennsylvania.  It is not awarded annually but only when an individual has demonstrated  outstanding achievements.

Mr. Speaker, Jim's longstanding dedication and leadership have shaped  Warren County for the better. He is the kind of leader who brings his  vision to life through hard work but makes it look easy.

Warren County has become a dynamic community and recreational hub  thanks to Jim's leadership. Jim is a steadfast pillar of the  northwestern Pennsylvania region, and his legacy will be felt for  generations.

While it is bittersweet to see Jim retire, I know that we will still  see him around Warren, probably on his mountain bike, enjoying the  outdoors. I wish him the best as he starts this new chapter of life.