Secure Rural Schools Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the  distinguished chairman of the Agriculture Committee Subcommittee on  Forestry for his great work, for his leadership, and for his tireless  work on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 356, the Secure Rural  Schools Reauthorization Act of 2025.

Actively managing our national forests is critical for both forest  health and the economic health of our rural communities. Congress has  long recognized that responsible timber harvesting is essential for  encouraging that stewardship.

Since many communities throughout the United States, including  Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional District, are located within national  forest lands, declining timber harvests can lead to chronic  underfunding of local schools, emergency services, and other projects  that rely on a strong tax base. As a result, Congress made a commitment  to provide resources to rural communities and schools that have tracts  of land managed by the U.S. Forest Service.

Since 1908, Federal law has required that 25 percent of the revenue  generated through timber sales in national forests is returned to the  local county. These funds are then used by local governments to provide  critical support services for schools, roads, and other essential  needs.

Timber harvesting in the national forest system reached its peak in  the late 1980s, then dramatically declined in the early 1990s. This  decline led to significantly reduced payments to counties, notably  impacting rural schools. This trend continued throughout the decade,  and harvesting levels have since remained only a fraction of their  historical highs.

To offset this lost revenue, Congress created the Secure Rural  Schools program in 2000 to offer an alternative funding formula that  takes historic production levels into account. This program has been a  lifeline to hundreds of rural counties and school districts across the  country who have seen their budgets slashed through no fault of their  own.

The program expired in the fall of 2023, resulting in county payments  reverting to the rate under permanent law, which equates to a nearly 70  percent reduction.

Today's legislation will extend Secure Rural Schools for 3 years and  make adjustments to payments already made for fiscal years 2024 and  2025. Without this critical reauthorization, these rural school  districts will not receive any additional funding this year, and  payments scheduled for distribution in the spring of 2026 and beyond  will remain at significantly reduced levels.

I represent many communities that receive funding through the Secure  Rural Schools program, and I remain committed to seeing the program  operate consistently and successfully. We must ensure that Congress  continues to fulfill our obligation to our rural counties and schools.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I urge my colleagues to  vote favorably.