United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the  rules and pass the bill (H.R. 4550) to reauthorize the United States  Grain Standards Act, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4550

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``United States Grain       Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

Section 2(b) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 74(b)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in paragraph (3)(F), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; and''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(4) that the Secretary shall prioritize the adoption of       improved grain grading technology to provide for efficient,       accurate, and consistent grading of grain.''.       SEC. 3. OFFICIAL INSPECTION AUTHORITY AND FUNDING.

Section 7 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 79) is amended--

(1) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following:

``(5) The Secretary may provide that domestic non-export       grain loaded or unloaded into or out of a rail car, barge,       truck, or other container, at an export port location, shall       be inspected in the manner provided in this subsection or       subsection (f), as the Secretary determines will best meet       the objectives of this Act.'';

(2) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``fund created'' and       inserting ``trust fund created''; and

(3) in subsection (j)--

(A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``fund which'' and       inserting ``trust fund which'';

(B) in paragraph (3)--

(i) by striking ``fund created'' and inserting ``trust fund       created''; and

(ii) by striking ``credited to the fund'' and inserting       ``credited to the trust fund account''; and

(C) in paragraph (5), by striking ``2025'' and inserting       ``2030''.       SEC. 4. WEIGHING AUTHORITY.

Section 7A of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 79a) is amended--

(1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``State agency'' and       inserting ``State agency or official agency''; and

(2) in subsection (l)--

(A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ``fund created'' and       inserting ``trust fund created'';

(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fund created'' and       inserting ``trust fund created''; and

(C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``2025'' and inserting       ``2030''.       SEC. 5. TESTING OF EQUIPMENT.

Section 7B(a) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 79b(a)) is amended by striking ``fund created'' and       inserting ``trust fund created''.       SEC. 6. LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE AND SUPERVISORY COSTS.

Section 7D of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 79d) is amended--

(1) by striking ``activities)'' and inserting ``activities,       equipment, and development of technology)''; and

(2) by striking ``2025'' and inserting ``2030''.       SEC. 7. GENERAL AUTHORITIES.

Section 16 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 87e) is amended--

(1) in subsection (e), by striking ``Department of       Agriculture'' and inserting ``Department of Agriculture and       official agencies''; and

(2) in subsection (j), by striking ``fund created'' and       inserting ``trust fund created''.       SEC. 8. REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.

Section 17A(e) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 87f-1(e)) is amended by striking ``fund described''       and inserting ``trust fund described''.       SEC. 9. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

Section 17B(e) of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 87f-2(e)) is amended--

(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking       ``The Secretary may, to the extent determined appropriate by       the Secretary'' and inserting ``On December 1 of each year,       the Secretary shall'';

(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and

(4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:

``(2) an analysis of any and all existing deficiencies in       the technology evaluation process and recommendations to       advance the efficiency, accuracy, and consistency of grain       grading and minimize costs imposed on the Federal Government       and the grain export industry; and''.       SEC. 10. FUNDING.

Section 19 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 87h) is amended--

(1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2021 through 2025''       and inserting ``2026 through 2030''; and

(2) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking ``other services''       and inserting ``other services (excluding grading services       performed under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946)''.       SEC. 11. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

Section 21 of the United States Grain Standards Act (7       U.S.C. 87j) is amended--

(1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:       ``Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if the Secretary       does not make a new appointment upon the completion of a term       of an existing member (including such existing member's       second successive term), then such existing member shall       continue to serve until such appointment is made.''; and

(2) in subsection (e), by striking ``2025'' and inserting       ``2030''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on behalf of the United States  Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025, a piece of legislation  that is more than 100 years old and plays a vital role in preserving  safety, quality, and a standard of excellence for the American grain  industry.

If we want America to maintain its status as the safest, most  abundant grain supply in the world, reauthorization of this act before  several of its key provisions expire at the end of September is  absolutely essential.

Originally passed in 1916, the United States Grain Standards Act gave  the Federal Government the authority to set official marketing  standards for grains and oilseeds. It also provided a framework for  inspection and weighing procedures.

Because of the United States Grain Standards Act, the American grain  industry has developed an enduring reputation for consistency and  quality in the global market.

This vital tool plays a critical role in reinforcing the strength of  our agriculture supply chain. It ensures that farmers, whether they  grow corn, sorghum, soybeans, or any other grain, receive a fair price  that reflects the quality of their crop. It allows buyers of U.S. grain  to feel confident in the safety and quality of the products they need.

The United States Grain Standards Act also supports U.S. trade, a  crucial part of the American farm economy. In 2024, the U.S. exported  more than $26 billion of American grains. In just my home State of  Pennsylvania alone, almost $100 million of corn and barley are exported  every year.

These exports make a difference to the bottom line for family farmers  in Pennsylvania and across our country.

American agriculture has certainly changed since 1916, and the United  States Grain Standards Act continues to evolve with the times. The 2025  reauthorization of the act includes key improvements that will help  grain standards continue to modernize while emphasizing cost- effectiveness from both government and industry.

This legislation promotes technological innovation by advancing grain  grading tools to improve accuracy, efficiency, and consistency while  giving USDA the flexibility to invest in critical technological  upgrades. Annual reports on technological challenges and  solutions ensure Congress remains informed and transparency is  maintained.

This bill will improve long-term financial management by allowing  user fees to be deposited into interest-bearing trust funds. It also  grants the Secretary authority to permit domestic grain inspection at  export ports, facilitating faster, more flexible service where needed.  Finally, it ensures that advisory committee members may continue  serving until replacements are appointed, preserving expertise and  continuity.

While much of the act is permanently authorized, such as mandatory  inspection and weighing of exported grain, there are important  provisions set to expire at the end of this month. A lapse in  authorization would disrupt the current grain inspection and weighing  process, cost the farm economy more than $70 million a day, and create  serious consequences for American family farms, our supply chain, and  our international trading partners. These disruptions are entirely  avoidable.

We are doing our farmers and export partners a disservice if we don't  do our jobs and get this critical piece of legislation across the  finish line. Mr. Speaker, I hope you will join me in voting ``yes'' for  the United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025.

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, first, I thank the  gentlewoman from the Wheat State for her leadership on the Agriculture  Committee and on this topic in particular.

Mr. Speaker, I now yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.  Austin Scott), chairman of the General Farm Commodities, Risk  Management, and Credit Subcommittee and vice chair of the full  Agriculture Committee.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the  opportunity to speak in support of H.R. 4550. This legislation  reauthorizes the United States Grain Standards Act, a cornerstone of  American agriculture and trade for nearly a century.

Mr. Speaker, I don't want to go any further without first thanking  Chairman Thompson for his work, Ranking Member Craig for her work, and  the gentlewoman from Kansas (Ms. Davids) for her work on this piece of  legislation.

As chairman of the General Farm Commodities, Risk Management, and  Credit Subcommittee, I, too, have seen firsthand the importance of this  law. Earlier this year, we held a hearing with industry stakeholders to  discuss the act's significance and explore ways to foster innovation.

The provisions in this bill ensure transparency, market confidence,  and fair price discovery, all of which are essential to a functioning  agricultural market.

H.R. 4550 not only reauthorizes this critical legislation, but also  advances grain grading technology to modernize inspection and weighing  services. These updates will help the industry adopt new technologies,  improve the accuracy and the efficiency of grain standards, and keep  American agriculture competitive in a global market.

Allowing this law's authority to lapse would have severe  consequences, costing our farm economy over $70 million a day and  disrupting supply chains and international trade partnerships.

Exports of grain and grain products in my home State of Georgia  contribute over $900 million annually in economic output. The United  States exports over $26 billion of grain on an annual basis. These  numbers underscore the need for uninterrupted, reliable, and cost- effective inspection services.

H.R. 4550 protects these essential services and helps maintain the  United States' reputation as the global standard in grain production.

I was proud to work with Ranking Member Davids on the General Farm  Commodities, Risk Management, and Credit Subcommittee to hold a hearing  that laid the groundwork for this reauthorization.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation, and I  urge my colleagues to support its final passage.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Kansas (Ms. Davids) for her  passionate work on behalf of America's number one industry,  agriculture, and on this specific piece of legislation.

I thank my good friend from Georgia (Mr. Austin Scott) for his  leadership as subcommittee chair with the area of jurisdiction from  which this bill comes.

Mr. Speaker, it is not too often we have the opportunity to take a  piece of legislation that is over 100 years old in its origin and  modernize it into the 21st century. That is what we have done with the  technological advancements and the transparency.

I am very proud of the work that our Agriculture Committee has done.  I certainly would encourage a ``yes'' vote on this piece of  legislation.