Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the  rules and pass the bill (S. 222) to amend the Richard B. Russell  National School Lunch Act to allow schools that participate in the  school lunch program to serve whole milk, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 222

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Whole Milk for Healthy Kids       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ORGANIC OR NON-ORGANIC WHOLE MILK PERMISSIBLE.

(a) In General.--Section 9(a)(2) of the Richard B. Russell       National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(2)) is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (A)--

(A) by striking clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting the       following:

``(i) shall offer students a variety of fluid milk;

``(ii) may offer students options which may include       flavored and unflavored organic or nonorganic whole, reduced-      fat, low-fat, and fat-free fluid milk and lactose-free fluid       milk, and nondairy beverages that are nutritionally       equivalent to fluid milk and meet the nutritional standards       established by the Secretary (which shall, among other       requirements to be determined by the Secretary, include       fortification of calcium, protein, vitamin A, and vitamin D       to levels found in cow's milk); and''; and

(B) in clause (iii), by striking ``physician'' and       inserting ``physician, parent, or legal guardian'';

(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter preceding clause       (i), by striking ``fluid milk products'' and inserting       ``products described in subparagraph (A)(ii)''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following:

``(D) Saturated fat.--Milk fat included in any fluid milk       provided under subparagraph (A) shall not be considered       saturated fat for purposes of measuring compliance with the       allowable average saturated fat content of a meal under       section 210.10 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (or       successor regulations).

``(E) Application.--Subparagraph (B)(ii) is not applicable       to a school that offers nondairy beverages under subparagraph       (A)(ii).''.

(b) Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Section 14(f) of the Richard B. Russell National School       Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1762a(f)) is amended in the third       sentence by inserting ``or a nondairy beverage that meets the       nutritional standards described in section 9(a)(2)(B)'' after       ``milk''.

(2) Section 20(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School       Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769b(c)) is amended by striking       ``patterns and fluid milk requirements'' and inserting       ``patterns, fluid milk requirements, and nutritional       standards for nondairy beverages''.       SEC. 3. INCLUDING FOOD ALLERGY INFORMATION IN EXISTING                     TRAINING MODULES FOR LOCAL FOOD SERVICE                     PERSONNEL.

(a) Food Allergy Training Module.--Section 7(g)(2)(B)(iii)       of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.       1776(g)(2)(B)(iii)) is amended--

(1) by redesignating subclauses (II) and (III) as       subclauses (III) and (IV), respectively; and

(2) by inserting after subclause (I) the following:

``(II) food allergies, including information on the best       practices to prevent, recognize, and respond to food-related       allergic reactions;''.

(b) Certification.--Section 7(g)(2)(B)(ii)(II) of the Child       Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1776(g)(2)(B)(ii)(II)) is       amended by striking ``clause (i)'' and inserting ``clauses       (i) and (iii)''.

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.  222.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of a bill near and dear to my  heart, the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act of 2025.

My legislation will allow for unflavored and flavored whole, reduced- fat, or 2 percent milk to be offered in school cafeterias, giving our  students the option to choose the milk that they want to drink.

Milk is an essential building block for a well-rounded and balanced  diet, offering 13 essential nutrients and numerous health benefits.

Unfortunately, out-of-touch and outdated Federal regulations have  imposed restrictions on the types of milk students have access to in  school meals. While the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act's intention to  reduce child obesity was good, its impacts to attack whole milk have  been misguided and devastating over the 15 years since its passage,  resulting in the loss of an entire generation of milk drinkers.

It has always been a myth that whole milk causes weight gain. The  beverage is 97 percent fat-free, and it is the least processed type of  milk. Common sense tells us that whole milk is not the culprit of  childhood obesity. Instead, milk is the number one source of protein  for kids ages 2 to 11. Milk is also the top source of calcium,  potassium, phosphorus, and vitamin D for children ages 2 to 18.

Medical research has proven that whole milk has several benefits,  such as strong bone density, a healthier immune system, reduced  cardiovascular risk, lowered blood pressure, reduced hunger cravings,  reduced type 2 diabetes risk, and increased sleep quality.

Additionally, children are not consuming the amount of dairy  recommended by the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and are not getting  these important benefits and nutrients. The Dietary Guidelines Advisory  Committee reported that over two-thirds of school-age children fail to  meet the recommended levels of dairy. Rather than drinking milk they  didn't like, students are throwing it away and losing out on the 21  essential minerals and 13 vitamins necessary for healthy development.

School nutrition programs provide critical access to the nutrients  growing children need, including those provided by milk. In fact,  school meals provide 77 percent of the total daily milk consumption for  low-income children ages 5 to 18.

In addition, it is also important to remember that this legislation  does not require any student to drink or any school to serve whole  milk. Rather, this legislation simply gives schools the flexibility to  serve a broader variety of milk in the school lunchroom.

Dairy farmers in Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional District and  across our country work hard every day to produce nutritious milk for  our families and communities.

I am proud to lead this legislation that would allow schools to serve  flavored and unflavored whole and reduced-fat milk in school  cafeterias. Today, we will restore students' access to a wide variety  of milk options, ensuring students have the necessary nutrients to  learn and grow.

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.

Mr. Speaker, I have proudly led this charge to restore whole milk in  school milk programs for the last decade.

I am grateful to those who played a role in this effort, including  the House Education and Workforce Committee Chairman Tim Walberg and  former Chairwoman Virginia Foxx; my co-lead, Congresswoman Kim Schrier,  who is a pediatrician; my Senate companion co-leads, Senators Roger  Marshall, Peter Welch, Dave McCormick, and John Fetterman; my staff in  my personal office and on the House Agriculture Committee, who have  worked tirelessly to advance this bill every step of the way,  especially my legislative director, Faith Tuttle.

I also thank the National Milk Producers Federation, and in  particular Paul Bleiberg; the International Dairy Foods Association;  the Farm Bureau; the Pennsylvania Farm Bureau; and the most dedicated  grassroots movement in America, 97 Milk, including the leadership of  Bernie Morrissey and Sherry Bunting, Nelson Troutman, Krista Byler,  Christine Ebersole, Dr. Edward Silverman, and a host of parents and  dairy farmers. I thank each and every one of these individuals who  put their mark on this bill in a meaningful way.

I encourage all of my colleagues to support this legislation and  drink whole milk.