Recognizing Childhood Cancer Awareness Month


Mr. SORENSEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge one of the  most cherished organizations in my district and the efforts to continue  their storied mission of serving with the greatest care and love. As we  know, September is childhood cancer awareness month, so please join me  in recognizing OSF HealthCare and their newly named OSF Children's  Hospital of Illinois Cancer and Blood Disorders Institute.

This is an incredible milestone for pediatric healthcare in downstate  Illinois. Located in Peoria, the institute cares for children with both  cancer and blood disorders through world-class, family-centered care.

The OSF Children's Hospital of Illinois is the sole children's  hospital in the downstate area that offers the full spectrum of  pediatric oncology and hematology care under one roof for children and  their families. These services include one of approximately 45 proton  beam therapy centers in the United States and the only one serving  downstate Illinois families. This allows for highly targeted radiation  treatments which reduce side effects and improve long term outcomes for  children.

In addition to treating childhood cancers, the hospital is a regional  leader in the care of serious blood disorders such as sickle cell  disease, hemophilia, and aplastic anemia. Their comprehensive programs  cover major steps for care, including diagnosis, treatment, lifelong  management, and transition to adult care, thus ensuring every patient  receives the treatment they need at every stage of life.

Every year, approximately 15,000 children in the United States, 700  in Illinois, are diagnosed with cancer, and countless others live with  chronic or life-threatening blood disorders. This includes children as  young as only a few months. While we are thankful that survival rates  for many pediatric cancers have improved to over 85 percent, cancer  remains the leading cause of disease-related death among children, and  hematologic conditions continue to require complex, coordinated, and  long-term care.

To unite our community in this fight, OSF Children's Hospital of  Illinois has also recently launched Paint the Town Gold, an annual  community-wide awareness initiative that will  take place every September during Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Now  an annual downstate tradition, Paint the Town Gold brings together  businesses, schools, local governments, and citizens to honor children,  inspire hope, and advocate for continued progress in both cancer and  blood disorder care.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to urge the chamber to join me in  congratulating OSF Children's Hospital of Illinois Cancer and Blood  Disorders Institute on their new name, while applauding their  leadership in pediatric cancer and blood disorder care. Likewise, I am  happy to recognize Paint the Town Gold as an enduring community  tradition in the fight for every child's health.