Consequences of Doge


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692039/consequences-of-doge


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Min for convening this  Special Order hour. As we are getting set up, I know that we have a  poster that we want to get up here, so let me just start out.

Mr. Speaker, breakups are hard. They are really, really hard, and you  know they are especially hard when they play out in the public eye. I  think anyone who is online right now and watching the very public  breakup of Donald Trump and Elon Musk would understand that.

I mean, if you have watched over the last several days, it has really  been an epic breakup for the ages. In fact, I think it is fit for the  ``Real Housewives'' if you have been watching what is unfolding, even  just in the last several hours.

In fact, just a couple of hours ago, Elon Musk affirmed a statement  about actually impeaching the President. I mean, who would have thought  that we would end up here because, literally, less than a week ago,  they were having a bromance in the Oval Office? It is really just  incredible to think about what has happened over the last 72 hours when  you think about it.

I think it is important to understand. I mean, Donald Trump is in  office as the most powerful human on planet Earth as the President of  the United States. Rather than thinking about balancing the budget,  addressing economic free-fall, trying to figure out what to do with our  foreign adversaries, how to help the American people, engaging in the  debate on how to save healthcare for millions of Americans, or making  sure our children are fed in the United States and across the world, he  has instead been so embroiled in the breakup of his bromance with Elon  Musk that they have been going hard at each other all day long.

I wanted to take this opportunity, while we have it, honestly, to  share the tea with all of you because I think, I mean, we all kind of  knew this was coming, right? I mean, we have kind of seen the signs for  the last few days, especially the last few weeks, but I don't think  that many of us thought it would come in such a dramatic form. I want  to kind of break down and put in the Congressional Record what has  actually transpired over the last 72 hours.

I think many of us were shocked when we saw just a couple of days ago  when, on Tuesday at 1:30, Elon Musk tweeted the following. He said:  ``I'm sorry, but I just can't stand it anymore. This massive,  outrageous, pork-filled Congressional spending bill is a disgusting  abomination. Shame on those who voted for it: you know you did wrong.  You know it.''

I mean, really, we were quite shocked. I mean, let's be clear: All  215 Democrats have been saying this for weeks, but obviously, things  really boiled over for Mr. Musk on Tuesday.

Then, just a few minutes later, he followed up with another shot at  Donald Trump, where he says: ``It will massively increase the already  gigantic budget deficit to $2.5 trillion (!!!) and burden America  citizens with crushingly unsustainable debt.''

He went on in the following hours to literally accuse Republicans of  making Americans debt slaves. I mean, this is actually what has been  unfolding on the internet for the last several days, but this bromance  is so messy. This breakup is messy as all hell, let me tell you.

Okay, you all know that   Thomas Massie, who is a true fiscal  conservative and is pretty much the only Republican in this Chamber who  stands by his convictions and is not willing to sell out his soul for  politics and power, voted against this bill because he read the CBO  report and was not going to go and toe the line for the Republican  Party.

He knew that Speaker Johnson was not telling the truth about deficit  spending. He knew that Donald Trump in his sales pitch was not selling  the truth. He knew it was going to cost $2.5 trillion, at least. We  don't even know what the final cost is going to be.

This love triangle got even messier because both   Thomas Massie and  Senator Rand Paul got in on the mess here, so we have   Thomas Massie  here retweeted Elon Musk, and he said: ``He's right.'' We saw, just  around that same timeframe, Senator Rand Paul also got involved.

Then, oh my gosh, well, Elon Musk--in a fit of passion, I am sure--I  mean, he dialed it up even further. He said later in the day here--it  looks like it was about 3:32 p.m. on X. It looks like Elon Musk was  retweeting what other people were saying about his attacks on the  President and this big abomination of a bill, and Elon Musk says: ``In  November next year, we fire all politicians who betrayed the American  people.''

I mean, we cannot make this up. This is like the real tea that is  going on, on the internet.

Elon Musk dumped almost $300 million on Donald Trump's election, and  he even weighed in and was like, yo, bro, you wouldn't even be  President and wouldn't have the majority if I hadn't dropped all my  dollars on you.

Then, Elon Musk--actually, this was yesterday afternoon because this  went on all night, right? We were all watching it unfold in real time,  and even just a couple of hours ago, here on this floor, we were all  glued to our phones. We were, like, oh, man, this lovers' quarrel is  getting messy.

Elon Musk, around 2:50 p.m. yesterday afternoon--we were in the DOGE  Subcommittee when it happened. He tweeted this. Elon Musk tweets:  ``Call your Senator, Call your Congressman, Bankrupting America is NOT  ok! KILL the BILL.''

You know, I appreciate it. I am a '90s kid. He also tweeted a picture  of ``Kill Bill,'' a Quentin Tarantino reference. We all know where Elon  is coming from.

I want to be clear: I am not a fan. I think we all know that.

We have tried to subpoena you several times to come testify in front  of the Oversight Committee. You have been giving yourself billions of  dollars in contracts. You have been stealing American data. You have  been breaking the law with impunity.

A couple of people asked me earlier how I felt about what is going on  in this lovers' quarrel. I am, like, you know what? You get mixed up  with messy people, you get a messy outcome. It is very clear that that  is exactly what is going on.

I think we have all been hearing the rumors here in Washington, the  breakup rumors. In fact, I think many of us, even on this floor on both  the Democratic and the Republican sides, have heard the rumors that  Donald Trump was getting frustrated with Elon, that he wanted to be on  the helicopter all the time, and that he was following him around,  going to Mar-a-Lago, showing up to these Cabinet meetings, and throwing  all his money around and all that stuff.

In fact, in response to all the drama, Donald Trump fired back on  Truth Social: ``Elon was `wearing thin,' I asked him to leave, I took  away his EV Mandate that forced everyone to buy Electric Cars that  nobody else wanted (that he knew for months I was going to do!), and he  just went CRAZY!''

I mean, this is getting out of hand. This is really, really getting  out of hand.

Then, Donald Trump--really, this is just the tip of the iceberg  because what else does the leader of the free world have to do all day?  I mean, he could try to end wars in the Middle East. He  could try to negotiate peace deals in Europe. Oh, wait, no. Actually,  he is cutting funding for NATO. Sorry, I forgot about that. In fact, he  just spent his entire day attacking his aggrieved lover.

Donald Trump--let's see, this is June 5 at 2:37--on Truth Social  says: ``The easiest way to save money in our Budget, Billions and  Billions of Dollars, is to terminate Elon's Governmental Subsidies and  Contracts. I was always surprised that Biden didn't do it!''

There is not a lot that Mr. Trump and I agree on, but I am totally  with you, Mr. President. If you want to go after Elon Musk's contracts,  we are here for the fight, bro. Give me a ring, like, for real. We can  get this across the finish line because, I mean, obviously, I know you  guys were feeling the feelings for the first 130 days, and there is  always a honeymoon period, especially after you go through a big thing  together like an election. I know he helped you win your election, but  obviously, now the honeymoon has worn off.

Mr. Speaker, if you really want to root out waste, fraud, and abuse-- even Donald Trump is saying it. Donald Trump apparently, even this  week, asked his own staff if the entire DOGE effort was bullshit.

I am not trying--I know we are on the floor of the House of  Representatives. To all of the people monitoring, that is a direct  quote of the President of the United States. Let me just be clear on  that.

Obviously, these guys know a lot about each other. They spent a lot  of time with each other over the last few months. They actually know  what is going on.

The battle continued today. In response to Donald Trump's comments  about Elon wearing thin, the Autism Capital account--I don't know quite  what that is--says: ``Trump fires back at Elon. The online battle  begins.''

Elon Musk says: ``Such an obvious lie. So sad.''

We are all sad, right? It is always sad when a relationship ends.

Mr. Speaker, I think this is when things really got heated. This is  why things are really hard when there is a breakup and there is a love  triangle with the GOP. That is these guys over here. There is nobody  here anymore. Just in case anyone is wondering, there are no  Republicans, except the acting pro tempore here.

The thing that is so crazy is we all get wrapped up in our friends  and their relationships. The Republicans were like: Okay, Mr. Trump,  Elon is obviously your bestie, and he spent all this money. So we will  go along with it--even though apparently the Cabinet and Republicans  were really unhappy about it.

They are, like, okay, fine.

Then we are going scorched Earth here now. It was actually really  interesting to me earlier on the House floor. How are Republicans  dealing with it? Honestly, I haven't seen them cheerful in quite a few  months. Clearly, something is about to happen.

Elon Musk--where are we at here on the timeframe here? This was  actually shortly before I came to the floor this afternoon.

Elon Musk tweets: ``Time to drop the really big bomb:  @realDonaldTrump is in the Epstein files. That is the real reason they  have not been made public.''

Then he cheerfully says: ``Have a nice day, DJT!''

We all know what happens in breakups. Obviously, they got the tea on  each other. This is a no-holds-barred breakup fight happening right  now.

Finally, this was the mike drop of all mike drops. Just as I was  walking onto the floor this afternoon, Elon Musk tweets: ``Yes.''

This was in response to some other person, who I don't know, who  treated: ``President vs Elon. Who wins?''

``Trump should be impeached. . . . `'

We have all been through really hard breakups. I don't know if anyone  remembers. Mr. Speaker, 140 days ago or so, it was a lovefest. They  were here in the Capitol. It was so good.

Elon Musk's words were: Yo, President, I am going to save the  government from debt slavery and the deficit.

These bros were on the helicopter every day. They were going to down  Mar-a-Lago.

Elon Musk is now calling for the fricking impeachment of Donald  Trump. That is some serious, serious business.

What does this all mean in reality? It is happening in real time. I  haven't even checked my phone since I started this conversation. There  might be more drama going down just since we started this very  conversation on the floor.

The reality of the situation is they both got what they paid for. Mr.  Musk spent almost $300 million in dark money to pay for his friend, Mr.  Trump, to become the President and to win this Republican majority who  is trying to send our country into the largest deficit spend in  American history.

As for Mr. Trump, this is what happens when he sells his soul. We see  what happens.

I have a lot of love in my heart for people who are going through  hard times. I know that both of them are having a hard time. For the  sake of democracy, for the sake of the American people, and, frankly,  for the global security and safety of people all over the planet, I  just have to say Mr. Trump and Mr. Musk need to cut this drama out. We  need to take care of our people.

I am with Musk on this one. Mr. President, I don't mean to take  sides. I am going to say it. Kill the bill.