Demanding Answers


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to ask a question  that millions of Americans across this country are asking right now.  That question is, ``What is Elon Musk doing with our data?'' because I  think that none of us can figure that out.

For the last several months, we have watched as Elon Musk, DOGE, and  his team of hackers have infiltrated agency after agency and database  after database, downloading, accessing, and applying artificial  intelligence systems to those data. Yet, when we have tried to bring  Mr. Elon Musk in front of the Oversight Committee, or any committee of  this body, the GOP has consistently blocked us day after day.

Mr. Musk claims to have maximum transparency, yet all he has done has  created a B grade Twitter in which he is posting Twitter posts claiming  that he is cutting government spending. Meanwhile, he is dropping  millions of dollars in Wisconsin today, trying to buy a judicial race.

Republicans in this body are readying legislation this week to try to  block the judiciary from holding and reining in Donald Trump and Elon  Musk from data mining, firing Federal employees, freezing Federal  funds, and dismantling Federal agencies. It raises the question: What  are they doing inside our Federal agencies?

That is why, today, I have introduced legislation and a resolution to  get to the bottom of what Elon Musk and DOGE are doing with our data  and how they are using artificial intelligence.

Last week, Elon Musk did an interview with his DOGE hackers on FOX  News, yet he still will not come in front of this body under oath and  testify. During that interview, he claimed, as he has many times, that  what he is using this data for is to make the government more  efficient. Yet, over the course of the last several months, not only  has he not made it more efficient, but he has mired the Federal  Government in constant litigation and constant dismantling, disruption,  and chaos of our agencies.

Now, he is telling us that he is going to leave the Federal  Government in just a few weeks to expand his data and AI operations, as  he announced last week, with his own AI company, of which a number of  the executives are actively operating inside the Federal Government  with DOGE right now.

It raises a lot of questions, doesn't it? That is why every single  day, my constituents and Americans across this country are asking us:  What are they doing with our data? Why are they inside these systems?  Why are they downloading Treasury payment data? Why are they  downloading IRS data? Why are they downloading our Social Security  data? What are they going to do with it?

That is why this resolution will demand answers. This resolution,  which has been introduced in the Oversight Committee, will demand that  they produce documentation, names, datasets, and information about what  they are doing. This is crucial to understanding not only how they are  utilizing our private and confidential data as Americans but also the  ways in which they are hacking those systems and illicitly using that  data for their own policy and political ends and the way in which they  are threatening our national security.

What they are doing is not legal. They cannot do this. We know that,  but without the proper oversight that our Republican colleagues across  the aisle are refusing to provide, we must use every tool that we have  at our disposal.

That is why this resolution of inquiry is necessary to demand an  investigation into what DOGE and Elon Musk are doing with our data, how  it is impacting American privacy, and how it is impacting our national  security. We will not back down until we get those answers.

Mr. Speaker, I humbly say to the Members of this House: We demand  answers, and we demand answers now.