Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702073/expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I want to just take a moment as our  colleagues did across the aisle to recognize Ranking Member   David  Scott and his family from Georgia. It is a sad day. Certainly Ranking  Member Scott has proudly served this institution for a great many years  and particularly on the Agriculture Committee which has helped so many  Americans. I want to take a moment to just thank him, his family, and  his community for his service to our great Nation.

Mr. Speaker, for me his passing also brings to light the fundamental  hypocrisy that I see embedded in this resolution today.

I was actually quite shocked, disgusted, and angry when I read this  resolution. That is because I am a daughter of rural America. I was  born and raised in rural New Mexico. I was born in Farmington, New  Mexico. I am the daughter of a machine operator who was one of the  first women heavy equipment operators who built a coal-fired power  plant in rural America which your resolution is celebrating.

I grew up working with my hands digging trenches and bussing tables  in rural communities in New Mexico, so to read a resolution that is  filled with celebrations and rebrands in an attempt to try to repackage  a bunch of corporate giveaways and tax breaks for billionaires as some  sort of celebratory resolution for rural America and the hardworking  people who get up every day, work their jobs, and can barely make ends  meet is not only a joke, it is an insult to hardworking Americans in  every community across the country.

Let me just say this: Even though this resolution is trying to  rebrand your big, ugly bill and give it a new name, even though this  resolution is trying to self-congratulate you on a bunch of corporate  giveaways like gutting environmental programs and public consumer  safety programs so that corporations can save and make more money on  the backs of the American people, let me just say this: You don't have  a branding problem. You have a policy problem.

The policies that the Republicans are putting forward don't actually  help working people in America. Any attempt here today to try to  package it in a different way for the American people is basically just  that, an exercise to try to make what they have already shoved down the  American people's throats somehow seem more appealing.

I want to say how completely out of touch with rural America this  resolution is. It celebrates rebranding a bill that cut healthcare for  millions of Americans. It is attempting to celebrate a bill that took  food out of the mouths of millions of American children. It is  literally celebrating legislation to put oil and gas pipelines and LNG  terminals in rural America. It is celebrating gutting clean air  protections and repackaging that as a gift to rural America.

You are welcome. You can't breathe clean air anymore, according to  our colleagues across the aisle.

That is what is actually in this resolution, a list of the litany of  bills that our colleagues across the aisle have spent the last several  months passing, including their utility bills. Showerheads, they spent  precious time for an entire week to pass high-pressure showerheads for  rich people's bathrooms. Congratulations.

Republicans have the majority in the House, the Senate, and the White  House, and this is what they are celebrating? It is so out of touch  with real people. Real people are struggling to put food on the table  and a roof over their heads.

Right now, real farmers are facing diesel prices and a lack of access  to fertilizer. They are wondering how they are going to plant their  fields and how they are going to break even and pay back their bank  loans at the end of this season.

Congratulations. The President did that by going to war, an  unauthorized war, in the Middle East.

Republicans don't have a branding problem. They have a policy  problem. They have used their time in the majority to pass legislation  that gives permanent tax breaks to the richest Americans, and our  lowest earning Americans actually saw a tax increase. Republicans are  coming to the floor trying to celebrate this legislation and rebrand  what they passed previously? It is outrageous.

Let me share the things that we are doing for rural America in my  district. We are passing earmarks to build fire stations with emergency  services. We are building hospitals. We are building behavioral health  clinics to help people with the opioid crisis. We are building rural  housing. We are building water pipelines. We passed the first free  childcare policy in the country and are using Federal resources to  build daycares and elementary schools across New Mexico. We are  investing in Tribal communities.

We are delivering millions of dollars to our communities every single  day because that is what rural Americans are asking for. They are not  asking the Republicans to pat themselves on the back for giving tax  breaks to Wall Street billionaires.

Mr. Speaker, I am happy to give the Republicans a round of applause  if they would like that, but I am not voting for this resolution. I  urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''