Ode to Doge


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697304/ode-to-doge


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to give an ode, perhaps a  eulogy, to the downfall of DOGE and to the people's movement that  brought about its demise.

As we say good-bye to the departing, we take solace in knowing that  our democracy endures in our people and our communities.

The centralized Department of Government Efficiency, imagined in the  insane mind of Elon Musk and empowered by those around him, which  wreaked havoc on the vital programs that sustain our communities  appears to no longer exist.

In fact, the Director of OPM said just a couple of weeks ago: It  doesn't exist. Even Musk himself downplayed his involvement this  weekend, calling it merely a very interesting side quest. While the  administration claims DOGE is now integrated into the agencies  themselves, its existence as a formal priority appears to finally be  dead.

Even in Congress, the future of the DOGE Subcommittee, created by  once eager and enthusiastic GOP allies on the Oversight Committee, is  uncertain. The explosive breakup of Musk and Trump just a few months  ago, and now the sudden pending retirement of the subcommittee  chairwoman over the Epstein files and GOP threats and lies, leave the  DOGE congressional arm uncertain and rudderless, but perhaps with the  opportunity to be repurposed.

Services for the departed will not be held. In lieu of flowers,  please, America, continue to organize and fight for our democracy.

As we reflect on DOGE's short but destructive life, we remember how  it laid waste to vital programs despite its lofty promises of cost- cutting and efficiency. Unfettered by the rule of law and driven by  unchecked hubris, DOGE unleashed chaos, illegally dismantled agencies,  conducted mass firings, canceled contracts, and mined the sensitive  data of millions of American people.

The speed with which DOGE brought destruction to lifesaving agencies  was matched only by the ferocity of the public outcry. Americans  refused to sit idly by while children went hungry, while services for  veterans, families, and elders were slashed without cause. In fact, in  unison people across the political spectrum stood up to say: Hands off  our data, hands off Social Security, and hands off the vital programs  that keep our families alive in this country, and they showed Elon Musk  the door.

Millions marched, attended townhalls, wrote letters, made calls, and  demanded that Congress stop DOGE's disastrous work. When the hypocrisy  of this so-called efficiency agency was exposed in the President's big,  ugly bill, even Trump and Musk split up, and ultimately the Chairwoman  herself announced her departure from this body in the wake of broken  promises and threats by the administration.

The administration, while claiming to pursue savings, was cutting  services for the most vulnerable not to reduce the debt, but  ultimately, as has been shown, to fund tax breaks and giveaways to  billionaires and those with the most.

Even in its final moments, DOGE found comfort in self-dealing and  everyday grift. As it dismantled agencies and fired workers, it seized  opportunities to privatize public assets and laid the groundwork for  billions in private contracts and self-dealing for the ages.

Despite the Trump administration's claims that DOGE is still alive,  and even its own X page dismissing the news as fake, we all know the  truth: DOGE as the grifting scam it was imagined is dead, and its  demise is a victory for the American people.

Not only is its formal office gone, but its downfall demonstrated the  strength of our unity. Americans rejected DOGE because they recognize a  dirty deal when they see one.

Now, let us be clear: We want to address the national debt, root out  waste, fraud, and abuse, and build a government and programs that can  serve everyone, but when the fraudsters themselves claim to have the  fix, the American people see right through it.

Yet, DOGE's end does not mark the end of our work. We know that the  time to organize is now, that we must stay focused and resist the  barrage of distractions designed to sap our resolve, that we must  continue to mobilize like our democracy depends on it because it does,  and we must continue to do this work every single day.

This is not a time for despair. It is a time for action because the  American people are strong. We are resilient, and we are ready for the  fight ahead.