Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698935/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today first in thanks to our  fearless leader, Representative Hayes, today, but Mr. Speaker, I rise  today to sound the alarm on what is happening at the U.S. Department of  Education or at least what is left of it.

For millions of students with disabilities, the IDEA, or Individuals  with Disabilities Education Act, is a landmark civil rights law that  guarantees a free and inclusive public education for all students.

However, under the Trump administration, IDEA is under attack, with  the administration announcing at the height of the government shutdown  in October that it would fire nearly all of the staff responsible for  ensuring that students with disabilities have access to resources and  support services.

Can you imagine? It is not just reckless, it is not just illegal. It  is heartless, and it is disgusting.

Piled onto continuing cuts and threats to other programs of  vulnerable families, the President and the GOP have continued to cut  healthcare, education, food assistance, housing, and childcare to  millions of American families, attacking the very families who need it  most while giving billionaires tax breaks on the backs of hardworking  Americans. It is shameful.

Mr. Speaker, I want to address the administration's attacks on  education and what these actions mean for all students, but especially  students with disabilities, their educators, and their families. The  Department of Education exists to ensure that every student has access  to opportunity, to protect their civil rights, to ensure that every  student has a fair shot at success.

However, since day one, this administration has systematically  dismantled the department, with budget cuts, cutting programs, delaying  grants, and firing staff. Over the course of the last year, my office  has heard from hundreds of parents, teachers, and students who are  scared about what is happening and wondering what will come next: from  teachers and counselors who are stretched thin and uncertain about  whether or not resources will be there next year, from schools who  don't know if their funding will be cut, and from young people, the  very children that these programs serve, who are afraid because this  administration is terrorizing the children of this country by attacking  education and schools and their families, attacking the most vulnerable  families.

I have to say this, Mr. Speaker, there is no demand for this. There  is no one out there in the American public who is demanding that we cut  programs for students and young people with disabilities because it is  cruel, wrong, and illegal. It must stop.

That is why Democrats are standing here tonight: to stand up for our  students, to stand up for our young people, to fight back against these  attacks, and to take a stand against the dismantling of these vital  programs.

Let me just say this: In New Mexico, we understand that our young  people are our future. That is why we are the first State in the Nation  to pass universal free childcare and education for every single student  in our State.

I, for one, as a public school kid, was deeply proud to carry the  Federal enabling legislation. It is why I fought for funding to build  new schools at To'hajiilee, Sandia Pueblo, and Mescalero Apache. It is  why I am carrying legislation to increase teacher pay, to protect BIE  in Tribal schools, to create a postsecondary pathway of success for  students with disabilities, veterans, and first-generation students. It  is why I have supported New Mexico also becoming the first State in the  country to guarantee free trade school and free college for every  single New Mexican. That is how you should be transforming education,  that is how you deliver for communities, and that is how you care for  the children that we have been blessed to take care of in our role and  prepare the next generation of leaders.

I will say this to Mr. Trump: While he and his colleagues may not  believe in the power of public education or civil rights or the need to  protect children--because their actions speak as loud as their words-- we do. We believe in investing in education from early childhood  education to higher education, and everything in between, and we will  continue to use every tool at our disposal to fight back at every turn  and honor our commitment to the students of this country. I, for one,  and all of us will not stand by and allow this to happen.