Providing for Consideration of H.R. Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act; and Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701742/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I don't even know if I can dignify a  response to the things that I have heard here this morning. Perhaps we  will do another showerhead resolution or utilities or something like  that. But it is very clear that there is a war in the Middle East,  runaway inflation, out-of-control costs, a partial government shutdown,  and a madman in the White House. What are our colleagues across the  aisle calling us here today to do? They are calling us here to gut the  Clean Air Act. Mr. Speaker, this is why I rise in opposition today to  all three of these bills and in the strongest defense of the Clean Air  Act, which is the bipartisan legislation that has protected the health  of the American people and our planet for more than a half-century.

It was passed in 1970 with bipartisan support from both Republicans  and Democrats. It was born out of necessity when smog choked our cities  and our communities suffered from unchecked pollution. It has delivered  on a promise to the American people that no matter who you are or where  you live, you have a fundamental human right to breathe clean air.  There is nothing more basic than that right.

It is a promise that has delivered. It has saved millions of lives,  prevented countless illnesses, and improved air quality across the  country. As we know, it is under a threat not just in this Chamber but  by an administration that has rolled back standards, weakened  emissions, undermined the authority of the EPA, and gutted our climate  commitments.

Now, at a time, especially in the West when we are facing record  drought, record heat, and dangerously low snowpack, what are you all  doing with your time on the floor? You are trying to further gut the  fundamental program that protects our communities and our planet.

That is why I rise today to oppose these bills. This is not  permitting reform. This is gutting our right to breathe clean air. The  FENCES Act strips the EPA's authority, the FIRE Act manipulates how air  pollution is measured, and the RED Tape Act is perhaps the most  alarming of all as it would silence communities and allow Federal  projects to move forward without consideration to our public health and  to the planet.

Mr. Speaker, let me just say this: The consequences of these bills  are not abstract. They are measurable, and they will be measured in  lives, in the well-being of our people, and damages to our planet.

The Clean Air Act exists to protect the fundamental right of every  American, every human, to breathe clean air. That is why I oppose these  bills unequivocally. For the sake of our children, our communities, and  our future, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on these bills today.