Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694881/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-miles-city-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-central-yukon-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I have to say that I am always amazed,  disturbed, and sometimes can't believe what I hear on this floor.

We are sitting here today as a government shutdown is looming.  Survivors of the crimes committed by Jeffrey Epstein and his associates  are here on this campus sharing their harrowing and heartbreaking  stories. A court has just ordered that Trump's illegal tariffs have  been put in place and are harming Americans and violating the law, and  the President is deploying our brave men and women who serve in the  National Guard to occupy American cities.

What is the GOP's agenda for this week, crammed into this one  resolution that we are here to debate? There is one fake appropriations  bill that they know will never pass, three resolutions to undermine  protections for the environment, one resolution snuck in during the  dark of night to reconvene the January 6 commission to try to rewrite  history, and one resolution designed to provide Donald Trump and the  White House cover in one of the largest Epstein coverups that we have  seen.

This isn't about protecting people. We have a bipartisan discharge  petition right there at the Clerk's desk. If my colleagues would like  to see the files released, the two of you who are in this Chamber right  now could literally walk down there and sign that petition right now.  But you don't want the files released. You want it controlled by the  Oversight and Government Reform Committee because, if you did, you  would sign that petition right there that would release those  unredacted files.

Mr. Speaker, let's also be clear. Donald Trump issued a statement  today that said to all of you, you Republicans here in this Chamber,  that if you sign that discharge petition, he will count it as a hostile  act. That is right. The United States President is threatening members  of his own party in this Chamber from signing a petition that would  release the full, unredacted Epstein files.

Mr. Speaker, my question is: What are they hiding? Who are they  protecting, and why are our colleagues failing to have a backbone not  only to stand up for the survivors but to stand up for the American  people?