Providing for Consideration of H.R. Student Compensation and Opportunity Through Rights and Endorsements Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697300/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-student-compensation-and-opportunity-through-rights-and-endorsements-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-combating-the-lies-of-authoritarians-in-school-systems-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-transparency-in-reporting-of-adversarial-contributions-to-education-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-promoting-responsible-oversight-to-eliminate-communist-teachings-for-our-kids-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-small-business-regulatory-reduction-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-destroying-unnecessary-misaligned-and-prohibitive-red-tape-act


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, it is always instructive to come down  here to the floor and listen to the debate. I think it speaks for  itself.

I rise today in opposition to the bills that are before us and in  strong defense of the Department of Education, our students, and kids  across America.

As a public school student myself, I can say unequivocally that these  bills are fundamentally unserious and designed to distract from the  fact that the Trump administration is currently dismantling the  Department of Education right before our very eyes.

They have laid off thousands of employees, shuttered offices, carved  up programs and transferred them to other agencies, declassified  educators from getting student loans, threatened schools and  universities, and given their friends contracts to not only rewrite  educational curricula but to even rewrite American history itself.

Let me remind my colleagues: This is the agency that was born out of  the civil rights movement, the agency that ensures kids with  disabilities have opportunities and ensures that all kids, no matter  who they are or where they live, have access to education.

Before the Department of Education, millions of children all across  this country were denied access to schools and educational  opportunities. Federal programs were duplicative and wasteful, and  States regularly violated the basic civil rights of students.

If our colleagues want to stand with students, want to stand with  schools, and want to stand with educators, then we should be fighting  to protect our schools, fighting to protect them from an administration  that is trying to dismantle education as we speak. My colleagues should  be fighting to address housing, food, and healthcare and to fix our  broken economy.

That is why, Mr. Speaker, I am here today to stand to oppose these  bills and to stand with every public school and every kid across  America who is fighting for a fair shot. That is what we were elected  to do.