Providing for Consideration of H.R. Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. American Entrepreneurs First Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691939/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-american-entrepreneurs-first-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I find it laughable that for the last  several decades, the GOP has branded themselves as the party of fiscal  responsibility and economic development when they are trying to pass a  bill right now that would blow a hole through the deficit, $37 trillion  over 30 years, while they are trying to gut the infrastructure that  helps small businesses survive.

They have attacked the Small Business Administration. They have a  bill on the floor this week that would take SBA out of our communities.  They slashed the New Mexico Minority Business Development Agency. We  are talking about millions of dollars in lost revenue. They paused Job  Corps and are going to cut it in communities across the country. They  have gutted funding for NGOs and paused funding on the IRA. They are  trying to directly attack our small businesses.

Now, when I think about the impacts of these cuts, I cannot do so  without thinking of John Garcia, who has been the director of SBA for  the last 8 years. He is a Vietnam veteran who has dedicated 40 years of  his life to ensuring that our communities and our veterans have the  resources they need to thrive, and yet DOGE didn't care. Elon Musk  didn't care because he is one of those Federal employees, who just a  few months ago was planning to do an expansive economic development  plan across the State of New Mexico when he received the fork-in-the- road letter.

These are real people's lives, and you all are standing around here  clowning us, pretending like you actually care about the American  people and the economy and the deficit, and it is just a lie. You are  running a scam on the American people. You are running a scam on  yourselves, and you are hurting real people.

Mr. Speaker, I stand against this rule and the bill that it would  advance.