Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator-freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I think ``insanity'' is a good word for  what is happening here on the House floor today. Another good word is  ``bizarre.''

When I go home and I tell my constituents what happens in these  Halls, they are amazed. Today is one of those days where I am wondering  what the hell are these folks doing. While our economy is in crisis,  while groceries and housing are at an all-time high, while our veterans  and our firefighters and our teachers are being illegally fired, while  Elon Musk is dismantling the U.S. Department of Education, and while  the Secretary of Defense is trying to cover up the most incompetent  national security leak I have ever heard of in my life, the Republicans  in the House are trying to save the American people from the scourge of  walk-in cooler and refrigeration efficiency standards.

That is right. We are here wasting precious debate time on the floor  of the U.S. House of Representatives debating dismantling efficiency  standards for walk-in refrigerators. How out of touch are Republicans  with the American people? Like literally, I know Republicans are not  holding townhalls and meeting with their constituents anymore, but do  they think that the American people voted for them to waste our time on  refrigeration standards? That is what they think they were elected to  do?

Literally, how out of touch are Republicans? No American voted, no  American--I don't care where you are on the ideological spectrum, you  did not vote for this. This is ridiculous. It is preposterous and it is  just stupid.

Yesterday, it was reported that the Secretary of Defense, the  National Security Advisor, and the Vice President leaked war plans to a  journalist. This is the same administration that accidentally fired  nuclear scientists and engineers who maintain our nuclear stockpile.  This is the same administration that is illegally firing Federal  employees and dismantling Federal agencies, and they are here running a  resolution on refrigerators.

Meanwhile, tomorrow, Republicans are going to hold a hearing and haul  NPR and PBS in front of Congress to try to undermine the media just  like they did here on this floor just a few moments ago as they are  kicking the media out of the Pentagon and the White House because they  don't believe in the media anymore.

Well, maybe this is exactly what the end conclusion of dismantling  education and American democracy is because this is ridiculous. I will  vote ``no.''