Reconciliation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691917/reconciliation


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the cruel and  morally bankrupt healthcare agenda moving through this Chamber that  would gut Medicaid; gut Medicare; collapse our healthcare systems; and  cut food assistance to millions of children, seniors, and veterans  across this country.

You don't have to take my word for it because Elon Musk, himself,  called this a big, disgusting abomination, this bill that currently  stands in the Senate. While here in the House the GOP is trying to gut  healthcare and mental health care and addiction services through the  budget.

These cuts will be devastating for New Mexico. New Mexico already has  a healthcare crisis, where two-thirds of New Mexicans are on Medicaid  and Medicare, where even with the best healthcare insurance you can  get, you still can't get in to see a specialist, and where thousands of  our rural and Tribal residents must travel hours just to get basic  care.

Let me be clear. People will die if these cuts go through. What is  the GOP doing here in this week? They are running a bill that is at  best window dressing, hypocrisy, saying that they are supporting  healthcare and addiction programs while they literally gut the programs  that fund them. It is a complete lie.

Like so much of what they do, these guts are a scam, not just on the  American people, but on themselves because apparently they don't read  their own bills.

Let's be clear. Republicans are gutting healthcare and behavioral  health programs. DOGE has cut thousands of employees at healthcare  agencies, frozen funds for vital medical research, and eliminated  mental health and substance abuse programs. They have rescinded a  billion dollars in State and local behavioral health programs and cut  40 different mental health programs across the country. They are  proposing to literally eliminate the vast majority of SAMHSA, which is  the mental health program for this country, in the fiscal year 2026  budget. They just transmitted a rescission package to this Chamber last  night that would cut billions of dollars in public health assistance  for starving children and people suffering from AIDS and preventable  infectious diseases across the world.

I ask my colleagues: What is this country becoming, where it  dismantles our own healthcare system and literally allows children to  starve and die across the world? What has literally become of the GOP?

Let me just say this. This is personal for me. This is personal in  New Mexico, as somebody who grew up in a low-income family, as somebody  who grew up relying on public healthcare and assistance programs, as  somebody who has lost friends and family from the fentanyl crisis, and  as somebody who represents one of the strongest and resilient set of  communities in the country but who struggle every single day.

This is not leadership. This is a moral failure.

It is why I show up every single day to this Chamber with my full  heart and my full fight for our communities.

It is why I have reintroduced my bill this week to expand Indian  Health Service. It is why I introduced legislation to stop fentanyl, to  address the public health nursing crisis, and to ensure that our rural  communities can access telehealth and that they can actually stay in  business with our rural clinics.

It is why I have secured millions for New Mexico for mental health  and addiction recovery. It is why I submitted funding this year for the  fiscal year 2026 budget to build a state-of-the-art trauma center in  Valencia County and mental and behavioral health services in Sandoval.

It is why I have secured millions for transitional housing for  veterans; a sobering center; behavioral health centers in Albuquerque;  mobile school health centers in APS; and new fire and EMS stations in  Moriarty, Sandia Pueblo, Peralta in Valencia. This is what leadership  looks like.

I will just say this: In New Mexico, we know, of course, that we are  all going to die, but we do not allow people to die because of policy  failure and moral corruption.

We are here to fight. We will fight this abomination of a bill. We  will fight the draconian cuts in the budget, and we will fight this  corrupt rescission package. I will keep working every single day for  New Mexicans because that is who we are.