Restoring Election Integrity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699236/restoring-election-integrity


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, 16 years ago today, the Supreme Court  decided in the Citizens United decision to put our democracy up for  sale. I am here today to say, Mr. Speaker, that democracy is not for  sale, and it is time to get big money out of politics, to end Citizens  United, and to hold this administration, this Congress, and this  judiciary accountable. That is because what we have seen is the  fundamental erosion of our democratic system, and at the rotten root of  it all is the influence of big money in politics. That is because  Citizens United opened the door for corporations and billionaires to  dump untold sums of money on to our elections anonymously and calling  corporations people.

Mr. Speaker, corporations are not people. The American people are  whom we represent. It is not the corporations, not the billionaires,  not the wealthy donors, and not the individuals who are trying to buy  and sell our democracy.

We know that right now corruption and the buying of elections are  having a profound influence on what we are seeing in this country. We  are watching as a United States President is selling the United States  out from under the American people. He is offering pardons for millions  of dollars to his friends and letting dangerous individuals back on to  the streets. These are individuals who have committed white-collar  crimes all for the very cheap sum of giving him a few million dollars  or a few billion dollars in his cryptocurrency.

He is selling our secrets and our national security to foreign  adversaries by allowing them to deposit sums of money into his  cryptocurrency by giving him gifts like multimillion-dollar jets and,  yes, even allowing him to potentially launder money in a foreign bank  account in Qatar from oil he stole using the American taxpayers'  dollars and the U.S. military.

President Trump is showing what happens when you let big money buy  politics. In fact, he told Big Oil just last year that if they gave him  $1 billion in campaign funds, he would deliver. Well, promises made,  promised kept, literally invading a foreign country to take their oil.

Here in this Chamber, just a few days ago, it was discovered that the  husband of a member of leadership on the opposite side of the aisle had  been trading in stocks, while we are considering a stock trading ban  right now in this House. This is corruption in action.

We have a judiciary across the street who is considering undermining  the fundamental voting rights of the American people.

After their wealthy donors took them on trips and involved them in  this vast scheme over the last several years to fundamentally remake  America, the same donors who donated to Donald Trump and who donated to  our friends across the aisle are also making money hand over fist on  the stock market right now.

This is what comes from Citizens United, and that is why, Mr.  Speaker, I am absolutely dedicated to fighting to make sure that we get  big money out of politics and that we end Citizens United. When we take  back the  House--because, Mr. Speaker, we will take back the House--I guarantee  you that on day one, our top priority will be to root this corruption  and this rot out of the Federal Government.

It is time to get big money out of politics, and I am here for the  fight.