Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691225/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, let me begin with a simple fact: No  Member of Congress should be trading stocks. Period. None.

That is why I believe we must ban congressional stock trading and why  I am proud to cosponsor this act here in Congress.

The American people deserve to know that their Members of Congress  are working for them, not for stock portfolios; that their decisions,  their policies, and their priorities are in the public interest and not  the interest of private profit.

Let's be real, we have all seen it here, even over the last several  weeks, as Members of this body have traded stocks while working on  policies currently before Congress, possible insider trading in the  midst of the President's trade wars. A President and a Speaker who both  declared, it is a good time to buy while Members went out and did it:  oil and gas, pharmaceuticals, Big Tech, and yes, AI.

Let me be clear: Not only is it wrong and immoral, it must be made  illegal. We will be investigating anyone who engaged in insider  trading, but banning stocks is only one piece of restoring faith in our  public institutions, especially in a time when billionaires are buying  elections, and Cabinet positions, and setting themselves up for  sweetheart deals.

Let me also say this: We must get big money out of politics and get  it out now. We have to end Citizens United, restore the power of the  people, end gerrymandering, strengthen our ethics rules, and restore  access to the ballot box. That means passing our For The People Act  that was blocked multiple times in this Chamber, passing the John R.  Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, restore the Voting Rights Act of  1965, and passing the Freedom to Vote Act.

This is not a partisan issue; this is an American issue about  protecting our democracy, protecting our people, protecting our  communities, and protecting our planet.

Mr. Speaker, let's do the right thing. Let's ban stock trading and  restore our faith in American democracy.