Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695234/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition today to this  amendment and in defense of our Nation's servicemembers.

Our ranking member and the chairman have negotiated a bipartisan  NDAA, which invests in military pay raises, quality of life, and many  important aspects for military readiness. We should be focused on that  in the National Defense Authorization Act, not another amendment  bullying trans people.

If you ever needed proof that trans folks live rent free in the minds  of my GOP colleagues, then look no further than this amendment because  there are literally no known and out transgender people serving in our  academies right now because of the transgender military ban.

So what is this amendment all about?

The GOP obsession with bullying trans people is weird. It is  invasive. It is abusive. It is discriminatory, and it is dangerous to  our military readiness.

I want to remind my colleagues that words have power. You are  standing in one of the most powerful institutions not only in the  United States but in the world, and my colleagues are using this  platform to bully a population that is vulnerable here in the United  States.

I have to say: If my colleagues across the aisle are so genuinely  concerned about the well-being of women who are serving in the military  and sexual violence, how about actually addressing that and the 45  percent of women who have reported that they have been sexually  harassed just last year alone? Dare I say: If my Republican colleagues  are concerned about sexual violence and deviance, how about they  release the Epstein files? How about that?

This amendment reflects a sustained, targeted, villainization of the  trans community and the LGBTQ+ community that continues day after day  on this floor.

The trans community represents only about 1 percent of the  population, as we understand it, but you wouldn't actually think that  listening to this Chamber because they are spending time that we should  be talking about military readiness and our national security to bully  trans people at our service academies.

This has nothing to do with service to this great Nation or our  national security. I say to my colleagues: Let's get back to work on  behalf of the American people and defeat this disgusting and hateful  amendment.

Ms. STANSBURY.  Bonamici).

Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I remind us that we are here to talk  about the National Defense Authorization Act and to stand with our  servicemembers who proudly signed up to serve this great Nation. We  will continue to stand with our servicemembers.

Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.