Trump's Labor Agenda: Unsafe and Underpaid


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I am here tonight to stand union strong  with our workers across America and in solidarity with my sister from  New Jersey, Representative McIver.

We stand union strong, labor strong, America strong, and worker  strong.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is notable, as we stand on this floor  tonight, that there is not a single Republican here to stand with our  workers.

Let's be honest: When my colleagues across the aisle say that they  stand for American manufacturing and American jobs, they don't mean  that they stand with American workers. They are there to stand with the  corporations and the people who line their pockets off of the sweat of  the hardworking men and women who actually do the work in this country.

Unfortunately, as I look around this floor this evening, I don't see  a single one of them standing in solidarity.

Under this administration, we have seen an unprecedented attack on  our unions and worker protections. Protections that keep our workers  safe from  injury, illness, and death on the job, all to shield employers from  accountability and to increase their profits.

Instead of standing with workers, they weakened rules on overtime,  rolled back safety standards, and gutted protections for wage theft. If  you want any indication where the current President stands on the  Department of Labor and American workers, all you have to do is walk  down the street and you will see a three-story picture, not of the  American worker on the front of the Department of Labor, but of Donald  Trump's face, who spent American taxpayer, hard-earned dollars to put  his face on the Department of Labor, which is the United States agency  that is supposed to demand protections for our workers.

Now, for me this isn't just political. It is personal because I grew  up in a labor family. My mother was a factory seamstress. In fact, she  sewed 79,000 pockets on jeans and tried to organize a garment workers  union at her factory and was fired for trying to demand fair wages for  factory seamstresses like herself and thousands of women and people  across the country who work every day for this country.

She was fired for daring to demand better conditions and higher pay,  but it is her grit and her determination and her belief in the dignity  of workers that I carry with me into this Chamber every day because  even upon her firing for trying to organize as a factory worker, my  mother became one of the first women operating engineers to work on  heavy equipment in the State of New Mexico. That is the spirit I see  all across our State.

Just last week, we stood in solidarity with striking workers and our  Teamsters local at the Creamland Dairy fighting for fair wages and safe  conditions. That solidarity has resulted in a fair wage and a new labor  contract for those workers.

At the University of New Mexico, we stood with graduate students who  were holding work-ins as they demand a fair contract. We stood with  SEIU and our residents in our medical schools who are demanding fair  pay. We are standing with our teachers who are demanding fair pay. And  we stood with the Wells Fargo workers in Albuquerque who made history  in becoming the first unionized branch ever in the history of this  country. It was that solidarity, when we stood with 80,000 flight  attendants stuck in endless negotiations, which helped us to get fair  wages and a new contract for our flight attendants.

That is what it means to stand for workers. It is not just speeches  and pictures on buildings, but it is action in standing with our unions  and standing for fair pay because, Mr. Speaker, the theme here is  simple: Workers just want a fair shot and they want dignity.

Unfortunately, under this administration, the rug is being pulled out  from under their feet. It is shameful, dangerous, and it flies in the  face of everything that this country was built on because let us not  forget that unions built this country.

It is unions that gave us the weekend. It is unions that gave us the  5-day workweek. It is unions that gave us overtime pay. It is unions  that gave us safe workplaces. It is unions that gave us fair wages.  Every worker in America benefits from the courage of organized labor  and every man and woman who has stood for their fellow workers.

Mr. Speaker, I will end with this. I know where I stand. I stand with  my mother and the countless generations that come before us of workers  across the United States and in my home State who stood with the  American worker. We will always stand for unions, we will always stand  for labor, and we will always stand for the American worker.