We Say No


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692793/we-say-no


Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say:

No to endless wars.

No to a President who breaks the law daily.

No to a Republican Congress that is so weak and so spineless that  they refuse to stand up.

No to Congressmen and -women who refuse to do their jobs.

No to a Republican Congress that is attempting to rob the American  people of healthcare, food, and public lands.

No to lawmakers who refuse to speak out as this administration  undermines the rule of law, due process, and American democracy.

No to Members of this Chamber who have been so kowtowed by Donald  Trump that they are failing to stand up for the American people, their  own people who elected them in good faith and sent them here to defend  this country and uphold the Constitution and the rule of law.

We say no.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here today as Donald Trump has taken us to the  precipice--the precipice of war, a constitutional crisis, and millions  living in fear and marching in the streets.

Mr. Speaker, 3 days ago, the President ordered a unilateral military  strike against Iran and notified the majority of Congress and the  American people, essentially, by tweet, using a social media post on  Truth Social.

Days later, the world is in chaos because we have a President who is  acting unilaterally. Authoritarianism is on the rise across the planet,  and a region has been destabilized by conflict and violence, putting  millions of people at risk, not only in this country but across the  world.

American troops are in harm's way.

Iran is seeking help from our adversaries in Russia.

To date, we have had exactly zero--zero--briefings here in this  Chamber from the President or the White House about their strategy or  intent, or on what they know, what they planned, and how they are going  to protect our troops, our bases, and the American people.

This follows on days of Donald Trump attacking the American people on  our own soil by deploying United States marines, as combat troops, and  the National Guard against our own people.

His own DHS Secretary and Federal agents handcuffed and pushed a  United States Senator to the floor.

His U.S. attorney indicted a United States Congresswoman from this  Chamber for doing her job.

A New York City official was arrested in a Federal courthouse.

I ask my colleagues: Is this the America that you swore your oath to  and that you raised your right hand to defend, an America where the  President is making hundreds of millions of dollars in a cryptocurrency  bribery scheme; an America where the President is soliciting foreign  governments for private gifts, including a $400 million jet in exchange  for favors; and who is systemically dismantling programs that feed and  house our people? He is trying to gut our healthcare systems and saddle  generations of our people with trillions of dollars in debt so that he  and his billionaire friends can have a few more tax breaks and a few  more toys in their collection.

Is that what you stand for? Is that why you ran for office? Is that  what the GOP and the Republicans in charge of this Chamber ran for and  stand for?

You are the people who decide what moves on this floor and hold the  keys to accountability. You are the ones who know that what is  happening right now is wrong.

I ask how you can sit idly by and watch as your President dismantles  the systems that uphold our democracy and the rule of law.

How can you sit here and watch as he recklessly deploys the military  at home and abroad, threatening the safety and security of our people?

How can you sit idly by and watch as children starve across the  world, including in Gaza and Sudan?

How can you justify a man who cozies up to our foreign adversaries  and turns his back on our allies?

It does not have to be this way. You control this Chamber. You decide  what happens, and Donald Trump is not a king.

I call on my Republican colleagues to find your backbones, find your  moral compass, find your resolve, do what is right, and do your jobs.

I say to the American people: Keep marching. Keep speaking.