Recognizing Sarah Kaplan Feinmann


Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise with gratitude and affection to  recognize the contributions of Sarah Kaplan Feinmann to Texas' 7th  Congressional District, to the United States House of Representatives,  and to the United States of America.

Sarah arrived in Washington, D.C., in 2011, after graduating cum  laude from the University of Southern California with a Bachelor of  Arts in Middle East Studies and International Relations. Sarah brought  her passion and deep commitment to public service to her work at the  Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. That commitment  guided her to the Hill in 2013, where she worked over the years to help  develop and implement meaningful policy through her work on the staff  of the New Democrat Coalition and later her work in the Office of  Congressman Eric Swalwell, where she served as a senior legislative  assistant, senior advisor, and inaugural director of Future Forum.  During that time, Sarah also earned her Master of Arts in Security  Studies from Georgetown University.

At the start of the 116th Congress, in January 2019, Sarah joined my  office as my first Chief of Staff for Texas' 7th Congressional  District, serving her hometown and the people who live there  enthusiastically and tirelessly. Sarah dedicated herself to building a  team to serve the residents of Texas' 7th Congressional District at all  times, and has done so during times of great challenge in the district  and the country. Sarah led our office in efforts to ensure that our  team is ready and able to do all it can for constituents in every  possible circumstance, that our community's priorities are reflected in  our work, and that our work delivers meaningful progress for people at  home and across the country.

Sarah has been a partner and friend who has demonstrated her  dedication to our district, to our staff, and to our country each day  for nearly seven years. She has built lasting and meaningful  relationships across the Hill. She has served as a mentor for many. And  she has made meaningful and lasting contributions that will continue to  shape our office and our district in the years ahead.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Texas' 7th Congressional District, I  express my deep and sincere gratitude, and my very best wishes, to  Sarah Kaplan Feinmann and her family as they begin their new chapter  off the Hill.