Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I am coming to the floor today as we have  just passed the 1-year mark since H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background  Checks Act, passed the House of Representatives. This is a piece of  legislation supported by 90 percent of the American public. It is hard  for anything to enjoy 90 percent support in this country these days. 

  The data shows us that this is a piece of legislation that, if  enacted, would save lives. We have begged and pleaded for this piece of  legislation to come before the Senate. I understand that there may not  be 60 votes in the Senate to pass the exact piece of legislation  supported by the House, but we could engage in a process of amendment,  a process of compromise, and that could end up saving lives and getting  a piece of legislation passed that is supported, as I mentioned, by 9  out of 10 Americans. 

  I have some remarks after what I expect will be an objection to my  motion from the majority party. 

  I will ask unanimous consent of my colleagues that the Senate proceed  to the immediate consideration of Calendar No. 29, H.R. 8, the  Bipartisan Background Checks Act; I further ask that the bill be  considered read a third time and passed, and the motion to reconsider  be considered made and laid upon the table, with no intervening action  or debate. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MURPHY. I am sorry to hear the objection. It is obviously not  surprising. We have been waiting for a year for this body to act on the  issue of gun violence. And though there are a range of measures that  may actually be controversial, this is not one of them. This is not one  of them. 

  It is really hard to find folks in America who object to the idea  that somebody should have to prove that they are not a criminal, that  they don't have a history of serious mental illness, before they  purchase a firearm. 

  The fact is, the longer we wait, the more people die. There is no  piece of legislation that is going to eliminate every single gun death  in this country. In my State of Connecticut, when we passed the  universal background checks law, we saw an immediate 40-percent  reduction in gun homicides. 

  In Missouri, when they repealed their universal background checks  law, they saw an immediate 25-percent increase. 

  That is the short-term immediate rate of return--both on the upside  and the downside--you get when you take steps to ensure that criminals  don't get guns or you take steps to make it easy for criminals to get  guns. 

  Senator Blumenthal is on the floor with me as well, and he will make  remarks. I have been unable to persuade my colleagues, based on the  data, that we should pass background checks--the data being the broad  public support for the measure, the data being about the impact on  people's lives that this piece of legislation would have. 

  I want to make the case that, just from the simple standpoint of  humanity, we should care about listening to the American public and  passing legislation that will reduce these numbers. This is  heartbreaking. Some 39,000 people a year are dying from gunshot wounds,  with 3,011 on average a month and 100 a day. 

  The majority of these are suicides, but the data tells us that by  making it harder for people to buy guns who shouldn't have them because  of a serious history of mental illness or because of their criminal  background, you will have less suicides. Many of these are homicides,  and many of these are accidental shootings. All of them are preventable  by better policy. 

  Remember, this happens in the United States and nowhere else in the  advanced-income world. It is not because we have more mental illness in  the United States. There is no evidence of that. It is not because our  kids play more video games in the United States. There is no evidence  of that. It is not because we spend less money on law enforcement.  There is no evidence of that. It is because this country is awash in  illegal and dangerous guns. It is because we have made a choice to make  it a lot easier for some to find a way to a lethal firearm to commit an  act of violence. 

  Every single one of the 100 persons who die every day is attached to  families and friends and neighbors. The data suggests that for  everybody who is killed in a gun homicide, there are 20 other people  who experience some kind of life-altering, diagnosable trauma because  of it. 

  I want to tell you a few of these stories today--stories of people  who over the last year have been among this statistic--40,000 people  who died from gunshot wounds. In March 2019, 1 month after H.R. 8 got  to the Senate, Shelby Verderosa was home with her 6-month-old daughter  when she was shot and killed in Phoenix, AZ. As a new mom, Shelby ``was  doing everything she possibly could to make sure her daughter had the  best life,'' said her cousin. One month after H.R. 8 passed the Senate,  she was shot and killed when she was home with her 6-month-old  daughter.  

  Lamar Sharp was at a picnic in Kansas City in April--2 months after  H.R. 8 got here to the Senate--when he heard gunshots. Instead of  running away from the gunshots toward safety, he ran to save his  friend's 2-year-old grandson, and he was shot three times. He died 5  days before his 32nd birthday, 2 months after H.R. 8 got to the Senate  floor. 

  In May, 3 months after the background checks bill got to the Senate,  three LGBTQ+ young people were shot in Detroit. Alunte Davis, Timothy  Blancher, and Paris Cameron were known for being funny. They were known  for being wildly charismatic. Police believe their sexual orientation  and gender identity were factors in their murders. 

  A month later, 4 months after H.R. 8 got here to the Senate, Durelle  Moxley was killed on Father's Day when a shooting broke out in his  neighborhood. Durelle and his wife had three young children. His  friends said:  

       He was really proud to be a father. He was pumped and he       was really celebrating Father's Day.  

  In July, 5 months after H.R. 8 got to the Senate, 5 months after  sitting on  Mitch McConnell's desk, awaiting action, Julianna Carr was killed by  her brother in a murder-suicide at a housewarming party in Katy, TX.  She left behind a husband and two children whom she called her  ``greatest loves.'' 

  Jurnee Thompson was 8 years old when she was shot in August, 6 months  after the Senate got H.R. 8--6 months of doing nothing on a bill with  90 percent public support. Jurnee was the 14th child to be shot and  killed in St. Louis alone last summer. Her dad says losing her was  ``one of the biggest fears of my life and now I'm living it as a  reality.'' 

  In September, 7 months after H.R. 8 showed up in the Senate and the  Senate did nothing with it, Usher Hanns was 17 years old when he was  shot and killed. He was a senior at Weaver High School in Connecticut.  He was a member of Hartford's Proud Drill, Drum, and Dance Corp. His  mom said he was ``a good son. He always made me smile. He's a joyful  kid.'' 

  Deirdre Zaccardi was murdered by her husband Joseph in Abington, PA,  in October, 8 months after H.R. 8 got to the Senate. He also shot their  three children, Alexis, Nathaniel, and Kathryn, before turning the gun  on himself. The Abington police chief said their deaths were ``a  horrific event no one should ever see.'' 

  Nine months after H.R. 8 got here in November, Gracie Ann Muehlberger  was shot by a classmate with a semiautomatic, untraceable ``ghost gun''  in Santa Clarita, CA. Hundreds attended Gracie's memorial service. Her  friends described her as an ``independent spirit.'' 

  In December, 10 months after the House passed H.R. 8--10 months of  doing nothing with it here in the Senate--Sergeant Chris Brewster was  responding to a domestic violence call in Houston. When he got there,  he was shot by a suspect fleeing the scene. He was a devoted husband  who loved making people laugh. Friends described him as ``wonderfully  weird.'' 

  In January, 11 months after H.R. 8 got to the Senate, Gregory Rieves  was killed. He had retired after 22 years as a State trooper, a career  that he called his dream job. He was killed in Illinois. His friends  described him as ``the most gentle, kind-hearted person you could ever  know.'' 

  In February of this year, two sisters, Abbaney and Deja Matts, were  shot by Abbaney's ex-boyfriend in a dormitory in Commerce, TX. ``I just  want people to know they were fun,'' said their mom. 

  Just last week in Milwaukee, almost exactly a year since H.R. 8 came  to the Senate, five people were shot on the campus of Molson Coors.  People who went to work on a normal Wednesday and whose families will  never get to hug them or tell them goodbye or hear their voices again  were shot and killed in a workplace shooting. 

  Senator Blumenthal and I are not going to give up. We are not going  to give up because of what we have been through in Connecticut, having  experienced and lived through the aftermath of the horrific shooting in  Sandy Hook, but also because of what we see happening every single day  in places we represent--murders that happen in Hartford and Bridgeport  and New Haven, murders that happen in rural areas of our State, as  well--accidental shootings, homicides, suicides. Nowhere else, other  than in the United States, does this epidemic of carnage happen at this  rate. It happens because we have made a choice. We have made a choice  to let the gun industry run Washington, DC, to give them veto power  over gun policy that has helped their bottom line, that has made gun  company executives rich. But it has resulted in 40,000 people a year  dying--100 a day. 

  I will continue to come to the floor and tell the stories of those  who have been lost. I am deeply sorry that when we try to bring up  unanimous consent requests to the Senate to have a debate or a vote on  H.R. 8, we keep hearing objections. 

  We don't run the Senate. Democrats are not in charge. We don't get to  set the agenda. Mitch McConnell, Senator McConnell, does; Republicans  who are part of leadership do. All you have to do is bring this bill to  the floor. Let's have a debate on an expanded background checks  proposal. 

  I get that the version of the bill that passed the House might not  have 60 votes here, but why don't we try to find common ground? Why  don't we sit down and do what the Senate used to do and find compromise  that makes the country a better place? The fact that we aren't even  trying to find bipartisan agreement on a background checks proposal is  absolutely heartbreaking, not just to me or to Senator Blumenthal; it  is heartbreaking to the survivors and the family members of the folks  who aren't with us any longer. It is an insult to them that we are not  even lifting a finger to try to make this country a safer place. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT