Barron's - Federalize the Medical Supply Chain, Before It's Too Late


By Chris Murphy

We've all heard or read the chilling stories of frontline health care workers who are dangerously exposed to Covid-19 due to a lack of protective equipment, but keep showing up to work, day after day, because of their passion for making a difference. One woman wrote to me that her husband, who is treating Covid-19 patients at a hospital in Connecticut, was told to reuse surgical masks for three days in a row. He isn't able to get an N95 mask and doesn't know when his hospital will get urgently needed supplies. 

And he's not alone. Too many health care workers in Connecticut and across the country are being forced to reuse their personal protective equipment and ration medical supplies for patients. In Connecticut, we've had to slow down testing because we don't have enough protective gear to staff both our testing facilities and our hospital in-patient units.

And it's not just a shortage of protective gear. America's hospitals are dangerously short on ventilators, and there aren't enough tests or diagnostic kits to keep up with the growing volume of testing needs.

What makes this shortage worse is that there is no national mechanism to make sure that the scarce supplies we do have end up in the right hands. Every state, major city, and territory, and thousands of hospitals, are being forced into a bidding war, encouraging price gouging and hoarding. Because the traditional routes of supply are breaking down, governors, health care facilities, first responders, and testing labs are all spending precious time trying to follow leads of off-market suppliers or new methods of production, and this results in a ton of time being wasted trying to figure out which suppliers are legitimate and which ones are scam artists.

The medical supply system has turned into Lord of the Flies, and the only way to fix this desperately broken system is aggressive federal action. It's well past time that the federal government takes control of the manufacturing and distribution of the equipment necessary to fight Covid-19. Every day we pretend that the private sector can solve this crisis, we are costing lives.

That's why I introduced the Medical Supply Chain Emergency Act with a number of my colleagues, which would federalize the manufacturing, and more importantly the distribution, of medical supplies during this crisis. 

First, this bill would make sure President Donald Trump uses his full authority under the Defense Production Act to direct U.S. manufacturers to produce millions more units of desperately needed medical supplies. The president finally buckled to pressure and operationalized the Defense Production Act, but it was only to minimally increase the production of one piece of equipment: ventilators. That's totally insufficient.

Our bill calls for a minimum of 500 million N95 masks and pairs of medical gloves, 20 million face shields and surgical gowns, and 200,000 medical ventilators, and allows these powers to be used to set production goals for any other products deemed integral to this response.

But it's not enough to just make more equipment. We need to get resources to the places that need them most, set fair prices, and end the bidding war. That's why the bill also requires the administration to coordinate the distribution of these supplies and ends the unnecessary competition between states and health care institutions.

We're asking our doctors, nurses, emergency workers, and supporting professionals to serve on the front lines of this pandemic. And they are stepping up and heeding that call in incredible ways. But they are begging their government to help keep them safe and provide them with the resources they need to care for patients. 

President Trump isn't doing that. He has the power to fix this problem, and he is consciously not using it. That is an absolute abomination. People will die because of his inaction.

So it's up to Congress. We need to take bold action now to federalize the medical supply chain before it's too late.