CT Congressional Delegation Announces $30 Million in COVID-19 Relief Funding for State Airports


Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced that Connecticut airports will be receiving $30 million in funding through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that will be used to offset the dramatic economic impact of COVID-19 on the aviation sector. Airports can use the grants for a wide range of purposes.

 "This $30 million provides crucial funding to support the state's airports through this pandemic.  Our airports are a vital link in Connecticut's economy, connecting our residents and businesses with the rest of the world, which is why we fought to include this grant program in the CARES Act. These dollars will help to ensure that when our economy reopens, our airports are prepared as well," said the Connecticut delegation members.

 "Our airports are vital connection points to the rest of the country and the world, and we know when our state emerges on the other side of this international public health crisis, that they will be even more critical to move people and goods around to support our employers and our workforce. I'm proud to have a Congressional delegation that fights for our facilities to make sure they're in a strong position for the future," said Governor Ned Lamont.

 "The CAA is pleased to receive grant assistance from the federal government to mitigate the unprecedented, historic impacts that COVID-19 have had on air travel and airport revenues. This funding will provide much-needed support to help us as we try to prevent our recent achievements from being reversed at Bradley International Airport and our general aviation airports. While there is still a long way to go, and the impacts to our operations will likely persist for months to come, this assistance is an essential piece of the solution. We would like to thank all members of Connecticut's federal delegation for their responsiveness through the crisis and for fighting to support Connecticut's airports in the CARES Act," said Kevin Dillion, Executive Director of the Connecticut Airport Authority.