Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, it has been more than a month since  President Trump brought the United States to the brink of war with Iran  by ordering the killing of Iran's top general, Qasem Soleimani. 

  Now, no one here mourns Soleimani's death. He was a ruthless killer.  He has American blood all over his hands. But decisions over whether to  attack sovereign nations or whether to send American troops to war are  not decisions for the executive branch to make. These are decisions  that the Constitution vests only in the U.S. Congress. That is why we  need to pass, on a bipartisan basis, the War Powers Resolution that is  currently pending before this body.  

  I want to come to the floor today to raise three issues for my  colleagues--and I will try to do it briefly--surrounding the  President's decision to use force against Iran and what the  implications are for us, both as a body and as a nation. 

  First, when we are talking about the topic, I just think it is always  important to level set. I think it is important for us to realize how  much President Trump has thrown away. 

  This is a President who is running a master class right now on  creating crises that didn't exist before he started flailing away in  the china shop, and then this President claims we all have to get  together behind his efforts to clean up the mess that he and his  administration largely created. 

  Let's just remember where we were with Iran when President Trump came  into office. When President Trump arrived in the Oval Office, Iran had  stopped their quest for nuclear weapons capabilities. They were  compliant with an intrusive inspections regime to make sure they didn't  cheat on that agreement. Iranian-backed militias had stopped firing  rockets at U.S. personnel in Iraq. In fact, those militias were  actively working on a U.S.-led project--the eradication of ISIS. 

  President Obama had unified the entire world against Iran. Even  Russia and China were working side by side with the United States to  constrict Iran's nuclear program. And with the nuclear agreement  secured, this global coalition had essentially been teed up for  President Trump, to be used to make new progress to pressure Iran on a  next set of concessions, on their ballistic missile program and their  support for terrorist proxies across the region. 

  But President Trump threw this all away. And now, despite the  sanctions that he has imposed on them unilaterally, Iran is more  powerful than ever. We went from a construct in which we had the United  States, Europe, China, and Russia aligned against Iran to a moment  today where, on many issues, it is Iran, the European Union, China, and  Russia aligned against the United States. 

  How much ground have we lost? This town tends to view power only  through a military prism. So we have kind of lost sight of Iran's  provocative actions because, since the strike in Iraq against our  troops, we haven't had front-page headlines about what Iran is doing. 

  Let's talk about that strike for a moment, because we need to make it  clear that, contrary to the administration's assertions, the Soleimani  strike did not deter Iran at all. They levied a barrage of rockets at  our forces in Iraq that were designed to kill. Some suggested that  night, or the next day, that maybe their attack was calibrated to  sustain minimal damage. Now we know that is not the case. In fact, it  was calibrated to try to wipe out over 100 American soldiers. They  missed. But, of course, now we are finding out that they actually  didn't miss. At first, the administration reported no injuries. Then,  it was a few. Then, it was dozens. Now the injury report is over 100.  Thank God that nobody was killed. 

  But let's be clear. Iran fired rockets that injured over 100 American  soldiers, and we didn't respond at all. I am glad we chose a path of  military deescalation, but nobody in this administration and none of  their allies in Congress can pretend that we ``restored deterrence.'' 

  Second, it is important to note that Iran is retaliating. They are  retaliating all over the region. In Iraq they are stronger than ever  before. They have a new Prime Minister-designate who is incredibly  close to Iran. They managed to get a vote in Parliament--nonbinding,  admittedly--to kick all American soldiers out of that country. We are  still in the middle of a negotiation to try to keep some American  military presence there to fight ISIS, but Iran has used this  opportunity to get more and more embedded in the Iraqi infrastructure.  And the protests--the anti-Iran protests that were happening in Iraq-- are no longer making headlines because many of those elements are now  lined up against the United States instead of against Iran. 

  Remember, Soleimani was working every single day to try to get  American troops out of Iraq, and it may be that he gets closer in death  to his goal than he did while he was alive. 

  In Yemen, Iran is fighting back. It is hard to see into the  relationship between the Houthis and the Iranians, but the Houthis are  acting out in provocative ways that are fundamentally different today  than they were prior to the death of Soleimani. They are restricting  humanitarian aid. They are launching attacks against civilian sites. We  don't know that the Houthis are undertaking these actions because of  orders from Iran, but it is likely that it is not coincidental that the  Houthis' increase in activity in Yemen, further destabilizing a country  that is really important to the United States, is happening at the very  moment that Iran is looking for ways to get back at the United States  for the Soleimani strike. 

  Remember, ISIS and al-Qaida are inside Yemen. The wing of al-Qaida  that has the clearest designs against the United States takes advantage  of the chaos inside Yemen to recruit, to grow, and to expand their  territory. So as the Houthis are further destabilizing Yemen, the  enemies of the United States are potentially getting stronger. Iran is,  once again, back on the march inside Yemen. 

  Then, in Lebanon we had this moment in which there were protests on  the streets that were demanding a Lebanese Government free of  corruption and free of Iranian influence. We were this close to getting  a technocratic government in Lebanon that might--that might--finally  break the grip of Iran on elements of Lebanese politics. Instead of  taking advantage of that moment, the United States decided that it was  going to cut off aid to the army that was protecting the protesters.  The combination of that mistake and then the assassination of General  Soleimani allowed Iran to upend the momentum that was running against  Tehran inside Lebanon. 

  Now guess what we have in Lebanon. We have a Hezbollah government in  Lebanon. Instead of getting a citizen-focused technocratic government,  we have an Iranian-aligned Hezbollah government in Lebanon. 

  Iran is fighting back. They are escalating. They may not be shooting  missiles at American military bases, but they are gaining ground. They  are taking provocative actions throughout the region. 

  It is really important for us to understand that. It is really  important for us to understand how we are losing ground in places like  Iraq and Yemen and Lebanon and how much stronger Iran is getting as a  direct consequence of the action that was taken without congressional  authorization. 

  My third and last point is this. Even if we pass this War Powers  Resolution, this President is still going to maintain that he has a  Mack truck-sized loophole through which he can run military action  overseas without coming to Congress. 

  As for the President's article II authority, he has it. I am not  denying that the President doesn't have constitutional authority to  protect America prior to a congressional authorization, but the  President's article II authority has morphed over time into a monster,  and Congress needs to do more than just pass War Powers Resolutions to  contain this Godzilla. 

  For years, Presidents of both parties have stretched executive war- making power too far. I have been on this floor criticizing a  Democratic President--President Obama--who I argued should have come to  Congress for authorization for airstrikes against Libya and should have  come to Congress to ask for authorization before launching an offensive  against ISIS, or waging drone wars in Yemen and Pakistan. But President  Trump has taken this abuse to new levels, and the threat of falling  into a new war with Iran, based on whispers of intelligence and without  any authorization from Congress, is a real possibility that we have to  take seriously in this body. 

  In fact, I listened to an administration official this week make the  case that the President was actually authorized to kill Soleimani  because the IRGC, the military group that he led, was listed by the  administration as a terrorist organization. 

  I know that many of my colleagues have heard the administration make  elements of this argument as well. That is a ridiculous argument that  fails on its face. Remember, the administration, not Congress,  designates who  is on the terrorist list, so you cannot argue that the executive-level  designation of a terrorist group is a declaration of war. It is not  even a debatable proposition, but the administration is apparently  making it. 

  So what I am saying is that we need to be looking toward the reform  of the war powers process more broadly. The overreach of multiple  administrations proves the need for an enforcement mechanism for  Congress and, more specifically, definitions around the circumstances  in which a President can use force before coming to Congress--a new War  Powers Act. It should sunset the existing authorizations of military  force and force us to come back to the table and write new  authorizations for the military engagements that we still need to be in  overseas, and it should create templates for new authorizations of  military force that include reasonable sunset provisions on those new  AUMFs and protections to make sure that those authorizations don't get  stretched to cover groups and geographic areas that were never  contemplated by the legislators who drafted the initial authorizations. 

  For many folks, it feels all too familiar to be down here today  having this argument over the President's military escalation with  Iran. We are talking about manipulated intelligence, a drumbeat of war.  We are listening to the administration and its advocates bully Congress  and the American people into avoiding this debate--the suggestion that,  by questioning U.S. military objectives overseas, we are somehow  hurting the troops. 

  It all brings back these flashbacks of the disastrous path to war in  Iraq. This vote is essential, in my mind, so that we warn ourselves  against going back down that wretched path again. So, yes, let's pass  this resolution, but we can't stop there. Congress needs to do our job  to reform the war powers system so that this President and future  Presidents of both parties respect both Congress's role and the deepest  responsibility that we all have to the American people when we make a  decision to go to war. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT