Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I think all of us are in awe on a daily  basis of those who we have a responsibility to serve. The people of  Colorado, the people of Texas, and the people of Connecticut are doing  just absolutely extraordinary things, and I hope that over the next  several weeks we get to hear more of those stories. 

  At the end of last week, I got a chance, with my Governor, to go down  to a healthcare facility in Bridgeport, CT. It is a healthcare facility  that has been designated to serve only COVID-19-positive patients. The  nurses and staff came outside into the parking lot area to have a  socially distanced, masked conversation with us. 

  While they have struggles, and while they need help, they have a  sense of mission about them that is impressive. They are working double  shifts. They barely get to see their kids. They know that their lives  are in danger every time they go into a facility where there are only  patients who have tested positive for COVID, and yet they know they are  doing something with their life today that they will be able to tell  their kids and grandkids about. They are making a difference. 

  I think about those individuals who aren't a first responder, who  aren't a healthcare worker but have found a way to do heroic things  just in their neighborhoods. 

  Luciana Vera was already making a difference. She was a bilingual  teacher in the Stamford, CT, public school system, but she heard about  a crisis that one of her students was having. One of her student's  mother had contracted the virus, had gone into a coma, but was pregnant  and delivered a child while she was in a medically induced coma. Her  husband also had the virus, as did one of her children. So do you know  what Luciana did? Do you know what this teacher did? She took the baby  into her home. While she taught her students online during the day, she  warmed up bottles and fed that baby at night. 

  Jerry Sicardi is 100 years old. He lives in Stratford, CT. Even at  100 years old, he decided to get together with his daughter Judy and  start making masks. We all have these stories from our States, just  folks who started sewing masks and giving them out to people who needed  them. Jerry gave them out to his neighbors. He sent some to the  Bridgeport Correctional Center. He gave them to former students. Then,  when folks learned that Jerry was pretty good at making masks, they  would call, and he would make them on order. 

  These are the stories that could, frankly, fill up the whole day from  each one of our States. 

  While my constituents in Connecticut, who are as generous as that,  would have undertaken those actions regardless of the effectiveness of  the response from their government, their actions are all the more  important, given the failures of their Federal Government to do the  right thing by them. 

  I want to spend a few minutes today talking about the Trump  administration's response to the crisis that we are facing. If we are  going to be here in Washington, I think it is important for us to talk  about what is missing. 

  There has been a lot of ink spent already criticizing the Trump  administration's response to the crisis--that the strategy was wrong,  the focus was in the wrong place, or that the level of activity wasn't  high enough. But I really think that this is the wrong paradigm. It is  the wrong lens through which to have this discussion because the  problem really isn't that President Trump's response to coronavirus has  been ineffective. It is that he hasn't responded at all. For all  intents and purposes, there has been no response to coronavirus from  this administration. There have been press conferences. There is a  social media presence, but they aren't running a national response. 

  From the beginning, the response has been left to States, to cities,  to counties, to hospitals, to school districts, to nursing homes, to  shelters, to food banks, to charitable organizations--really, to every  public-facing entity that isn't the administration. We shouldn't lose  sight of how remarkable that is--that in the face of the most serious  national crisis since 2001, perhaps since Vietnam or World War II, the  administration has effectively chosen to stand down and let others  lead. 

  I know that sounds like hyperbole because there is a task force,  right?  There are press conferences on TV every day. But hear me out. 

  At the beginning, the President didn't do nothing. He fanned the  flames. He called coronavirus in the early days a ``hoax'' perpetuated  by his political opponents. He telegraphed to the country that this  wasn't something we needed to be prepared for because it was just going  to go away, despite all the experts telling him differently. 

  On 12 different occasions, he praised the Chinese response and said  that President Xi was doing an excellent job responding to the crisis.  He praised, specifically, their transparency. At a moment when the  international community was trying to get into China to find out what  they knew so that we could start developing vaccines and treatments,  the chief apologist in those early days for the Chinese response was  our own President.  

  Arguably, the most significant action that the Trump administration  undertook--really, the only action that the President mentions to this  day, when pressed for tangible things that he has done--was the set of  travel restrictions. But public health experts told the President that  the restrictions wouldn't work, especially since they were filled with  loopholes. We now know that 400,000 people ended up getting into the  United States from the countries that were subject to the restrictions  list. The travel ban was feckless. It was a failure. And after that,  the administration effectively gave up. They gave up. 

  What could they have done? As the travel ban started to prove  ineffective at stopping the virus and cases started to mount, what  could they have done? Well, they could have decided to lead a national  effort to make sure we have the supplies necessary to fight the virus.  Members of Congress told the administration early on that we needed to  appropriate dollars to make sure that we had things like masks and  gowns and ventilators. They could have created a national effort to  ramp up domestic production of personal protective equipment. They  didn't do that. 

  The administration could have come up with a national testing plan.  They could have done an early assessment of how many tests were going  to be needed and taken control of the supply chain necessary to make  those diagnostic machines and the cartridges that go inside them. They  didn't do that. 

  They could have begun the work of building a national public health  workforce. Every expert told the administration that it wasn't just the  machines and the equipment, that we were going to need public health  workers to do the testing, to then trace the spread of the disease, and  to help support quarantines. They could have started to put together a  plan to build that workforce at a national level or at least a plan to  help States build that workforce. But they didn't do that. 

  They could have, early on, worked with States to create uniformed  standards for school and business closings. This didn't have to be left  to States and municipalities and individual superintendents. The  administration could have chosen to lead on the question of how and  when we chose to close our economy and our school systems down, but  they didn't do that. 

  They could have joined with other countries to jointly produce a  vaccine. In fact, there was an entity set up at the beginning of the  Trump administration specifically for that purpose, the Coalition for  Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. They could have made an investment  in that international organization after having refused to join early  on during the President's term, but they didn't do that. 

  They could have increased aid for developing nations or refugee  camps. They could have gone on the international offensive, like  President Obama did during the Ebola epidemic, and made sure that we  were helping every country beat the virus because, as we know, due to  the failure of the travel restrictions, if you don't stop it  everywhere, you really are not stopping it anywhere, but they didn't do  that. 

  They could have made sure that everybody in this country had  insurance. The Trump administration could have stopped pushing junk  plans. They could have, at least temporarily, put on hold the lawsuit  to try to end the Affordable Care Act and the 20 million who are  insured through it, but they didn't do that. 

  They could have worked to create a national commitment to make sure  that every student has the ability to distance learn and has internet  access, or they could have proposed a plan to ramp up special education  funding to make sure they are protecting kids with disabilities during  this crisis. They didn't do that. 

  Finally, they could have proposed any of the various programs that  Congress developed and passed: the PPP program, the State stabilization  fund, the hospital relief fund, the national testing program fund. None  of these were initiatives from President Trump. 

  Early on, as negotiations were beginning on these relief packages,  the President's only idea was a payroll tax cut. Frankly, it is still  the President's only idea. 

  The President didn't need to leave all of the legislative leadership  to Congress. He and his team could have laid out detailed new programs  to combat the virus or to save the economy and pressed Congress to pass  them, but they didn't even do that. 

  I am not saying there aren't meetings. I am not saying there aren't  press conferences. But my State, one of the hardest hit in the Nation,  has had to effectively fend for itself. 

  When I talk to State leaders, or hospital executives, or food pantry  directors, none of them talk to me about all of the help they are  getting from the Trump administration. They talk about the programs  that Congress has passed, but they don't talk about any meaningful,  impactful responses to this crisis run by the Trump administration. Do  you know why? Because they don't exist, and even when the Trump  administration tries to do something meaningful, they screw it up. 

  Take, for instance, the much-heralded plan to reopen America. Now,  that was a good idea, a serious set of guidelines for States to use to  judge when the right time is to reopen. I may have quibbles with  certain elements of that plan, but I thought they were generally on the  right track, giving States some specific guidelines so that we can have  some consistency across the country as to when States decide to reopen  schools and businesses. 

  The administration stuck with that plan for about a week, and now  President Trump is calling on States to reopen, regardless of whether  any of the benchmarks have been met in his own plan. Now he is talking  about healthcare workers and cafeteria workers as warriors, apparently  preparing them for a summer during which his experts tell him there  will be 3,000 coronavirus deaths a day because of these early  reopenings. If that is true, the President's so-called coronavirus  warriors would be dying at a daily total 10 times that of the warriors  who fought in World War II. 

  Not all of this was avoidable. China, where the virus started, bears  serious responsibility for the global spread, but the epidemic did not  have to become the crisis of the magnitude we have witnessed today. 

  A normal President would have been able to take steps early on and  throughout that could have controlled the spread. Our President  effectively chose to stand aside and leave 50 States and thousands of  cities and hospitals to manage the response instead. They were left  largely helpless, without significant Federal support, competing  against each other for scarce resources, and now our country is in  desperate straits. So, once again, it is up to Congress to lead 

  I agree with my friend from Colorado that there has been remarkable  bipartisan support in this body in order to fill the vacuum that has  been created by the refusal of our President to lead, and so we will  have to do it again. Let me leave my colleagues with a few suggestions  as to the path that we should take going forward to build upon those  suggestions proffered by my colleague from Colorado. 

  First and foremost, we have to admit what is true. The States and the  cities are in charge of the response. The Trump administration is not.  I have heard my colleagues talk about aid to States or municipalities  that are fighting the virus as a bailout. That is nonsense. It is more  accurate to talk about what the States and cities are doing as a  bailout of the Federal Government. 

  When the Trump administration refused to run a national response, it  was  the States, like mine, and cities, like those in my State, that stepped  up to lead the response. All we are asking is that we share in the cost  of the States' and cities' efforts to save lives. 

  Second, our schools are going to be overwhelmed with need when they  reopen. I am one of the few parents of school-aged children, children  who go to public school. My kids are lucky enough that they don't have  special learning needs, and they have two parents who are able to  telework from home and support their distance learning. But there are  millions of kids who have learning disabilities, who have needs totally  unmet during this time who are going to show back up at school way  behind and in crisis. We need to appropriate money right now,  especially for special education, so that school districts across the  country can start to do planning now, this spring and this summer, so  that there are supports around those kids when they show back up. Every  kid is going to have to catch up. But especially for kids with serious  learning disabilities, they are going to need extra help. And States  that are going to have expended all of the money available to them to  fight the virus and that have cratering revenues because of the  shutdown of the economy are not going to be able to fund those special  education needs themselves. It is going to have to be us. It is going  to have to be us. So why wait until the fall? Let's make a downpayment  on that assistance for kids with disabilities and do it now. 

  Food banks in Connecticut are running dry. They are running dry. We  need more support in the next bill for nutrition assistance. We have to  start thinking creatively about how to make sure that everybody has  access to food. Right now, if you are on a SNAP benefit, you have to go  to a grocery store. Well, those aren't safe places for everybody on  SNAP benefits. Some of the corner bodegas have closed down. So the only  place that might be open is a long way away. So restaurants can be a  lifeline right now. Traditionally, we don't allow you to use your SNAP  benefits in restaurants, but I think we should temporarily allow for  that in the next package we pass. And guess what. That would be a win  for people who are on assistance who need more food options. It would  also be a win for restaurants that are looking for customers. 

  Fourth, we have to build that public health workforce. Again, States  will not be able to afford it themselves. Every medical expert tells us  that it is not just testing. It is tracing the contacts that that  individual had. It is quarantining those they had contact with. And  that can't be done just with an act. There have to be workers who help  do that tracing, who help support the quarantine. We have to build that  workforce. Again, there is just no conceivable way that States can pay  that by themselves. 

  Then, lastly, we need to get back into the game internationally. It  was a fallacy from the beginning to think that we can just shut our  borders and protect ourselves. That is not how viruses work. In an  interconnected economy today, there is no practical way to completely  shut down your borders from individuals or products that move across  international boundaries. 

  We have offers right now to engage with our partners internationally  on ways that could end up helping to save lives in the United States. I  mentioned the Trump administration's refusal to join CEPI, which is the  international body working on a vaccine. Why? Why is Europe and Canada  and Australia and Japan and Saudi Arabia and India all working jointly  on a vaccine, and we are on the outside? It doesn't mean that we would  have to stop doing our own congressionally funded work to develop a  vaccine, but why not also join the international effort so that we are  not on the outside if they develop that vaccine? An easy thing we can  do in this next bill is make sure we are both working on a vaccine  domestically but also working internationally.  

  When this crisis is over and life has returned to relative normal,  there will be a grave, serious accounting of how badly the Trump  administration failed this Nation that it was sworn to protect. I am  grateful for my colleagues stepping up time and again in a bipartisan  way to try to fill the gap created by the failure to lead by the  executive branch. Hopefully, when we do that accounting, it will allow  us to learn lessons. For now, this Congress has to soldier on and do  our best to muster a Federal response that, if not for our actions,  would be practically nonexistent. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT