Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, at a time of international turmoil and  crisis like this, all of us, I think, are sometimes prone to hyperbole.  I count myself as part of that club. I endeavor to do better. 

  It doesn't serve this body well to warn of bad decisions that could  lead to war if we are only doing it to serve political ends or to  bloody up a political opponent. Crying wolf also anesthetizes the  public and risks dulling the country's senses at a moment when the  peril is real. Anytime we are considering asking the men and women of  our Armed Forces and their families to make further sacrifices for  their country, we have to treat those moments with the gravity they  deserve. 

  Let me state at the outset of my remarks that there are important  reasons why I believe that both Iran and the United States do not want  to enter into a conventional conflict that would likely involve the  United States taking steps to remove the Supreme Leader from power and  which would likely involve an invasion that would make Iraq in 2003  look like child's play. 

  The United States, of course, remembers the Iraq war--at least, I  think we do. Our military leaders know that a short-term fight in Iran  would be much bloodier and would be much more costly than the initial  invasion of Iraq. Iran, for instance, has twice the population of Iraq.  A long-term counterinsurgency in Iran would be endless, potentially  costing hundreds of thousands of lives. 

  The Iranian leadership also knows that the United States might never  defensively defeat a drawn-out insurgency on Iranian turf, but Iran's  leaders also know they likely wouldn't be around to see that eventual  conclusion because the United States would, at the very least, likely  be successful in ending the existing regime. 

  So neither side is likely war-gaming for victory. Even those of us  who are deeply critical of President Trump's Iran policy should  acknowledge this, but as a student of history, I know that the annals  of war are replete with cataclysmic conflicts that began not by choice  but by accident, negligence, and incompetence. 

  So today, when I warn of the United States being on a potential path  to war with Iran, that is my concern, that the utter lack of strategy,  the complete absence of nuance, the abandoned communication and  coordination with our allies, and the alarming deficiency of  experienced counsel will end up getting thousands of Americans  needlessly killed. 

  This is not the first warning of this kind I have presented. A year  and a half ago, the President ignored the advice of his first Secretary  of State and his first Secretary of Defense, and he unilaterally pulled  the United States out of the Iran nuclear agreement, despite the fact  that every expert agreed that Iran was in compliance. Then, to make  things worse, President Trump enacted a series of devastating  unilateral sanctions on Iran. No other nations joined with us. In fact,  most of our allies actively and aggressively worked against us, trying  to undermine and work around those sanctions in order to save the  nuclear agreement. That fact, in and of itself, is simply extraordinary  and a sign of how weak President Trump has made America abroad.  

  The sanctions still took a dramatic toll on Iran's economy, and like  everybody predicted, the Iranian Government didn't sit still. They  began to push back, attacking Saudi oil pipelines, capturing European  oil tankers, and ratcheting up threats against U.S. forces in Iraq.  During this time, the President changed his story every week. Some days  he said he would sit down and negotiate with the Iranians without  preconditions. Other days his top people said they wouldn't sit down  unless Iran met an absurdly long list of preconditions. Other days,  President Trump said he wanted to blast Iran off the map. It was a  comedy of diplomatic errors, compounded nearly weekly with conflicting  message after conflicting message that made it difficult for Iran to  approach negotiations with us, even if they wanted to. 

  By this winter, the situation was spiraling out of control. Iranian- backed militias launched a rocket attack that killed a U.S. private  contractor in Iraq. The United States responded by killing at least 24  Iraqi militia members. Then Iraqi militia, supported by Iran, stormed  our Embassy, culminating, for now, in the drone strike that killed  General Qasem Soleimani last week in Iraq. There is no reason things  had to get to this point. When President Trump came into office, Iran  had stopped their quest for nuclear weapons capabilities, and Iran was  complying with an intrusive inspections regime that made sure they  didn't cheat. 

  Iranian-backed militias had stopped firing rockets at U.S. personnel  in Iraq. In fact, they were actually working on a U.S.-led project in  Iraq--the eradication of ISIS. 

  President Obama had united the entire world against Iran. Even Russia  and China were working side by side with the United States to constrict  Iran's nuclear weapons program. And with the nuclear agreement secured,  this global coalition was teed up and ready to be mobilized by  President Trump to pressure Iran to make the next set of concessions on  their ballistic missile program and their support for terrorist proxies  across the region. 

  But Trump's bizarre and nonsensical Iran policy threw all that  leverage away willingly, voluntarily. Despite the economic sanctions,  Iran today is more powerful, is more menacing than ever before. Just  weeks ago, Iran had been wracked by anti-government protests, but  President Trump's recent actions have united the country against  America and against our allies in one fell swoop. One only needs to  look at yesterday, when millions of Iranians took to the streets for  Soleimani's funeral--a mass outpouring of support that the Iranian  regime could never have hoped to inspire on its own. 

  Compared to 3 years ago at the end of the Obama administration, today  Iran is closer to restoring its proxy state in Syria, Iran is more  influential in Yemen, Iran is more threatening to U.S. troops in Iraq  and across the Middle East, and Iran is closer to a nuclear weapon. 

  The simple truth is that Iran is stronger and we are less safe today  than when President Trump was inaugurated, but it gets, implausibly,  even worse. 

  Because the strike on Soleimani is so destabilizing and so  unstrategically provocative, the U.S. position in Iraq--where we are  still battling ISIS--is unraveling. All U.S. civilians have been  ordered to evacuate. All U.S. counter-ISIS operations have been  suspended. NATO has stopped its ongoing efforts to fight ISIS. The  Iraqi Parliament has begun the process of kicking out all U.S. forces  from the country--exactly what Qasem Soleimani had worked for years to  achieve. 

  All of that, on the back of Iran's newfound strength in the region,  is the reason there is so much head-shaking happening right now about  why President Trump has so willfully bungled Iran policy, emboldening  Iranian hard-liners and putting our Nation's safety at risk. 

  With that for context, we come back to the crisis moment of today and  the real possibility that more of President Trump's stumbling will lead  us into a world-changing conflict with Iran. 

  We, the Senators, have seen no evidence that the assassination of  Soleimani was necessary to prevent an imminent attack on the United  States. I remain open to seeing that intelligence, but 5 days later,  Congress has not received a briefing from the administration. We are  apparently going to get that tomorrow. But both President Obama and  President Bush had the ability to kill Soleimani. They didn't because  their experts believed that executing the second most powerful  political figure in Iran--no matter how evil he was, no matter how many  American deaths he was responsible for--would end up getting more, not  fewer, Americans killed. 

  We don't know in what form the reprisal from Iran will come or when,  but it will come. And, listen, we shouldn't be afraid of reprisals in  the wake of truly necessary military actions by the United States to  protect our interests abroad. But when that attack arrives, President  Trump has telegraphed that he is preparing to respond by committing war  crimes against the Iranian people. He says he will bomb cultural sites,  filled with civilian visitors, in retaliation. I can't believe this  needs to be said on the floor of the U.S. Senate, but that is something  terrorists do, not the United States. 

  Although this administration keeps saying they don't want war, there  is no logic to their circular theory of Iran policy. Trump believes  that to change Iran's behavior, we need to escalate our own actions.  Then when our escalation begets more escalation from Tehran, Trump and  his Iran hawks come to the conclusion that this must be due to the fact  that our escalation wasn't serious enough. The theory becomes  unprovable because the Iran hawks just contend, failure after failure,  that we just need one more escalation and one more escalation and one  more escalation. This is the exact behavior that could land us in a  kinetic conflict with Iran that costs American lives. 

  As I said at the outset, this is likely not going to be a full-on  conventional war--at least I hope it is not. It may be that Iran sends  missiles into Israel or ramps up the temperature in Yemen. They may try  to assassinate American military or political leaders or use cyber  warfare to go after critical infrastructure. And maybe we don't invade  Iran. Maybe we just blister their countryside with bombs or try to  disable their military from above. 

  Of course, no matter the scope of the conflict, no matter how long  this escalatory cycle lasts, the one thing we know is this: None of  this has anything to do with making us safer. This cycle started with  Trump's rejection of a diplomatic agreement with Iran that he didn't  like just because it had Barack Obama's name on it. 

  A political grudge set off a series of events that now has us lodged  in a crisis of harrowing scope, a crisis that this President--so  unstable, so reckless, so capricious--likely cannot handle.  Unfortunately, his rejection of diplomacy and lack of concern for our  allies has left America more isolated than at any other perilous time  in our history. At a moment when we cannot afford to be out on a limb,  out on our own, we are. 

  Politics is part of what got us here, but maybe politics is part of  how we get out of this mess. Congress can cut off funding for President  Trump's war of choice with Iran. We can make clear, Republicans and  Democrats, that the President cannot take military action without  congressional consent. And of course the American people can have their  say too. They can rise up, as they did in many cities this past  weekend, and cry out in protest over President Trump's decision to put  politics over our Nation's security. That public pressure may push  allies of the President's here in the Senate to stand with Democrats in  opposition to this reckless risk to our Nation's security. It is not  too late to put a stop to this madness. 

  Iran is an adversary. I don't want anything I have said today to  paper over all of that nation's misdeeds in the region. It is in our  national interest to conduct a foreign policy that weakens Iran's  ability to threaten us, our allies, and our interests. But for the last  3 years, President Trump has done exactly the opposite. Iran's nuclear  program is back on. Iran has restarted attacks against the United  States. Iran is more influential in the region. Everything the  President has done has worked to degrade our Nation's safety and has  worked to make Iran stronger. 

  The order to strike Soleimani has already been given, but what  happens  next is not predetermined. My fear--my belief--is that last week's  killing of Qasem Soleimani will end up fitting into this pattern. But  we have serious choices to make in this body, and we can choose to get  off this path of escalation and make decisions that correct this  President's recklessness and keep America safe. I hope we step up to  that challenge. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT