Letter to Donald Trump - Congressional Delegation Calls on Trump Administration to Fully Reimburse Connecticut for Emergency Services Granted Under Disaster Declarations


Dear Mr. President:

We write strongly urging you to grant Governor Ned Lamont's request for a 100 percent cost-share adjustment for both the major disaster declaration and emergency declaration issued to the State of Connecticut.  While we appreciate your approval of Public Assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for our home state, we fear that 25 percent cost-share requirement puts unnecessary financial burden on the State, its tribal nations, municipalities, and eligible private non-profit entities.  Additionally, we request that you continue working closely with Governor Lamont to ensure approval of Connecticut's request for certain FEMA Individual Assistance programs and our state's eligibility for any forthcoming disaster assistance.

As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread across our state, our local, state, and tribal governments and their eligible private non-profit providers continue to provide essential services.  As of this morning, more than 13,380 residents have tested positive, 1,700 are hospitalized, and 600 have died.  Almost 10 percent of our state's total population has filed for unemployment since March 13, 2020, local businesses remain shuttered, and the everyday lives of the people of Connecticut remain upended. 

Frontline agencies and providers need to utilize limited financial resources to continue battling the devastating health and fiscal effects of COVID-19 and ensure a full recovery.  It is imperative that you adjust the current cost-share agreement to cover 100 percent federal reimbursement for disaster assistance.  Our frontline agencies and organizations need funds to save lives and help people through these unprecedented times -- not a requirement to pay for a portion of federal services.  This request is not unprecedented as such cost-share requirements were waived during past natural disasters, and it is certainly warranted given the magnitude of the impact of this global pandemic.

As Governor Lamont's request makes clear, our state is taking unprecedented steps to address the needs of our businesses, residents, first responders, healthcare providers, and others.  It is absolutely necessary for the federal government to abandon burdensome cost-share requirements so that the State, its tribal nations, municipalities, and eligible private non-profit entities can focus resources exclusively on this critical work. 

Finally, we reiterate our plea for immediate approval of the Governor's request for four supplemental assistance programs under the Individual Assistance Program: Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Crisis Counseling Program, Disaster Case Management, and Disaster Legal Services.  Additionally, the Governor requested Other Needs Assistance for Child Care Assistance and Funeral Assistance under the Individuals and Households Program.  It is critical that you make these federal resources and any additional disaster assistance available for the State of Connecticut and the Mashantucket Pequot and Mohegan tribal lands.

We appreciate your immediate consideration of this request.