Murphy at Munich Security Conference: We Must Increase Support for Ukraine


U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a member of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, attended and participated in the Munich Security Conference, which drew more than 500 high-level international decision makers to discuss current crises and future security challenges. Murphy spoke at a town hall on Ukraine with President Volodymyr Zelensky, U.S. Senator Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), and others. 

On the bipartisan support for Ukraine, Murphy said: "You mentioned the legislation passed in Congress to sanction Nord Stream II and the leverage that provided Ukraine in order to get a better deal with Russia. That's a piece of legislation that passed in the middle of the impeachment trial. That happened in the middle of that controversy. Which I think stands for this proposition that, I think despite the damage that may have been done at the time by the crisis that our country went through, the American people stand with you. Republicans and Democrats stand with you." 

On increasing U.S. support for Ukraine post-impeachment, Murphy said: "[I]n every challenge, I think comes an opportunity. And our opportunity here is, as you mentioned, to increase the amount of support -- economic, political, and security support -- that comes from Congress to you. And I think we are standing in league together, despite our different votes on impeachment, in our effort to support you." 

Last week, Murphy met with Ukrainian President Zelensky in Kyiv before heading to Munich to discuss the importance of the U.S.-Ukraine relationship. 

A full transcript of Murphy's remarks can be found below. 

"I was very glad to be with Senator Johnson and Senator Barrasso just yesterday with you, Mr. President. And we didn't get the chance to talk enough about your reform efforts but they are absolutely extraordinary. It is extraordinary what is happening today inside Ukraine--the pace of reform, economic reform, political reform, law enforcement reform, and we need to all be able to tell that story more effectively for you. 

"But to put, I think, a finer point on the bipartisan support for Ukraine that exists--you mentioned the legislation passed in Congress to sanction Nord Stream II and the leverage that provided Ukraine in order to get a better deal with Russia. That's a piece of legislation that passed in the middle of the impeachment trial. That happened in the middle of that controversy. Which I think stands for this proposition that, I think despite the damage that may have been done at the time by the crisis that our country went through, the American people stand with you. Republicans and Democrats stand with you. 

"And in every challenge, I think comes an opportunity. And our opportunity here is, as you mentioned, to increase the amount of support -- economic, political, and security support -- that comes from Congress to you. And I think we are standing in league together despite our different votes on impeachment, in our effort to support you. And by the way, the guy that left early, that's Senator Merkley and he's 100% behind you, too so."