Murphy: The American Public is Not Going to Stand for A Rigged Trial


U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), joined Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y), U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) on Wednesday at a press conference to discuss the ongoing Senate impeachment trial. Tuesday night, Senate Republicans rejected Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer's amendments to ensure that additional witnesses and documents could be considered as part of the impeachment trial against President Trump.

Murphy on Senate Republicans rejecting additional witnesses and documents at the start of the trial: "After Leader McConnell released his first version of the rules, which shocked everyone as it was going to force the House managers to present much of their evidence in the dead of the night, those rules changed. They changed because Republican senators pressured Leader McConnell to do it. You know why? Because they know that the American public is plugged in. They know that the American public is not going to stand for a rigged trial."

Murphy continued: "Now they didn't unrig the trial with these small last minute handwritten additions. But what we did see yesterday is that Republicans understand that their constituents are paying attention. And if they continue to obstruct the journey for truth, if they don't allow for any document production or any witnesses, there is going to be hell to pay back in each one of their states."

A full transcript of Murphy's remarks can be found below:

"Thank you very much Senator Schumer, Senator Whitehouse, Senator Murray.

"This trial, thus far, could not be further from historical precedent. This is the first time in history that a president has refused any and all cooperation with an impeachment inquiry -- no documents, no production of witnesses. This is the first time that the Senate has adopted rules designed to prevent evidence from being entered into the record.

"This is the highest bar ever created in order to produce witnesses before a Senate trial. The goal is simple: to speed through this trial as quickly as possible with as many hours of testimony being in the middle of the night as possible, to acquit the president as quickly as possible.

"We see our responsibility as truth finders, as fact seekers. And you cannot get to the truth of this matter without having witnesses and without having evidence.

"As Senator Schumer pointed out, something interesting happened yesterday. After Leader McConnell released his first version of the rules, which shocked everyone as it was going to force the House managers to present much of their evidence in the dead of the night, those rules changed. They changed because Republican senators pressured Leader McConnell to do it. You know why? Because they know that the American public is plugged in. They know that the American public is not going to stand for a rigged trial.

"Now they didn't unrig the trial with these small last minute handwritten additions. But what we did see yesterday is that Republicans understand that their constituents are paying attention. And if they continue to obstruct the journey for truth, if they don't allow for any document production or any witnesses, there is going to be hell to pay back in each one of their states.

"Ultimately, the people are in charge, and I think they want us to continue to fight to make sure that this is a fair trial. And all the facts are in front of us, no matter how senators may vote in the end."