Murphy, Blumenthal, Himes, Whitehouse Introduce Darwin Day Resolution


U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and U.S. Representative Jim Himes (CT-4) introduced a bicameral resolution to designate February 12 as "Darwin Day." The observance commemorates famed scientist Charles Darwin's birthday and recognizes the importance of science to the betterment of humanity.

"Charles Darwin bucked conventional wisdom in the search for scientific truth, and he changed our understanding of the natural world in the process. When I think about some of the biggest the problems facing our country and our planet--climate change, mass extinctions, the need for renewable energy sources and more sustainable agriculture--I know that solving them will require a new generation of scientists willing to think boldly. Celebrating Darwin's legacy will help inspire people to meet these challenges and use our knowledge for good," said Murphy.

"I am proud to champion Charles Darwin's important legacy and celebrate the generations of scientists he inspired," said Blumenthal. "Darwin Day honors Darwin's immense contributions to natural science and their profound advancement of our understanding of the world. On this day, we reflect and remember that the relentless pursuit of science and human knowledge is invaluable in assuring the progress of humankind and the survival of our planet."

"It is essential that we recognize the value of truth and science, especially in today's culture where facts and evidence are under relentless assault. As we face down a challenging future, full of existential challenges, we must inspire future generations of scientists, researchers, and academics to tackle the world's toughest problems. There has never been a time more appropriate to recognize one of the world's greatest scientists and thinkers," said Himes.

"Charles Darwin dramatically advanced our understanding of life on earth," said Whitehouse.  "At a time when scientists and the objective truth they seek are under siege from nefarious political forces and well-funded corporate misinformation, it's never been more important to celebrate the infinite ways science has improved humanity."

Darwin Day is a project of the American Humanist Association, which maintains DarwinDay.org to highlight Darwin Day celebrations around the country, provide details about Charles Darwin and his work, and features state and local initiatives to introduce Darwin Day resolutions and proclamations.