Trahan Backs Legislation Requiring Federal Government to Take Over Medical Supply Chain


Today, Congresswoman Lori Trahan (D-MA) joined with Representatives Tim Ryan (D-OH), Elissa Slotkin (D-MI), John Katko (R-NY), and other colleagues as an original cosponsor to announce the Medical Supply Chain Emergency Act, legislation to compel President Trump to implement the Defense Production Act of 1950 (P.L. 81-774, 50 U.S.C. §§4501 et seq.) and federalize the manufacturing and distribution of scarce, in-demand medical supplies needed to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate.

The Trump Administration has previously told the American people on several occasions that the administration has already begun this process but there has been no meaningful action taken--leaving hospital and health care workers on the front lines without the proper personal protective equipment (PPE), and fighting against each other in a bidding war for supplies. Congresswoman Trahan had previously supported calls from Senator Markey (D-MA) to invoke these powers. 

"Our health care workers and first responders are on the front lines of this unprecedented public health crisis working around the clock to save lives -- all too often lacking the protective equipment to keep themselves and their families safe. The wealthiest country on earth should be more than capable of providing masks, tests, and ventilators to our nation's hospitals, clinics, community health centers, and senior living facilities. An effective response to this pandemic requires a war-time footing, and that means invoking the Defense Production Act. Further delay will result in unnecessary loss of life. It is time to act," said Rep. Trahan.

"Our first responders and heath care workers are putting their lives on the line to protect our communities. We need to do our part and get them the supplies they need to do their jobs and keep themselves and their patients safe. We are already seeing shortages of vital medical supplies in communities across the country, which will only grow the longer we wait. This legislation will immediately increase production of vital resources like masks, gloves, surgical gowns, and ventilators. We need to act now,"said Rep. Tim Ryan.

"The most urgent task for the federal government is to accelerate the flow of vital supplies to our front-line medical providers," said Rep. Slotkin. "I would not ordinarily advocate for legislation telling the executive branch how to manage a crisis, but I cannot ignore the outcry from my district and my state. We need federal action now, and if the president will not use his authorities, I will do everything I can to push him to act."

"The current system, in which states and hospitals are competing against each other for scarce equipment, is both unnecessary and barbaric. Enough is enough. It's time to centralize the critical medical supply chain and distribution during this public health crisis," said Sen. Chris Murphy. "The Defense Production Act allows the president to require U.S. manufacturers to pivot production towards medical equipment, and our legislation requires him to actually do this and then take the additional step to direct the distribution of the gear, so that it ends up in the places of true need."

"Our health care workers need help now. Our bill will immediately ramp up production of medical supplies, including masks, gloves, and ventilators so that our health care workers have the equipment they need to protect and care for themselves and their patients," said Sen. Brian Schatz.

The Medical Supply Chain Emergency Act, which has been endorsed by the AFSCME, would require the president to use authorities under the Defense Production Act of 1950 to require emergency production of medical equipment to address the COVID-19 outbreak. Specifically, the bill would force President Trump to identify private sector capacity to help provide nothing less than 500,000,000 N95 respirators; 200,000 medical ventilators; 20,000,000 face shields; 500,000,000 pairs of gloves; and 20,000,000 surgical gowns in addition to other medical equipment deemed necessary. The legislation would further require the administration to direct the distribution of these supplies, to end the unnecessary competition between states and health care institutions for these increasingly scarce resources. The Defense Production Act of 1950 confers upon the president a broad set of authorities to influence domestic industries in the interest of national defense. The authorities can be used across the federal government to shape the domestic industrial base so that it is capable of providing essential materials and goods needed for national defense.

The current list of Original Cosponsors of the bill include: Beyer (D-VA), Brown (D-MD), Doyle (D-PA), Fudge (D-OH), Garcia (D-IL), Gallego (D-AZ), Himes (D-CT), Kaptur (D-OH), Khanna (D-CA), Kuster (D-NH), Lamb (D-PA), Lynch (D-MA), Luján (D-NM), Neguse (D-CO), Norton (D-DC), Malinowski (D-NJ), Payne (D-NJ), Phillips (D-MN), Pingree (D-ME), Pressley (D-MA), Rose (NY), Rush (IL), Ruppersberger (D-MD), Scanlon (D-PA), Schneider (D-IL), Scott (D-GA), Soto (FL), Trahan (D-MA), Torres (CA).