Career and Technical Education Caucus


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, as the co-chair of the  bipartisan Career and Technical Education Caucus, I am proud to be an  advocate for CTE and the work we do to support job training,  apprenticeships, and CTE programs.

Skills-based education provides learners of all ages with career- ready skills, giving individuals the tools to succeed and restoring the  rungs on the ladder of opportunity.

From agriculture to the arts and from marketing to manufacturing,  CTE programs work to develop America's most valuable resource: its  people. A highly skilled workforce is important to the success of our  American economy.

That is why, together with the CTE Caucus co-chair, Congresswoman  Bonamici, I introduced two bills that increase career counseling for  students and adult learners.

The Counseling for Career Choice Act would expand K-12 career  counseling services and provide more resources focused on financial  literacy, registered apprenticeships, dual enrollment programs,  internships, and even financing for college or other postsecondary  education.

Career counseling gives students the tools that they need to make  well-informed decisions about their futures. When we equip school  counselors with the resources necessary, we can help close our Nation's  skills gap and let students find the pathway to fulfilling careers.

The Counseling for Career Choice Act ensures that middle and high  school students are made fully aware of their career and educational  options prior to graduation so that they are aware of all the  opportunities before them.

CTE has established itself as a path that many high-achieving  students choose in pursuit of industry certifications and hands-on  skills that they can use right out of high school in skills-based  education programs or college.

For adult learners, we introduced the Creating Opportunities to  Thrive and Advance Act, or COTA Act for short, to help spread the word  about career counseling through public outreach.

COTA amends title II of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act,  or WIOA, to bolster career guidance for adults.

For the first time, this bill would allow for public outreach such as  public service announcements, social media campaigns, job fairs, and  other means to educate the public on workforce development programs.

Mr. Speaker, we must be able to tell the public about the resources  available to them. Increasing access to career opportunities is a good  investment, and the COTA Act will give individuals the resources they  need to take the next step in their careers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support both bills and to join  the bipartisan Career and Technical Education Caucus today.