Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688080/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chair, this budget resolution  begins the process of delivering on President Trump's agenda, and that  agenda is clear. It is securing the border. It is unleashing economic  growth. It is providing efficiency and accountability in government. It  is reining in reckless spending that spurred record inflation.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle continue to talk about  the harmful provisions within this resolution. In reality, this is the  beginning of the process. It is the beginning of a course correction as  desperately needed following 4 years of policy that placed America in a  position of excess and decline.

Speaking of excess, since President Trump's first term, increased  enrollment and exploitation of the 2018 farm bill by the Biden  administration ballooned the annual spending on the Supplemental  Nutrition Assistance Program by 66 percent at a total cost of $256  billion, leaving workers on the sidelines while small businesses paying  record wages struggle to find help.

This egregious executive overreach not only violated the  Congressional Review Act but likely reduced the fraction of people  participating in the workforce and contributed to inflation.

Mr. Chair, we must meet the vital supplemental food needs of  Americans that Congress committed to fulfill through SNAP, and we will.  We cannot allow excess or lack of accountability within the  bureaucracy, though, to compromise fulfilling that obligation.

Thoughtful policies that recognize the value of work, hold states  accountable, promote program integrity, and in the long run protect the  safety net for those Americans who truly need it should be our  priority.

At the same time, we must use this process to advance the needs of  the farm economy. We cannot leave our most ardent supporters in rural  America without new resources and empty-handed for a third year.

House Republicans have a mandate to restore America's faith in  government and we will protect hardworking taxpayers, preventing the  largest tax increase in American history. We will provide for the  neediest among us while simultaneously delivering a foundation for  economic growth and prosperity.

Mr. Chair, let us ensure America is once again the land of  opportunity and thriving communities. Passage of this resolution is one  step in that process.