Congratulating Lucas Gaston


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691782/congratulating-lucas-gaston


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  and congratulate several military academy appointments.

Lucas Gaston of Brookville, Pennsylvania, has recently accepted a  fully qualified appointment to the United States Military Academy in  West Point, New York.

Lucas is the son of Becky and Mike Gaston and the grandson of Hazel  and Joe Gaston, as well as Nancy and Ted Fox of Brookville.

As a student of Brookville Area High School, Lucas is active in the  classroom and on the athletic field and throughout his community.

Lucas is serving as the secretary of his class. He is a track and  field and golf athlete. He participates in concert and marching band,  and he is a Special Olympics volunteer and a member of the National  Honor Society.

I thank Lucas for his commitment to service and wish him the very  best of luck as he embarks on this exciting new phase of life at West  Point.                         Congratulating Bryony Shipe

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  and congratulate Bryony Shipe of Ford City, Pennsylvania. Bryony  recently accepted a fully qualified appointment to the U.S. Merchant  Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York.

She is the daughter of Amanda and Lucas Shipe and the granddaughter  of Kathie and Dave Olinger, as well as Patty and Larry Shipe.

Bryony is a senior at Commonwealth Charter Academy and is an  excellent example of a well-rounded student and active community  member. Bryony is an active volunteer and tutors at a local education  center. She is a varsity athlete in cross-country and swimming, and she  is co-captain of the varsity swimming and diving team.

Her focus on service to others is an extremely valuable attribute  that will contribute to her military career at the U.S. Merchant Marine  Academy.

I offer Bryony best wishes at Kings Point, and I look forward to  seeing all that she achieves.                         Congratulating Archie Walker

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  and congratulate Archie Walker of Lock Haven, Pennsylvania. Archie  accepted a fully qualified appointment to the United States Military  Academy in West Point, New York.

Archie is a senior at Central Mountain High School. She is the  daughter of Jennifer and Greg Walker. Archie is an accomplished young  woman, striving to make a difference in her country.

Walker is currently serving as the vice president of the Rotary Club.  She is a 3-year varsity athlete in soccer, a dual-enrollment student at  Commonwealth University, and a member of the National Honor Society.

Walker has proven herself on the field and in the classroom. I have  no doubt that her determination will serve her well at the military  academy, and I wish her the very best in this next chapter.                                 Congratulating Adam Bell

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  and congratulate Adam Bell of State College, Pennsylvania.

Adam accepted a fully qualified appointment to the United States  Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.

Adam is the son of Elizabeth and Jayce Bell, the grandson of E. Ann  Wortman and the late Jerry Wortman, as well as Janie and Roy Bell.

As a student at State College Area High School, Bell is involved in  his high school's culinary program and has represented his school in  competitions. He is a varsity athlete in three sports, diving,  wrestling, and track, and participates in Model U.N.

Whether in the kitchen, on the field, or in the classroom, Adam  excels in every area.

Bell will continue his athletic pursuits while at the Naval Academy  as a pole vaulter for USNA's track and field team. His drive for  success will help him excel at the Naval Academy. I wish Adam good luck  as he begins the next chapter of his life as a midshipman and student  athlete in Annapolis.

Mr. Speaker, it was an honor to nominate these young students. Their  dedication to serving our country is inspirational. I look forward to  seeing their successes in the years to come.

Mr. Speaker, I thank them all again for their commitment to our  Nation.