Emergency Conservation Program Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701591/emergency-conservation-program-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the  rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1011) to amend the Agricultural Credit  Act of 1978 to remove barriers to agricultural producers in accessing  funds to carry out emergency measures under the emergency conservation  program, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1011

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Conservation       Program Improvement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM.

Section 401 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16       U.S.C. 2201) is amended--

(1) in subsection (b)--

(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Other       Emergency Conservation Measures'' after ``Fencing''; and

(B) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:

``(1) In general.--With respect to a payment to an       agricultural producer under subsection (a) for the repair or       replacement of fencing, or for other emergency measures to       rehabilitate farmland or to repair or replace a farmland or       conservation structure, the Secretary shall give the       agricultural producer the option of receiving--

``(A) before carrying out such replacement or       rehabilitation, not more than 75 percent of the payment for       such replacement or rehabilitation, which shall be based on       the fair market value of the replacement or rehabilitation,       as determined by the Secretary; and

``(B) before carrying out such repair, not more than 50       percent of the payment for such repair, which shall be based       on the fair market value of the repair, as determined by the       Secretary.''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following:

``(c) Wildfires.--A wildfire that causes damage with       respect to which a payment may be made under subsection (a)       includes any wildfire that is not caused naturally, including       a wildfire that is caused by the Federal Government, if the       damage is caused by the spread of the fire due to natural       causes.''.       SEC. 3. IMPROVING THE EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM.

Section 407 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16       U.S.C. 2206) is amended--

(1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:

``(e) Advance Payments.--

``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall give an owner of       nonindustrial private forest land the option of receiving,       before the owner carries out emergency measures under this       section, not more than 75 percent of the cost of the       emergency measures, as determined by the Secretary based on       the fair market value of the cost of the emergency measures       using the estimated cost of the applicable practice published       in the Field Office Technical Guide of each State by the       Natural Resources Conservation Service.

``(2) Return of funds.--If the funds provided under       paragraph (1) are not expended by the end of the 180-day       period beginning on the date on which the owner of       nonindustrial private forest land receives those funds, the       funds shall be returned within a reasonable timeframe, as       determined by the Secretary.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1011, the Emergency  Conservation Program Improvement Act, introduced by Representative  Letlow of Louisiana.

The Emergency Conservation Program, or ECP, and the Emergency Forest  Restoration Program, EFRP, are two important cost-share programs  available to landowners following a natural disaster.

Under ECP, landowners can receive technical and financial assistance  for repairs and restoration of land adversely affected by natural  disasters, including floods, hurricanes, wildfires, and droughts.  Additionally, EFRP offers financial assistance to nonindustrial private  forestland owners for recovery efforts following similar natural  disasters.

In recent years, agricultural producers have witnessed firsthand the  devastation caused by numerous disasters. The recovery efforts and  associated costs have underscored the importance of these programs  during times of great need for our Nation's farmers.

Over the past decade, we have seen some of the largest and most  destructive wildfires on record, particularly in  Western States. While the West continues to face forest health and  wildfire crises, significant wildfires have also ignited in States such  as Oklahoma, Texas, and Nebraska, leaving producers in these areas in  need of conservation and restoration assistance.

Our agricultural community has also seen the devastating impacts of  hurricanes in recent years. A harrowing example of this occurred in  2024, when hurricanes Helene and Milton wreaked havoc across several  southeastern States. Many producers looked to ECP for help with fencing  repairs, debris removal, replacement of watershed infrastructure, and  land stabilization. At the same time, EFRP was utilized for hazard tree  removal, reforestation, site preparation, and erosion control.

While these programs have been helpful to producers and forest  landowners, some participants have reported experiencing delays in  receiving payments.

To help expedite funding to those in need and get work done on the  ground more quickly, this legislation would broaden eligibility for  advanced payments for both ECP and EFRP and raise the cap on assistance  from 25 percent of total costs to 50 percent of project costs for  repairs and 75 percent for replacement.

Mr. Speaker, this is crucial for the American agriculture industry.  When a natural disaster ravages valuable natural resources or  dismantles critical agricultural infrastructure, landowners simply  cannot afford to wait on the Federal government to finish processing  paperwork before they begin the process of rebuilding. Advance payments  allow us to streamline this process and improve program delivery.

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.  Letlow).

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional  speakers, I am prepared to close, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas  and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.