National Dairy Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692463/national-dairy-month


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, happy National Dairy  Month.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of this occasion of National  Dairy Month and to honor the hardworking men and women of America's  dairy industry, especially those in my home State of Pennsylvania.

As the Representative of Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional District  and as chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, I know firsthand  the central role that dairy plays in our economy, our communities, and  our health.

Pennsylvania is an incredible dairy State. With more than 6,200 dairy  farms, we rank second in the Nation in the number of dairy operations  and eighth in milk production.

These farms care for nearly one-half million dairy cows and support  more  than 52,000 jobs, generating $14.7 billion annually for our State's  economy.

It is important that in addition to recognizing the success and  strength of this industry, we also acknowledge the challenges it takes  to produce the dairy products that we all know and love.

Rising costs, outdated Federal regulations, and policies that don't  reflect the realities on the ground have all hurt this vital industry.  That is why we must continue to fight for a modernized farm bill and  for smart bipartisan policies that promote health and strengthen rural  communities. In addition, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act we passed out  of the House included key victories for our dairy producers.

The bill contains multiple enhancements to the Dairy Margin Coverage  program such as increasing tier 1 eligibility from 5 million to 6  million pounds per farm, among other items.

One of those bipartisan policies is the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids  Act which I proudly introduced alongside my colleague, Representative  Kim Schrier, a pediatrician, and a bipartisan coalition in both  Chambers of Congress. This bill is about returning whole and reduced  fat milk to school cafeterias. It reflects updated science, addresses  years of flawed Federal policy, and responds to what parents, schools,  and health professionals across the country already know: Kids need  access to milk that they will actually drink.

Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., has  also voiced support for returning whole milk to school cafeterias. He  recognizes its value as a nutrient-rich option that supports child  development and academic success.

Milk provides 13 essential nutrients, including calcium, vitamin D,  and potassium. These nutrients support bone health, immune function,  and long-term well-being. However, today nearly three in four school- age children are not getting their recommended daily intake of dairy.

Since whole milk was removed from schools in 2012, we have seen  declines in milk consumption, increased food waste, and growing  concerns about childhood nutrition. This legislation is a commonsense  solution that simply gives schools the option to serve whole and  reduced fat milk once again.

I am pleased to report that the Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act has  already made significant bipartisan progress. It has passed the House  Committee on Education and Workforce and most recently the Senate  Agriculture Committee with strong support from both sides of the aisle.

With over 300 votes in the House last Congress, this bill is ready to  cross the finish line.

Let me be clear. This is a win for everyone involved. It supports our  children's health and gives a boost to our Nation's dairy farmers who  work hard every day to provide safe, nutritious products.

Mr. Speaker, National Dairy Month is not just a moment of  recognition. It is a call to action to stand with rural America, invest  in the next generation, and ensure our food policies are rooted in  science and not bureaucracy.

Let's finish the work we have started. Let's pass the Whole Milk for  Healthy Kids Act. Let's deliver for our farmers, and let's keep making  American agriculture stronger, healthier, and, yes, great once again.