National Scouting Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699723/national-scouting-day


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate  an organization that is near and dear to my heart, Scouting America.

February 8 is National Scouting America Day, which recognizes the  legacy of the organization and the young Americans who have gone from  Scouts to leaders in their communities.

On May 17, 1977, I became an Eagle Scout myself, as a member of Scout  Troop 52 in Walker Township, Pennsylvania. Over the years, I proudly  held various leadership roles with Scout troops in Pennsylvania,  including two separate stints as Scoutmaster for Troop 353 in Howard.

During my time as a Scoutmaster, I was honored to see many young men  achieve the rank of Eagle Scout. Since the rank's inception, close to 3  million Scouts have earned Eagle Scout status.

Scouting America--formerly known as the Boy Scouts of America, and  actually that is still the name of the movement as chartered by  Congress--was established in 1910 by William D. Boyce. The mission of  the organization is to prepare children for lives of impact and  purpose. Since it was founded, more than 130 million young men and  women have participated in Scouting America's programs.

Mr. Speaker, at its core, Scouting encourages its members to leave  our country and the world a little better than they found it. Scouting  America has helped build future leaders by combining educational  activities and lifelong values with fun. Scouting founder, Lord Baden- Powell of England, defined Scouting as a game with a purpose. Through  over a century of experience, we know that helping youth is a key to  building a more conscientious, responsible, and productive society.

I am proud to co-chair the Congressional Scouting Caucus. This past  summer, we welcomed dozens of Scouts from across the country to Camp  Capitol Hill and Eagles on the Hill. This was an opportunity for Scouts  to meet with Representatives and showcase what they have learned or  built as a Scout. It was an honor to see the various projects Scouts  have completed. All of them demonstrated the important values of  service, community, and character.

Scouting demands physicality, innovation, curiosity, and for  participants to enjoy the outdoors. It gives Scouts the opportunity to  try new recreational activities like mountain biking, kayaking, and  camping. All of these activities are an ode to the beautiful landscapes  across our Nation and experiences that a Scout will never forget.

Scouts explore their interests and improve their skills while working  toward Scouting's highest rank, Eagle. By first imagining, planning,  then doing their own service projects, Scouts learn the value of hard  work and experience the thrill of seeing it pay off.

Scouts are known as leaders within their communities, and  approximately 15 percent of all military academy cadets and midshipmen  across the United States' service academies are Eagle Scouts.

I am grateful for the longstanding partnership between Scouting  America and the Department of War. I can think of no better recruitment  tool for our military than the lessons learned through Scouting.

Mr. Speaker, Scouting has touched the lives of so many. I am proud of  the way it has shaped our youth. I wish a happy 116th birthday to  Scouting America.