Recognizing Career and Technical Education Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700190/recognizing-career-and-technical-education-month


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to  recognize Career and Technical Education Month, celebrated every  February. This month allows us to highlight the value of CTE programs,  which help prepare students for the workforce. These are programs that  are about learning to earn.

During this month, we can look at the immense impact of CTE programs  on learners and the support that CTE provides to different industries.  CTE does more than support students. It supports our economy and our  workforce.

It is an honor to be co-chair of the bipartisan House Career and  Technical Education Caucus and a senior member of the Committee on  Education and Workforce. I have supported and will always continue to  support CTE programs, and I thank my colleagues for supporting these  causes.

Career and technical education does not adhere to one industry. It  spans across all industries--all of them. It is a reflection of the  many careers available to young Americans.

I truly believe that a one-size-fits-all approach to education is not  valuable to our students and does not prepare them for the workforce.  The traditional college experience is not always valuable for all high  school graduates, and we must remember that.

Many high-achieving and ambitious students choose to pursue an  industry certification and gain experience in hands-on skills that they  can use after graduating high school. These students enter the  workforce prepared, and they contribute to our communities.

So far in the 119th Congress, I introduced a bill to strengthen  career counseling in middle schools and high schools, introduced the GO  Ag Act, and introduced the Creating Opportunities to Thrive and Advance  Act, all of which are important ways for students to explore different  careers.

While all this is a huge accomplishment, there is still much left to  do. This is why I will continue to advance legislation that promotes  workforce development.

In my home State of Pennsylvania, there are over 80 career technical  colleges and 145 high schools offering CTE courses. I am proud to be an  advocate for these institutions and courses and to see the positive  impact these students have within their communities.

Madam Speaker, when these students graduate, they graduate with a  diploma and multiple certifications in one hand and a tremendous number  of job offers in the other. It is a pathway to opportunity and  prosperity.

Madam Speaker, CTE students are the backbone of our workforce and  invaluable to our communities. It is important that we continue to  provide them with the resources that they need. I urge my colleagues to  join the Career and Technical Education Caucus and work to provide  learning opportunities for everyone.