Recognizing the Congressional Scouting Caucus


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694209/recognizing-the-congressional-scouting-caucus


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to invite  my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join the bipartisan  Congressional Scouting Caucus.

Scouting has been an essential part of my life. I am an Eagle Scout  and was a Scoutmaster for more than 30 years.

The lessons I learned through Scouting: leadership, service, self- reliance, and integrity remain deeply imbedded in my daily life and  guide my work here in Congress.

My decisions are guided by the principles of the Scout oath: my duty  to God, duty to country, duty to others, and to myself. That is the  kind of clarity and compass that Scouting instills. It is a moral  benchmark, one that teaches young people to serve their communities,  respect others, and become engaged, responsible citizens.

That is why I am proud of the work we are doing with the bipartisan  Congressional Scouting Caucus. This group exists to strengthen and  support Scouting programs across the country and to highlight the  incredible impact Scouts have in each of our districts.

Madam Speaker, I invite my colleagues to join our caucus whether you  were a Scout yourself, have Scouts in your family, or simply believe in  the power of mentorship and youth leadership. There is no better time  to get involved than now.

Today, we are hosting Camp Capitol Hill, an event that will bring the  spirit of Scouting right to the heart of our Nation's Capital. This  unique showcase will feature Scouts demonstrating outdoor and  leadership skills right here on the Capitol grounds in the Rayburn  foyer. Displays will include camping equipment, a canoe, a rocket,  robotics, knot tying, and Pinewood Derby car racing, alongside  educational tables sharing the story and scope of modern Scouting.

There will also be a dynamic panel discussion moderated by Scouting  leaders and alumni, highlighting the diverse ways this program shapes  the  next generation of leaders, young men and women who will one day serve  as firefighters, teachers, doctors, small business owners, and yes,  even Members of Congress.

We are also hosting Eagles on the Hill, a reception that will bring  together Eagle Scouts and Scouting alumni to celebrate our shared  background in Scouting. Eagles on the Hill serves as a reminder that  even when Eagle Scouts in Washington disagree on the issues before us,  we are united in the belief that Scouting instills essential leadership  skills and character values.

The Scouting memorial, just steps from where we sit today, is a  tribute not only to the organization but to the ideals it stands for:  duty, service, community, and character.

That memorial was made possible entirely through Scout-raised funds  in 1960, mostly in the form of dimes. Those Scouts who sent in their  dimes have their names engraved at the base of that statue, reminding  us of the quiet strength and legacy of civic engagement.

Madam Speaker, I, once again, encourage all my colleagues to join the  Congressional Scouting Caucus, attend Camp Capitol Hill, and support  the young people who work every day to build a stronger, more service- minded America.

Let's help ensure that the next generation lives up to the Scout law:  trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient,  cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent.

Also today, on a personal note, I welcome Josh and Finn Kirby to  Washington, a Scout leader and a Scout, from the Boy Scout Council in  the Juniata Valley.