Recognizing the Oil City Derrick


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701313/recognizing-the-oil-city-derrick


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  The Oil City Derrick, which published the final print edition of The  Derrick and The News-Herald on March 20.

The Derrick opened at 1871 under its prior name of the Daily Derrick  by C.E. Bishop & Company. The publication covered the latest stories in  Oil City.

When Edwin Drake struck oil in western Pennsylvania, The Derrick  quickly became a national news outlet, and it was best known for its  coverage of oil prices.

The newspaper was a key source of information for journalists like  Ida Tarbell, who reported the oil wars of the 1870s.

Patrick C. Boyle, a prominent figure in the oil industry, bought The  Derrick in 1885. Patrick helped to establish other newspapers,  including the Bradford Era and the Oil and Gas Journal.

The newspaper was owned by the Boyle family for four generations.  Patrick Boyle passed away in 1920, and ownership of the newspaper was  passed on to his son, Edward Boyle, who served as a publisher until his  death in 1938.

For more than 100 years, the Boyle family was influential in the  newspaper's success. From Patrick Boyle's purchase of the outlet in  1885, the family's stewardship ensured that for 154 years The Derrick  never once missed a day of publication--an incredible accomplishment.

The pages of The Derrick served as the record for the region's  history. Major events included President Ulysses S. Grant's visit to  the area and the Great Fire and Flood of 1892.

The Derrick didn't just witness change. It lived through it. Through  every win and loss of the oil boom to the dawn of the industrial  revolution to the emergence of the digital age, this newspaper adapted  and prevailed.

The Derrick stood as a constant for 154 years, capturing the  evolution of our community and the very way that we share the news.

Mr. Speaker, it is never easy when we see our local institutions  close, especially those that have played such an important role in our  communities like The Derrick has for more than a century.

My heartfelt thanks go out to the staff who have worked diligently  over the years to deliver the news to the people of Pennsylvania's 15th  Congressional District.

For 154 years, The Derrick has been there, and we are all grateful  for that.