Recognizing Thon


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  an extraordinary group of students at Penn State University for their  dedication, passion, and unwavering commitment to a cause that truly  changes lives.

For the past year, as Penn Staters have done for more than 50 years,  these students devoted countless hours to supporting pediatric cancer  patients through THON, the largest student-run philanthropic  organization in the entire world.

THON is a yearlong fundraising effort culminating in a 46-hour dance  marathon, providing critical financial and emotional support to more  than 4,800 families battling childhood cancer.

On February 21, Penn State community students, staff, families,  friends, and volunteers filled the Bryce Jordan Center for the 53rd  annual THON, raising funds for the Four Diamonds foundation.

What began in 1973 as a small fundraiser organized by Penn State's  fraternities and sororities, raising just $2,000, has since grown into  the largest student-run philanthropic organization in the world, with  more than 16,500 student volunteers across Pennsylvania.

Since partnering with the Four Diamonds foundation in 1977, THON has  ensured that not a single Four Diamonds family going through cancer  treatment has received a medical bill, thanks in large part to the  tireless efforts of Penn State students.

The foundation itself was born from heartbreak and hope. Charles and  Irma Millard established Four Diamonds in 1972 in honor of their son,  Christopher, who had passed away from cancer at just 11 years old.

Before his passing, Christopher wrote a story about a brave knight  seeking the four diamonds of courage, wisdom, honesty, and strength,  qualities his parents knew were essential in the fight against cancer.  In his memory, they created Four Diamonds to support families facing  the same battle.

This year, from 6 p.m. on Friday, February 21, until 4 p.m. on  February 23, Penn State students stood for 46 hours straight,  demonstrating incredible resilience and dedication.

Mr. Speaker, the true impact goes beyond their endurance. This year,  Penn State students raised a record-breaking $17,737,040.93. This  surpasses THON's 2024 record-breaking total by nearly $800,000. To  date, Penn State students have raised more than $250 million in the  fight against pediatric cancer over the last 53 years.

If my colleagues ask any Penn State student, they will be the first  to say that THON isn't about them. It is about the children. It is  about the families getting to celebrate birthdays, piano recitals,  science fairs, graduations, and every other moment a child should  experience free from the fear of cancer.

THON exists so that, one day, no parent will ever have to hear the  words: ``Your child has cancer.''

Mr. Speaker, I am incredibly proud of these students at my alma mater  and, more importantly, of the brave children and families who fight  this battle every day.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate everyone who made THON 2025 a record- breaking success.

We Are.