Recognizing Bruce Dart


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699264/recognizing-bruce-dart


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Bruce Dart, who closed his photography studio after more than 40 years.

Bruce is a native of Mansfield, Pennsylvania, earned a bachelor of  arts degree from Mansfield State College, and later served in the Navy.

During his time in the Navy, Bruce was trained as a journalist and  took courses focused on broadcast journalism and photography, sparking  his interest in the industry.

Following his tenure in the Navy, Bruce worked for a newspaper in  Connecticut and later returned to Pennsylvania and worked for the  Williamsport Sun-Gazette as a photographer. In 1973, Bruce accepted a  position as assistant director of public relations at Mansfield State  University and left after 6 years to fully pursue a career as a  freelance photographer.

Bruce studied for more than 10 years at the Triangle Institute of  Professional Photography in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and attended New  York State's photography workshop, crediting this to his extensive  experience.

Bruce is a member of various photography associations and has won  multiple awards over his 40-year career. In 1986, Bruce earned the  Certified Professional Photographer competency and has held this  achievement for more than 30 years, a testament to Bruce's expertise  and technical proficiency within the industry.

Bruce served on the board of directors of the Northeast Pennsylvania  Professional Photographers Association, and he is the only photographer  to be awarded the organization's Photographer of the Year Award five  times. Additionally, some of Bruce's photographs have been published by  the Associated Press.

Aside from photography, Bruce has been an active member of the  community. He was president of the Greater Mansfield Area Chamber of  Commerce and served on the Mansfield Borough Council for over 20 years.  Bruce is also an active member of the Austin Cox American Legion Post  and VFW Post 6757.

Bruce has been pivotal in capturing key moments throughout the  Mansfield area but also moments in people's lives.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Bruce for his service to the community,  capturing important moments throughout the years. Bruce has been a  great leader in the photography community, but also a great mentor to  many aspiring photographers. I wish Bruce all the best.