Recognition of May As Wildfire Awareness Month


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  May as Wildfire Awareness Month.

For many States and regions around the Nation, our forests play a  critical role in supporting communities and the rural economy. Our  Nation's forests provide us with homegrown timber, essential for wood  products, such as lumber, flooring, furniture, pulp and paper, biomass,  and so much more.

The U.S. forest products industry employs more than 925,000  Americans, generating a payroll of nearly $80 billion nationwide.

Harvest on national forestland is also critical for supporting rural  school districts through county payments derived from timber sales.

Our forests also provide countless recreational opportunities, such  as camping, hiking, fishing, and many other activities available in the  great outdoors.

However, many of our Federal forestlands remain unhealthy and  continue to be at risk of catastrophic wildfire due to severe  overgrowth and decades of mismanagement. Consequently, the United  States has continued to see some of the largest and most intense  wildfires in history over the past few decades.

During that time, these incredibly destructive wildfires have led to  significant property loss; recovery costs; and, in some cases, the loss  of human life.

I visited some of the afflicted areas, including Paradise,  California, where the devastating Camp fire occurred in 2018. It is our  responsibility as elected officials to do everything that we can to  make sure that tragedies like this do not occur again.

Wildfires are truly an urgent crisis that must be immediately  addressed, and Congress must do more to better support the Forest  Service, our firefighters, and rural communities in forested areas.

Between 2013 and 2022, we saw an average of 61,000 wildfires annually  with an average of 7.2 million acres impacted each year.

So far this year, we have seen more than 25,000 wildfire incidents  with more than 1 million acres burned before fire season ever began.

The wildfires we witnessed in Los Angeles this year were just the  latest reminder of the devastation that can occur when we don't  proactively manage our forests and do everything possible to prevent  them from breaking out in the first place.

Make no mistake that the wildfire crisis is just that, a crisis that  must urgently be addressed. The good news is that, with the right  management, we can do so much more to improve the health of our forests  and combat the wildfire and forest health crisis head-on.

This means using all of the tools in the toolbox. That includes  mechanical thinning, prescribed fire, and cross-boundary authorities.  That also includes expanded use of good neighbor agreements,  stewardship contracts, and other innovative agreements to maximize  management possibilities through partnerships between stakeholders,  private forest owners, Tribes, and local, State, and Federal  Government.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the forestry title that passed out of the  Agriculture Committee last year which was crafted to expand those tools  and authorities and encourage the Forest Service to do more productive  management. Such reforms will enable the agency to improve forest  health, reduce the threat of wildfire, increase the pace and scale of  restoration, and ultimately protect communities, property, and lives.

Many of these concepts can be found in the Fix Our Forests Act, which  was passed on a bipartisan basis this past January.

Additionally, I applaud the recent actions by the Trump  administration to dramatically scale up the management across the  National Forest System.

Encouraging this ramp-up will enable the Forest Service to better  manage, support local counties and economies through increased  sustainable harvest levels, address invasive species and forest health,  and ultimately reduce the severity and instances of wildfires.

During this Wildfire Awareness Month, it is important that Members  understand the great challenges that our Nation has with wildfire and  that there are many steps that the Federal Government can take to  proactively mitigate it.

Perhaps most importantly, we must also recognize the dedication and  sacrifices of our wildland firefighters to act when disaster strikes  and keep communities safe.

Mr. Speaker, I thank our firefighters, first responders, and all who  are working to confront this crisis as we recognize Wildfire Awareness  Month.