Recognizing the Honorable Steny Hoyer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698682/recognizing-the-honorable-steny-hoyer


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, before I get into my  primary remarks, for which I was going to rise, I reflect on 18 years  ago when I came into the House of Representatives.

Some of my staff had been on the Hill for, actually, a couple of  decades at that point.

My chief of staff said: If there was ever a Democratic Member of  Congress who literally represents the term ``statesman,'' it is Steny  Hoyer.

He truly is. He has not failed at that task, and so I offer my  congratulations on his announced retirement and my thanks for his  service as a statesman, especially at a time of what we have been  living through, of growing divisiveness.                                     Year in Review

Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight  some of the great work that my office delivered in 2025 that was  reflected in my year-end report.

Last year was full of legislative victories. From ensuring more milk  options in public schools to making certain that rural schools receive  the funding that they need, we continue to deliver for Pennsylvania's  15th Congressional District.

I was proud to lead the charge to bring whole milk back into our  schools, push for the largest investment in American agriculture in a  generation, advocate for career and technical education, and establish  a Federal regulatory framework for digital assets like cryptocurrency.

On the policy front, I helped to ensure the passage of the Secure  Rural Schools Reauthorization Act. I secured numerous provisions in the  Working Families Tax Cuts Act, which benefited American agriculture, as  well as a provision authorizing Workforce Pell Grants.

The Whole Milk for Healthy Kids Act will soon be signed into law, and  the House approved both my Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025 and  the U.S. Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025.

At home, I was honored to nominate seven exceptional students to our  Nation's service academies, celebrated a talented young artist, and  delivered more than $6.1 million in Federal funding for nine excellent  community projects.

My office responded to more than 81,000 constituent letters, answered  nearly 8,000 phone calls, and closed nearly 1,600 constituent cases,  helping folks navigate the Federal agencies and Federal bureaucracy.

The most rewarding part of being a Representative is helping  individuals and families get the assistance that they need. Throughout  the year, my staff hosts office hours across the 18 counties in the  15th Congressional District to assist constituents with issues related  to the Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs,  IRS, and other Federal agencies. Appointments are not necessary, and I  am pleased that we are available to help those in need. Personally, I  hosted over 1,200 meetings in 2025 and sponsored and cosponsored 183  bills.

Mr. Speaker, as many around the Capitol complex know, I often come to  this floor to share good news from Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional  District. I spoke 91 days on the House floor in 2025, delivering 120  speeches. I am glad to have had the ability to communicate with my  constituents in this way and to recognize their achievements.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the people of the 15th Congressional District  for allowing me the privilege to be their voice in Congress, and I  firmly believe that our best days lie ahead. I look forward to working  hard in 2026 to continue to earn their support.