Supporting Our Nation's Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689683/supporting-our-nations-children-with-disabilities


Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of  crucial, bipartisan legislation that will support our Nation's most  vulnerable. The IDEA Full Funding Act is a bipartisan, commonsense  commitment to our Nation's children who are living with disabilities.

This is not just about dollars and cents. It is about fulfilling a  promise made 50 years ago to ensure that every child, regardless of  ability, has access to a quality education that prepares them for a  full and productive life.

When Congress passed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act  in 1975, it was a landmark step toward educational equity. The Federal  Government pledged to cover 40 percent of the excess costs of special  education services.

Yet, for decades we have fallen short of promised funding levels,  which have hovered around 13 to 15 percent, leaving States and local  school districts struggling to make up the difference.

This shortfall forces schools to stretch their already limited  resources, meaning fewer special education teachers, outdated  instructional materials, and less support for students who need it  most.

The burden does not just fall on the schools. It affects families,  educators, and, ultimately, the success of our communities. At the  Education and Workforce Committee last week, we just heard about the  exciting new opportunities artificial intelligence presents to advance  education for students with special needs. However, many of those  opportunities will not be realized if Congress does not live up to its  commitment.

The IDEA Full Funding Act ensures that we meet that commitment,  gradually increasing Federal support until we reach the promised 40  percent. It is not just good policy to invest in our Nation's future  and ensure students with disabilities have access to a high-quality  education. It is the right thing to do.

Full funding will provide critical resources to schools, enabling  students with disabilities to receive services and support that they  need. It will reduce financial strain on States and local districts,  preventing them from having to cut other essential programs. This  legislation supports teachers and staff, ensuring that they have the  tools and the training to deliver high-quality special education.

Lastly, and most importantly, it gives families peace of mind,  knowing their children will receive the education they deserve without  unnecessary hurdles.

Investing in special education is an investment in future taxpayers,  workers, and independent citizens who contribute to society. By fully  funding IDEA, we alleviate the pressure on States and local governments  thereby strengthening our education system.

Mr. Speaker, we have an obligation to every student in this country.  When we fail to meet our commitment under IDEA, we fail millions of  children who deserve a fair shot at success. Passing the IDEA Full  Funding Act is a step toward fairness, responsibility, and a brighter  future for all.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this essential  legislation.