Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to section 426(a) of the  Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I make a  point of order against consideration of the rule, House Resolution 566.

Section 426(a) of the Budget Act specifically states that the Rules  Committee may not waive the point of order prescribed by section 425 of  that same act. House Resolution 566 states that it is in order to  consider a motion that the House concur in the Senate amendment to H.R.  1: ``Without intervention of any point of order.''

Therefore, I make a point of order pursuant to section 426(a) that  this rule may not be considered.

Mr. Speaker, let me say this once again: We will not stand by and  watch Trump and his billionaire friends destroy this country without  putting up one hell of a fight.

Because this rule waives the point of order against unfunded  mandates, it is not in order to consider it on the floor.

The bill Republicans are attempting to jam through the House today  cuts nutritional assistance for moms and dads, kids, people with  disabilities, veterans, and senior citizens. It goes after the most  important people in our lives, our families, to fund massive tax breaks  for the richest people in the world. I think that that is wrong, and I  think it is immoral.

More than just a massive betrayal of the American people, this bill  is also a massive, new unfunded mandate on States. Don't just take my  word for it. The nonpartisan experts of the Congressional Budget Office  said title I of the bill, the Agriculture Committee's portion of this  awful bill, would impose intergovernmental mandates by requiring  States, for the first time ever, to provide State funding for food  assistance benefits, increasing the share of food assistance  administrative costs paid by States and requiring State agencies to  perform additional administrative duties. This massive, new unfunded  mandate would cost States a whopping $19 billion each year.

Mr. Speaker, where the hell are States going to come up with this  kind of money? They can't. What will happen is, people will get kicked  off of food assistance, and they will go hungry.

State after State has written to Congress begging us not to pass this  awful bill. They have made it very clear that if this bill goes  through, States will be forced to cut benefits, kick eligible people  off of food assistance entirely, or raise taxes to pay for this massive  new bureaucracy that Republicans are creating in every State in this  country.

The chairman of the Agriculture Committee's home State of  Pennsylvania would have to come up with over $1 billion to cover the  State's share of benefit costs. There is no State in this country who  is able to take on this kind of massive, unfunded mandate.

We are talking about basic needs for people. It is a food assistance  benefit of $2 per meal so people don't go hungry. By the way, that  money not only lifts people out of poverty, it improves health and it  uplifts local economies, too.

Hunger costs this country, and food assistance programs save us  money. People who have enough food to eat are more productive at work.  Kids who are not hungry are able to learn better at school. Seniors who  take their medication on a full stomach are less likely to go to  emergency rooms.

No American should go without food. This is a human rights issue. We  live in the richest country on Earth for God's sake. Not a single kid  in this country should go to bed hungry, not a single damn one,  especially not when Republicans are giving millionaires and  billionaires a big, fat tax break.

Mr. Speaker, what is wrong with my Republican colleagues? In this  bill, they provide a $2 billion tax break for gun silencers, but they  cut SNAP benefits for vulnerable families, which, by the way, is on  average $2 per person per meal. Jesus Christ, what are you people  thinking?

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, we have a letter from the Congressional  Budget Office confirming that there are unfunded mandates in this bill.

Brown).

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, I don't think any of my Republican colleagues have read  this provision in the reconciliation bill. In fact, the Agriculture  Committee never even did a hearing on it. Yet, billions and billions of  dollars in new costs are going to be thrust upon States. States are  going to have to decide whether to cut other programs in order to make  sure that no one loses their nutrition benefits, or they are going to  have to cut people off their nutrition benefits.

The SNAP benefit, on average, is about $2 per person per meal. That  is it. You can't buy a damn cup of coffee in the Capitol with that. My  Republican friends are obsessed with trying to throw people off of this  benefit. I have no idea why.

Most of the people on the benefit are children and senior citizens.  They include veterans. Many of them are working full time and can't  afford to put food on the table. This benefit helps them provide for  their families.

My Republican friends have basically gone on an attack on this most  basic, effective program that is about food. You can live without a lot  of things, but you can't live without food.

Mr. Speaker, for those Republicans who think it is okay to give Jeff  Bezos a tax cut and, at the same time, cut food benefits for struggling  families, let me say clearly that we don't share the same values.

Unloading billions of dollars in new costs on States, money they do  not have, will force them to cut benefits and throw needy people off of  SNAP. It is a rotten thing to do.

I believe there is a special place in hell for people who take food  away from veterans, seniors, children, former foster youth, and hungry  families. This is sick. This is disgusting.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 212,  nays 211, not voting 9, as follows:                               [Roll No. 186]                                 YEAS--212       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Buchanan      Burchett      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Comer      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Crenshaw      Davidson      De La Cruz      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Gill (TX)      Gimenez      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Green (TN)      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Hamadeh (AZ)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Lee (FL)      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Miller (IL)      Miller (WV)      Miller-Meeks      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (AL)      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Duyne      Van Orden      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--211       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Ansari      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Clarke (NY)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Cuellar      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Davis (NC)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Gillen      Golden (ME)      Goldman (NY)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gottheimer      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Harder (CA)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Hoyle (OR)      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Kamlager-Dove      Kaptur      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez        Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClain Delaney      McClellan      McCollum      McDonald Rivet      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Moore (WI)      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Mullin      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Norcross      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Omar      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Perez      Peters      Pettersen      Pingree      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross      Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Sherrill      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Suozzi      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tlaib      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--9       Burlison      Dunn (FL)      Fitzgerald      Garbarino      Hern (OK)      Latimer      Meuser      Miller (OH)      Van Drew

Messrs. GARCIA of California, GARCIA of Illinois, Mrs. McCLAIN  DELANEY, Messrs. CROW and SMITH of Washington changed their vote from  ``yea'' to ``nay.''

Messrs. JACKSON of Texas and HARRIS of Maryland changed their vote  from ``nay'' to ``yea.''

So the question of consideration was decided in the affirmative.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North  Carolina for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself  such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, this process is an abomination, legislative malpractice.  Final text of this bill came out less than 24 hours ago. We met in  committee an hour after it was posted, and now, we are here considering  a rule that allows for only 1 hour of debate.

This bill is within the jurisdiction of 12 different committees. One  hour is ridiculous. Every minute, we are finding out new things that  were snuck into the bill, like a tax cut for whalers. Now, we are  learning about a gambling tax.

Republican leadership and the White House are jamming this bill down  our throats. For what? We are not on a deadline. There is no looming  crisis.

We are here because Donald Trump wants a Fourth of July party to  celebrate this garbage bill. He wants fireworks, flags, and cameras,  not for this country, but for himself. He says to close your ears,  close your eyes, and vote for this bill. Honestly, it sounds more like  a cult than a Congress to me.

Some Republicans promised their voters no cuts to Medicaid and no new  debt. Now, they are flipping faster than pancakes at a campaign  breakfast. The House passed it hoping the Senate would kill it. The  Senate passed it hoping the House would grow a spine.

Everyone is playing a game of legislative chicken, voting for a bad  bill and thinking the other Chamber will be the one to fix it. This is  nuts.

Trump says: ``Have fun, and Vote `YAY.' '' Have fun gutting Medicaid?  Vote ``yea'' on taking away food from poor families? Are you serious?

This bill is catastrophic. It is not policy. It is punishment.

Let's talk facts. It slashes Medicaid, cuts Medicare, and dismantles  the ACA. It shutters rural hospitals, closes nursing homes, and wipes  out health centers. It takes food off kitchen tables, throws clean  energy workers out of jobs, and spikes utility bills. Why? So  billionaires and oil companies can  cash in. Big Oil gets handouts. Billionaires get tax breaks. Working  families get scraps, if that.

Jeff Bezos just had a $50 million wedding in Venice, and they want to  give him another tax break. Meanwhile, families making under $50,000 a  year get less than a buck a day in tax cuts. You can't even buy a cup  of coffee with that.

The cost? Over $3 trillion added to the debt and a $5 trillion debt  ceiling raise brought to you by the very people who won't shut up about  so-called fiscal responsibility.

This isn't tax reform to relieve the middle and working class. It is  a robbery that will result in the largest transfer of wealth from the  poor to the rich our country has ever seen.

Let's not lie to the American people. This is about taking from the  most vulnerable to pay off the already powerful. It is about pleasing  one man who is holding this Congress hostage with primary threats and  social media tantrums.

This bill is cruel. It is cowardly. It is a betrayal of everything  this country is supposed to stand for.

I want to alert all Members to something about this rule. It has a  mistake in it.

Republicans have rushed this process from the very beginning to meet  Trump's artificial July 4 deadline, and this rule is no exception.

We found an error in the rule at 2 a.m. after the Rules Committee  reported the rule. This is going to sound a little in the weeds, but  they forgot to do something called considering the previous question as  ordered on their big ugly bill.

Now, let me put that in English. What that means is they won't have  an escape hatch once they start debate on this bill. If they start it  and they realize they don't have the votes, they still have to take the  embarrassing vote. There are also other consequences, but this  Speaker's timeout authority is the one Republican leadership is most  afraid of.

Now, I expect they will try to fix this with an amendment, but I have  a question for Members. If this Republican leadership cannot get a one- paragraph rule right, can we really trust them to get an 870-page bill  right?

Not only are we going to find things that were sneaked into this  bill, we are going to find massive mistakes that have unintended  consequences for people and industries across this country.

This whole process has been lousy, and this rule is no exception.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, there is a lot of low energy on that side.

I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New York (Mr. Morelle), the  distinguished ranking member of the Committee on House Administration.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I know a Senator from North Carolina who  disagrees with everything the gentleman just said, including a lot of  hospitals in North Carolina that disagree with what he just said.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I read the bill, too. I want to know why  Jeff Bezos and multimillionaires and multibillionaires are getting tax  cuts.

Last night, I offered an amendment to let Trump's tax cuts expire  only for people earning more than $1 billion a year. Every single  Republican voted against it. What is that all about? Follow the money.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, cult much? That gentleman's poster says it  all. It is not about American families. It is about one big party for  Trump. It is about swelling up his ego.

Pelosi), the Speaker Emerita.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Waters), the distinguished ranking member of the  Committee on Financial Services.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, if I could inquire of the gentlewoman, if  she doesn't have many speakers, maybe she can lend us some time. We  have a ton.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I say that because here in Congress, we  measure how much people really believe in their position by whether  they are willing to come and join their leaders on the House floor.

I count 4 Members on the Republican side, and we have over 75 here.  If I were them, I wouldn't want to be associated with this bill either.

Mr. Speaker, I urge we defeat the previous question. If we do, I will  offer an amendment to the rule to consider amendment No. 156 offered by  Leader Jeffries, which strikes all provisions that will cause millions  of Americans to lose healthcare and food assistance.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Ocasio Cortez) to discuss our proposal.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Wasserman Schultz).

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this vile  Republican plunder of working families, seniors, and veterans, all so  the richest Americans can be showered with even more wealth.

This billionaire bailout would strip healthcare coverage from 17  million Americans, nearly 2 million in my State of Florida. It would  push millions into crowded, costly emergency rooms and saddle them with  medical debt.

Trump's big, ugly bill also steals record food assistance from  millions of kids, seniors, and veterans.

It makes cancer screenings and prenatal care harder to get by  defunding Planned Parenthood.

It cripples solar and wind projects and kills millions of clean,  green manufacturing and construction jobs, all so the rich can get huge  tax breaks.

No family is unscathed because this bill also blows up the national  debt by $4 trillion, which drives up interest rates on car loans and  mortgages and triggers billions in Medicare cuts, cutting healthcare  for our seniors.

This bill makes life less affordable and more painful. Instead of  uplifting lives, it will end them.

When history looks back on this bill, its legacy will be: Trump lied,  and people died.

Vote ``no.''

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I am an occupational therapist.  I helped people live the fullest life they could given the cards they  were dealt. I worked at a school for children with disabilities and a  nursing home, helping seniors maintain their independence.

I know exactly what it means to cut $1 trillion from Medicare,  Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act, which is exactly what this big,  ugly bill does.

Taking away healthcare for 17 million Americans won't make us any  healthier. Stealing food away from the neediest children, seniors, and  veterans won't make us any stronger. Giving billionaires a tax break  won't make us any richer. Children will go hungry. Seniors will lose  their healthcare. Students will lose their financial aid. Hospitals  will close. Americans will die.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my Republican colleagues to stand up; grow a  spine; stop bowing down to your king, Donald Trump; represent your  constituents like you were elected to do; and vote ``no'' on this  horrible, big, ugly bill.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, if there are no other Republican Members  willing to speak for this bill, we can send some Members over to you  just to state the facts as to what is in this bill. Let's do the public  a service.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, if you can't find a job, just enroll in a  training program. That is hard to do when Republicans are cutting and  gutting the training programs that exist in this country.

Johnson).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Stevens).

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I feel the excitement on the other side of  the aisle.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, Democratic Leader Jeffries has an  amendment to strike the devastating cuts to healthcare and SNAP, and I  yield to the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Clarke), the chair of the  Congressional Black Caucus, for the purpose of a unanimous consent  request.

Ms. CLARKE of New York.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Omar) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Sewell) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Waters) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, are you sure you don't want to check with  the gentlewoman from North Carolina just in case she changed her mind?

Mr. McGOVERN.  Adams) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Crockett) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Brown) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  McClellan) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Simon) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Bynum) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Kamlager-Dove) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. TORRES of New York.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Williams) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Strickland) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Lee) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Kelly) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Garcia) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Bonamici) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Salinas) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Johnson) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Randall) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Budzinski) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Tokuda) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Meng) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Houlahan) for the purpose of a unanimous consent  request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Pressley) for the purpose of a unanimous consent  request.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, does one Republican Member have the power  to block an amendment to protect Medicaid and SNAP?

Mr. McGOVERN. That kind of seems like a silly rule.

Gillen) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Morrison) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Brownley) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Kaptur) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Chu) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Velazquez) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Dexter) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Elfreth) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  McBride) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Balint) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Hoyle) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Castor) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Matsui) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Titus) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Sherrill) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.   Escobar) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  DelBene) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Jayapal) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Ross) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Goodlander) for the purpose of a unanimous consent  request.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Pelosi) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, over 100 Democratic Members just asked to  allow an amendment to protect Medicaid and SNAP, to just give us a  vote. That is all I ask.

I will say that we are here standing up for the American people, no  matter where they live, and this is what it looks like to fight for the  American people, to make sure that this administration and this  Republican Congress don't rip away their healthcare and their food  benefits. That is disgusting.

In the gentlewoman from North Carolina's district alone, 142,000 of  her constituents would lose some or all of their SNAP benefits, and  five rural hospitals are at risk of closure.

My Democratic colleagues and I are here to help people, not to screw  them over.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I don't know if the gentleman has ever  read the Medicaid statute, but undocumented immigrants are not entitled  to receive Medicaid benefits, and they don't.

Our solution to make sure that our children are not saddled with debt  is to not give billionaires, millionaires, and corporations big tax  cuts. Jeff Bezos doesn't need a tax cut.

Why don't you come down here and explain to people why it is so  important that you protect his tax cuts? We tried to go after the  billionaire tax cuts in the Rules Committee last night, and every  single Republican voted ``no.''

That is how we are going to do it. We are going to invest in people  who need help. We are going to make sure people have healthcare. We are  going to make sure people have food assistance. We are not going to  screw them over.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the big, ugly bill is going to throw 16  million people off of healthcare and give people like Jeff Bezos,  millionaires and billionaires, a tax cut. If that is what you are  about, I hate to tell you, that is not what the American people voted  for.

Mr. RILEY of New York. Mr. Speaker, where I come from, we make  things. Generations woke up before the crack of dawn, went off to the  factory, punched a clock, worked their hands to the bone, and came home  and counted nickels to make sure they could keep a roof over the kids'  heads and keep food on the tables.

We have kept our heads down. We have kept our sleeves rolled up. We  have kept our shoulder to the wheel. All we have asked for is a fair  shot and for this place to stop screwing us over, but you can't help  yourselves.

You got us into terrible trade deals that made Wall Street rich and  shipped all of our jobs overseas. You bail out the banks while  neglecting rural America. You have rigged the economy so the corporate  PACs that are funding your campaigns make huge profits, jacking up  costs on folks who can't afford it, and now this.

This bill will kill good, blue-collar manufacturing jobs that we need  to rebuild the economy in this country, close rural hospitals, and  defund healthcare, all to give trillions of dollars in tax cuts to your  cronies.

Don't tell me you give a shit about the middle class when all you are  doing is shitting on the middle class.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I hope when the President comes here next,  you will admonish him for the language he uses.

McBride).

I don't want to close, but I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is a moral failure. It rips healthcare away  from millions. It pushes more families into hunger, and it leaves  seniors stranded all so billionaires can keep more of what they will  never spend.

Republicans say: If you lose your job, too bad. If hospitals shut  down, good luck. If you can't afford groceries or insulin, figure it  out. But if you are Big Oil, a CEO, or trust fund baby, don't worry, we  have got you covered. This bill is about who matters and who doesn't.  Guess what. Working people didn't make the cut.

I want my Republican colleagues to know they don't have to do this.  They don't have to sell out their own communities. They don't have to  vote for a bill that goes against fundamental things they claim to  believe in.

Crazy as it sounds, they don't have to hurt people to keep Trump  happy. Find a spine. Find a conscience, for God's sake, because the  American people are watching. They know the difference between real  leadership and bootlicking.

A vote for this bill is a vote for cruelty. It is a vote for fiscal  irresponsibility and a vote to screw over your constituents to give  more to the ultra wealthy. This bill is a middle finger to working  people.

We can still stop this. We can still do the right thing. Vote ``no.''  Go back to the table. Work with us on tax relief for people who are not  making millions and billions of dollars. Don't let this be your legacy.

That so many of you are blindly going along with this just to please  the guy in the White House is shameful. You have a responsibility to  care for the people in your districts, and you are voting for a bill  that is going to throw millions off of healthcare and rip food off  kitchen tables all across the country. It is shameful. It is shameful.  I am disgusted that we are here debating this trash.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on the rule and a ``no'' vote on  the bill. I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.