Providing for Consideration of H.R. Student Compensation and Opportunity Through Rights and Endorsements Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Transparency in Reporting of Adversarial Contributions to Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Responsible Oversight to Eliminate Communist Teachings for Our Kids Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Destroying Unnecessary, Misaligned, and Prohibitive Red Tape Act


Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Griffith) for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, it is December 2. The year is almost over. We are now  only a few weeks away from new health insurance premiums skyrocketing.  People's insurance bills are going to double, triple, and, in some  cases, quadruple. I would think all of us would be on the floor here  today addressing that, right?

We would think that, but we would be wrong because we have on the  floor this week another embarrassingly pointless and irrelevant  collection of bills that does absolutely nothing to help everyday  people.

When Democrats first raised the alarm about healthcare premiums  skyrocketing earlier this year, Speaker   Mike Johnson said: Oh, don't  worry. This is a policy debate for December.

Here we are in December, and Republicans are doing nothing, zero.  Actually, they are doing less than nothing. They took an 8-week  vacation funded by the taxpayers, while people panicked about how they  were going to afford their insurance premiums starting January 1.  Families are going to see their bills go up and up, in some cases by  nearly $1,000 more a month.

Maybe that doesn't sound like a lot of money to Republicans because  these guys might not get how much that means to regular people. I know  how out of touch they are. They are building a fancy new ballroom at  the White House with their billionaire donors. That is where their  attention is. They eat caviar and drink fine wine at Mar-a-Lago while  regular people suffer.

Maybe they don't understand how much $1,000 a month is to the people  I represent. Guess what. It is a lot. For most hardworking people, this  is a catastrophic amount of money that suddenly needs to be added to a  monthly budget. It is more than what a lot of people earn during a week  of work.

Republicans have known that this crisis was coming for some time.  Yet, they still have no plan on healthcare. They say they have one.  Where the hell is it? We are still waiting. Their only answer so far  is: Good luck, folks. Hope you like choosing between health insurance  and food.

Here is the kicker, Mr. Speaker. If this House voted today to stop  premiums from exploding, it would pass. It would pass easily. Democrats  would vote for it, and I know there is a chunk of Republicans who would  vote for it, as well. The Republican leadership will not bring it up  because they care more about tax breaks for billionaires than tax  credits for working families. It is that simple.

Don't even get me started about the bills Republicans are bringing to  the floor this week. There are two bills for small businesses. That  sounds good, right? Do my colleagues know what those bills do? One of  them creates a hotline that already exists. Wow, that is  groundbreaking. Neither of them does anything about the number one  issue that I hear from small businesses, and that is tariffs.

Every small business owner I talk to says the same thing: The tariffs  are killing them. The tariffs are making prices skyrocket. The tariffs  are slowing down business.

These guys don't care. They don't care. They just go along to get  along. They don't want to tick Trump off.

I guess my question is: If Republicans want to help small businesses,  why are they blocking a vote to overturn the tariffs? Why have they  refused to let Congress vote on the tariffs for months and months, even  though it is our responsibility? What is up with that? After all, it is  our responsibility. It is our job. Are they afraid that if it comes to  the floor for a vote, they will lose?

Then we get a bunch of bills about protecting public schools. Give me  a break. My sisters are public school teachers. I talk to parents and  students all the time. What do they tell me? We need to reduce class  size, support teachers, and make schools safer. We need to fund  education.

These guys are bringing up a bill about foreign infiltration in third  grade math class. Are my Republican colleagues kidding me? Is that a  joke?

They are so concerned about China funding our schools. Well, here is  a novel idea. Why don't we have America fund our schools? Why isn't  funding our schools a bigger priority in this Congress? There is a  crazy idea for my Republican friends. If they really care about public  education, let's be the wind at the backs of our teachers and our  schools.

Of course, they have a bill to help the NCAA take advantage of  student athletes because what this Congress desperately needed was  another billionaire organization empowered to squeeze young people. It  is more of the same. It is more of the same.

They give more to those with the most, while taking away from those  with the least. It is sick. It is sick. It is immoral. It represents  the opposite of what I believe we are here to do, which is to help  people, but that is their entire governing philosophy.

Republicans want to use their power to reward the billionaires and  special interest donors. They want an economy where those at the top  get showered in tax break after tax break, while working people get  left further and further behind.

Mr. Speaker, it is shameful that this is what we are doing this week.  It is shameful. It is outrageous, and it is wrong. I urge every Member  of this body to vote ``no'' on this Republican rule.

Mr. Speaker, let me just say that as the son of businessowners, I  don't think the gentleman knows what he is talking about.

This is outrageous. I have the bills that we are considering here  today, and the reason I am not spending much time talking about them is  because they suck. They are awful. It is pathetic. One creates a  hotline that already exists. Mr. Speaker, you can go online and call  the hotline. They are just restating it. That is what we are doing  here. There is nothing about the tariffs that are screwing over small  businesses, nothing about the realities that small businesses are  dealing with each and every day. My friends come up with these bills  that are meaningless and that do nothing for anybody.

I am sorry that my Republican friends don't want to talk about the  healthcare crisis. However, because of Republican inaction, millions  and millions of people are going to see their healthcare bills  skyrocket, and millions are going to probably go without healthcare. We  have been warning my friends about this for months, and the Republicans  have done nothing; not a damn thing. I don't know how they go home and  face their constituents who are about to get screwed over with high  healthcare premiums and bills and say: Oh, I know, I get it. People are  going to lose their healthcare. My friends have been in charge all  year, and they have done zero, nothing, not a damn thing.

So these bills that we are talking about today, I would encourage  anybody who is viewing this on C-SPAN to google them and to look them  up. It is pathetic. It is pathetic that this is what we are wasting our  time doing. There is so much at stake. We have 2 weeks left to address  the healthcare crisis, and my Republican friends have nothing, nothing  that talks about that today.

The hotline already exists, by the way. You can google it. So you  basically establish a hotline that already exists, Mr. Speaker. Boy,  that is helping small businesses.

Yeah, but that is not a big problem, Mr. Speaker. The big problem is  the high cost of healthcare and these tariffs which are just basically  putting many of our businesses out of business.

So my friends come here and defend this garbage that we are doing. It  is pathetic. It is pathetic.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman wants to talk about the  rule, so let's talk about the rule.

What is frustrating to me, I think many of us--not just Democrats,  but a good chunk of Republicans--are at the end of our rope. The  Republican leadership is running this House like an authoritarian  dictatorship. It is their way or the highway.

There are six bills that are allowed to be considered under this  rule. Every single one of them is completely closed. What does that  mean? It means nobody can offer amendments. Democrats can't offer  amendments. Republicans can't offer amendments. They didn't even ask  for people to submit amendments. They like to say nobody offered  amendments. Yeah, people did offer amendments.

The gentleman talks about the SCORE Act. A Republican came to the  Rules Committee last night and offered five amendments. I think they  were reasonable. I think they were reasonable enough to be debated and  for us to vote on them. All five were blocked. They are blocking  members of their own party. That is how they run this place.

A Democrat came up with an alternative, a good idea. You may not  support it, but people like me thought it was a better way to approach  this than the way the bill is written. That was blocked, too.

Everything is blocked. Everything is blocked. I think they are being  blocked because my friends are afraid they might prevail.

By the way, all the players associations are against the SCORE Act  the way it is currently written, every single one of them.

This year alone, Republicans have issued 86 closed rules. That puts  them on track to obliterate their previous record of the most closed  rules in a single Congress. That is 86 times that this Chamber was kept  from even considering amendments to approve bills. There is no debate,  no votes, nothing. That is what an authoritarian dictatorship is like.

Republicans have blocked nearly 8 out of every 10 amendments  submitted to the Rules Committee. Get this: That is 2,700 amendments  gone, tossed out by this leadership. They have blocked 60 percent of  bipartisan amendments, most of their own party's amendments, and more  than 90 percent of Democratic amendments.

Apparently, the only ideas welcome in this Congress are the ones  written by special interests or the ones that Donald Trump personally  signs off on.

We used to debate in this Chamber. We used to vote on amendments on  the floor. Members had a voice. Legislation wasn't cooked up in the  Speaker's office and rammed through with no chance to fix it.

Here we are. Republicans have made fewer amendments in order at this  point in the year than any Congress going back a decade.

By decimating debate, House Republicans have turned themselves into a  rubberstamp for Trump. They will fast-track giveaways to the wealthy  and the well-connected, but they will block amendments that would  protect care for millions or unrig our economy for working people.

The real scandal here is that we can do something to control the  rising costs of healthcare. We have been begging--by the way, not just  Democrats; some Republicans have, too--for them to at least put  something on the floor that we can debate and vote on to help alleviate  the terrible burden that is about to fall on millions and millions of  families in this country. The answer is we can't do it. They won't do  it. They won't do it.

You want to debate the rule? This rule is pathetic. Six completely  closed rules on six completely different bills. Congress is supposed to  work for the American people. I think my Republican colleagues have  forgotten that.

Stansbury).

Mr. Speaker, that is a lot of words to defend the most closed  Congress in history. I say that this place is starting to look like an  authoritarian dictatorship because this is what happens in  authoritarian countries. People don't get an opportunity to be able to  offer amendments or change bills or change legislation. It is take it  or leave it.

Mr. Speaker, people are silenced all the time, and the gentleman is  trying to defend this process. Talk to the Republican Member who came  to the Rules Committee and offered five amendments--all of them  germane, all of them designed to improve the so-called SCORE Act--and  he was denied not one, not two, but all five. Can't do it.

Mr. Speaker, I will say again that when the gentleman says that, oh,  people didn't offer amendments to all of these bills, I think people  are getting to understand what is going on here. My Republican friends  don't even ask for amendments anymore. They don't give people time to  write them. Everybody kind of knows that the system is rigged. It is  take it or leave it.

People have had it. Every single Member here has ideas that maybe  could improve some of this legislation, but the whole system is rigged  in a way that you have to take it or leave it. This is not the way the  House of Representatives should be run. There are a whole bunch of  other issues that we should be dealing with.

Mr. Speaker, on Friday, The Washington Post reported an egregious  abuse of power by the Secretary of Defense. Back in September, an order  was reportedly carried out to eliminate all remaining survivors on a  suspected drug trafficking boat sailing through the Caribbean.

Pete Hegseth, who now calls himself Secretary of War, issued an order  to kill everybody who survived the first strike. Kill everybody.

Those are the alleged words from the leader of our Defense  Department. Just to be clear, killing defenseless people, regardless of  whether they had been engaged in armed conflict, is a war crime, plain  and simple. The administration is trying to brainwash the American  people into thinking that cruelty and murder and war crimes are normal.

Mr. Speaker, I have news for the Trump administration. This is not  normal. Even if we were at war, attacking survivors of an airstrike,  whether or not they pose a threat to the United States, is a war crime.  It is unconscionable. It is an unconscionable act of aggression that  violates the Department of Defense's own guidelines, U.S. law, and  international norms and laws.

Even President Trump is trying to distance himself from this unlawful  attack, saying that he ``wouldn't have wanted that, not a second  strike.''

Let me be clear. Secretary Hegseth has blatantly carried out illegal  acts of violence and, right now, he is trying to convince the American  people that these actions are okay. Mr. Speaker, the American people  know better, and they deserve better.

Mr. Speaker, in case anybody tuned in to the President's little press  conference before we gathered here today, he said that the issue of  affordability is a ``hoax.'' It is a ``scam,'' he said.

Really? Anybody who is watching these proceedings, do you really  think that the issue of affordability is a ``scam''? Prices are higher  than ever. People will be paying more for their healthcare because of  the inaction of the Republicans in the House, the Senate, and this  White House. They will be paying so much that many of them are going to  drop their health insurance.

Mr. Speaker, he said that the issue of affordability is a ``scam,'' a  ``hoax,'' and is not real. I mean, come on. Come on. I would urge my  Republican colleagues to stand up for their constituents. Do the right  thing. Say ``no'' to these closed processes that don't allow you--even  you--to be able to offer amendments, and stand up for policies that are  going to make life easier for all people in this country.

Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you, I love my Republican friends. They  just reach back. Now, we are going back to Obama.

What they don't tell you is that Donald Trump has been in public life  as President for 4 years, and he has been around for 10 years now. Yet,  he has no responsibility for anything. It is always somebody else's  fault. Donald Trump never had a plan to make healthcare more affordable  or accessible. He didn't care about any of that stuff.

I just want to point out, for the record, because I think it is  important, that one-half of adults with the Affordable Care Act  healthcare coverage are small business owners, small business  employees, or self-employed people. We are talking about millions and  millions of Americans. Many of them are going to see their healthcare  costs rise so high that they are not going to be able to afford it.  They will lose their healthcare. Many of them will have to choose  between healthcare and paying their rent or mortgages and basically  putting food on the table.

The idea that that is not an urgent issue, that we are not addressing  that, that it is kind of an afterthought, and, instead, we have a rule  here that brings up a bill that creates a hotline that already exists,  I mean, I would say to my Republican friends: Are you serious? Really,  is this serious legislating?

Again, despite Republicans spending years attacking the Affordable  Care Act, it has gotten only more popular. Support for the ACA  consistently polls at or above 60 percent. In September 2025, in fact,  64 percent of the people viewed the ACA favorably.

Maybe support for it is so overwhelming because the ACA extended  coverage to millions and millions of Americans, and its provisions help  everyone, including people who were previously insured and many who  were never insured.

Currently, the Affordable Care Act stops health insurance companies  from charging sick people more on premiums than healthy people. It  keeps those same health insurance companies from denying coverage to  pregnant women, people with preexisting medical conditions, or because  of the person's medical history. It prohibits the health insurance  industry from setting an annual or lifetime limit. It demands that  insurance companies cover most preventative services. It gives States  the flexibility to expand their Medicaid programs, which 40 States have  done. It provides financial assistance to working people to make  healthcare coverage more affordable. It allows young adults to stay on  their parents' insurance plans until they are 26.

These are just some of the provisions within the ACA that make it so  popular with the American people. These are provisions that literally  have saved people's lives and livelihoods.

In addition, the last time Democrats were in control, we built on the  progress we made in the ACA. We allowed Medicare to negotiate  prescription drug prices for the first time in history, saving both  Medicare and the American people billions of dollars. We capped the  cost of insulin at $35. We made signing up for healthcare coverage  easier and more affordable. We lowered premiums by an average of $800  per person.

In over 4 years, nearly 12 million more Americans signed up for  insurance in the ACA marketplace, bringing the total up to nearly 24  million in 2025.

Taken together, Democratic policies brought the uninsured rate to a  record low.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know if we may have some other people coming in,  so I will wait.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to provide the consolidation of H.R. 6074, which  would extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium--

Mr. Speaker, I am going to hold on. I am going to reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. Speaker, this is a terrible bill, and I urge everybody to vote  ``no.'' Again, this is an important topic. This is about whether or not  people basically have their basic rights upheld and respected in this  country.

We are in the midst of a healthcare crisis, a crisis that Republicans  are refusing to address, and more than 20 million Americans who get  their healthcare on the ACA exchanges are going to see their premiums  skyrocket in less than a month.

There are only 12 legislative days left for this House to fix this  problem before disaster strikes millions of American families. What are  the Republicans focused on? They are focused on nonexistent foreign  influence in kindergarten classes. You can't make this up.

It is not for lack of an opportunity to do the right thing. Over and  over, Democrats have offered the Republican majority in the House and  the Senate a lifeline to vote to extend these credits and to get out of  their own way. In fact, we have given them 19 separate chances to vote  to extend the ACA credits. They have voted ``no'' on each and every  one.

This PQ vote today will be congressional Republicans' 20th  opportunity to vote to prevent the health insurance costs of millions  of Americans, their constituents, my constituents, from rising  significantly.

It is past time for them to do the right thing. For the sake of  millions of Americans and their healthcare, I urge my Republican  colleagues to support this extension and to vote on the previous  question.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, make no mistake, this Republican majority is failing  spectacularly, and the American people know it.

They have now had 12 months, a full year to do something, anything,  to bring down prices, to lower costs, and to focus on housing,  healthcare, food prices, or transportation. That is what I hear about  when I talk to people back home. They want the government to focus on  housing costs, healthcare, childcare, food, transportation. They want a  Congress that makes it easier to buy a home, raise a family, and build  a life. Instead, we get a bunch of absurd bills that nobody asked for.

Republicans want to bring up legislation addressing foreign influence  in our kids' classrooms. How about they start addressing foreign  influence in the Oval Office? How about Qatar gifting a new Air Force  One to Trump? What was that in exchange for? How about the $20 billion  Trump gave to his friend in Argentina? How about the lavish dinner he  just held for the Saudi Prince who murdered a U.S. journalist?

No, no, no. Republicans don't want you to ask about that foreign  interference. You need to worry about the Chinese Government getting  involved with your kids' math class. That is what they say. Is this  Republican majority for real? This is insane.

These guys have had a full year to do something for working families,  to bring down food prices, to reduce healthcare costs for regular  people, to take on corporate greed, and to lower everyday expenses.  They have done nothing.

Instead, they have defended Trump's tariffs, passed tax cuts for  billionaires, and protected the special interests while regular  families are getting screwed. They have shoveled subsidies and  giveaways to greedy CEOs while  families struggle to pay for groceries and rent.

Quite frankly, we don't share the same values. Democrats want a very  different government. We want a government that stands up to corporate  greed, a government that uplifts workers, powers consumers, and fights  on the side of everyday people. We want a Congress that takes on  special interests and doesn't reward them.

We believe in passing big, bold, consequential bills that make life  better for everyday people, not creating hotlines that already exist  and certainly not going on a taxpayer-funded vacation for 8 weeks like  Republicans did in October and November.

The American people deserve so much better. They deserve leaders who  fight for them, not a Republican majority that worships Donald Trump  and rewards his wealthy friends.

I urge a ``no'' vote on this rule, Mr. Speaker. It is pathetic that  we are here talking about this stuff and not talking about ways to keep  the government open and to make sure that people can afford their  healthcare and can afford other things.

There is too much attention being showered on those who are well-off  and well-connected, those who are connected to this President, who give  him gifts, and who write big checks to this administration. We have to  put regular people first.

Mr. Speaker, I again urge a ``no'' vote on the rule, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.