Providing for Consideration of H.R. Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pregnant Students' Rights Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we had plenty of time last night in the Rules Committee  to debate these awful, lousy bills: H.R. 6945, H.R. 6359, and H.J. Res.  140. I encourage everyone to look them up. Don't take my word for it.

Two of these bills are about misleading pregnant women to stop them  from making decisions about their own  bodies. This is all part of the Republicans' war on women. These bills  are aimed to please anti-choice protesters who are flying into  Washington this week. The third is about making it easier for a foreign  mining company to dump pollution into a pristine wilderness recreation  area in Minnesota.

All of these bills are being brought to the floor under completely  closed rules--no amendments, limited debate, no nothing. I won't waste  more time on these terrible bills. They are just more of the same  stupid garbage that this majority has brought to the floor time and  time again.

What I do want to highlight, Mr. Speaker, is that this week marks 1  year since Donald Trump was sworn in as President of the United States.  Republicans have had total control of the entire Federal Government-- the House, the Senate, and the White House--for over a year.

Yet still, after an entire year in charge, Republicans continue to  point the finger at Democrats rather than take responsibility for their  own embarrassing failures and broken promises. Republicans and Trump  ran on fighting for working people, but every single day, they have  governed on behalf of billionaires and corporate donors.

Let's take a look at some of these broken promises. Donald Trump said  he would put America first. He has not. What he has done is given a $40  billion loan to Argentina. He stabbed American ranchers in the back,  proposing that we import beef from South America. He threw a fancy  party at the White House for a Saudi Prince who murdered an American  journalist. He has not put America first.

He also promised no more endless wars. Give me a break. He renamed  the Pentagon the Department of War. Last year, he bombed Iran, Iraq,  Nigeria, Somalia, Syria, and Yemen. He bombed Venezuela and now says  that we are running the country, whatever the hell that means. He is  also threatening to take an autonomous territory from Denmark, a NATO  ally.

Let's go over another failure. Donald Trump promised ICE would only  deport the worst of the worst. Guess what. That is not true. ICE agents  are terrorizing not just immigrants, but U.S. citizens, sowing chaos,  murdering an unarmed American mom in broad daylight, and deporting  veterans and asylum seekers who are here legally.

Another campaign promise: Donald Trump said he would lower prices on  day one. Oh, my God, Mr. Speaker, has anyone in this administration  gone shopping? Let me say this as someone who buys his own groceries in  Worcester, Massachusetts. Prices are not only high, but they are going  up even more because of Trump's reckless tariffs. Remember when Trump  bragged about how he would get gas down to $2 a gallon? It is $3 a  gallon down the street from my house.

Let's keep going down the list. Trump said he would get drugs off our  streets and put criminals in jail. Give me a break. He pardoned the guy  who created the dark web market that smuggled in tons of fentanyl. Then  he pardoned the Honduran ex-President convicted of trafficking tons and  tons of cocaine into the United States.

Let's not forget, he pardoned all the January 6 rioters, many of whom  have since gone on to reoffend with illegal gun possession and  committing child sex crimes after Donald Trump let them out of jail.

Then, of course, we have the promise that Trump would replace  ObamaCare with something better. Instead of something better,  Republicans let the enhanced ACA tax credits expire at the end of 2025,  which means that now people are paying more. Tens of thousands of  people in Massachusetts alone have now dropped coverage, meaning they  have no insurance at all.

Republicans don't have a plan to replace ObamaCare. They never have.  Fifteen years later, I am starting to think that they never will.

Now, another thing that Donald Trump promised: no corruption and full  transparency. Remember that promise? Seriously, how much money does one  family need to make off the Presidency before Republicans admit it is  corruption? The Trump family has gotten nearly $4 billion richer since  he took office last year. How much can one family treat the Presidency  like a piggy bank before Republicans finally step up and do something  about it?

Why is his ballroom being funded by billionaire donors? What are they  looking for?

What about the Epstein files? There has been no transparency there.  We had to force a vote in Congress. He reluctantly signed the bill, and  he still hasn't released all the files. Less than 1 percent of the  files have been released. What the hell is taking so long? What is he  so afraid of? What is he hiding?

It has been clear to me since day one of Donald Trump's disgraceful  Presidency what it has been all about. Look at who was in the front row  of his inauguration, all billionaires: his Treasury secretary, a  billionaire; his education secretary, a billionaire; his entire  Cabinet, Health and Human Services, Energy, Interior, all led by  billionaires.

These people don't shop for themselves or they don't worry about  paying rent. They don't care about us. Trump said he would drain the  swamp. What a bunch of BS. He moved the swamp into the Lincoln bedroom  for God's sake.

The bottom line is simple: He has not done a single damn thing that  he promised to do. Not only have they failed, they have failed  catastrophically, and look no further than the bills on the floor  today.

There is nothing for workers, nothing to lower grocery prices,  nothing to take on price gouging, nothing to bring down rent, nothing  to help people buy a home, nothing to lower prescription drug costs,  nothing to raise wages, nothing to strengthen workplace protections,  and nothing to create jobs. Just culture war garbage and corporate  giveaways is all the GOP knows how to do.

After 1 year of total power, there is nobody else to blame. This is  the Republican record, and it is awful. This is Donald Trump's economy,  and it sucks. The people back home see it. They feel it. They are  living it. They see who keeps getting help and who keeps getting hurt.  They see the billionaires cashing out while working families get  squeezed. The Republican Party has had a year, and the American people  have had enough.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on the rule, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

I will correct the Record on something. Donald Trump promised he  would lower gas prices to $2 a gallon. I just did Google maps and  looked at the price of gas in the gentleman's district. It is like  $2.80. That is a far cry from $2.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 12, the Women's Health  Protection Act, to restore the rights of women to an abortion  nationwide and undo extremist abortion bans in States across the  country.

Mr. Speaker, since the Supreme Court's Dobbs decision, 13 States have  imposed complete abortion bans and many more have imposed extremely  short timeframes to get an abortion, endangering women, threatening  doctors with criminal prosecution, giving politicians in State capitol  buildings extreme power over personal medical decisions and fundamental  freedoms.

The bills in this rule are part of that dangerous trend. One bill  actually diverts Federal TANF funds meant for low-income families to  fund so-called crisis pregnancy centers, which provide pregnant women  oftentimes with fake medical advice with the goal of dissuading them  from accessing contraception or abortion care.

Republicans aren't providing more funding for TANF. God forbid they  do that. Giving this money away to these fake medical clinics is  stealing money from low-income families who need real help. The damage  these fake pregnancy centers do isn't theoretical.

In my district, a woman was told by one of these centers that she had  a viable pregnancy, but as time went on and she continued to feel sharp  pains, she went to a real doctor and was diagnosed with an ectopic  pregnancy that threatened her life and resulted in an emergency  surgery. She will have lifelong complications. If she had received  actual medical care earlier, she could have received the treatment she  needed before it was too late.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question so  we can bring up a bill that will actually protect women and allow them  to access the full suite of reproductive care options.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, to discuss our proposal, I yield 3 minutes  to the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Chu).

Mr. Speaker, I would say to the gentleman who just spoke that some of  us had different experiences. In my district, a woman almost died from  one of  these crisis pregnancy centers because she got bad advice from a quack.  Don't lecture us about our dedication to making sure that women are not  only presented all options but treated by people who are actually  qualified.

Leger Fernandez), a distinguished member of the Rules Committee.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, this week marks the 52nd  anniversary of Roe v. Wade, a decision that allowed women to make their  own decisions about what to do with their bodies without the  interference of politicians.

It allowed women to make those decisions in consultation with their  own faith, their own doctor, and the people they love. Roe v. Wade  proved that when women have that freedom to make our own healthcare  decisions, we live healthier and fuller lives.

Sadly, after Roe v. Wade was overturned, 22 States implemented full  or partial abortion bans. We have seen women bleed to death or become  infertile after the onset of sepsis because they couldn't get care for  miscarriages or other pregnancy-related complications.

House Republicans today are joining the effort to limit women's  access to full reproductive healthcare and information. Instead of  acting to lower healthcare costs, we are in a healthcare crisis.  Instead of addressing the affordability crisis, they are trying to pass  laws to siphon funds away from needy families and offer a skewed vision  of what a pregnant student should hear from her university. Republicans  are using this moment to remind us just how little they respect women's  lives or our choices.

As chair of the Democratic Women's Caucus, I know that pregnancy can  be joyful. As a woman who almost died on an operating table when I was  pregnant, I also know how complicated pregnancies can be. That is why I  am so mad about these bills.

Republicans' so-called Pregnant Students' Rights Act pretends to help  pregnant students. It provides no childcare, no diapers, no formula, no  housing, nothing pregnant students actually need. What it does do is  it controls. Republicans seem to be always about controlling women,  controlling people in their doctor's offices. It is about control.

It requires schools to tell students about carrying a pregnancy to  term but not about what resources might be available for miscarriage,  not about abortion, and not about the full range of medical care that  they might need to access.

If a doctor only tells a person about one treatment option which  might not be the best for them, that would be malpractice. Here on the  House floor, it is called Republicans' priorities.

Then we get the Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families  Act, which is another nice name but another ugly attack on women. This  bill allows red States to siphon cash assistance meant for food, rent,  and childcare into unregulated crisis pregnancy centers, places that  masquerade as medical clinics. They spread misinformation, delay care,  and shame women who may choose to have an abortion.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, what is worse is their bill blocks  the Federal Government from monitoring States' use of TANF dollars for  those anti-abortion clinics. They don't want accountability on those  clinics.

I would tell my Republican colleagues not to lecture us about waste,  fraud, and abuse when they refuse to monitor anti-abortion clinics and  when they stay silent when Trump pardons over 44 people convicted of  fraud. That is a conviction of fraud, not just a suggestion.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, while the gentlewoman was  speaking, I did take a second to pull up a couple of things on gas  prices since they are blaming President Trump for it. They are correct.

In Worcester, the gas price is $2.91 a gallon on average. In  Oklahoma, it is $2.21. In Wyoming, it is $2.22. In Texas, it is about  $2.23. In Georgia, it is about the same thing.

Do my colleagues know what the difference is? We all have Republican  Governors. Our Republican Governors are working to lower the cost of  energy. The Democratic Governors are obviously keeping energy prices  high and blaming the President for that. I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, it is interesting. Now the gentleman is blaming the  Governors and not Biden. I don't even know where the hell Worcester is.  I never heard of that place the way he is saying it. It is certainly  not in Massachusetts.

Mr. Speaker, in any event, while this Chamber is wasting more time on  yet more messaging bills, a real crisis is unfolding in plain sight.  Our allies are preparing for a possible military conflict with the  United States. Let me repeat that again.

Our closest allies, our partners in freedom and peace for decades,  are reinforcing their territory because the President of the United  States has plunged us into the greatest transatlantic crisis in a  generation.

Are we supposed to be relieved by the fact that finally, after a week  of chaos, he said he won't use force? Is that supposed to somehow  comfort us? I don't really feel very comforted because these are the  same people who told us they wouldn't invade Venezuela the week before  they invaded Venezuela. Let me remind everyone how this started.

Last weekend, Donald Trump sent a message to Norway's Prime Minister.  I want the President's words in the Record because the American people  deserve to hear them.

``Dear Jonas, considering your country decided not to give me the  Nobel Peace Prize for having stopped eight wars plus, I no longer feel  an obligation to think purely of peace.''

Now, let's listen to that again. Since he didn't get the prize, the  President of the United States says he no longer feels obligated to  think of peace.

Then he pivots from grievance to threats, saying that he wants  ``complete and total control of Greenland.''

That is nuts. Again, this is truly crazy. This is the President of  the United States talking about a NATO ally the way that Putin talked  about Crimea before he invaded Ukraine.

`` . . . if we don't do it the easy way, we are going to do it the  hard way.''

Again, that is not a Putin quote. It is a Trump quote. You can hardly  tell the damned difference anymore. Wake up, America.

Are any of my friends on the other side of the aisle going to step up  and put an end to this insanity, or are we all just going to shrug it  off and move on? The President's own words show that he is living in a  different reality. He told The New York Times that acquiring Greenland  is psychologically important to him. Not to the United States, but to  him personally.

Mr. Speaker, just so we are all on the same page, the U.S. does not  need to invade Greenland to protect America. We already have a U.S.  military presence there, and Denmark has basically said that they are  happy to partner with us even further, because our militaries already  work very closely, to make sure that Russia or China doesn't gain a  foothold in the Arctic, so his own justification is total BS.

Threatening to annex Greenland actually makes us less safe. If we  wanted to stand up to Russia, I can think of a really easy way to do  that that doesn't involve invading a NATO ally. No, no, no. In no way  is this about national security or defending the Arctic. It is a cover  story.

This is about a thin-skinned, petty man throwing a global tantrum  because he didn't get the prize that he thinks he deserves. Through all  of this, barely a peep from most Republicans--not a whisper. Imagine if  this were a Democratic President. They would be up in arms. We would be  having investigations and subpoenas, and it would be a national  scandal. Yet, we are hearing nothing from Republicans because they are  in a cult.

I will say what they won't: None of this is normal. This is not a  joke. This is not something Republicans can  shrug off or turn away from. This President is threatening a NATO ally  in writing, and the world is responding.

European allies have begun sending troops to Greenland to protect it  from an American invasion. Canada has signaled that such an invasion  would activate Article 5, meaning our allies would be obligated to take  military action against us. Record-setting protests are taking place in  Greenland and in Denmark because they have no interest in being taken  over by Trump.

Instead of deescalating, Trump is ramping up--tariffs, threats,  blackmail, trying to bully our allies into letting him grab territory.

Do you know what the kicker is to all of this? Working people will  pay the price for Trump's little temper tantrum. When you blow up  alliances, you don't just blow up diplomacy. You blow up supply chains.  You blow up markets. You blow up global stability, and it is never the  billionaires who eat the cost. It is families. It is farmers. It is  workers. It is regular people.

Maybe that is why 91 percent of Americans think that taking over  Greenland is a stupid idea, but here is the bottom line: China benefits  when America alienates Europe. Russia benefits when NATO is weakened  and distracted. Every authoritarian on Earth benefits when the  President of the United States starts acting like a two-bit tyrant.

I will just end on this: The world where America invades Greenland is  a horrible, horrible world. It is a world with no moral compass. It is  a world with no North Star towards liberty and justice. It is a world  where China, Russia, and America conspire together to subvert freedom,  democracy, and peace. It is a world I don't want to live in, but it is  the world that will come to be if we allow this President to do what he  says he wants to do.

My message to our allies is simple: Do not mistake this President for  the American people. Stand up to him. Do not appease him, and know that  there are Americans and there are Members of Congress who will stand  with you in defense of democracy, alliances, and the rule of law.

My message to House Republicans is even more simple: It is time to  take the car keys from grandpa. Stop worshipping this President. Stop  acting like you are in a cult. Grow a spine, and for once in your  lives, cut the BS and do something to stop him.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, it is incredible to be lectured by people  who claim they are pro-life but who vote to take food away from hungry  kids in this country, who vote to cut SNAP by $200 billion in the big,  ugly bill, who vote to cut Medicaid by $1 trillion in the big, ugly  bill. It really is incredible. It takes my breath away.

Bonamici).

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I yield myself the balance of  my time.

Mr. Speaker, first of all, let's be clear, all of these crummy bills  that are coming to the floor today are under completely closed rules.

The gentlewoman who just spoke, her amendment was blocked from being  debated and voted on on the House floor by my Republican colleagues.  Everything is just closed--their way or the highway. It is a terrible  pattern that has developed here.

Mr. Speaker, after 1 year of total Republican control, there is  nowhere left to hide. Republicans ran on helping working people. They  ran on lowering costs. They ran on grocery prices and rent. What did  they do? They delivered all right--for billionaires and big donors.

If Wall Street wanted a tax break, it would get done in a nanosecond.  If Amazon wanted another loophole, it would materialize out of thin  air. If Big Oil wanted another permit, they would roll out the red  carpet. If Big Pharma wanted to rip off people, Republicans look the  other way.

That is how things have worked around here for the last year. It is  never a problem paying for tax breaks for billionaires, but somehow,  when everyday people needed help, Republicans were nowhere to be found.  They cut food assistance, cut Medicaid, and cut help for regular  people. They stole from those with the least to give more to those with  the most.

I am so sick of the excuses. For a year, we have heard Republicans  blame everyone but themselves: blame Biden, blame Democrats, blame  George Soros, blame the Clintons, blame Kamala Harris, blame the blue  States, blame the media, blame fill-in-the-blank.

Here is a thought, Mr. Speaker: Why don't you guys blame yourselves?  You control the House, the Senate, and the White House. You are in  charge. You set the schedule. You control the government. You have been  in power for an entire year. If you are still blaming someone else,  that is really not a strategy. It is a confession.

As much as you guys might need a priest, I am not here to offer  forgiveness or absolution. I am here to demand accountability.

Republicans need to take ownership of your pathetic, incompetent,  disastrous inability to deliver on anything you said you would.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on this rule and a ``no'' vote on  the underlying bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.