-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698542/9999


Mr. JUSTICE. Mr. President, I reserve my right to object.

I would like to start by just saying a few comments, and that is just  this: I think about my good friend, my colleague from the great State  of Alabama. He is a patriot. He is a good man. He is a man full of  common sense. He is a man that absolutely cannot stand wasting time. He  can't stand worthless grandstanding, and neither can I. I didn't come  here for that. He will be a great, great Governor.

You know, I had 8 years of serving the great people of West Virginia.  It is the honor of my life. We approach things the same way in a lot, a  lot of ways. You know, we are both coaches. We tease each other that we  are the best two coaches in the U.S. Senate. We are the only two  coaches in the U.S. Senate, but we still think we are the best.

You know, we concentrate on things like moving the ball forward,  don't we? We absolutely listen to our team. We listen to voters. We  listen to--who I always call the voters--Toby and Edith. This is a  gigantic distraction again by the Democrats just because they hate our  great President beyond all good sense. When are they ever going to get  over hating Donald Trump?

Now, you know me well enough to know that I speak the truth. And I  know the Trump family, and I know  President Trump really well. I have seen Eric Trump underneath my  vehicle changing the tire on my vehicle so far back in the woods that  you can't imagine how far away we were. They are good people, and they  are a good family, and God knows what he has achieved is off the  charts. It is so good; it is unbelievable.

Today what we see is, again, the Democrats grasping at straws, doing  stuff absolutely to try to make a scene. That is what this is all  about. For God's sake, President Trump was elected unbelievably-- unbelievably. Why in the world are we not moving on? Why in the world  do we continue to waste more and more and more time? Is it any wonder  why we earn the badge of courage--14 percent approval rating--and we  still won't do anything about it.

We need to do things. We need to really get stuff done here. We need  to help our farmers, and I am sure my colleague from Alabama would help  a lot of great farmers in the State of Alabama soon. We need to help  our families. We need to make American lives better and better. And in  my opinion, America needs to lead the world, and that is what we are  doing today. Instead of the world absolutely leading us, we are doing  what the world wants us to do. We are stepping up. We are leading the  world.

Again, I want to thank Senator Tuberville in every way. And to my  Democratic colleagues that I respect more than you know in all ways-- and I think that is how we all should be--please, let's stop wasting  time; and please, let's stop this unnecessary and totally useless  grandstanding politics. We have got to stop this. This is a total waste  of time.