Senate Bills


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701262/senate-bills


Mr. JUSTICE. Madam President, you know, I have got to say just this:  We have Medal of Honor recipients with us right now, and I fast- forwarded because I had this beautiful speech to give and all that  stuff, and there have been some things happened that we will get to in  just a second.

But if U.S. Army MG Patrick Brady, just please stand up, just one  second, sir. If you would, just stand for just a second, sir.

And U.S. Army LTC William Swenson, please stand, if you would.

And U.S. Navy Command Master Chief Britt Kelly Slabinski, if you  would please stand.

And U.S. Army SGM Thomas Payne, if you would stand, please.

Mr. JUSTICE. Madam President, if I violated the rule, it is because I  am new to the game, and I don't know all the rules. But I want to thank  them for their service in every way.

Medal of Honor winners--it is just unfathomable to think that those  folks can grab a live handgrenade and try to throw it away from their  comrades, to absolutely charge into enemy fire like you can't imagine.

And I think all the time, and I say to myself: You know, if I were in  that situation, could I have that courage?  Could I have that grit? Could I have that love for this unbelievable  country and my comrades that are right with me?

I don't know. It takes something that not many have, and we should  honor them beyond belief.

The reason I asked these gentlemen to stand was simply just this:  Today--today--something happened to me that, to be perfectly honest, I  may have thought was getting to be semi-impossible. And that was just  this: People from both sides of the aisle actually talked to one  another. I had an amazing conversation with Ranking Member Martin  Heinrich. We sat, and we built some level of trust and communication.

Now, we are always going to fight with one another; we know that. But  at the end of the day, these four--and for all the other 3,500 almost-- today, we did something that, in all fairness, these four an hour and a  half ago would have thought wasn't going to happen.

So I am going to fast-forward and read something that we all thought  was semi-impossible.

But to others on the other side of the aisle--you know, Senator  Shaheen; you know, Senator Padilla; to absolutely our great chairman of  ENR, you know, Senator Lee, who I am so thankful that we just talked-- for God's sakes of living, we just talked, and lo and behold: wham,  bam, bam. This monument that we have wanted to put on our National Mall  that I am going to ask for your unanimous consent in just a second,  absolutely we are there. No one would have believed it. No one really  thought it.

These people have given so much, and we needed to stand up for them,  and, lo and behold, today, maybe just a lot of lessons--lessons maybe  that we all ought to listen to, and that is just this: If we talked and  we trusted and we absolutely told the truth to one another, there may  just be passage of lots and lots and lots of stuff that we should be  doing here.

That is what we should be doing. I always call the voters Toby and  Edith. But Toby and Edith need us. They need us in the worst way.

I would say, someway, somehow, we have got to tone down and stop a  little bit of the food fight.

So right now--now, get this; get this--this is what I am reading to  you right now.

858 be considered and agreed to;  and that the bills, as amended, if amended, where applicable, be  considered read a third time and passed en bloc; and that the motions  to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table, all en bloc:  my bill, S. 858, the Hershel `Woody' Williams National Medal of Honor  Monument Location Act, and S. 1142 the Scarper Ridge Golden Gate  National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act, from Senator Padilla.