Investing in All of America Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2066, the Investing in  All of America Act. Small Business Investment Companies, or SBICs, are  an essential part of the small business lending ecosystem. Under this  program, SBA works with and licenses private institutions to provide  financing to small, high-growth companies.

Unfortunately, due to statutory constraints, investors are often  limited in their ability to participate in the program when focusing on  rural and underserved communities, small manufacturers, or small  businesses critical to national security.

Due to their capital-intensive nature and early revenue profile,  these small businesses operating in the critical technology sector need  institutional investors with longer term time horizons to raise  capital.

That is why this bill makes statutory improvements to provide SBICs  with access to additional leverage when they invest in these  businesses.

Providing SBICs with additional leverage flexibility will ensure the  capital needs of small businesses in our critical technology sector are  met by the SBIC program. This will enable the SBA and DOD to  successfully implement their joint Small Business Investment Company  Critical Technology Initiative.

In addition, this bill provides another avenue to extend private  investment to small businesses in rural and underserved communities,  something that lenders and policymakers have repeatedly fallen short  on. This additional bonus leverage will encourage more investment in  communities that need it most.

I applaud Representatives Meuser and Scholten for leading this  bipartisan effort, and I thank Chairman Williams and his team for their  collaboration on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes'', and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to close by once again  thanking Mr. Meuser and Ms. Scholten for their leadership on this bill  and their efforts to extend additional capital to rural and underserved  entrepreneurs, as well as the critical technology industry.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support this bill and encourage all of  my colleagues to do the same. I yield back the balance of my time.