Small Business Procurement and Utilization Reform Act of 2025


Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Small  Business Procurement and Utilization Reform, or SPUR, Act.

I thank Congressman Stauber and Congresswoman Gluesenkamp Perez for  joining me in introducing this bipartisan legislation.

Mr. Speaker, small business owners and entrepreneurs take a chance  when they start their ventures, so it is only right that the Federal  Government do what it can to provide them with a greater opportunity to  succeed.

Our government plays a vital role in working to keep our economy  strong and vibrant, and Federal contracts can be a great opportunity  and boon for our small businesses.

However, the government isn't doing enough to ensure our local small  businesses have access to these opportunities. We need to not only do  more for small businesses with existing Federal contracts but also help  attract new small businesses to navigate the Federal contracting  process.

The SPUR Act will help ensure more small businesses, like those in  the San Gabriel Valley which I represent, can fairly compete for  Federal contracts.

The SPUR Act will require Federal agencies to examine the following  data:

How many small businesses received a prime contract for the first  time and are owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans.

It will track the concerns of qualified HUBZone small businesses,  track the concerns of businesses controlled by socially and  economically disadvantaged individuals, and track the concerns of small  businesses owned and controlled by women.

There are several HUBZones in my district, including the cities of El  Monte, Covina, Azusa, and La Puente. There are even more small  businesses owned by women and people of color in my district. They are  working just as hard as other small business owners to realize their  dreams, and they deserve to play on the same level playing field as  other small business owners that  have experience navigating the Federal bureaucracy.

I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense, bipartisan piece of  legislation, and I thank, again, the co-leads of Congressman Stauber  and Congresswoman Gluesenkamp Perez.