Motion to Discharge--S.J. Res. 59


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693130/motion-to-discharge-sj-res-59


Mr. HAGERTY. Mr. President, President Trump's actions to address  Iran's nuclear weapons program last weekend didn't start a war; they  ended a war. So I rise today to support President Trump's wisdom and  leadership in decisively countering Iran's nuclear threat and,  therefore, to oppose this ill-conceived joint resolution.

As a U.S. Senator and former Ambassador to Japan, I understand and  respect the role that Congress plays in matters of war and peace, but I  cannot and I will not support a resolution that removes the ability of  the President of the United States to act decisively in defense of  national interests, our allies, and our Armed Forces.

This resolution, if passed, would send a dangerous message not just  to Iran's terrorist-sponsoring regime but also to every adversary who  is seeking to exploit our domestic debates and internal divisions. This  resolution would signal that America's resolve can be hamstrung by  congressional hesitation at the very moment when clarity, unity, and  strength are most needed.

I cannot state this strongly enough: President Trump acted entirely  within his constitutional authority under article II and in accordance  with his solemn duty to defend this Nation and to defend the American  people. Operation Midnight Hammer was a targeted, strategic, and  necessary use of force to eliminate immediate threats posed by the  Iranian regime and its proxies. No American lives were lost or injured  during this military operation, thanks to the leadership of President  Trump, the advice and counsel of Vice President JD Vance, National  Security Advisor and Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Secretary of  Defense Pete Hegseth, General Dan Caine, and the brilliant planning and  flawless execution of the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces.

For decades, the Iranian regime has been attacking U.S. personnel,  our allies, and our interests through its Revolutionary Guard, through  Hezbollah and Hamas and Houthi terrorists, and through its missile  programs and multiple cyber attacks. For decades, the Iranian regime  has cynically violated international agreements to overtly and covertly  pursue the capabilities necessary to make nuclear weapons on short  notice.

The idea that the President, in the face of escalating threats, can  only sit idly by until Congress can hold hearings and schedule votes is  not just naive; it is reckless. This War Powers Resolution ignores the  reality of modern warfare, and it would constrain the Commander in  Chief at the precise moment when decisiveness is most critical. It  elevates process over commonsense policy and political optics over  operational necessity.

If the President had been forced to act in accordance with this  resolution last week, the element of surprise would have been entirely  lost, and the successful mission flown by our brave airmen would have  been much different and, likely, much costlier.

Of course, Congress must be consulted. Of course, we can debate the  scope and strategy of our military engagements. But we must not shackle  our President in the middle of a crisis when lives are on the line. We  must not embolden the Ayatollahs in Tehran by showing division and  delay because that is the path to endless wars, rather than the path to  decisive victories.

President Trump acted wisely and proportionately to protect American  lives. He acted to reestablish the credibility of our strategic  deterrence. And he acted after decades of Iranian aggression that went  largely unanswered by the previous administrations of President Joe  Biden and Barack Obama. President Trump, once again, demonstrated  decisive leadership in the service of peace and stability. That is the  actual job of the Commander in Chief.

Let me conclude by repeating what I said at the start. President  Trump's actions last weekend did not start a war. His actions ended a  war. And not a single American life was lost.

We should not be here debating how to constrain effective  Presidential leadership but, rather, discussing how to recognize  effective leadership and support it. For this reason, I urge my  colleagues to oppose S.J. Res. 59.