Outrageous Government-Funded Incentives


Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today alongside four of my esteemed  colleagues to both highlight and condemn the misuse of taxpayer dollars  funneled to illegal immigrants.

An outrageous pattern of perverse and intentional incentives reveal  deliberate efforts to worsen the border crisis and to allow tens of  millions of illegal aliens to invade our Nation at direct cost to the  American taxpayer.

The Biden-Harris administration cycled through repeated falsehoods:  claiming the border was secure, claiming they did not have what was  needed to stop this invasion, claiming that they were helpless and  needed Congress to take the lead. Meanwhile, that same administration  lined the pockets of leftwing NGOs to shower illegal immigrants with  incentives in the form of open-ended access to your tax dollars.

Earlier this year, reports surfaced from the watchdog group, Open The  Books, exposing Biden's Department of Health and Human Services for  awarding shockingly large amounts of grants and dollars to nonprofits  focused on aiding illegal immigrants, amounting to as high as 20  million people who illegally crossed into our country during Biden's  term in office.

Taxpayer-funded awards paid for illegal aliens' housing, healthcare,  education, even music lessons, therapy. You name it, the taxpayer  covered it.

Using NGOs as a proxy, the Biden administration sent a clear message  that our laws were not to be taken seriously, and living off of the  American taxpayer was both acceptable and encouraged. The same people  fueling this elaborate scheme also pushed a false narrative that  supporting illegal activity somehow gives them a moral high ground.  This, of course, is false.

Mr. Speaker, I am here to tell the American people that they are  right to expect secure borders. They are right to demand law and order.  They are right to be outraged that hundreds of billions of their  dollars have gone to illegal aliens and politically connected NGOs who  facilitated this recent invasion.

President Trump's swift actions to halt illegal crossings and to  deport illegal aliens in his first 100 days has made one thing  painfully clear: The Biden-Harris administration was never working to  fix our immigration system. They actively and deliberately worked to  undermine it.

The Center for Immigration Studies found illegal immigrants annually  take--and this is a conservative estimate--nearly $120 billion directly  from public services, to include public schools, public welfare, and  healthcare. Every American across the country should expect more from  their government.

Joining me today are a few of my colleagues. I yield first to the  gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Moore), my fellow North Carolinian  and a fierce border security advocate. Congressman Moore has been a  leading voice in the fight to reform FEMA and to ensure its funds go  toward helping American citizens rather than to illegal immigrants,  especially those recovering from Hurricane Helene.

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, just a couple things about  Congressman Knott, for folks who don't know, before he was a Member of  Congress here, he was actually a very well-esteemed prosecutor in the  U.S. Attorney's office. Congressman Knott has shared many stories where  he was personally having to prosecute a lot of these violent gang  members, these MS-13 gang members. For some reason, some of our  colleagues want to go down and hug a thug or something and see these  folks down in Central America.

Mr. Knott was helping prosecute these folks, and I know the  prosecutors were very frustrated at the time with what they were seeing  with these open borders. I appreciate, one, what he did before he came  to Congress; two, what he is doing now; and, three, hosting this  opportunity today to bring attention of this to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, today, I rise on behalf of the people of North Carolina,  particularly western North Carolina. I represent hardworking Americans  playing by the rules, doing everything they can right--paying their  taxes, raising their kids, and taking care of their neighbors whose  lives were impacted substantially by Hurricane Helene that hit last  year. It tore through our region. It destroyed roads. It destroyed  homes. It took lives. It changed so many things.

I will say the good news is the resilience of North Carolinians, not  only in government, not only in local government, but also in  volunteers and the faith community. I see my good friend, Congressman  Harris, over there. The churches stepped up in such a tremendous way to  help folks out in a serious time of need to do what they needed to do.

We also saw where the Federal Government, in a lot of ways, failed to  do the job. Under the past administration, we saw where FEMA wasn't  doing the job. I am proud to say that under this new administration,  FEMA is getting the job done. Many folks who didn't live there saw  pictures of the mass destruction that was in western North Carolina and  the lack of response in so many ways.

Just to kind of put some points on that with some numbers, according  to the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general, FEMA could  not account for $7.4 million out of an audit sample of $12.9 million.  These sound like small numbers, but that is an audit sample. Think  about that. That is 58 percent of those funds were either unsupported  or not properly documented.

There was an example where one contractor billed $9 million for labor  and could only support or back up $1.5 million of it. Another was  reimbursed twice for the same $40,000. Some grantees couldn't even  prove they delivered services. FEMA had approved it all.

Then you compare things, Mr. Speaker, where folks were needing help,  and they were getting the runaround and getting the delay. Again, I  stress to folks that that has changed since January of this year. We  are seeing FEMA getting the job done in a lot of ways. I will talk  about what FEMA did with some of this other money in just a moment.

Here is another example of some mismanagement by the previous  administration. Remember the so-called American Rescue Plan. Democrats  passed a  bill of $1.9 trillion on a party-line vote. Less than 9 percent of that  money, by the way, went to combat COVID. Tucked inside that bill was  $110 million to FEMA. We would think that is a great thing, right?

Here is the problem. It wasn't for disaster recovery. It was to fund  something they were calling humanitarian assistance. What that was, was  to help illegal immigrants at the border. That was just the start.

Mr. Speaker, they followed it with another $150 million in March 2022  and then $800 million more in December of that year. FEMA was  effectively converted into a border response welfare agency and  rebranded as the Shelter and Services Program. It paid for migrant  housing, transportation, and services in sanctuary cities, while  American disaster victims waited months just to hear back about their  applications. It is absolutely shameful.

My constituents were patching their roofs and clearing debris by  hand. FEMA was busy footing the bill for nice hotel stays in New York  for folks who weren't even supposed to be in the country. This was a  willful effort by the other side to just enable this border crisis.

I have to say that Congressman Knott pointed out how the border is  finally secure, and it didn't require a change in law. It simply  required a President who would follow the law.

What do we have going on now that things have changed? My colleagues  on the other side of the aisle, respectfully, are not showing up in  towns that were damaged by the storm, asking questions of FEMA, and  looking to go see what is happening. Who has shown up? Secretary Noem  has shown up. President Trump has shown up.

Instead, some of my colleagues--and I don't know why--have decided  they want to go to El Salvador and rub elbows and maybe grab a  margarita with some former MS-13 gang members. It looks like it is a  delegation to meet face-to-face with Kilmar Abrego Garcia, a known  member of MS-13.

That gang is responsible for countless murders, assaults, and human  trafficking. Instead of demanding justice, Democrats took selfies. For  example, I know Congressman Knott had to prosecute MS-13 when he was  prosecuting in the Eastern District of North Carolina.

We don't need any more hug-a-thug diplomacy. We need a Federal  Government that puts the American people first, puts their safety  first, their livelihoods first, and their families first.

My friends, we are still feeling the consequences of this failed  border policy in North Carolina. Just last week, this picture to my  right, the FBI in Charlotte--and I want to give a shout-out to the FBI  agents based out of Charlotte. They arrested an illegal immigrant who  had already been deported.

That is a picture of him right there. He was charged with the  kidnapping of a mother and her 1-year-old child in Garner, North  Carolina. That is in Congressman Knott's district right there. They  kidnapped her. They tied up her husband, took the woman and the child  at gunpoint, demanded a ransom of $1 million, and then dumped them in  the woods.

By the grace of God and the swift action of the FBI, Garner police,  and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, they were  rescued.

That crime never should have happened. Estrada-Hernandez should never  have been in this country in the first place. Do you know what, Mr.  Speaker? He would not have been if it weren't for the Biden  administration's open-border policy and refusal to simply follow the  law.

Mr. Speaker, this is not compassion. This is not justice. This is  chaos, engineered and endorsed by some on the other side. I do hope  those on the other side who disagree with this will start stepping up  and pushing back with what is happening there.

I will say this, too. Thankfully, under President Trump's leadership,  we are cleaning house. The Department of Government Efficiency has  exposed FEMA's failures in the past administration. Secretary Noem is  working to get this agency back on mission, and Congress is moving to  eliminate the Shelter and Services Program and return those funds to  real disaster recovery where they belong.

To the families who are still recovering from Hurricane Helene and to  those who were told there was no money left while FEMA lost track of  millions, I hear you. Help is on the way.

This, my friends, is what it means to put Americans first, to restore  common sense, and to lead with integrity.

Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congressman from North Carolina  (Mr. Moore).

Congressman Haridopolos and I have had many conversations about the  cost of illegal immigration on programs that are designed to help and  support vulnerable Americans, especially Medicaid.

Congressman Haridopolos has extensive experience in the Medicaid  space, and he knows that it must be guarded to protect those who rely  upon it here in the United States. It is not an international charity,  and it is especially not for the illegal immigrants here in this  country. I will ask him to elaborate on his experience with this issue.

Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I am ready for that debate any day, and I am  ready for that discussion any day.

Again, the Republicans believe that American tax dollars should serve  American citizens and not those who are here illegally.

Congressman Harris pointed out back in February that an NGO in North  Carolina was actively working to hinder law enforcement, aid illegal  immigrants, and further worsen the crisis engulfing our communities  both in North Carolina and all over our country. A pastor of more than  30 years, Congressman Harris is proof that allowing this humanitarian  crisis to continue is not compassionate and that enforcing our laws is  not hateful.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Knott  for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure today to be able to share in this time  together. I am grateful to Congressman Haridopolos for sharing, also  for Congressman Moore whom we heard from earlier. I am honored to be a  part of this, and I am very thankful for the vision and the passion  that Congressman Knott has shown in pulling together this Special  Order.

When a burglar breaks into your house, Mr. Speaker, you don't set a  place for them at the dinner table. That principle seems pretty  obvious. However, for some reason, radical progressives just can't  understand it.

For the past 4 years, radical, progressive Democrats have openly  welcomed criminal aliens into American communities.

Lest we forget, here are just a few of the violent guests the left  has invited into our country:

Felix Rojas, an illegal alien who was deported multiple times, was  charged just last week for raping a corpse on a Manhattan subway.

In my home State of North Carolina, two illegal aliens whom  Congressman Moore alluded to earlier, Paola Duran Duran and Miguel  Duran Duran, were arrested for breaking into a home and kidnapping a  mother and her 11-month-old daughter.

Just outside Washington, D.C., an illegal alien, Hyrum Rodriguez, was  arrested by ICE after a local court dropped his charges.

What was the crime that he was charged with?

It was abducting a 4-year-old.

These heinous criminals are only a small number of those welcomed  into our country by Joe Biden and who were arrested in just the past  few days by the Trump administration.

Mr. Speaker, you can only imagine what is happening in our country on  a grander scale. While under President Trump's leadership, illegal  border crossings are down 95 percent from last year, yet we are still  suffering from the impacts of the open-border policies of the last 4  years.

The left did not just facilitate an open-border invasion, they have  made the American taxpayer pay for it, and we are still paying for it.

Under former President Biden's open-borders agenda, it is estimated  that at least 10 million illegal aliens entered our country, and on top  of the massive financial cost of the crimes they commit and the jobs  they take away from Americans, a huge chunk of them have been accessing  government benefits like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security.

Mr. Speaker, this is unacceptable. Americans are hard workers. That  is why we have the best country in the world. They don't work  backbreaking jobs their whole careers for their taxpayer dollars to  subsidize the lives of the very invaders who have subverted their  sovereignty.

The left loves to fact-check, so why don't we take a moment and hear  some cold, hard facts:

Fact number one, under the Biden administration, more than 1 million  illegal aliens received Medicaid benefits.

Fact number two, in fiscal year 2024 alone, over 2 million illegal  aliens were given Social Security numbers.

Fact number three, a 2023 study showed that the net cost of illegal  aliens to the American taxpayer was at least $150 billion annually.

Fact number four, States are still having to bear the financial  burden of Biden's border crisis. Texas taxpayers have to shell out  $8.88 billion a year to pay for the illegal aliens who invaded their  State. For Californians, it is almost $22 billion.

By the way, fact number five, in some States, in a complete affront  to citizens, illegal aliens can get mortgages, bank loans, insurance,  driver's licenses, in-State college tuition, and free healthcare. For  illegal aliens, the U.S. has been an all-you-can-eat buffet. However,  the American taxpayer and innocent women like Laken Riley, Jocelyn  Nungaray, and Rachel Morin have paid the full price of the left's open- border agenda.

It is time to turn off the faucet permanently. American taxpayers  shouldn't have to fund their own demise, paying for government programs  that actually encourage an invasion.

President Trump has shown us the path forward. Border crossings are  down. As I mentioned earlier, criminal aliens and gang members are  being deported left and right. In other words, the forgotten American  is first once again.

Nevertheless, there is still much work to be done, especially in this  119th Congress. Under President Biden, Americans' hard-earned taxpayer  dollars in the Federal budget were used as a slush fund for the radical  left to facilitate a border invasion of millions of illegal aliens,  export their woke ideologies across the globe with wasteful pet  projects, and weaponize the government against anyone who disagreed  with their policies.

However, President Trump's budget proposal, when signed into law,  will be a crucial step in taking our country back from the left. It  will defund the wasteful government programs subsidizing illegal aliens  and provide President Trump with the very tools to solidify his  sensible border security initiatives.

For example, President Trump's budget would eliminate the shelter and  services program that facilitated swarms of illegal aliens into  American communities and save taxpayers $650 million at the same time.  It will also stop funneling $428 million to migrant education programs  that are taking away from struggling American students.

Those are just a glimpse of the countless wasteful projects for which  the American citizens should not be footing the bill. It is up to  Congress now to come together and advance both the President's budget  and the reconciliation package across the finish line.

Mr. Speaker, we owe nothing less to the American people who are tired  of being placed behind illegal aliens. When illegal aliens are given  benefits like Medicaid and Social Security by the thousands, then they  will keep coming into our country, burdening the American taxpayer, and  exacerbating the crime in our cities.

This is why it is so important that this Congress act now with a  budget reconciliation, to give President Trump the tools he needs to  keep both the wallet and the soul of America safe.

Burglars are in the house, and they don't just want a seat at the  dinner table. They want the entire spread.

It is time for us to use this historic opportunity to correct our  course.

Again, Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Knott for his vision and his  leadership.

Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Harris for his remarks.

At least 1 million illegals are on Medicaid. I would submit that I  have heard not one syllable from the Democratic Party from 5 years ago  when Joe Biden took power until today protesting that fact. The  Republican Party wants to protect Medicaid and get the 1 million-plus  illegals on it out of the country and off of the program.

Mr. Speaker, I mentioned earlier that some of the ridiculous benefits  that taxpayers have unknowingly funded for illegal aliens include  something as unique as music lessons. When digging into this issue,  Congressman Kennedy and I were both outraged and simply shocked at the  brazen and flagrant waste of funds on these perverse incentives.

I know Congressman Kennedy to be a fierce advocate for conservative  principles both for his district in Utah and for the country at large.

Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

Mr. Speaker, you have heard today from our colleagues and myself  about the outrageous government-funded incentives and plans to keep  illegal aliens not only flowing into this country but also to stay in  this country. This scheme goes beyond waste. It represents, candidly, a  betrayal of the American people and the American taxpayers, who have  suffered mightily in this country because of the illegal immigration  crisis.

In closing, I simply ask the following of the American citizens who  rely on Medicare or Medicaid: Should we allow illegal immigrants to  dilute the quality of your benefits and run up costs in emergency rooms  who are precluded from turning illegal immigrants away?

I say, along with my colleagues: Absolutely not. No tax dollars  should be allocated to covering healthcare costs for any person who is  in this country illegally.

To the American parents, whether rural or urban, who are struggling  to feed your children, I ask: Should illegal immigrants receive tax- funded meals day in, day out to eat on your dime?

Again, I heartily say: Absolutely not.

To the children at risk of falling behind in lagging schools all over  this country, I ask: Should we continue to allow millions upon millions  to arrive here illegally and crowd out your classrooms?

I would say, again: Under no circumstances should we give public  education dollars to any person or any family who is here illegally.

To the Social Security recipient I ask: Should we take on more debt  and endanger your access to continued benefits just to keep our borders  open?

With no hesitation, I again say: Absolutely not. We must protect the  tax dollars of American citizens.

To the veterans who are battling homelessness or addiction or the  western North Carolinians who are left without shelter following  Hurricane Helene, I ask: Should your tax dollars go to housing illegal  aliens, to transporting illegal aliens while you continually suffer?

Again, I say definitively: Under no circumstances is this  appropriate.

I urge all of my colleagues in Congress to join me in reversing this  perverse incentive structure by sending a clear message that the United  States laws are to be respected. Put candidly, if you are here  illegally, leave. If you return here illegally, you will be punished.