Tren De Aragua Border Security Threat Assessment Act


Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to speak in favor of H.R.  4070, the Tren de Aragua Border Security Threat Assessment Act.

I thank Chairman Guest and Chairman Garbarino for their support and  leadership on the Homeland Security Committee from which this bill has  originated.

Before Congress, I had the privilege to work in law enforcement. I  saw firsthand the horrible effects, the dangerous effects, and the  lasting effects that weak borders have had on our wonderful country. Of  course, there are pressures on housing, healthcare, and education  wherever there are millions and millions of illegal aliens allowed to  come into the country and then placed throughout our country.

Of equal, if not greater, concern to me is the rampant growth and the  effects of transnational criminal organizations that have grown  throughout our country. This is perhaps best seen with Tren de Aragua.

Tren de Aragua has grown its presence throughout the United States.  It is growing every day and includes growth in my home State of North  Carolina. My legislation would require the Department of Homeland  Security to conduct a comprehensive border threat assessment to  identify the criminal threats posed by TdA members, the threats that  are posed to our communities, and how exactly they are so successful in  growing in our communities.

With this information, law enforcement and their intelligence  counterparts will be better able to deploy a unified and focused  strategy on how to appropriately dismantle and remove these threats  from our country.

It is past time that we return to a posture of strength to defend  America and our citizens. We must clearly and effectively send a  message that the  United States will no longer be a safe harbor for violent foreign  terrorist organizations like Tren de Aragua.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting  this important legislation.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, I support Members of Congress receiving more information  about the Trump administration's strategy against Tren de Aragua.

Therefore, I support this piece of legislation and urge its immediate  passage. It is long overdue for the Trump administration to share the  information it has with Congress that justifies its military action  against alleged Tren de Aragua members.