Ice and Dhs Lost Credibility


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, as we begin Hispanic Heritage  Month, I want to honor the millions of Latinos and Latinas who make  this country strong. We celebrate our culture and sacrifices.

This year, it comes with urgency because we are under attack. Last  week, the Department of Homeland Security attacked me on X, insisting  they deport only criminals. If you walk the streets of my district, Mr.  Speaker, you see the truth, and it looks nothing like their tweets.

Last Friday, in Franklin Park, a suburb in my district, Silverio  Villegas-Gonzalez left his home like any other day. He was a restaurant  worker, and he enjoyed cooking. He was a devoted father. He never came  home. ICE agents stopped him, and within minutes of dropping his kids  off at school, he was shot and killed in broad daylight that morning.

First, they said that he drove at officers. Videos show otherwise.  Then, they said that he dragged an officer. We have yet to see the  evidence. They said that the officer feared for his life, but  neighbors' videos capture gunshots and then a car coasting. Silverio  was already incapacitated before crashing into a semitrailer.

Those same videos show officers, including the one supposedly  seriously injured, smashing the window, dragging Silverio's lifeless  body out, slamming him onto the pavement, and handcuffing him as he  bled out.

Silverio didn't make it. DHS' story doesn't add up.

A man is dead. A family is shattered, and the agency responsible  keeps hiding behind masked thugs and unmarked cars. I use that term  because that is how so many agents are acting, either voluntarily or  not.

ICE and DHS have no credibility, and neither do their stories. They  have lost it.

Reports indicate that officers involved were not wearing body  cameras. This is not law enforcement. This is becoming an American  gestapo.

Silverio's tragedy is not alone. It affects families every day now.  That same day, in Little Village, ICE arrested William Gimenez, a day  laborer, as he walked into a barber shop with his wife. William was a  lead plaintiff in a lawsuit against Home Depot and local police for  abuse. ICE retaliated.

We all saw the Cicero case: children were left crying on the side of  an industrial road after the parents were taken away by ICE. That is  state-sanctioned cruelty against children, the President's specialty.

DHS insists they target criminal immigrants, yet in Elgin, in the  dead of night, ICE staged a reckless raid with helicopters and armored  trucks parading detainees for cameras. Secretary Noem showed up for 5  seconds of fame and rushed to declare: Mission accomplished.

The reality is two U.S. citizens were detained. They were not  criminals; not even immigrants.

To quote the President: They don't know what they are doing.

What we see are workers punished, children traumatized, U.S. citizens  abducted in their sleep, and a father, Silverio Villegas-Gonzalez, shot  dead. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of cases like this.

We celebrate Hispanic heritage, but we also issue a warning. Today it  is Latinos and other immigrants under attack. Tomorrow it will be  others. Once institutions are built to target and control, they don't  surrender power, they expand it.

Like the military-industrial complex, they find new enemies and new  missions, new excuses to keep the money flowing and the machinery of  fear alive.

That is why we will not look away. This is bigger than one community  and bigger than one city. It is about the kind of country we are  becoming.

Chicago will not be intimidated, and I will not stop demanding truth  and dignity for Silverio, William, or the children in Cicero, and for  every family who deserves to live free from state terror.