Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I stand here, believe it or not, with a grateful heart.  Over the last several days, many of my colleagues have reached out with  kindness and understanding. I appreciate their concern for me and their  desire to keep our Caucus united.

I wasn't expecting to stand here to debate my retirement, but before  any of us are Members of Congress, we are husbands, we are  grandfathers, we are sons, we are mothers, and we are sisters. We are  regular people, but life reminds us that our jobs come second to the  people waiting for us at home.

After nearly 40 years of public service, I decided not to seek a  fifth term, and I am proud to have served with integrity and respect.

I turn 70 next spring, and I decided that it was time to dedicate  more of my time to the people who have sacrificed the most so that I  could serve: my wife of almost 50 years, my children, my grandchildren,  and the family that steadied me through victories and through  heartbreak.

When my daughter, Rosa, passed away in 2023 and left us four  beautiful young children, it shook our entire world. Overnight, our  house became a home for those kids. We did what every family does: We  stepped up. We held them close, and we gave them love and stability.

Despite dealing with multiple sclerosis, my wife, Evelyn, carried the  heaviest load as their day-to-day caregiver. Because of my wife, I was  able to keep meeting the responsibilities of my job here and in the  district.

I filed to run for Congress because this work is more important than  ever, and I wanted to deliver for my community and to be part,  hopefully, of a new House majority next year.

I followed the rules of Illinois and its election law. When the  ballot was open for anyone to file--as they had over the past 6 years  and the four times that I stood for election--and contrary to claims  that were made earlier today, I did not circulate any petitions that I  was accused of circulating. I only circulated when I filed on the first  day.

As I looked ahead, I had to be honest about what the next term would  demand and what my family needed. I saw the big picture: supporting my  wife as we manage her illness, taking better care of my own health, and  being present for the grandson that we just adopted 2 weeks ago. It was  a tough decision, but I made that choice as any husband, father, and  grandfather would make at that moment. I stood by my family values, as  we ask others to do.

Every one of us knows the pressures that come with serving here, but  I hope that none of my colleagues ever face the circumstances that my  family has faced in the last 3 years.

Meanwhile, my district and my community are under assault by our own  government, and I ask my colleagues to listen. Members may have seen  the reports, but pictures don't convey the screams of families being  separated, U.S. citizens being arrested without cause, and the  indiscriminate gassing of innocent families, including a 1-year-old  just a week ago.

Families in my district are living with fear and trauma that no one  should have to endure in our country.

Last week, we returned after 54 days with the House shuttered,  including a 43-day shutdown. We returned hoping for Democratic unity.  Therefore, I was shocked to be called out in a resolution on the House  floor.

I think you would agree with me that voters don't want these  arguments in Congress. The voters want us to be working to help them  afford healthcare, rent, and childcare.

Mr. Speaker, none of us wants to spend the next year trading divisive  disapproval resolutions.

Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Our voters do not want this either. We should  not be distracted by political ploys when our constituents want us to  stay focused and to deliver for them.

I am going to finish my term with the same love and commitment that I  brought to my first day of Congress here. When I arrived in this  country as  a 10-year-old, I never dreamed I would be here. I hope that we can all  agree on this: When a colleague chooses his family, that shouldn't be a  moment for division. It should be a moment for understanding and unity.  One day you might be the one making that choice, and you shouldn't have  to debate it on the House floor.