Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697157/denouncing-the-horrors-of-socialism


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Mr. Speaker, let me educate our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle.

Socialism is communism-lite. Socialism is the first step to  communism. Socialism is the antithesis of the American Dream because,  in this country, we believe that, regardless of where you come from or  how you started, Mr. Speaker, if you work hard, if you sacrifice, and  if you play by the rules, then you can succeed.

That only happens in a country where you have freedom, where you have  liberty, where you have self-determination, and where you have the free  market.

In contrast, Mr. Speaker, socialism is the belief that you work hard,  you sacrifice, you do everything right, and the government can take  what you earn from you to keep it for themselves or to redistribute it  to whomever they choose.

Millions of immigrants in this country fled their homelands to come  to the United States to escape socialism and communism. Mr. Speaker,  just ask your constituents from Russia, Poland, Albania, China, Korea,  Vietnam, Venezuela, or Cuba, where my mother fled in 1959 to escape the  very things that our new socialist mayor in New York City says he  wants.

He is a socialist who says he wants to seize the means of production.  He wants to abolish private property rights. He wants government-run  supermarkets. Yes, he says he is a socialist.

Guess what, Mr. Speaker. Those are policies straight out of the  Communist playbook of Karl Marx, so there is no difference between  socialism and communism.

Where these policies were tried, yes, they failed.

Mr. Speaker, look at Venezuela, a nearby country where self- proclaimed socialists destroyed the richest country in South America.  They implemented these government-run supermarkets, and they have empty  shelves. Venezuelans lost an average of 20 pounds due to starvation.  They promised free universal healthcare, and now they have a severe  shortage of medical supplies, medicine, and doctors.

It is a horrible system. They seized the means of production, and it  led to hyperinflation and complete economic collapse, which is why you  have all these Venezuelans trying to come over our border illegally,  Mr. Speaker.

Sadly, New York City chose to learn the hard way what socialism is,  and we, those of us who did not vote for this guy, are going to pay the  price. It is up to all of us to fight back, to educate our youth, and  to contain this ugly monster so it does not spread and destroy our  country.