Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701804/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Mr. Speaker, today, millions of Americans across the  country are benefiting from the working families tax cuts that  President Trump and Republicans have passed.

The reality is that when you speak to people in my district-- teachers, firefighters, police officers, homeowners, small business  owners, senior citizens, parents--they are seeing tremendous savings.  They are either paying less in Federal taxes or are receiving a  substantial refund, starting with the $40,000 SALT deduction, which was  quadrupled. That is benefiting homeowners.

The leader, a fellow Representative from New York City, should know  the reason we needed the State and local tax deduction was because our  mayor and our Governor kept hammering us to death.

We are providing the relief that they so desperately need. Eighty- eight percent of seniors across the country, 52 million seniors will  benefit from the provision of Social Security tax being refunded to  them. The standard deduction nearly tripled from where it was in 2016.  The $2,200 child tax credit has been extended. The no tax on tips  provisions will bring in $1,300 in relief for an average waitress in  our district.

Permanently lowering those tax rates was a significant win not for  the wealthy but for, perhaps a first time in a long time, the middle  class, the working class, and the senior citizen that relies on Social  Security.

Let me also remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that  we have seen tax revenue increase. Since President Trump first enacted  those tax cuts in 2017, we have seen tax revenue go up, despite there  being these tax cuts. It went up from $3.3 trillion to $5.6 trillion in  fiscal year 2026 and even further after this bill was enacted.

The GDP at the same period grew from $18 trillion to $31 trillion  because these were tax cuts that helped our economy grow, expand, and  create jobs.

While the Democrats all voted ``no,'' they all wanted to see your  taxes increase 22 percent, today, on average, Americans are seeing 11  percent in savings, and it is because of President Donald Trump and  this Republican Congress that did what we said we are going to do. A  lot of politicians talk about cutting taxes. We actually did.