Recognizing Medal of Honor Recipient Michael Ollis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700545/recognizing-medal-of-honor-recipient-michael-ollis


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Madam Speaker, this past Monday, I joined President  Trump at the White House as he posthumously awarded United States Army  Staff Sergeant Michael Ollis of Staten Island, New York, the Medal of  Honor, the Nation's highest military honor that can be bestowed.

Madam Speaker, I rise to share the bravery exhibited by my district's  hometown hero.

On August 28, 2013, Staff Sergeant Ollis gave his life weeks before  his 25th birthday. He gave his life to save an allied soldier during a  Taliban raid on Forward Operating Base Ghazni in Afghanistan, after a  truck carrying 3,000 pounds of explosives slammed into the base and  terrorists advanced.

Without wearing any armor, Staff Sergeant Ollis fired back, then  chose selflessness and placed himself between a suicide bomber and a  fellow allied soldier.

He did not pause. He did not stop to calculate. He acted, knowing  that the cost would be his life, but he chose to save the life of a  NATO ally, Polish Second Lieutenant Karol Cierpica.

Michael's courage, selflessness, and sacrifice represent the very  best of our Nation, earning him the Purple Heart, Bronze Star, Silver  Star, Distinguished Service Cross, as well as the Grand Cross of the  Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, the highest Polish decoration  for a foreigner.

On Staten Island, we are so proud of Michael. We have a ferry named  after him. The Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 9587 is also named for  Michael. The Michael Ollis Freedom Foundation supports veterans and  students in his memory, continuing his legacy of service to others.

Yet, the Medal of Honor, a statement of national memory, tells the  entire world and future generations of the courage, patriotism,  sacrifice, and service exhibited by Michael Ollis. These are all values  that the United States holds sacred.

His final act requires no embellishment or argument. It stands on its  own, resolute and selfless, and is worthy of the highest military  recognition that our country can bestow.

We are grateful to President Donald Trump for recognizing Staff  Sergeant Ollis' extraordinary heroism.

Today, I add this tribute to the official Congressional Record. We  congratulate his family, especially his parents, Bob and Linda, who  accepted the honor, and the entire Staten Island community, who worked  tirelessly to ensure that the ultimate sacrifice made by our hometown  hero, Michael Ollis, received the recognition that it deserves.

Staff Sergeant Ollis may no longer be with us physically, but he  lives on in our hearts and in our minds. His valor and devotion to our  Nation and his fellow soldiers will never be forgotten by our proud  community and by our grateful Nation.