Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689367/womens-history-month


Ms. MALLIOTAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and colleague,  Monica De La Cruz, for joining me in this effort. I also thank my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle who have cosponsored our  legislation, H.R. 1329.

Today, we conclude Women's History Month. It has been a monthlong  celebration of the remarkable achievements and contributions of  American women throughout our Nation's history.

Whether it is the suffragists who fought for the right to vote, the  riveters who stepped in while men fought during World War II, the  10,000 women known as Code Girls who broke German and Japanese codes  for the U.S. Army and Navy during World War II, the ``Hidden Figures''  of NASA who helped launch John Glenn into space, or the Black Angels  from my district, Staten Island, New York, who treated sick  tuberculosis patients when no one wanted to and helped find the cure  for this disease, American women have been instrumental in shaping our  Nation's progress and success.

We think about how much has happened in five decades. Fifty years  ago, women were still battling for so many rights, not just equal pay.  They could not get a credit card without a male cosigner. They had no  protections against pregnancy discrimination or sexual harassment. They  could not serve on juries, and they did not have the ability to join  military academies. Women before us have made so much progress. We  celebrate and thank them. Now we pave the way forward.

Last week, 37 female Republican Members of the U.S. House of  Representatives and the Senate joined President Donald Trump at the  White House to launch the GOP Women's Caucus.

I would remind my colleagues from the Republican side that it was the  Republican Party who helped champion women's rights and protections. It  was Republican Susan B. Anthony who led the suffrage movement. It was a  Republican Senator who sponsored the 19th Amendment to give women the  right to vote. It was a Republican Congress that approved it, and it  was a majority of Republican States that ratified it.

It was Republican Jeannette Rankin who 4 years prior made history in  1916 as the first woman elected to the U.S. House of Representatives.

In 1972, it was President Richard Nixon who signed Title IX into law,  eliminating sex discrimination in education and athletics, opening  doors for female athletes to receive scholarships.

In 1981, Sandra Day O'Connor, also a Republican, made history as the  first woman confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court, paving the way for  greater female representation in our legal system.

Most recently, President Trump authorized the Smithsonian American  Women's History Museum in 2020. In his first few days of his second  term, he signed an executive order to protect women in sports.

Today, we are fighting to get that museum that was authorized in 2020  its rightful place on The National Mall. I thank my colleagues from  both sides of the aisle, nearly 100 Members of this institution, who  have cosponsored H.R. 1329. We can transfer this land and get this  museum built to honor the women who are currently known and unknown,  who have contributed so much, and who have built our Nation. This is  one of our new caucus' priorities, and we must get it done in this  term.

Last week, something exciting happened at the White House. President  Trump threw his 100 percent support behind building the Smithsonian  American Women's History Museum on The National Mall. We must seize  this opportunity, working together across this political spectrum, and  get the job done.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with all of my colleagues. I  thank all the women and the men who have been so supportive of this  project, and I look forward to seeing all of them at the  groundbreaking.

Ms. De La CRUZ.  Chu).