America Must Not Be Idle While Adversaries Advance Capabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689088/america-must-not-be-idle-while-adversaries-advance-capabilities


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, America and our European Union allies find  ourselves at an inflection point. We have an amazing opportunity, and  the actions we take today will shape the outcome for generations to  come.

The world is significantly more dangerous because of the Biden  administration projecting American weakness to the world. Under the  previous administration, America turned away from policies that had our  adversaries quaking in their boots and instead bent a knee to the axis  of evil. Make no mistake, China, Russia, and Iran are exerting  influence across the globe that is causing harm and posing major  threats to both the United States and our allies.

It is vitally important that the United States and our European Union  allies work together to find solutions that both combat these  adversities and ensure that we stay ahead of them in the process. All  three are trying to impose their will physically, psychologically, and  diplomatically on Europe, and we must be fully prepared for whatever  approach they take.

As the chairman of the Europe Subcommittee of the Foreign Affairs  Committee, I will continue to lead both reauthorization of the State  Department and regional efforts under the leadership of Chairman Mast.

A significant part of our focus is achieving the policies that put  America's interests first while building our relations with allies  abroad against our common adversaries.

We have taken major steps in the right direction under President  Trump and his administration, but there is still more work to be done.  Our NATO partners must step up to the plate and give 5 percent of their  GDP for the protection of Europe as America shifts its focus to the  Indo-Pacific region. The CCP has made significant advances in warfare,  and we must remain vigilant while also building up our defense  industrial base in order to be prepared for any scenario.

America must not remain idle while our adversaries are advancing  their capabilities. The Europe Subcommittee will do our part.