Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700480/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I rise here in response to my colleague from  across the aisle. I thought we were talking about the War Powers Act  and not the Democrats' social programs. That is what I am going to do.

President Trump's decision to strike Iran is not starting a forever  war. It is ending a forever war. For half a century, the Islamic  Republic of Iran has cast a shadow over the Middle East and trapped the  region in a dark age. When the regime chants ``death to America, death  to Israel,'' they mean it.

The Islamic Republic is responsible for the deaths of hundreds, if  not thousands, of Americans, thousands of Israelis, and tens of  thousands of their own people, including up to 30,000 in just the last  few weeks. Iran has slaughtered more Americans than any other terrorist  regime in the world, and they will continue to kill Americans until  they are stopped.

Iran is the number one sponsor of terrorism in the world by nonstate  actors, something that is not even contemplated by the War Powers Act.  The regime funds, trains, and equips countless Islamic terrorist  groups, including the Houthi rebels in Yemen, Hezbollah in Lebanon,  Hamas in Gaza, and many others across Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere in the  region. For years, Iran has leveraged these terrorists to wage war  against and kill Americans and countless civilians throughout the  region.

Just last weekend in my home State, a gunman horrifically killed  three innocent people and injured four others in Austin, Texas, while  reportedly wearing a sweatshirt that read ``Property of Allah'' and a  shirt with an Islamic Republic of Iran flag on it. While law  enforcement continues its investigation into a connection with the  Islamic Republic, Americans must understand the enemy is within the  gates.

The current regime in Iran is the poster child for Islam and sharia  law, a culture of violence and domination that is totally incompatible  with individual freedoms, our Constitution, and our heritage.

Islam is an existential threat to our constitutional republic. By  conducting this joint operation with our partners in the region to  defend against tyranny, we are defending Western civilization.

Furthermore, the Iranian people have overwhelmingly demonstrated a  clear will to overthrow and change the radical regime. Tens of  thousands of civilians have sacrificed their lives as a testimony to  this point. By giving the green light to Epic Fury, President Trump is  giving the Iranian people a fighting chance to alter the course of  history in the Middle East and the world.

As the Article II branch, the President is undertaking his  constitutional duty as Commander in Chief to defend the United States  from a tyrannical, murderous Islamic regime.

Finally, I would also like to note that since the War Powers Act was  enacted, every President, both Republican and Democrat, has agreed that  this law is unconstitutional.

Instead of airing personal grievances with the President, the  American people and our servicemembers would be better off if Congress  focused on reopening the Department of Homeland Security to prevent  attacks on American soil and support the President in executing his  Article II duty.

Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, while I agree that this body should engage in  discussions about the War Powers Act, this is not the appropriate time.  U.S. troops are currently in harm's way, and they need to have our  full-throated support, full stop. I urge my colleagues to oppose this  resolution.