Mitigation Action and Watermen Support Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700734/mitigation-action-and-watermen-support-act-of-2026


Mr. SELF. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 4294, and I am  here to represent the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Harris) in his  opposition to H.R. 4294.

I include a letter titled ``Coalition Letter from Maryland Blue  Catfish Processors Opposing the MAWS Act.''                                                     March 12, 2026.

Coalition Letter From Maryland Blue Catfish Processors Opposing the                                  MAWS Act

We write as a coalition of small, family-owned seafood       processing businesses, which are among the only facilities in       Maryland actively processing blue catfish for human       consumption, to express our serious concerns with the       proposed MAWS Act introduced by Representative Sarah K.       Elfreth and co-led by Representative Robert J. Wittman.

For several years, our businesses have worked alongside the       Maryland Department of Agriculture and other state and       federal partners to invest significant time and financial       resources into building a viable commercial market for wild-      caught blue catfish. This effort has required overcoming       longstanding public stigma and educating consumers that blue       catfish is not only safe, but a highquality and desirable       protein-rich seafood product. Progress has been hard-won.

The MAWS Act, however well-intentioned, risks undermining       this progress by shifting public messaging toward the use of       blue catfish primarily for pet food or similar byproducts.       Headlines suggesting that blue catfish is destined for pet       food damage consumer perception and directly threaten the       emerging market for human consumption--the very market that       sustains Maryland watermen, processors, and our Bay       communities. Our shared goal has always been to add value to       this fishery, increase demand, and raise dockside prices so       that watermen are incentivized to harvest more invasive blue       catfish from Maryland waters.

It is also important to note that the utilization of       processing byproducts for rendering or pet food is already       occurring through existing private-sector relationships that       we have worked hard to establish, typically at prices between       $0.10 and $0.20 per pound. Government subsidies directed       toward a new, bureaucratically-selected recipient would       therefore not create innovation, but instead introduce market       distortion and unfair competitive advantage--jeopardizing       longstanding partnerships and destabilizing an industry that       is only beginning to succeed.

Currently, many processors struggle to secure sufficient       supply to meet growing consumer demand. Introducing a       government-funded competitor capable of paying above-market       prices for whole fish would further strain supply chains and       place small Maryland processors at significant risk. Fish in       the one- to two-pound range, as well as larger specimens, are       already valuable components of our processing operations and       product lines, despite misleading claims made by entities       like the Chesapeake Bay Foundation.

We are equally troubled by the legislative process that       produced this proposal without meaningful consultation from       the processors who have pioneered Maryland's on-the-ground       response to the blue catfish invasion. Members of our       coalition attempted outreach to Representative Elfreth's       office but were unfortunately met with a resistance to engage       in substantive dialogue regarding the bill's impacts on       private industry.

Ultimately, we share the goal of addressing the ecological       challenges posed by invasive blue catfish and strengthening       Maryland's seafood economy. However, we believe public funds       would be far more effective if directed toward initiatives       that can help the watermen, the processors, and the people in       our working waterfront communities. For example, USDA grant       funding secured by Congressman Andy Harris has helped several       Maryland processors to make investments into costly new       facilities upgrades that we otherwise would not have been       able to make. New programs should build upon, not undercut,       investments that have already been made by taxpayers.

Without a strong processing sector, Maryland cannot sustain       a viable blue catfish industry. We remain ready and willing       to work collaboratively with Representative Elfreth,       Representative Wittman, and other sponsors of this       legislation to identify policies that genuinely support       watermen, processors, and working waterfront communities       while continuing to remove invasive blue catfish from the       Chesapeake Bay.            Sincerely,      Nick Hargrove,

Tilghman Island Seafood, Tilghman, MD.      Stephanie Pazzaglia,

J.J. McDonnell Seafood, Elkridge, MD.      Amanda Williams,

BSA Seafood, Grasonville, MD.      Patrick Welsh Jr.,

Reliant Fish Company, Jessup, MD.

Mr. SELF. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.