Recognizing Veterans in Texas' Third Congressional District


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696747/recognizing-veterans-in-texas-third-congressional-district


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize 22 of our Nation's  finest veterans.

These individuals are exceptional American heroes who demonstrated  selfless commitment to serving our Nation and their communities.

This is a moment to acknowledge those who have sacrificed much and  devoted all to safeguarding our country. This year, Texas' Third  District is saluting brave veterans who have exhibited remarkable  service, leadership, integrity, and dedication. These veterans  represent true role models within our community, deserving our utmost  respect, acknowledgement, and honor.

The veterans from Texas' Third Congressional District receiving the  2025 Veteran Commendation Award are as follows:

Sergeant Christopher Acevedo, U.S. Army.

Captain Travis Mills, U.S. Army.

Major Gary Billings, U.S. Marine Corps.

Second Lieutenant Charles Neubecker, U.S. Army.

Master Sergeant Fernando Cruz, Jr., U.S. Marine Corps.

Senior Chief Petty Officer Vincent Riggs, U.S. Navy.

Senior Airman David Davis, U.S. Air Force.

Major Philip Shortino, U.S. Army.

Staff Sergeant David DuBay, U.S. Air Force.

Senior Airman Danny Stasik, U.S. Air Force.

Staff Sergeant Robert DuBay, U.S. Air Force.

Sergeant Willie Frank Stephenson, U.S. Army.

Master Sergeant Patrick Ervin, U.S. Air Force.

Captain Ean Sullivan, U.S. Marine Corps.

Sergeant Ayman Hatkwa, U.S. Army.

Colonel Dick Thompson, Jr., U.S. Air Force.

Sergeant Paul David Hoch, U.S. Army.

Chief Petty Officer Michael Thompson, Jr., U.S. Navy.

Petty Officer Second Class James Johnson, U.S. Navy.

Lance Corporal Frank Walker, Jr., U.S. Marine Corps.

Command Master Chief Petty Officer Robert Jordan, U.S. Navy.

Gunnery Sergeant Nick Mendoza, Jr., U.S. Marine Corps.

Mr. Speaker, I salute these 22 veterans. God bless them, and God  bless America.                    Honoring Captain Carol Young MacGibbon

Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Captain Carol Young  MacGibbon, a distinguished graduate of the United States Military  Academy at West Point.

Commissioned into the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1980 as part of  the historic first class of female graduates, Captain MacGibbon served  our Nation with distinction in leadership positions in Germany and  beyond.

Following her Active-Duty service, Mrs. MacGibbon dedicated 22 years  to mentoring future Army leaders, assisting over 165 candidates in  earning admission to West Point. Since 2003, Captain MacGibbon has been  a West Point admissions representative.

Since 2006, she served as the congressional district coordinator for  Texas' Third Congressional District. In that capacity, she served as  the West Point liaison officer for three successive Members of  Congress, beginning with Congressman Sam Johnson from 2006 to 2018.

Mr. Speaker, recognized by peers and leaders alike, Mrs. MacGibbon  received the Congressional Veteran Commendation Award from Congressman  Sam Johnson in 2017 and the Ray Colvin Service Award from the West  Point Society of North Texas in 2023.

Captain MacGibbon's legacy of service reaches well beyond her  professional achievements. She met her late husband, Kevin Vance  MacGibbon, while they were classmates at the United States Military  Academy, and they married in October of 1981 after graduation.

Captain Kevin MacGibbon served as an infantry officer stationed in  Germany during the Cold War from 1980 to 1985, earning his Ranger tab  and Airborne wings.

Together, they raised three children, who continue the proud  tradition of military service, including officers and graduates of West  Point and the U.S. Air Force Academy. The Army Lacrosse Endowment  stands as a testament to the enduring commitment of Carol and Kevin  MacGibbon to the values of West Point and the U.S. Army.

Carol MacGibbon's dedication to West Point and to our Nation embodies  the highest ideals of Duty, Honor, Country.

Therefore, I honor Captain Carol MacGibbon for her lifetime of  service to the United States, to West Point, and to the countless young  men and women whose lives she has helped shape.

We extend our gratitude and best wishes upon her retirement as  academy liaison officer for West Point.

The enduring legacy Captain Carol MacGibbon leaves at West Point  stands as a beacon for those who aspire to lead and serve, ensuring  that the academy's proud tradition endures for generations to come.

May God bless Captain Carol MacGibbon. May God bless the United  States of America.