Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698450/removal-of-the-use-of-united-states-forces-for-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this resolution, which is  not necessary, as it removes our Armed Forces from hostilities against  a country where there have been no hostilities. The War Powers Act has  no legal bearing on actions that could happen in the future. Yet that  is exactly what this concurrent resolution attempts to do.

To date, there are no confirmed U.S. servicemembers engaged in combat  with Venezuela.

While I could end it there, since Democrats are turning a blind eye  to the killing of Americans by illicit drugs from Venezuela, I also  highlight that Venezuela has become a strategic outpost for China,  Russia, and Iran, not to mention criminal and terrorist organizations.

Just yesterday, at a Europe Subcommittee hearing, I made the point  that China and Russia are engaged in hybrid war against the United  States today.

Not only has Maduro's regime purchased Iranian-armed drones, but they  have also allowed Iran to establish production facilities for its  military drones within their borders.

Terrorist organizations like Hezbollah use Caracas as a base to  operate their criminal terror organizations in South America,  generating revenue through narcotrafficking.

Russia, a longtime ally of the regime, still provides Venezuela with  military aid while also facing the challenges of waging war in Ukraine.  In fact, Venezuela opened a factory last summer to manufacture Russian  Kalashnikov rifle munitions.

China, Russia, Iran, and Cuba use the country as a platform for  intelligence operations in asymmetric warfare.

Instead of considering this resolution, which carries little or no  consequences for hostilities that do not exist, this Chamber should  focus on supporting the President's efforts to deter the growing  national security threat from Venezuela.

Hundreds of Americans die each day due to illegal drugs. Rather than  Democrats making it their life's mission to destroy Donald Trump,  America would be better served by Members of this Chamber if we helped  him prevent the flow of illicit drugs that are killing our citizens.

Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this  resolution.