Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698245/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-presidentially-designated-terrorist-organizations-in-the-western-hemisphere


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chairman for the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution.

This is neither the time nor the right legislation to deal with this  issue. This resolution suspends all military actions against any  organization that the President deems a designated terrorist  organization unless Congress acts.

This is a dangerous limitation on the President's constitutional  authority to defend the United States. Our world is changing and  changing fast. The President must have the flexibility to change with  the threats.

These drug cartels, especially Tren de Aragua, are behind much of the  drug trafficking, human smuggling, and violent crimes that are tearing  communities apart and fueling the opioid crisis in America.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there  were more than 72,000 fentanyl-related overdose deaths in 2023, the  last year available. This number represents a tragic national public  health crisis.

The intention of this resolution may be to stop the attacks on the  drug boats, but by refusing military action against presidentially  designated terrorist organizations, you shut the door for action  against other dangerous groups, including Mexican cartels or Islamic  terrorist groups that might want to establish themselves or attack  elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere.

Instead of considering this resolution, which carries little or no  consequences for hostilities that don't exist, this Chamber should  focus on supporting the President's efforts to deter the growing  national security threat from Venezuela.

Hundreds of Americans die each day due to illegal drugs like  fentanyl. Rather than Democrats making it their life's mission to  destroy Donald Trump, America would be better served if Members of this  Chamber would help him prevent the flow of illicit drugs.

As a 25-year Active-Duty member who deployed multiple times,  including that invasion of Grenada that Ms. Salazar mentioned in the  Caribbean without congressional action, I caution the ranking member on  accusing the President of the United States of war crimes. That is  beyond the pale. I recommend he walk those comments back.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution.