Sharia is Dangerous


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697017/sharia-is-dangerous


Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, Islam is a culture with a patina of religion.  Sharia is the law of Islam.

Sharia is dangerous. Western values form the basis for the founding  of America, namely that rights come from our creator. Ours is a  Christian-based culture. Sharia, on the other hand, is a culture of  violence and domination, totally anathema to the concept of individual  freedom.

The United States Constitution and sharia are fundamentally at odds  with one another. The Constitution begins with: ``We the people.''  Sharia states: ``Allah has said.'' Followers of sharia believe Muhammad  received a divine legal code that stands supreme over all man-made  laws.

While Western civilization has evolved, Islam has not. Islam is stuck  in the eighth century, and if they succeed at imposing their beliefs  upon us, we will be dragged back into the Dark Ages.

The contrasts are stark when comparing sharia to the strides made by  the United States in 250 years.

The 13th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution abolished slavery, but  there has never been an abolition movement in Islam. The Koran and  hadith even contain rules for slaves and the slave trade.

Sharia prescribes inhumane punishments viewed as normative. Stoning  to death for adultery is common, as are public beatings of women, the  amputation of the hand of a thief, and the execution of Christians and  Jews in accordance with the Koran. Several hardline clerics have even  issued fatwas for the assassination of President Trump and Prime  Minister Netanyahu.

The Declaration of Independence states: ``We hold these truths to be  self-evident, that all men are created equal.'' That is not so in  Islam. According to sharia, the testimony of a non-Muslim is not valid  against a Muslim in a court of law. A woman's testimony is equal to  one-half of that of a man. Non-Muslims living in majority Islamic  societies are second-class citizens with few rights and little  protection under the law.

The Sixth Amendment speaks of an impartial jury, but the testimony of  a non-Muslim is deemed inadmissible. In an Islamic sharia court, the  only testimony allowed is that of a Muslim. That is hardly fair and  impartial.

Sharia prohibits marriage between a Muslim woman and a non-Muslim  man. A Muslim man may marry a Christian wife, but not vice versa.  Sharia also gives the man, but not the woman, the unconditional right  to divorce.

Freedom of religion is in our First Amendment, but freedom of  religion in sharia means one is permitted to embrace Islam but one is  never free to leave Islam. Abandoning sharia is an apostasy punishable  by death.

Freedom of speech in America extends to expression not only of verbal  communication but also in art, writing, the media, and action. Certain  forms of expression are forbidden by sharia. Non-Muslims and moderate  Muslims who openly criticize Islam, Muhammad, or the Koran face severe  punishment. Remember Salman Rushdie, who was stabbed under a fatwa just  for writing about Muhammad.

America was founded on a basic concept of freedom of the individual,  self-governing under the rule of law. John Adams said: ``Our  Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is  wholly inadequate to the government of any other.''

We are witnessing the reality of Adams' wisdom in the clash of  cultures as outsiders stream into our country without assimilating. A  prominent Muslim attorney argued in the U.S. court: Islam is sharia;  sharia is Islam. The two cannot be separated.

There are acceptable actions in sharia that are illegal in America:  murder of family members who dishonor the family, child marriage,  spouse abuse, to name only a few.

Our legal processes developed through centuries of Western  civilization are not sufficient to confront the sharia influence  spreading across America. Even legislation may not stop the encroaching  danger. It will take more.

In the streets of New York City, a Muslim imam recently proclaimed:  ``We will not stop until Islam enters  every home.'' There is no denying Islam's intent to dominate Western  civilization. Their stated objective is to destroy us from within.

All who serve in this Congress swore to support and defend the  Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and  domestic. This is a time for choosing. Either we defeat the sharia  advances in America, or government of the people, by the people, and  for the people may indeed perish from the Earth.