Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, as you all know, President Trump has already  kicked out transgender troops from the military, despite the fact that  they are willing and able to serve and despite the fact that it will  cost billions of dollars and decades to recruit and train their  replacements.

This proposed ban on medical care is unnecessary and redundant for  our servicemembers because we know the goal here isn't actually about  policy. It is a symbolic punishment. It is to send a false political  message that trans healthcare is illegitimate, even though those of us  who live in reality know that trans healthcare is safe, effective, and  medically necessary. It is supported by every major medical association  in the U.S., representing more than 1.3 million U.S. doctors.

Let's be clear by what we mean by gender-affirming care. We don't  only mean surgery. Sometimes it is just using the correct pronouns.  Sometimes it is mental health care. Sometimes it is hormone therapy.  Yes, sometimes it is surgery.

This ban would also take away mental health care from the trans  children of our servicemembers. We know that trans youth face  significant mental  health challenges, not because they are trans to be clear, but because  of the external factors they face like: social isolation,  discrimination, lack of affirmation, the stress of not getting the care  they need, and having to hear colleagues of mine say horrible things  about them on the House floor.

Like any parent, if a servicemember's child can't get the care they  need, they will be distracted from their mission.

Ultimately, this ban will hurt our military readiness and likely lead  servicemembers to leave the military. This amendment isn't only  bigoted; it is shortsighted and would hurt our national security. I  urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chairman, I claim the time in opposition to the  amendment.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Trans people, including trans servicemembers, deserve the basic human  dignity and common decency of safely using the restroom.

Besides that, let's take the gentlewoman's point at face value. She  wants  to protect women. Great. So do I. Bathroom bans do not protect women.

The Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law even did a study on  it, and there is zero evidence that allowing trans people to use the  correct bathroom increases the risk to others. In fact, it is actually  opposite. We have seen that cis women are harassed when people try to  enforce or decree bathroom bans.

Earlier this year at a Buffalo Wild Wings in Minnesota, a server  followed a teenage girl into the restroom and demanded she prove she  was a girl. When the server didn't believe her, she unzipped her hoodie  to show she had breasts. That is the actual reality of bathroom bans  and even the idea of bathroom bans: harassment, discrimination, and  body exams.

We don't need servicemembers acting like vigilantes to enforce this  policy either by surveillance, profiling, or physical inspections. Our  servicewomen go through enough. We shouldn't be inviting even more  harassment. We don't need this amendment opening up the Pentagon and  the entire U.S. Government to a massive lawsuit.

This isn't good policy. This doesn't protect women.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from New  Mexico (Ms. Leger Fernandez).

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Chair, Republicans have a series of  amendments targeting trans people and the ability of servicemember  parents to make decisions about healthcare for their children. All of  these amendments, including this one, do not do anything to make us  safer or to honor our commitment to the servicemen and -women who are  willing to give their lives for this country.

These amendments are part of a culture war that is intended to make  Americans angry, divided, and fearful. They want to rename it the  Department of War because they are in a war against the idea that the  American life is something that includes all of us, that we can all  belong.

Their proposed facilities ban is a huge violation of privacy and  would make all women and girls less safe. Will Republicans require  menstrual monitoring, checking reproductive organs, as has happened, as  my colleague pointed out? Girls and women who are tall, strong, and  gender-nonconforming are already being questioned and yelled at.  Republicans seem to always want to dictate from D.C. what we can do  with our bodies, and that is not freedom.

I stand with all our servicemembers, including our trans  servicemembers, who are willing to fight and die for our freedoms. I am  going to fight for their freedom to be who they are, to fight for an  America where we all belong. We should not be at war with each other.  We all belong.

Ms. JACOBS. May I inquire as to how much time I have remaining.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, I would just like to point out that I think it  is very interesting that my colleague from South Carolina is so  obsessed with the issue of trans people, using horrible slurs to talk  about them, when many people in this body have received gender- affirming care. Filler is gender-affirming care. Boob jobs are gender- affirming care. Botox is gender-affirming care. Lots of my colleagues  have received gender-affirming care. Let me be clear, I think everyone  should have access to the gender-affirming care that they need, and I  think we should respect everybody in this country.

Ms. JACOBS. The Committee is not in order.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.

Ms. JACOBS. I request her words be taken down.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, the Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic  Aid account empowers the U.S. to be a global first responder, advancing  our humanitarian goals and strategic interests at the same time.

This fund makes humanitarian responses possible that otherwise  wouldn't be. It enables the quick delivery of food, water, shelter,  medical supplies, and transportation during natural disasters or  humanitarian crises in areas that are too hard for NGOs and other U.S.  agencies to reach as quickly. That means more lives saved.

This account is also used to fund the removal of dangerous landmines  and other unexploded ordnance that could harm civilians, something I  know the amendment's sponsor has been vocal about in the past.

This fund helps showcase the U.S. military in a positive light,  leading with our values and capabilities while strengthening  partnerships and alliances.

For example, just a few years ago, OHDACA provided critical  humanitarian assistance to Afghan Special Immigrant Visa applicants  after the collapse of the Afghan Government.

Compared to the rest of the defense budget, OHDACA's budget is  modest, but its impact is huge. It yields massive returns in lives  saved, crises stabilized, and partnerships strengthened.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to reject this amendment.

Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chairman, these AUMFs were literally voted on when I  was 2 years old and 13 years old, respectively, and now I am old enough  to be a Member of Congress.

Let's be clear. Presidents from both parties have abused these AUMFs,  and my generation is tired of these endless, forever wars. We know that  President Trump will exploit, bend, and break any law. The courts have  even said it. That is why this body should leave no ambiguity, no  wiggle room, and no daylight about our congressional intent and  congressional authority. Congress has the sole constitutional right to  declare war, not President Trump or any other President.

Yet, we have already seen this President take unauthorized military  strikes in places like Yemen, Somalia, Syria, and Iraq. Earlier this  year, he launched strikes on Iran without congressional authorization.  Right now, he is weighing military strikes on cartels in Venezuela and  hasn't sought congressional authorization.

This body should not sit idly by while the President makes a mockery  of our Constitution and our laws. We--only we--have the power to  declare war. I urge my colleagues to pass our bipartisan amendment and  repeal these outdated AUMFs.