Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I rise today to speak in  support of amendment No. 159, to provide funding for the purchase of  heavy dump trucks, or HDTs, for the Active Army, the Army National  Guard, and the Army Reserve.

While much of the focus in our FY26 Defense appropriations bill is on  weapons and on other Defense materials, the tools that our military use  to ensure that the infrastructure is in place to support our  servicemembers are just as critical to our Nation's success.

HDTs are necessary for the construction and the maintenance of supply  routes, airfields, helipads, and logistical facilities in both combat  and noncombat zones.

Currently, our military is forced to rely on an outdated and an  unreliable fleet of trucks. Upgrading these vehicles will provide our  servicemembers with up-to-date safety features such as blind spot  detection, collision avoidance, and antilock brakes that are common in  most modern vehicles.

Additionally, modernization of the fleet will also accommodate  armored ballistic cabs, vitally critical for protecting our  warfighters.

Not only will this amendment ensure that our servicemembers can  utilize modern technology when building the infrastructure that our  warfighters rely on, but it also puts millions of dollars into local  economies throughout our country.

From my home State of Pennsylvania to Minnesota, communities across  the United States play a vital role in supporting the HDT industrial  base. This amendment will continue to support the hardworking Americans  who build these trucks.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense  amendment to ensure our servicemembers have the most up-to-date  technology to support our warfighters.

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I yield to the gentleman from  Pennsylvania (Mr. Mackenzie).

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of  my time.