Doge Rescissions Package


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this week, the House will  vote on the first DOGE rescissions package that will claw back nearly  $10 billion in wasteful spending. The American public expects their  government to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and to use their  taxpayer dollars for programs that advance Americans.

However, for years, billions of dollars have been shelled out for  ridiculous, wasteful programs like the $6 million to create net zero  cities in Mexico, the $3 million for Iraqi Sesame Street, or even the  $2 million for Green New Deal policies in Africa and Asia.

During a time when our Nation is trillions of dollars in debt, our  government needs to be focused on serving the needs of American  citizens. The American people voted to return our Nation to fiscal  sanity with the election of President Trump in November. Now it is time  that we fully deliver on President Trump's agenda.

Promises made, promises kept.                        The Scourge of Deadly Fentanyl

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to strongly  support the HALT Fentanyl Act. This is critical legislation that will  increase penalties for the criminals who produce, traffic, and sell  this poison.

In 2023, one Pennsylvanian died every 2 hours from an overdose, with  the overwhelming majority of these resulting from fentanyl poisoning.  Our Nation has lost too many lives because of this deadly scourge on  our communities.

It is no secret that the Mexican drug cartels recruit college  chemistry majors to chemically alter fentanyl precursors to make the  drug even more deadly, and the Chinese Communist Party happily supplies  them with the chemicals that they need to achieve this goal.

This legislation will classify fentanyl analogs as a schedule I drug  to allow our law enforcement and Border Patrol the ability to  effectively seize these drugs. This will result in harsher penalties  for the criminals who are responsible for this epidemic.

Our Nation cannot wait any longer as we lose thousands of Americans  every day to this poison.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to supporting this legislation on the  floor, and I encourage all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  to support it as well.                             National Dairy Month

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, this month we celebrate  National Dairy Month to highlight the dairy industry and the  hardworking men and women who work tirelessly to produce the dairy  products that we know and love.

My home State of Pennsylvania produces 9.8 billion pounds of milk  annually from the nearly 465,000 dairy cows that reside in  Pennsylvania. The 4,850 dairy farms located throughout Pennsylvania  represent nearly 20 percent of our Nation's dairy farms. These farms  provide 52,000 jobs across the Commonwealth and bring in more than $10  billion in annual revenue.

Pennsylvania's dairy industry is not just an important industry for  the Commonwealth's economy, but it is also a way of life for the  dairymen and -women who work hard to put food on our tables.

As we celebrate National Dairy Month, I want to thank the hardworking  men and women throughout Pennsylvania and throughout our country who  support the American dairy industry.        Honoring World War II Veteran Sam Worley on His 104th Birthday

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor World  War II veteran and Franklin County resident Sam Worley as he celebrated  his 104th birthday this past weekend.

In 1942, Sam was drafted into the U.S. Air Force and by 1943 was  stationed in England as a member of the Eighth Air Force's First Bomb  Group.

Sam was tasked with decoding incoming orders for American bombers and  their fighter plane escorts, which is a critical role that allowed our  planes to carry out devastating bombing runs over Europe.

After his discharge in 1945, Sam and his wife moved to Chambersburg  where they raised their children, Bill and Elaine. However, Sam's  service to his  country did not stop when he returned from World War II. Sam has been  incredibly active in Franklin County, serving as a judge of elections,  Franklin County commissioner, Chambersburg Council president, and mayor  of Chambersburg.

Sam Worley's commitment has never slowed down. Sam is still a vibrant  member of our community, bringing so much love and joy to everyone whom  he meets.

On behalf of everyone throughout Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional  District, I want to personally wish Sam a happy 104th birthday.