Letterkenny Army Depot Plays Important Role


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  great work being done at Letterkenny Army Depot in Chambersburg,  Pennsylvania.

Recently, on a visit there with Senator Dave McCormick and Depot  Commander Colonel Lewis, I was able to see firsthand how the Army depot  works every day to support our warfighters.

Since assuming command in July, Colonel Lewis has overseen more than  1,500 personnel, who perform critical work repairing and modernizing  the air and missile defense systems that allow the U.S. military to  remain the most technologically advanced and lethal fighting force in  the world.

Beyond supporting our warfighters across the globe, Letterkenny Army  Depot is a vital economic driver in the region, bringing nearly half a  billion dollars back to the district through jobs and contracts.

It is an honor to represent Letterkenny in Congress, and I was  grateful to have the opportunity to revisit and see the incredible work  that is being done in Franklin County.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th District, I offer my  thanks for the important role that Letterkenny plays in aiding our  warfighters and look forward to their continued innovation and  dedicated service to our country.               Energy and Commerce Committee Working Diligently

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight the  great energy bills that will come to the House floor later this week.

This Congress, Republicans on the Energy and Commerce Committee have  worked diligently to improve grid reliability as well as the permitting  process for Federal projects, ultimately supporting President Trump's  goal of unleashing American energy dominance.

Upcoming legislation that came out of the Committee will ensure that  reliability and affordability are prioritized when making decisions  about our electric grid. These bills will also reverse the trend of the  last 4 years, such as restrictions on natural gas pipelines that were  blocked by radical blue State governments' Green New Deal agenda.

I was proud to support these bills out of the Energy and Commerce  Committee and look forward to seeing this legislation passing Congress  and being signed into law by President Trump.               Expressing Gratitude to Arnie and Linda McClure

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  community impact of Arnie and Linda McClure of Shirleysburg,  Pennsylvania.

Arnie is an accomplished businessman, a farmer, a published author,  and a civic leader. In 1980, Arnie founded The Valley Log, a weekly  newspaper in Huntingdon County. Arnie has served as the publisher and  editor over the last 45 years.

Arnie's contributions to journalism also include multiple books on  Pennsylvania history. Additionally, Arnie and his wife, Linda, are  partners in the McClure Mills Farms.

Arnie's wife, Linda, is a community leader in her own right.  Currently, she serves as the president of the Mount Union District  School Board. Together, Arnie and Linda are a powerhouse couple in  Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania.

I express my gratitude to both Arnie and Linda for their many  contributions to making Huntingdon County, Pennsylvania, a stronger and  better community.                         Celebrating Barr Ridge Farms

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  Lieb family of Barr Ridge Farms as the Farm Family of the Year in  Cambria County, Pennsylvania.

Barr Ridge Farms is operated by Aaron and Bob Lieb, the triple-great- grandsons of Adam Lieb, who founded the dairy farm in 1861.

The Farm Family of the Year is awarded by the Cambria County Farm  Bureau to a multigenerational family farm that has been active and well  respected in the farm bureau.

Located in Nicktown, Pennsylvania, Barr Ridge Farms produces  approximately 1,200 gallons of milk every day.  The Lieb family also grows corn, soybeans, and a variety of grass to  feed the animals.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District,  I offer my heartfelt congratulations to the Lieb family on this notable  recognition and express gratitude for their enduring commitment to the  Pennsylvania agricultural community.