Repealing Green New Deal Policies


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, this week, the House will  vote on several bills under the Congressional Review Act to repeal out- of-touch Biden-era Green New Deal policies.

H.J. Res. 88, which I introduced this Congress, will repeal the Biden  administration's approval of California's de facto electric vehicle  mandate. This policy requires California to end the sale of all  internal combustion engines by 2035, and 17 States, including the  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, are set to adopt this regulation.

Let me be clear: No one should be forced to buy a product purely  because of government regulations. We cannot allow Gavin Newsom and  California Democrats to decide what vehicles my constituents in central  Pennsylvania are allowed to purchase.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues in both the House and the Senate  to pass this legislation so that President Trump can end this mandate  and save our American auto industry.                    Harvesting Critical Mineral Resources

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, for years, my colleagues  and I in the House and Senate have been sounding the alarm on China's  control of the critical mineral resources that our Nation relies on.

Our Nation is rich in natural resources, and we need policies that  allow us to utilize them and limit our reliance on countries like China  and Russia.

Now, President Trump is finally setting us on the right path by  signing an executive order to expedite our Nation's ability to harvest  the deepsea bed mineral resources that are just off our shorelines.

This executive order will expedite the review process for exploration  permits and implement a cross-government plan to advance our Nation's  ability to harvest these critical resources.

Working together with our allies and industry partners, President  Trump's actions will create a strong supply chain for these minerals  and counter China's influence in this important industry.                      Modernizing Our Workforce Programs

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, as President Trump bolsters  our domestic manufacturing, returning production to the U.S., American  companies need the workforce to support these industries.

Last week, President Trump signed an executive order to modernize our  workforce programs to better prepare the American people for these  high-paying jobs in the trades.

This Presidential action will support more than 1 million  apprenticeships per year, meaning that talented students in vocational  programs throughout our country will be able to further their careers  with hands-on training while being paid.

In my district, I have had the privilege of visiting vocational  schools such as the Colonial Career and Technology Center in New Oxford  and the Bedford County Technical Center in Everett, and I am proud to  see President Trump continue to support the future of these talented  students with this executive order.

Soon, the American workforce will be even stronger than ever.                  Honoring Michaux State Forest Firefighters

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the  courageous firefighters who have put their lives on the line to fight  the two wildfires in Pennsylvania's Michaux State Forest.

More than 170 firefighters have responded to the emergency, including  Vigilant Hose Company No. 1 in Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. While their  work is yet to be finished, these brave men and women have already  contained more than 90 percent of the Hammond's Rock fire and are  nearing 50 percent containment for the Thompson Hollow fire.

On behalf of the entire 13th District of Pennsylvania, I thank these  firefighters for their courage in the face of danger, and I pray for  their continued safety as they continue to fight these fires.