Significant Strides to Strengthen United States Warfighters


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, President Trump issued an  executive order last week to prioritize the development of the U.S.  warfighter.

President Trump has made significant strides toward strengthening the  United States' military capabilities, and this executive order  continues to do just that.

Enhancing the lethality and readiness of our military forces relies  on the highly skilled practices of defense contracting partners like  JLG Industries, Volvo Construction Equipment, the Manitowoc Company,  and firms like Lockheed Martin, Leonardo DRS, Kongsberg Defense  Corporation, and JWF Defense Systems. These are all examples of  companies that put our Nation's vital interests first, and these are  all companies that are in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District.

President Trump's initiative will hold Defense to the highest  standards by refocusing on our Nation's military readiness, which is  especially needed in these incredibly dangerous times.

I thank President Trump for this initiative.             Recognizing Efforts to Restore Gettysburg Monuments

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge  the efforts of the Gettysburg National Military Park to restore several  monuments. These restoration efforts follow the vandalism of historic  monuments at Gettysburg.

These memorials honor the brave soldiers who fought and died in one  of the most pivotal American battles. Restoring these monuments will  take months and cost taxpayers thousands of dollars. These are  resources that should have never been necessary to expend.

These actions were not simply acts of graffiti. They were acts to  damage our legacy. These monuments stand as reminders of sacrifice,  unity, and the ongoing work of perfecting this Union. They deserve our  utmost respect.

We owe it to those who fought for these freedoms and to the future  generations of Americans to ensure that our national parks and  memorials are preserved.

Representing Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District, I thank  Superintendent Kris Heister and her staff at Gettysburg National  Military Park for their dedication to protecting these sacred sites.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all constituents to uphold the highest respect  for those who died so that we might enjoy the many freedoms that we  continue to have today.                 Recognizing Huntingdon Area School District

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the  Huntingdon Area School District on its selection as a Great  Pennsylvania School.

Bestowed by the Pennsylvania School Boards Association, this  designation recognizes school districts across Pennsylvania for  academic excellence. As Superintendent Jennifer Mitchell stated: This  meaningful designation reflects the shared commitment to high-quality,  innovative, and community-centered education in Huntingdon.

Mr. Speaker, I join with constituents throughout Huntingdon in  congratulating the Huntingdon Area School District, Superintendent  Mitchell, and the school board directors on the district's designation  as one of Pennsylvania's great schools.            Honoring the Life and Community Impact of Tina Pelesky

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the life and  community impact of Tina Pelesky, a dedicated advocate for veterans,  who passed away at the age of 56 this past Christmas Eve.

Tina devoted her professional life to Veteran Community Initiatives,  a nonprofit organization in Johnstown that provides numerous services  for veterans in a 14-county region that includes Cambria, Somerset, and  Bedford Counties.

Tina most recently served as VCI's director of finance and  administration. In her partnership with VCI founder Tom Caulfield, Tina  was instrumental in supporting numerous aspects of VCI's mission.

As we pause to remember Tina, we also keep her husband, David, and  her entire family in our prayers. We also express a nation's gratitude  for her passionate commitment that advocates like Tina Pelesky and Tom  Caulfield make each and every day for all of those who served this  great country.