Streamlining Review Process for Federal Projects


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on the  importance of my bill, the RED Tape Act, which will be marked up by the  Committee on Energy and Commerce tomorrow.

The RED Tape Act amends the Clean Air Act to streamline the review  process for Federal projects. The U.S. is facing a rapidly growing  demand for energy production and domestic manufacturing. Meeting these  escalating needs requires efficiency in deploying new infrastructure.

The RED Tape Act would eliminate duplicative reviews that serve only  to delay the permitting and construction of these needed projects. This  reform will provide timely and predictable outcomes for new projects,  helping to ensure that America remains competitive in the global  economy.

As we work to fulfill President Trump's goal of energy dominance, I  look forward to seeing this bill advance through the full committee and  proceed to the floor for a vote.                           Rising Healthcare Costs

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address the  issue of rising healthcare costs. As no surprise, data released from  the final full year of the Biden administration reflected that  healthcare spending has grown at an unsustainable pace, far outpacing  inflation.

Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, healthcare costs across  all markets have spiked for patients, while large insurance companies  continue to profit. Under excessive ACA regulations, we entered an era  of unprecedented mergers of insurers, providers, and pharmacies.

This imbalance has contributed to a dire crisis for small community- based pharmacies, particularly in rural areas like Pennsylvania's 13th  Congressional District, leading to closures and leaving many  communities to be pharmacy deserts.

This week, Congress will begin to deliver on producing meaningful  transparency for the American patient as we consider comprehensive  legislation that curbs PBM abuses and includes legislation that I  authored to expand telehealth access to cardiac and pulmonary  rehabilitation and requires unique provider numbers at every hospital  outpatient department.

This package forms a key downpayment on delivering meaningful health  cost reduction for all Americans.

Last week, President Trump announced the Great Healthcare Plan, which  focuses on lowering costs by increasing price transparency and holding  big insurance companies accountable.

These proposed reforms by President Trump, coupled with action by  Republicans in Congress, will bring much-needed reform to our broken  healthcare system and reduce healthcare costs for all Americans.                            Recognizing Gary Paul

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Gary  Paul, who has concluded three decades of public service as a Richland  Township supervisor in Cambria County, Pennsylvania.

Gary Paul, throughout his 30-year tenure, has worked tirelessly as a  Geistown borough road foreman while maintaining his family farm, where  he also raises beef cattle.

Recently, Gary was recognized for his dedication by the Pennsylvania  State Association of Township Supervisors and by the Richland Township  Board of Supervisors.

With pride for Gary, I join the citizens of Richland Township and of  all of Cambria County in thanking him for his unwavering commitment and  his unwavering public service.                 Congratulating Jack Fields on His Retirement

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Jack Fields  for more than 50 years of service to the borough of McConnellsburg in  Fulton County, Pennsylvania.

Jack recently retired as secretary and treasurer of the borough  council, acting as borough manager and head of maintenance and  permitting.

Just 2 years after graduating from McConnellsburg High School, Jack  was drafted in 1953 and served our country in the Korean war.

When Jack was asked about his military service, he shared that he  learned to depend on others and not to take anything for granted. Jack  continued by encouraging others that ``you must go after it yourself.''  What great advice.

I express best wishes to Jack for a deserved retirement, and I thank  him for his devotion to Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District and  especially to beautiful Fulton County, Pennsylvania.