Supporting Reversal of California Ev Mandate


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, last week I introduced  legislation to reverse the out-of-touch California EV mandate that the  Biden administration approved with one foot already out the door.

This de facto ban on internal combustion engines not only stifles  innovation and blocks consumer choice for the American people, but it  also threatens 40 percent of the auto market including the Commonwealth  of Pennsylvania.

I have been leading this fight since I arrived in Congress to protect  consumer choice and to foster further innovation in the auto industry.  With the support of President Trump and Energy and Commerce Chairman  Brett Guthrie, I am confident that this legislation will swiftly pass  and be signed into law.

Encouraging Innovation Through Artificial Intelligence Base

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, at the beginning of this  term, President Trump announced an aggressive artificial intelligence  plan to keep the U.S. competitive with China.

Just 3 months later, we are already seeing this plan in action  through the investment of billions of dollars to revitalize the former  Homer City Generating Station located in Pennsylvania.

Projects like this and the Three Mile Island nuclear plant's  revitalization not only bring revenue in for local economies, it  employs hardworking Americans. It also helps our Nation stay  competitive with China in the development of artificial intelligence.

As President Trump builds up our artificial intelligence base, the  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania stands ready to fulfill its necessary  energy needs.                            Protecting Our Border

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, since President Trump was  sworn into office, the daily number of border crossings has plummeted  to record lows. Currently, our Border Patrol agents are making fewer  than 50 arrests per day at the U.S.-Mexico border. Under President  Biden, Border Patrol was averaging more than 1,000 arrests a day.

President Trump has promised to secure our border and make our  communities safer by removing dangerous criminals from our streets.  Just 3 months into his term, the results of these policies truly speak  for themselves: Promises made, promises kept.

Honoring the Life of Lieutenant Colonel Boyd ``Buzz'' Wagner

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor World  War II ace pilot and Johnstown native, Lieutenant Colonel Boyd ``Buzz''  Wagner.

Buzz completed his flight training in 1938 before he was assigned to  the Philippines. When Japanese forces attacked the Philippines in  December of 1941, Buzz quickly shot down five Japanese planes, making  him the first ace pilot of World War II.

By April of the following year, Buzz was credited with eight air-to- air kills, as well as numerous successful bombing runs on Japanese  airfields, one of which earned him the Distinguished Service Cross  citation.

Though he tragically passed away in November of 1942 during a  training flight in Alabama, Buzz's legacy lives on as an inspiration to  all aspiring aviators.

Congratulating University of Florida Forward Thomas Haugh

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  University of Florida forward and New Oxford, Pennsylvania, native  Thomas Haugh who helped lead the Florida Gators to a Final Four  victory, clinching their spot in the national championship game. Thomas  played a critical role in the semifinal game, recording 12 points, 7  rebounds, and 2 blocks.

On behalf of everyone in Pennsylvania's 13th District, I congratulate  Thomas and his parents, Jennifer and Ryan, on this incredible victory.  I wish the best of luck to Thomas and the entire Florida Gators team in  the national championship game tonight.