Unleashing American Energy


Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, throughout his campaign,  President Trump promised to unleash American energy and to end the era  of overregulation.

In just 7 months, President Trump has already taken those historic  steps to boost domestic energy production, resulting in gas prices  dropping by 50 cents over the past year.

In March, President Trump and EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin undertook  the largest day of deregulation in American history, releasing the  shackles on our energy producers by President Biden's Green New Deal  initiatives.

Now, my colleagues and I in the House will take up a strong  deregulation package this week that will further streamline the  permitting process for our energy producers throughout the U.S.

It is time that my colleagues and I codify President Trump's  deregulation agenda so that our energy producers can unleash domestic  production, lower costs for all American consumers, and further support  our allies abroad on our pathway to energy dominance.               Honoring Our Brave Border Patrol and ICE Agents

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in  support of our brave Border Patrol and ICE agents who tirelessly put  their lives on the line each day to protect America.

With President Trump back in office, ICE agents can finally do their  jobs and enforce the laws that are on the books. These brave officers  are producing historic results at our border and in our communities.

In the first 6 months of President Trump's term in office, his  administration has removed more than 70,000 convicted criminals, many  of whom are convicted of assault, sexual crimes, kidnapping, and even  homicide.

Yet, despite their historic work enforcing our Nation's laws, our ICE  agents are facing a disgusting string of threats and violence against  them and their families, resulting in an 830 percent increase in  assaults against ICE agents. This string of threats is a result of  months of violent rhetoric coming from the other side of the aisle.  Whether in political office or in the media, calling for violence  against law enforcement is simply unacceptable.

While a small group of people call for this violence, I know that the  American people which overwhelmingly supported President Trump's  reelection, are proud of our ICE agents as they work to remove  dangerous and often violent criminals from our communities.                          National Pennsylvania Day

Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, July 20, we  celebrated National Pennsylvania Day, honoring the Commonwealth's  crucial role in the founding and continuing success of our great  Nation.

From the signing of the Declaration of Independence in Independence  Hall in Philadelphia to the Battle of Gettysburg during the Civil War,  Pennsylvania has always been at the center of American progress as we  strive to form that more perfect Union.

Today, Pennsylvania remains at the center of our Nation's growth,  especially as we enter a competitive race with China to dominate  artificial intelligence.

Last week, President Trump and Senator Dave McCormick hosted an  inaugural Pennsylvania Energy and Innovation Summit in Pittsburgh to  highlight how Pennsylvania will lead in the AI revolution. During the  summit, President Trump announced more than $90 billion of investments  into the Commonwealth's energy industry and data centers.

Now, with the unleashing of Pennsylvania's energy potential, each and  every day will be Pennsylvania Day.