Commending Mayor Gary Manier for 24 Years of Service to Central Illinois


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to honor and congratulate Gary  Manier for his 24 years of service as the Mayor of Washington,  Illinois.

Mayor Manier is a proud Washington native and graduated from  Washington Community High School in 1972. Gary attended Illinois  Central College and, upon graduation, started what would eventually  become a 42-year career at Caterpillar, Inc. until his retirement in  2015.

Before becoming Mayor of Washington, his career of public service  began on the Washington Community High School Board, where he served as  both Vice President and President. In April of 2001, Manier was first  elected as Mayor of Washington in a competitive election with four  other candidates.

Throughout his decades long tenure as Mayor, Gary accomplished many  projects on behalf of the city of Washington. These include, but are  not limited to, the opening of the Five Points Community Center, a new  Washington City Hall and police station, implementation of incentives  to attract business investments in Washington, improvement of local  streets and major roads, and an upgrade of the city's sewer system to  accommodate the growth of the community.

One of the most pivotal times of Mayor Manier's tenure came after the  historic and devastating EF-4 tornado on November 17, 2013. Tragically,  the city of Washington suffered loss of life, approximately $1 billion  in property damage to more than 1,100 homes, and the priceless loss of  cherished personal belongings. I know many in Washington hold Mayor  Manier in high esteem for his strong, critical leadership during that  extremely challenging time for the community.

Mayor Manier has earned numerous accolades including the President's  Servant Leader Award from Eureka College, being named Washingtonian of  the Year in 2014, and being elected twice as the Second Vice President  of the Illinois Municipal League.

Undoubtably, Mayor Manier's leadership will leave a lasting impact on  the city of Washington and Central Illinois. It is my pleasure to  congratulate him on his retirement and wish him, his wife Lada,  daughter Brooke, son Chase, and their seven grandchildren the best in  the future.