Congratuling Deere Company Vice President of Global Government Affairs Collis Jones on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694731/congratuling-deere-company-vice-president-of-global-government-affairs-collis-jones-on-his-retirement


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Collis Jones,  Vice President of Global Government Affairs, for his nearly 37 years of  distinguished service at Deere & Company. Throughout his career, Jones  demonstrated unwavering dedication, strategic insight, and a deep  commitment to advancing the company's mission and values.

Collis joined John Deere in 1989 as a financial services  representative. Throughout his career, he has held key positions in  Sales, Marketing, and Government Affairs, including serving as the  director of U.S. Public Affairs before leading the Global Government  Affairs organization. In this pivotal role, he developed Deere's  strategy and advocacy priorities leading to legislative, regulatory,  and public policy outcomes that ultimately benefited the company,  customers, employees, and business partners.

His extensive experience with product sales uniquely equipped him to  educate policymakers and regulators about the company, its products,  and processes. This expertise made him an effective advocate at the  global, federal, and state levels, where he successfully influenced  policy discussions.

Throughout his career, Collis has dedicated himself to building and  leading effective teams and mentoring numerous colleagues. As a strong  brand ambassador, he has served on several boards, including the  Thurgood Marshall College Fund and The Congressional Award Foundation.  His dedication and leadership have left a lasting impact on the company  and his many colleagues across the enterprise.

Collis and his wife Stefanie, who also recently retired, plan to  spend time traveling, enjoying family and friends, and perfecting their  golf game. I wish Collis, Stefanie, and their daughter, Camryn, all the  best in the years to come.