Congratulating John W. Rauber, Jr. on His Retirement After 25 Years of Distinguished Service At John Deere Company


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699462/congratulating-john-w-rauber-jr-on-his-retirement-after-25-years-of-distinguished-service-at-john-deere-company


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize John W. Rauber,  Jr., and congratulate him on his retirement after 25 years of  distinguished service at John Deere. Joining Deere in 2000, John played  an instrumental role in John Deere's U.S. and International Government  Affairs and International Finance Teams, serving most recently as  Regional Director & Counsel for Government Relations, and led the  global Government Affairs organization.

At John Deere, John helped strengthen business opportunities for  dealers globally, develop innovative solutions for Deere customers, and  build public affairs operations in Europe, Asia, and South America.  John was instrumental in developing sound public policy to support the  agriculture' community in Illinois, the Midwest, and throughout the  United States--advocating for key provisions in the Farm Bill and  prioritizing broadband connectivity for precision agriculture.

Throughout his career, John has been known in Washington and around  Capitol Hill for his effective advocacy, dedication, and leadership.  He's been a trusted colleague and friend--well respected by Members of  Congress on both sides of the aisle and his peers in Washington. A  consummate professional, John was a reliable resource to those who  sought advice or counsel. No matter one's role, John treated those  around him fairly and with respect, providing mentorship and guidance  to those in need.

As native of Bethesda, Maryland, John's roots run deep in the greater  Washington, D.C., area. Graduating from Georgetown University and  George Washington University Law School, John has committed his life to  serving his community and giving back to those who helped him along the  way. Above all else, I know what John enjoys most is being a loving  husband to his wife Diane, and an incredible father to their four sons,  John, David, Michael, and Andrew. In retirement, John will continue to  serve his community, enjoy his summers at the beach, and complete his  10th Boston Marathon.

I want to extend my sincere congratulations to John for his  distinguished career and significant contributions to John Deere--which  will leave an indelible mark on a great American and Illinois  manufacturer. I wish John, and his wife Diane, all the best as he  enters the next chapter in his life.