Congratulating Loras College President, James Collins on His Retirement


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694164/congratulating-loras-college-president-james-collins-on-his-retirement


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize James Collins for  his extraordinary twenty-year tenure as President of Loras College. As  the longest-serving president in Loras college's 185-year history,  Collins has left an indelible mark on Iowa's oldest institution of  higher education.

Collins earned his Bachelor of Science degree in Finance from Loras  College in 1984. After graduation, what began as a brief visit to his  alma mater evolved into a lifelong career of service. Starting as an  admissions representative in 1984, he advanced through various  leadership positions before being selected as President in 2004 at age  42, making him the youngest president in the school's history.

During Collins' tenure at Loras College, the institution achieved  unprecedented success. He oversaw the most successful, comprehensive  campaign in history, increasing the endowment by 67 percent, and under  his leadership, the college completed major capital improvements,  including the construction of the Lillis Athletic & Wellness Center,  renovation of Rock Bowl Stadium and Keane Hall, and the construction of  the Tucker Tennis Complex. Collins also expanded graduate and  professional programs, achieved ABET accreditation for engineering  programs, and led the college to consistent recognition by U.S. News as  a top fifteen Midwest baccalaureate institution.

President Collins' visionary leadership and unwavering commitment to  Catholic higher education has strengthened the Loras College mission  and impacted thousands of students. His dedication to academic  excellence, innovative partnerships, and community service have  advanced the institution's legacy and I want to congratulate Jim on his  remarkable career, thank him for his decades of service to Loras  College, and wish him all the best in this well-deserved retirement.