Congratulating Judge Jim Knecht on 50 Years of Service


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and congratulate  Illinois Fourth District Appellate Court Justice, James ``Jim'' Knecht,  as he reaches the milestone of serving 50 years as a judge.

Jim was born in Lincoln, Illinois in 1944 and graduated from Lincoln  Community High School in 1962. Afterwards, he attended Illinois State  University and earned his Juris Doctor from the University of Illinois  College of law in 1973. While in law school, Jim was an editor of the  Law Review and was honored as a member of the prestigious national law  school honors society, the Order of the Coif.

Jim began his judicial career as a law clerk to Illinois Supreme  Court Justice Robert C. Underwood before serving as an Associate  Circuit Judge for 3 years and as a Circuit Judge for 8 years. In 1986,  Judge Knecht was elected to the Illinois Fourth District Appellate  Court. Currently, he is the longest serving judge in Illinois court  history and an accredited leader within the Illinois law community. He  is a member of the Illinois State and McLean County Bar Associations,  the American Judicature Society, the Illinois Judges' Association, the  Appellate Lawyers Association, and is a fellow of the Illinois Bar  Foundation.

Outside of the courtroom, Judge Knecht is heavily involved in our  Illinois communities and within his alma maters. He serves on the  Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council and on the National  Advisory Board of the Corporate Alliance to End Partner Violence.  Additionally, he spent time as an adjunct professor at both Illinois  State University and the University of Illinois College of Law. At  Illinois State University, his time as an adjunct professor lasted  nearly three decades and he is a recipient of their Distinguished  Alumni Award.

I want to congratulate Judge Knecht on this momentous achievement and  thank him for his continued service to the state of Illinois. I wish  Judge Knecht, his wife Ruth, their children and grandchildren many  years of happiness and success in the future.