Congratulating Don Johnson on His Retirement As the Ceo of Goodwill Industries of Central Illinois


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693113/congratulating-don-johnson-on-his-retirement-as-the-ceo-of-goodwill-industries-of-central-illinois


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Don Johnson for  his decades of dedicated service in the nonprofit sector and his  impactful tenure as President and CEO of Goodwill Industries of Central  Illinois. In this role, Johnson led the organization to expand  workforce development efforts and launched new initiatives aimed at  supporting some of the most vulnerable populations in Central Illinois.

Johnson earned his Bachelor of Science from Eastern Illinois  University and a Master of Science from Western Illinois University.  Before joining Goodwill in 2016, he served as Executive Director of the  Hult Center for Healthy Living and as Vice President of Community  Investments at the Heart of Illinois United Way. In those roles, he  championed data-driven community investments, built expansive volunteer  networks, and led public health and education initiatives, including  211, Success by Six, and Supporting Student Access.

During Johnson's tenure at Goodwill, the organization broadened its  mission beyond traditional job training and donation-based stores.  Under his leadership, Goodwill introduced innovative programs that  supported children and families at risk of violence and created a new  job placement program for neurodivergent young adults. One of his  biggest projects being the expansion of the General Wayne A. Downing  Home for Veterans, which helped raise nearly $1.5 million for the  strengthening of services for local veterans.

Don Johnson's tireless leadership and commitment to the non-profit  sector has left a lasting impact on Central Illinois. His work has  advanced economic opportunity, human dignity, and community well-being.  I congratulate Don on his retirement and wish him, his wife Kim, and  their two daughters all the best in this next chapter of life.