Successful Operation to Arrest Nicolas Maduro


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698885/successful-operation-to-arrest-nicolas-maduro


Mr. LaHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chairman for having this Special  Order here tonight and also for the introduction of the special  resolution that lays out the justification and why we took out Nicolas  Maduro.

Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight in strong support of the capture of  Nicolas Maduro. Nicolas Maduro and his corrupt inner circle have been  U.S. law enforcement targets for over 15 years with multiple agencies,  including the U.S. Department of Justice, the DEA, and the FBI, working  toward his arrest and his prosecution.

In 2020, under the first Trump administration, the United States  unsealed a superseding indictment out of the Southern District of New  York against Maduro and more than a dozen of his associates, along with  offering a $15 million reward for his capture.

The 2020 indictment described how Maduro and his top lieutenants  served as leaders of the Cartel de los Soles for over two decades and  partnered with known designated foreign terrorist organizations to  move, at the time, over 250 tons of cocaine through Venezuela--cocaine  that was cultivated, manufactured, and moved through Venezuela.

Then, fast-forward to January 2025. The Biden administration and the  Biden Department of Justice, at the time relying on the same indictment  from the Trump administration, increased the bounty and reward for  Maduro to $25 million. That is the same reward offered for information  leading to Osama bin Laden's capture.

Under the second Trump administration, last month, a superseding  indictment was unsealed with updated estimates of cocaine smuggling  linked to Maduro, now exceeding thousands of tons.

The new indictment highlights other criminal activity directly tied  to Maduro, including providing fake travel documents to facilitate drug  smuggling under the guise of diplomatic cover and partnerships with the  Sinaloa Cartel boss El Chapo.

The bottom line is that Maduro is a thug. He is a dictator. He is an  international criminal. That was recognized by the Biden administration  and obviously the Trump administration.

The Department of Justice was in charge of this mission. It was their  mission, and there were a lot of details that came out after the  execution of this mission.

Yet one thing that didn't get covered enough was that there were  lawyers who immediately met Maduro when he was brought into United  States' custody. He was read his rights. He was given the opportunity  to read the indictment before he was brought to the Southern District  of New York.

Narcoterrorism is a serious, serious charge. If you look at the  allegations in there, Maduro and his associates essentially flooded the  United States with thousands and thousands of tons of cocaine.

The other thing that doesn't get mentioned enough is the fact that  our adversaries--Iran, China, and Russia--  essentially have used Venezuela for the last 20 years as a base and a  platform to spy, threaten and cause chaos in the Western Hemisphere and  the United States. That will no longer happen because of the brave work  that was executed by our Special Forces on January 3.

I give a lot of credit to the Trump team: Secretary Rubio, Director  Ratcliffe, Secretary of War Pete Hegseth, General Caine, and obviously  President Trump. None of this would have happened without that team  that was in place.

Venezuela is going to be a better place without Maduro. The region is  going to be better off, and the world will be a better place.

The reality is that Maduro's capture and prosecution will save  American lives, and I commend the Trump administration for taking this  decisive action.

There are additional targets of Maduro's criminal enterprise who  remain at large and now know that the United States will no longer  tolerate or turn a blind eye to the transshipment of their cocaine and  other drugs across our borders.

I thank Chairman Crawford, and I thank the members of the House  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence for being here tonight and  look forward to continuing to work with the Trump administration to  make the Western Hemisphere a safer place.