-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700066/9999


Mr. PADILLA.  I  understand that this is a very important subject for my passionate  colleague from South Carolina, but I also think there is a very  fundamental misunderstanding, at a minimum, about what sanctuary  policies are and what sanctuary policies are not.

Now, as I was listening to my colleague, he has tried to paint a  picture of sanctuary States or sanctuary cities as nothing but lawless,  and I get that it is maybe a favorite sound bite for rightwing media,  but the fact of the matter is it is not true.

Sanctuary policies do not mean that there are no laws or that the  Federal Government can no longer enforce Federal law in those  jurisdictions. What sanctuary policies are is simply an affirmation  that immigration enforcement is the job of the Federal Government and  that State and local authorities cannot be co-opted or forced into  performing inherently Federal responsibilities. It means that while  Federal Agencies carry out immigration enforcement, State and local law  enforcement will choose to focus their time, their energy, their  resources on public safety in the local communities.

So let me say that again as clearly as I can: Sanctuary policies do  not prevent ICE from going into any State or any city to arrest the  violent criminals that the administration says they are after when they  are being released from prison.

And, by the way, it is not like ICE does not know when someone is  arrested. In fact, the Federal Government is notified every single time  an individual is booked into a jail or prison. This means nothing is  preventing ICE from picking up individuals when they are released from  custody.

But instead of prioritizing picking up the dangerous, violent  criminals they talk so much about, what is ICE doing instead? They are  out roving streets in communities across the country and arresting  people based on the color of their skin or the language that they speak  or their perceived occupation.

There is a term for this, by the way. These are now known as the  Kavanaugh stops because of Supreme Court Justice Kavanaugh--and, by  extension, the majority of the Supreme Court--sanctioning this  practice. It is wrong.

Now, I know my colleagues disagree with sanctuary policies as they  are--official, technical. He describes sanctuary policies as ``killing  this country.'' I have heard that a few times. And that by enacting  sanctuary policies, leaders in these States are somehow ``openly  defying federal law.''

Again, wrong. You can have your own opinion, but you can't own the  facts. Far from defying Federal law, courts have actually upheld  sanctuary laws and policies. I will reference just one. In a 1997  ruling in Printz v. United States, Justice Scalia wrote:

The Federal Government may neither issue directives       requiring the States to address particular problems, nor       command the States' officers, or those of their political       subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal regulatory       program . . . such commands are fundamentally incompatible       with our constitutional system of dual sovereignty.

That sure doesn't sound like anyone is defying any Federal law to me.  And nobody is accusing Justice Scalia as having been a leftwing  radical.

And, yes, we do have more recent examples of courts rejecting the  Trump administration's attempts to strong-arm cities and States into  acting as Federal immigration agents.

Let me just say this: These policies that my Republican colleagues  are determined to attack are not the reason for the chaos that the  American people have been watching in horror unfold in the cities of  Los Angeles, in Chicago, in Minneapolis, and so many others. Sanctuary  policies aren't the reason why American cities and citizens are being  pepper-sprayed or tear-gassed, beaten, unlawfully detained, or even  shot in broad daylight like Renee Good and Alex Pretti. What is  endangering the American people's safety and security is an out-of- control administration that has empowered a mass paramilitary force of  ICE and CBP agents to act with impunity, without accountability,  without oversight, and without consequences.

If we truly want to talk about public safety, then we need to be  talking about reining in an out-of-control Department of Homeland  Security, not scapegoating States and cities that choose to prioritize  their local resources for their local public safety.

So, for the sake of the American people's safety and well-being, I  object.

Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, elections are the bedrock of our American  democracy, and despite what the President and his big circle of  election-denying, conspiracy theorists would have Americans believe,  the truth is that our elections are, indeed, free; that our elections  are, indeed, fair; and that our elections are, indeed, secure.

That is why the revamped, new-and-made-worse SAVE Act, which was  passed by the House last night and is designed to compel States to give  over to Donald Trump their voter rolls, is not just a solution in  search of a problem; it is also a very bad solution at that.

This bill is built on a myth that is rooted in the Big Lie of  election denial that has poisoned our democracy for years, which is  that supposed noncitizen voter fraud occurs with any meaningful  frequency. It is the same Big Lie that is still being perpetrated by  Kurt Olsen, who is the President's ``Stop the Steal'' lawyer now  working in the White House and on President Trump's decision to send  the Director of National Intelligence to Fulton County, GA, last month,  to seize paper ballots from the 2020 election--ballots that have  already been counted at least three times in three different ways and  that have all reached the same election outcome.

The fact of the matter is that audit after audit and investigation  after investigation in red States and in blue States have all reached  the same conclusion, which is that voting by noncitizens--which, by the  way, is already a felony--is so exceedingly rare that it is  statistically almost nonexistent, which tells us something very  important, though. It means our current laws are working; so we don't  need new documentation requirements like passports and birth  certificates.

By the way, 21 million Americans cannot readily access these  documents. We shouldn't be risking the disenfranchisement of 69 million  American women who have changed their names from what is printed on  their birth certificates, most of whom made that change when they got  married, and we don't need to force approximately 60 million Americans  who live in rural communities to drive up to hundreds of miles to prove  their eligibility in person. That is not election security. That is  actually voter suppression.

It is important for the American people to understand that this  Republican effort to jam the SAVE Act through--as they call it--isn't  happening in isolation. There is a bigger picture here. This bill is  part of a broader effort by Trump and his Republican enablers to lay  the groundwork for the rigging of upcoming elections, including the  midterms this November. Now, November might seem like a long way off,  but the midterms have already begun. Primary ballots have been mailed  out in many jurisdictions, and the first round of early voting begins  today in some jurisdictions.

It is pretty clear which way the political winds are blowing. The  American people are rightly frustrated by Donald Trump's failed  economic policies that are raising costs for working families, and the  American people are increasingly outraged by the cruel, violent mass  deportation campaign unfolding in communities across the country, which  has already cost two innocent American citizens their lives.

It seems to me that the SAVE Act is really only intended to save  Republicans and Trump from facing the consequences of their failed  policies, but rather than change their policies, Republicans would  rather change the election rules.

How many times have we heard the President openly question our  election system and why the Federal Government shouldn't run elections?

At one point, he said:

[I]f you think about it, the state is an agent for the       federal government in elections. I don't know why the federal       government doesn't do `em anyway.

Well, let me answer that question for the President. It is really  simple.

It is because the Constitution says otherwise. The Constitution  clearly entrusts elections to the States and to Congress, not to the  President.

But those efforts to interfere are underway and ongoing. We have seen  the Department of Justice sue 24 States that happen to be led by  Democrats. They are targeting their voter rolls in addition to the  intimidation and strong-arm tactics.

We also know that Donald Trump says he regrets not issuing an  Executive order in his first term that directs the military to  illegally seize voting machines. He is not shy about this, folks. He  thinks he has the Department of Homeland Security now more willing to  carry out such illegal actions this time around. So, yes, the threat is  real.

Or consider his former White House adviser who has called on the  President to deploy ICE to intimidate U.S. citizens who will be trying  to vote this November. So let's be absolutely clear: That is already  illegal. Armed Federal agents at polling locations is voter  intimidation and has no place in our democracy. Think about that. Think  about that. Using Federal force to intimidate voters at the polls? It  is hard to imagine anything more un-American.

So that is why, today, colleagues, I am announcing a new amendment to  the Department of Homeland Security funding bill that is still being  negotiated and deliberated. It is an amendment to explicitly bar any  Federal funds from being used to deploy Federal law enforcement or  military personnel to polling places or election offices for the  purpose of voter intimidation or election interference.

It is amazing we would have to say that. It is amazing that we would  have to think about addressing that, but that is what the President  wants. Now don't put it past him to try. It is time to send the  administration a clear message that the United States of America's  elections will be decided by the voters, not by force.

Colleagues, we as a Congress have a responsibility to act to protect  the elections entrusted by the Constitution to us and to the States  before it is too late.

We have a responsibility to reject this SAVE Act, to keep Federal law  enforcement away from polling locations, and to make clear once and for  all that elections and our sacred right to the ballot box belongs to  the people.