Authorizing the Use of Funds From the Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account for Security Enhancements and Services Provided to Senators


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I thank the majority leader for his  comments and commitments regarding improving Member security. I know  that he, Leader Schumer, Chairman McConnell, and I all share the same  goal. I think all 100 Senators share that goal.

We continue to see an unprecedented rise in threats targeting Members  of Congress, with the Capitol Police on track to investigate over  14,000 threat cases in 2025. That represents a 50-percent increase over  the nearly 9,500 threats Capitol Police reported in 2024.

We are witnessing disturbing incidents of politically motivated  violence across the Nation, targeting elected officials and high- profile individuals associated with both political parties.

Whether it is the horrific assassination of Charlie Kirk at a college  campus in Utah or the tragic assassination of former speaker of the  Minnesota House of Representatives Melissa Hortman and her husband in  their home, it is tragic; it is unacceptable. And we would be foolish  not to take notice.

The House acted on a bipartisan basis to provide new funding for  enhanced Member security this past July. Even before the June shooting  of Minnesota State officials, the Senate Sergeant at Arms proposed a  program for enhanced security options for Senators. Bipartisan Senate  Appropriations leaders have expressed support to fund that effort.

Unfortunately, progress has been slow despite strong interest from  Senators of both parties. So today's resolution is a step in the right  direction.  And the majority leader's statements about the further progress we need  to make soon were very important--because, on its own, today's action  is not nearly enough.

First, unlike the bipartisan House plan, there is no new funding  provided by today's resolution. On the other side of the Capitol,  bipartisan House leaders announced that Members will receive an  additional $10,000 per month to help with security. This resolution-- without further action--requires Senators to choose between either  paying for office staff and operations or paying for their own personal  security.

The Senate has two great security agencies: the Sergeant at Arms and  the Capitol Police. They do a great job with their existing programs,  and they are ready and able to do more if we give them direction and  funding.

So while I am ready to support adoption of this resolution today, I  do so based on the commitments from the majority leader and Democratic  leader, namely: First, we will work on new security options from the  Sergeant-at-Arms, in coordination with the Capitol Police; and second,  we will see real funding to support enhanced Senate security; and  finally, that we will see more progress in the coming weeks.

I look forward to continuing to work on a bipartisan basis to get  that done.