By Mr. Padilla (For HimsMcelf, Mr. Cormick, Mr. Gallego, Mrs.Thank Senators Gallego, Cormick, and Britt for Introducing This


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690059/by-mr-padilla-for-himsmcelf-mr-cormick-mr-gallego-mrsthank-senators-gallego-cormick-and-britt-for-introducing-this


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of the  bipartisan Housing Unhoused Disabled Veterans Act, which I introduced  today.

Let me begin by expressing my sincere appreciation for veterans and  members of our Armed Forces who have answered the call of duty and  sacrificed for our Nation. I firmly believe that those who serve our  country with honor, courage, and distinction deserve our Nation's  enduring gratitude. That  is why I have always been committed to supporting all those who have  fought for our Nation's freedom.

Currently, many disabled veterans are unable to access housing  programs for veterans because of how income is defined. The more severe  a disability is, the more disability benefits a veteran receives. Yet,  because of the way total income has historically been determined, this  means that veterans receiving the highest amount of disability benefits  often cannot access the housing assistance they need.

Congress must ensure that every veteran has access to stable housing.  While progress has been made in reducing veteran homelessness, there is  still more that we must do. Addressing these challenges requires a  coordinated effort between Federal, State, and local agencies and  strong partnerships with nonprofit veteran service organizations and  community leaders. We must do our part to remove redtape and make it  easier for veterans to be housed.

I remain committed to supporting policies that expand and increase  access to VA homelessness programs for veterans in need. I want to  thank Senators Gallego, McCormick, and Britt for introducing this  bipartisan bill with me, and I hope our colleagues will join us in  supporting solutions that ensure no veteran is left without a safe  place to call home.                                  ______