Government Funding


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, colleagues, what we have seen happening  to the Federal judiciary over the last 9 months is beyond concerning;  it is corrupting.

We have seen nominees who are deeply partisan and deeply ideological.  We have seen nominees who, under any other administration, would be  roundly criticized and rejected by this body. And we have seen nominees  whose chief qualification is nothing other than loyalty to and  relationship to Donald Trump.

So later today, we are going to consider just the latest example of  this when the Senate takes up the nomination of Eric Tung to serve on  the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.

This is a lifetime appointment to the Federal bench, colleagues. An  appellate court nominee in particular should have the judgment, the  independence, and the respect for precedence worthy of the position.  But instead, Mr. Tung, the nominee before us, is not here because of  his independence or his judicial temperament; he is here because of his  ideology.

Mr. Tung embraces an extreme and rigid view of the Constitution that  rejects both equality and liberty. He has made it clear that under his  constitutional philosophy, there is no protection for rights that most  Americans take as fundamental, including the rights to reproductive  freedom, marriage equality, and even private consensual relationships.  That is not constitutional interpretation; it is a radical blueprint  for rolling back decades of progress on individual freedom and  equality.

When I gave Mr. Tung an opportunity to explain his history of sexist  and anti-labor comments a few months ago in committee, during the  confirmation hearing, he deflected. He showed no reflection or evolved  thinking, because the truth is Mr. Tung's record and writings reveal a  pattern of ideological extremism that calls into question his ability  to apply the law fully and fairly.

Now, let me also make it clear that I am not setting out with the  goal of denying the Ninth Circuit qualified replacements--far from it.  Not just myself, but Senator Schiff, my colleague from California, and  I both reached out to the White House months ago to inform them of a  couple of things--No. 1, that Eric Tung would be unacceptable.

But, importantly, it is important for my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle to understand that we signaled a willingness to consider  more mainstream Republican candidates whom President Trump had  previously nominated for district court judgeships. We were willing to  try to find that common ground. But clearly the White House wasn't  interested, because whether it is the Department of Justice, the FBI,  U.S. attorneys, or the Federal bench, the Trump White House is showing  us what they truly care about: unwavering loyalty.

So today, I will remind my colleagues that when we reference the  judiciary, it is the American people's judiciary, and all the decisions  we make today will affect our justice system, the people's judiciary,  for years, if not decades.

For those reasons, I urge all my colleagues to join me in strongly  opposing Mr. Tung's nomination.