Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act--


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691454/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues to make  very, very clear--not just to our Republican colleagues but to  history--exactly what is at stake. Let there be no doubt. Senate  Republicans are threatening to go nuclear on Senate procedure to gut  California's Clean Air Act waivers.

But this isn't just about California's climate policies, and this  isn't just about the scope of the Congressional Review Act. This isn't  even just about eliminating the legislative filibuster. No. What  Republicans are proposing to do would go far beyond just eliminating  the filibuster. If they insist on plowing forward, Federal Agencies  will now have unilateral power to trigger privilege on the Senate floor  with no institutional check from the legislative branch.

Just as EPA has submitted California's waivers with full knowledge  that they are not actually rules, other Agencies will now be free to  submit any type of action, going back to 1996. Think licenses, permits,  leases, loan agreements, drug approvals. There would be no limit.

Now, we have been safe from this kind of abuse until now because the  Senate has a process in place for the Government Accountability Office  to help the Senate Parliamentarian determine privilege for the purposes  of the CRA. But Republicans are now threatening to throw that process  out. And the consequences of throwing the rule book out the window will  be very, very serious, but it is not too late to turn back.

Republicans must understand exactly what they are doing. So, today, I  think it is important to establish some facts about the process that  protects the Senate from Agencies that try to game the system.                            Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. President, I have a parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, is it correct that the then-Senate  Parliamentarian, in 2008, in coordination with bipartisan Senate  leadership and committee staff, developed a Senate procedure for  determining what qualifies for expedited consideration under the  Congressional Review Act when an Agency fails to submit an action to  Congress and that a precedent under that procedure was first  established in 2012?

Mr. PADILLA. And is it correct that that procedure, which uses a GAO  determination as to the nature of the Agency action, whether or not it  is a rule, has been implemented numerous times by Senators on both  sides of the aisle, including one occasion where a GAO letter gave rise  to a joint resolution of disapproval which became law?

Mr. PADILLA. I thank the Presiding Officer.

Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I wonder if any other Member of this  Chamber grew up like I did where on a pretty regular basis, we would be  sent home from grade school because of the intensity and dangers of  smog that settled over the San Fernando Valley, the city of Los  Angeles.

How many of you grew up to more reports of unhealthy air quality in  the air quality index or hazardous air quality forecast for that  particular day than it was just clean air?

But that is the case for far too many Californians, still to this  day. But it is the reason why decades ago Congress recognized both  California's unique air quality challenges and its technical ingenuity  and granted California special authority to do something about it.

And thanks to the bipartisan Clean Air Act of over 50 years ago,  California has had that legal authority to set its own emission  standards, to petition and be granted waivers to be able to show  leadership--for over 50 years--because Congress recognized, rightfully  so, that air quality in West Virginia or Wyoming is different than it  is in Southern California, that there are fewer cars on the road in  Salt Lake City than there are in Los Angeles, and because California  was, and still is, the center of innovation in the United States.

Yet in 2025, it appears that Republicans want to overturn half a  century of precedence in order to undermine California's ability to  protect the health of our residents.

By using the Congressional Review Act to revoke California's waivers  that allow us to set our own vehicle emissions standards, Republicans  seem to be putting the wealth of the Big Oil industry over the health  of our constituents.

What happened? You know, nearly 60 years ago, it was Republican  Governor Ronald Reagan who established the State Air Resources Board in  California. And 3 years later, it was Republican President Richard  Nixon who signed amendments to the Clean Air Act, fulfilling promises  he made in that year's State of the Union, that clean air should ``be  the birthright of every American.''

I wonder if Governor, future-President Reagan and President Nixon  would recognize their own party today.

I also want to take a moment to speak to parents of young children,  not just in California but across the country, because parents are  rightfully concerned about the safety of what our children eat, what  medications they take.

You know, as parents, we have some level of control over certain  things like the food we give our kids or the medications that we  provide, but some things that we can't control as parents include the  quality of the air they breathe outside. We can't individually control  the toxic nitrogen oxides, the carbon monoxide, the sulfur dioxide, the  benzene, and particulate matter that flood into our air and into our  children's lungs.

Now, unless industry were to somehow decide to suddenly just do the  right thing, it is incumbent upon government to act. And that is what  California has done. But, of course, this discussion debate is more  than just about public health. California's emissions standards also  represent ambitious but achievable steps to cut carbon emissions and  fight the climate crisis.

We have taken a stand because we know transportation is the single  largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, and California has  been proud to set the example for other States who may choose to follow  suit.

Now, I use the word ``choose,'' and I will use it repeatedly, because  over and over again in this debate, I have heard some arguments coming  from Republicans that I think are misleading the American public. I  hear arguments like, well, California ``isn't simply setting a stricter  standard for itself; it's setting a new national standard.''

Or California's ``emission standards would become de facto national  ones.''

So I want to be clear. California has not and cannot force our  emission standards on any other State in the Nation. As much as I may  love that authority, that does not exist.

But, yes, over a dozen other States have voluntarily followed in  California's footsteps, not because they were forced to, but because  they chose to in order to protect their constituents, their residents,  and protect our planet.

And the truth is, they do have a tremendous blueprint to follow.  California is now the fourth largest economy in the world and the  largest contributor to the Federal Treasury. California didn't get  there by sticking our head in the sand as the clean energy transition  blossomed elsewhere. We leaned in, and we proved that what is good for  the air is good for business. What is good for the planet and public  health is good for the economy.

But, meanwhile, the cost of inaction continues to hit Americans where  it hurts the most: in our wallets. In 2021, the Natural Resources  Defense Council estimated that air pollution from fossil fuels cost  Americans an average of $2,500 a year in medical bills--or over $820  billion in total.

So, no, this isn't just about Republicans defending against some  California power grab or fighting on behalf of the little guy, which  brings me to my final point--because it is not just why Republicans are  trying to undermine California's climate leadership; it is how they are  trying to do it.

Now, I have been very clear on where I stand on the filibuster that  has been applied counterargument in several conversations here amongst  colleagues. Yes, I do support lowering the threshold to move to pass a  bill from a supermajority to a simple majority--but only after there  has been an opportunity for amendments and debate--in an effort to stop  the endless partisan gridlock that prevents so much more progress that  the American people deserve.

I have voted to make that rule change and codify it in the Senate  rules; but in 2022, when we did so, Republicans opposed it, and they  defended the filibuster and the 60-vote threshold as sacred.

Today, as the ranking member of the Senate Rules Committee, I want to  make sure everyone understands exactly what Republicans are trying to  do here, now.

The Clean Air Act passed this body under regular order by a vote of  88-12 in 1967. The Landmark Clean Air Act amendments passed the Senate  89-11 in 1990 by overwhelming bipartisan support.

But now Republicans are trying to pass these bills that strike at the  heart of the Clean Air Act's provision for California on a simple  majority 50-vote threshold, bypassing the filibuster.

Republicans certainly must know that they don't have the votes to  amend the Clean Air Act under regular order. If they did, they would  choose that path. They also know that Congress doesn't have the  authority to amend the Clean Air Act through the Congressional Review  Act.

Don't just take my word for it; they heard it from the independent,  nonpartisan Government Accountability Office--not just once but twice.  And  they heard it from the Senate Parliamentarian who told them they could  not move forward.

So what Republicans are now trying to do is truly unprecedented, and  it is about far more than simply California's clean energy policies.  Republicans are threatening to vote on whether or not to overrule the  Senate Parliamentarian.

Republicans are effectively saying that whenever the Parliamentarian  rules against them, they can simply disregard her to bypass the  filibuster and pass legislation on a simple majority vote. So, no, this  isn't some one-off change to the rules; this is throwing out the rule  book entirely. Because if they can ignore the Parliamentarian here,  then why not on an upcoming tax bill or on their efforts to gut  healthcare for many Americans or whatever the latest overreach is  called for by President Trump?

This goes way beyond the filibuster. The Trump administration could  send an endless stream of nonrule actions to Congress, going back to  1996, including vaccine approvals, broadcast licenses, merger  approvals, and any number of government decisions that apply to  President Trump's long list of enemies.

All it would take is a minority of 30 Senators to introduce related  bills, and the Senate would be bogged down voting on Agency grocery  lists all day long. Is that how we want to spend our days here at the  Senate, voting on every vaccine approval because Secretary Kennedy  decides to send them to Congress?

So to my Republican colleagues, I should also say this: The old adage  says ``what goes around comes around,'' and it won't be long before  Democrats are once again in the driver's seat here, in the majority  once again. And when that happens, all bets would be off because of the  precedent you could be setting here at this moment.

Think mining permits. Think fossil fuel project approvals. Think LNG  export licenses or offshore leases, IRS tax policies, foreign policy,  every Project 2025 or DOGE disruption. Every Agency action that  Democrats don't like--whether it is a rule or not and no matter how  much time has passed--would be fair game if Republicans set this new  precedent.

So I suggest that we all think long and hard and very carefully about  this. And I would urge my colleagues--all my colleagues--to join me,  not just in defending California's rights to protect the health of our  residents, not just in combatting the existential threat of climate  change, but in maintaining order in this Chamber.