H.J. Res. 88


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I, first of all, thank my colleague from  the State of Rhode Island and echo his sentiment and his message that  Senate Republicans have crossed the line this evening. They have chosen  to overrule the Parliamentarian, thrown out some rules, rewritten some  rules, established new precedents for how this body operates, despite  claiming that that was something they were not going to do, despite the  majority leader warning earlier this year that this would be akin to  killing the filibuster.

But now we have seen it. It is on the record. They have overruled the  Parliamentarian not just once but twice. And the Parliamentarian's  determination as to whether or not the action taken this evening was in  conformance with the rules that we have or not were buttressed by-- again, as my colleague from Rhode Island has explained--the analysis  and the findings of the GAO, which we charge with this input.

And so I want to take a moment to just read some excerpts from the  GAO, as written to the Senate. And I will submit the entire letter for  the Record, but the key excerpts are important to highlight.

From the GAO:

As background to these issues, we issued a legal decision       concluding that a Clean Air Act preemption waiver was not a       rule subject to CRA but was instead an adjudicatory order.

It couldn't be more clear than that.

Furthermore, we explained that even if the waiver were to       satisfy the APA definition of a rule, it would be considered       a rule of particular applicability and, therefore, would       still not be subject to CRA's submission requirement because       of CRA's exclusions.

Just two other elements that, again, I think are in need of being  highlighted here because of the significance of the action taken this  evening--quoting still from the letter:

EPA stated that the Notices of Decision were not rules       under CRA, and, in the underlying decision documents for two       of those notices, cited to our 2023 decision in support of       that statement. However, EPA submitted them as rules to GAO       and Congress without any explanation of this discrepancy.

Pretty clear.

And, finally, later in their letter:

The agency still did not address the statements in the       notices regarding the inapplicability of the CRA, and, to       date, EPA has not further responded to our letter.

GAO is charged with establishing this review and making a finding.  They heard from the parties involved. They did not get responses from  the EPA. Why? They must have something to hide. What are they afraid  of? And the GAO shared their conclusions which informed the  Parliamentarian in their determination: This was inconsistent with the  rules.

Not only have Senate Republicans overruled the Parliamentarian this  evening, they have also broken the Congressional Review Act, as has  been respected for years, all to bypass the filibuster in order to  undermine California's efforts to pursue cleaner air for our  constituents. And while today the California waivers may be the target,  we don't know what comes next.

In previous statements on this issue earlier today and in previous  days, I have given examples of, now that the CRA has been applied in  this fashion, there is a whole host of adjudicatory decisions by a wide  variety of Agencies across the Federal Government that are now fair  game.

But for now, let me continue to focus on the waivers in question that  Republicans are seeking to overturn. See, I rise not only in opposition  to this power play tonight, I rise in the interest of protecting the  health of my constituents, the nearly 40 million Californians that I am  honored to represent.

Because, colleagues, leaders in California didn't just wake up one  day to find some special privileges to establish our own climate policy  and impose it upon the rest of the country. And we certainly didn't  cheat the system to jam States represented by Republicans in the Senate  or in their Governors' mansions. No. California was explicitly granted  waivers because of the unique air quality challenges that we face,  different than anywhere else in the country.

California was granted these waivers because California, as a whole,  and Los Angeles, in particular--the southern California area, the Los  Angeles Basin--is uniquely situated to produce some of the most  dangerous air pollution in the Nation. So it means that we had to work  harder than other States and other regions to protect the health of our  residents.

This is not some new liberal agenda. It actually goes back nearly a  century with broad bipartisan support. Way back in the summer of 1943,  Angelenos actually started to notice a brown haze descending upon the  city. People's eyes and throats began to sting from this smoke, and  they could no longer see more than a handful of blocks ahead of them,  let alone the beautiful skyline or the views of the city around them.

It was actually in the middle of a World War when Americans feared  that breakouts of chemical warfare were imminent and many started to  wear gas masks as a result. While it didn't take long to learn that  there was no chemical attack targeting Los Angeles, it would take  researchers years to learn that the true source of the haze was  different. Eventually, they learned it wasn't just factories that were  pumping black smoke into the sky; it was in large part due to the cars  that were being driven.

Now, unfortunately for us, Los Angeles does create the ideal  conditions for smog to thrive. Southern California's sunshine along  with a booming population of people reliant on car travel and all the  exhaust that comes with it combines to make a photochemical reaction  that we call smog. But in addition to that, given the beautiful  mountains--and you have all seen the scenes--the mountains that  surround the Los Angeles area act as a perfect sort of cradle to hold  all those pollutants in, encasing the city in a thick haze of  pollution.

For all the beauty of our city--most of you have visited, and you  have certainly seen images on television and in the movies--generations  of Angelenos know what it is like to feel engulfed by the smog around  us.

As I began to share earlier today, that includes me. As many of you  know by now, I grew up in the community of Pacoima in the San Fernando  Valley, the northern part of the city of Los Angeles. And growing up in  the 1970s and 1980s--40 years after the gas masks that I spoke about a  minute ago--smog was still ever-present in our sky and part of our  daily life.

I still remember what it was like being sent home early from school  as a kid because the air was too unhealthy for us just to play on the  playground--the stinging in our eyes, the tightness in your chest. Yes,  when I was growing up, we were more often waking up to air quality  forecasts of unhealthy or hazardous than clean. Imagine just the sheer  simplicity of trying to take a deep breath, but not being able to  because halfway through taking in a deep breath, your chest would  tighten up. You literally choke because of the pollution in the air.  While we have come a long way, for too many Californians today, that is  still a reality. It doesn't have to be that way.

But that is why, decades ago, Congress recognized both California's  unique air quality challenges but also its ingenuity, its creativity,  the innovation that is in our DNA and granted California the special  authority to do something about those unique air quality challenges.

Thanks to the Clean Air Act, which, again, was adopted in an  overwhelming bipartisan basis over 50 years ago, California obtained  the legal authority to set its own emissions standards because Congress  wisely recognized back then that West Virginia and Wyoming are  different than California; and their air quality is different; there  are significantly fewer cars on the road in Salt Lake City than there  are in Los Angeles; and because California was and still is seen as the  innovation center of the United States.

So we earned the right to set California standards for California. We  are not setting California standards for national standards. I am sure  my colleagues in State government wish we had that kind of power and  authority, but that is not the case. And it is certainly not  California's agenda to impose our standards on States across the  country. We are simply seeking to protect Californians.

And, quite frankly, if Members of this body representing the other 49  States in the Nation are worried about some Federal mandate taking  effect  because of California's actions, then you should support California's  right to set our own State standards. We know that the EPA and the  Federal Government has not effectively done its part to rein in  pollution.

So from a government standpoint, let me explain why I get so worked  up on this. State and local jurisdictions in California have done all  they can to push ambitious but implementable regulatory agendas in the  country--some of the most ambitious in the country. But we are out of  options when it comes to controlling the pollution sources that State  and local governments are allowed to regulate.

What is left--the biggest nut to crack--are the mobile sources of  pollution--the cars, the heavy-duty trucks, the locomotives, the ships,  and the planes that are the key sources of the bad air quality in  regions of California. These are industries that only the Federal  Government can regulate.

So California has had no option, but we have embraced the challenge  to innovate, to advance creative and indirect source rules or rules  that, for example, require ships to plug in when docked in our ports to  cut down on pollution.

That is why these waivers are so important. They let us get at these  mobile sources of pollution that we need to clean up because unless or  until the Federal Government gets more ambitious about setting national  standards that meet the moment of this climate crisis, at least let  California protect Californians.

I am realistic with the times that we are living in. Under this  administration, I doubt we will get the assist from the Federal  Government over the course of the next 3\1/2\ years.

I want to acknowledge that it was former President Ronald Reagan,  when he was Governor of California, who first created the California  Air Resources Board. And 3 years later, it was Republican President  Nixon who signed amendments to the Clean Air Act into law, fulfilling a  promise that he made at that year's State of the Union, that clean air  should be the birthright of every American. What a far, far cry from  Republican leadership then to the Republican agenda today.

But the bottom line is, colleagues, by supporting this measure,  Republicans are simply making it harder for California to improve air  quality in California.

As I did yesterday, I also just have to acknowledge what it means for  families throughout the State. You see, as the parents of three growing  boys--they are not little kids anymore; they are growing--through the  course of their upbringing, we have been able to control certain  things, like how we feed our kids. We go to the grocery store, and you  are shopping for what you are going to prepare for dinner. You have  readily accessible information--nutritional information--not just  calorie information, protein information, but ingredients of what is in  the product you are about to buy. There are certain things that we  cannot control, like the ingredients in the air we breathe.

If you are fortunate enough to live in a part of the State of  California, in the part of the country with a great air quality index,  good for you. But for those who aren't as fortunate and with the  assistance of the Union of Concerned Scientists, let me read off a  couple of the ingredients that are in the air that we breathe--not just  us, our children too.

Particulate matter, defined as follows:

One type of particulate matter is the soot seen in vehicle       exhaust. Fine particles--less than one-tenth the diameter of       a human hair--[it] pose[s] a serious threat to human health,       as it can penetrate deep into the lungs. [Particulate matter]       can be a primary pollutant or a secondary pollutant from       hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides, and sulfur dioxides. Diesel       exhaust is major contributor to [particulate matter]       pollution.

How is this for another ingredient: volatile organic compounds, known  as VOCs, referred to as VOCs:

These pollutants react with nitrogen oxides in the presence       of sunlight to form ground-level ozone, a main ingredient in       smog.

Though beneficial in the upper atmosphere, at the ground       level, this gas irritates the respiratory system, causing       coughing, choking, and reduced lung capacity.

Now, I know I have felt those things as a kid. It is in the science.

VOCs emitted from cars, trucks and buses--which include the       toxic air pollutants benzene, acetaldehyde, and butadiene--      are linked to different types of cancer.

Just a couple more:

Nitrogen oxides.

Which we refer to as NOX.

These pollutants form ground level ozone and particulate       matter. . . . Also harmful as a primary pollutant,       NOX can cause lung irritation and weaken the       body's defenses against respiratory infections such as       pneumonia and influenza.

I can go on and on--carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, greenhouse  gases--but in the interest of time and given the late hour, let me say  this: All of these ingredients are in the air that we breathe, as I  just described, but as you heard me say earlier, it is not just our  lungs that are at risk; these toxins can permeate into the bloodstream  and spread to other parts of the body. That is what is at stake, again,  not just for us but for our children.

But for all the dangers that I see around us, I also see opportunity.  Thanks to the allowances afforded to California under the Clean Air  Act, we have actually made tremendous progress.

As evidence of that, in 2015, USC--the University of Southern  California--published a study that said that the reduction of air  pollution was paying off; kids were breathing healthier.

Let me read just briefly from their findings, summarized in a  National Geographic article from March of 2015 that said:

In the study published in the New England Journal of       Medicine, researchers followed 2,000 kids from five southern       California cities with some of the worst air, including Long       Beach, Riverside, San Dimas, Upland, and Mira Loma. They       focused on kids ages 11 to 15, whose lungs are growing the       most.

While other studies have compared kids from polluted       neighborhoods to those living with cleaner air, the USC team       tracked children from the same communities over 20 years and       correlated their findings with pollution data from local air       monitors. That allowed them to more clearly weed out other       potential factors.

Regardless of race, exposure to cigarette smoke, or factors       like education and pets, kids tested between 2007 and 2011       had healthier lungs than kids the same ages tested between       1994 and 1998.

I will skip some of the additional scientific details and jump to  more of the conclusions because during those decades differential in  the study, ``California officials set groundbreaking standards that  phased out many inefficient car and truck engines and some of the  dirtiest fuels for everything from jet skis and lawnmowers to school  buses and heavy-duty trucks. Local smog-fighters in the Los Angeles  basin forced cleanup of oil refineries, manufacturing plants, and  consumer products such as paints and solvents. Other local and state  programs offered incentives for replacing old trucks and buses.''

The result: Some of the most problematic pollutants--smog-      forming nitrogen dioxide and fine particles created by       diesel-engine exhaust and other fossil fuels--declined in the       worst neighborhoods by up to 50 percent in 20 years. Maritime       pollution, particularly in neighborhoods near the massive       ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, also has dropped       substantially.

As a side note, by the way, the two ports referenced in this, the  ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles--sister ports in the San Pedro  Sports Complex--account for 40 percent of our Nation's imports, those  two ports alone. So you can imagine the intensity of the pollution in  that specific region, let alone the air quality and health impacts for  Californians.

So I go back to, if the Federal Government, through the EPA, isn't  willing to step up to meet the challenge of air quality in California,  let California take care of Californians. As these studies and reports  lay out, California's leadership is working. Kids are breathing cleaner  air.

But we still have a lot more work to do. We have a track record of  successfully developing and implementing innovative tools to improve  lives, but because of what is transpiring here now in the Senate, our  progress is now at risk. It is important, it is urgent, it is  significant because we still have so much more work to do.

California plans on continuing to exercise our legal authority under  the Clean Air Act to protect kids, to set ambitious but achievable  goals, to reduce pollution and, yes, Heaven forbid, set an example, set  a model, set a path for other States to follow if they wish because no  one is forcing California  standards on States that don't voluntarily choose to follow that simple  path.

But what I see transpiring here with the overruling of the  Parliamentarian and the overturning of these waivers as if they were  rules is the Senators from other States, Republican Senators from other  States, imposing their will on California. So much for States' rights,  I guess.

And I hope you sleep well at night with the consequences of your  decisions in the years ahead.

Government                                           Accountability Office,                                                      March 6, 2025.      Congressional Requesters       Subject: Observations Regarding the Environmental Protection           Agency's Submission of Notices of Decision on Clean Air           Act Preemption Waivers as Rules Under the Congressional           Review Act

This letter responds to your request for a legal decision       as to whether the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA)       Clean Air Act preemption waivers and Notices of Decision that       EPA submitted as rules to Congress and GAO in late February       2025 are rules subject to the Congressional Review Act (CRA).       Our regular practice is to issue decisions on actions that       agencies have not submitted to Congress as rules under CRA in       order to further the purposes of CRA by protecting Congress's       CRA review and oversight authorities. In this case, we are       presented with a different situation because the actions were       submitted as rules under the CRA, and it is not one in which       we normally issue a legal decision. However, we do have prior       caselaw that addressed the applicability of CRA to Clean Air       Act preemption waivers, B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023, and EPA's       recent submission is inconsistent with this caselaw.       Therefore, we are providing you with our views and analysis       of preemption waivers under the Clean Air Act that may be       helpful as Congress considers how to treat these Notices of       Decision and the application of CRA procedures.

As background to these issues, we issued a legal decision       concluding that a Clean Air Act preemption waiver was not a       rule subject to CRA but was instead an adjudicatory order.       See B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023. Furthermore, we explained that       even if the waiver were to satisfy the APA definition of a       rule, it would be considered a rule of particular       applicability and, therefore, would still not be subject to       CRA's submission requirement because of CRA's exclusions. Id.

For the three Notices of Decision announcing the waivers at       issue here, EPA stated that the Notices of Decision were not       rules under CRA, and, in the underlying decision documents       for two of those notices, cited to our 2023 decision in       support of that statement. However, EPA submitted them as       rules to GAO and Congress without any explanation of this       discrepancy.

We reached out to EPA on February 20, 2025, for       clarification on the submission of the Notices of Decision at       issue here because the notices themselves stated that CRA did       not apply. After receiving your request, we followed our       regular procedure and sent a formal letter to EPA on February       25, 2025, seeking factual information and the agency's legal       views on this matter. Although EPA resubmitted the Notices of       Decision to GAO on February 27, 2025, with additional       information in the corresponding CRA reports, the agency       still did not address the statements in the notices regarding       the inapplicability of the CRA, and, to date, EPA has not       further responded to our letter.

As explained more fully below, our view is that the       analysis and conclusions in our 2023 Clean Air Act preemption       waiver decision would also apply to the Notices of Decision       recently submitted as rules to Congress by EPA.                                  BACKGROUND       Clean Air Act

The Clean Air Act generally preempts states from adopting       or enforcing emission control standards for new motor       vehicles or new motor vehicle engines. See 42 U.S.C.       Sec. 7543(a); B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023. However, the Clean Air       Act requires the EPA Administrator to grant a waiver of       preemption for a state that adopted a standard prior to March       30, 1966, if the state determined its standard will be, in       the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and       welfare as applicable federal standards. 42 U.S.C.       Sec. 7543(b); B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023. Only California can       qualify for preemption waivers under this section because it       is the only state that adopted a standard prior to March 30,       1966. B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023.

The EPA Administrator must approve the waiver unless the       Administrator makes any one of three findings set forth in       the statute: (1) the determination of the state is arbitrary       and capricious; (2) the state does not need state standards       to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions; or (3) the       state standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are       not consistent with 42 U.S.C. Sec. 7521(a) (EPA standards for       emissions from new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle       engines). 42 U.S.C. Sec. 7543(b)(1)(A)-(C); B-334309, Nov.       30, 2023.

When the EPA Administrator receives a waiver request, they       must provide notice of a public hearing and comment period.       42 U.S.C. Sec. 7543(b); B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023; EPA, Vehicle       Emissions California Waivers and Authorizations, available at       https://www.epa.qov/state-and-local-transportation/vehicle- emissions-california-waivers- and-authorizations (last visited Mar. 5, 2025) (California       Waivers and Authorizations Website). The Administrator makes       a decision on the waiver and publishes a notice of their       decision and reasons in the Federal Register. B-334309, Nov.       30, 2023.

The Clean Air Act provides similar procedures for the EPA       Administrator to authorize California to adopt and enforce       emission control standards for certain nonroad engines or       vehicles. 42 U.S.C. Sec. 7543(e)(2)(A). The Administrator       must authorize California to adopt and enforce such standards       if California determined that California standards will be,       in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and       welfare as applicable federal standards, unless the       Administrator makes any one of three findings set forth in       the statute: (1) California's determination is arbitrary and       capricious; (2) California does not need its own standards to       meet compelling and extraordinary conditions; or (3) the       California standards and accompanying enforcement procedures       are not consistent with section 7543. Id. Like the waiver       process under section 7543(b), the authorization process       under section 7543(e)(2)(A) involves providing notice of a       public hearing and comment period and publishing notice of       the decision. See id.; California Waivers and Authorizations       Website.      EPA Notices of Decision

At issue here are the following EPA Clean Air Act       preemption waiver Notices of Decision:

California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control       Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty       and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero       Emission Airport Shuttle, Zero-Emission Power Train       Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision, 88       Fed. Reg. 20688 (Apr. 6, 2023) (Advanced Clean Trucks Waiver       Notice);

California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad       Engine Pollution Control Standards; The ``Omnibus'' Low       NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of       Decision, 90 Fed. Reg. 643 (Jan. 6, 2025) (Low NOX       Waiver Notice); and

California State Motor Vehicle Engine Pollution Control       Standards; Advanced Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption;       Notice of Decision, 90 Fed. Reg. 642 (Jan. 6, 2025) (Advanced       Clean Cars II Waiver Notice).

In the Advanced Clean Trucks Waiver Notice, the EPA       Administrator granted two separate requests for preemption       waivers regarding four California regulations for heavy-duty       on-road vehicles and engines. 88 Fed. Reg. at 20688. The Low       NOX Waiver Notice announced the EPA       Administrator's December 17, 2024, decision granting       California a preemption waiver for regulations applicable to       new 2024 and subsequent model year California on-road heavy-      duty vehicles and engines and authorizing regulations       regarding off-road diesel engines. 90 Fed. Reg. at 643-44.       The Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver Notice announced the EPA       Administrator's December 17, 2024, decision granting       California a preemption waiver for regulations applicable to       new 2026 and subsequent model year California on-road light-       and medium-duty vehicles. 90 Fed. Reg. at 642.      Congressional Review Act (CRA)

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and the       Comptroller General for review before the rule can take       effect. 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801(a)(1)(A). The report must contain a       copy of the rule, ``a concise general statement relating to       the rule,'' and the rule's proposed effective date. Id. CRA       allows Congress to review and disapprove rules issued by       federal agencies for a period of 60 days using special       procedures. See 5 U.S.C. Sec. 802. If a resolution of       disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect. 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801(b)(1).

CRA adopts the definition of ``rule'' under the       Administrative Procedure Act (APA), which states that a rule       is ``the whole or a part of an agency statement of general or       particular applicability and future effect designed to       implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy or       describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' 5 U.S.C. Sec. Sec. 551(4);       804(3). However, CRA excludes three categories of APA rules       from coverage: (1) rules of particular applicability; (2)       rules relating to agency management or personnel; and (3)       rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice that do       not substantially affect the rights or obligations of       nonagency parties. 5 U.S.C. Sec. 804(3).

EPA did not submit CRA reports to Congress or GAO for any       of the Notices of Decision when they were initially issued on       April 6, 2023, and January 6, 2025, and each notice states       that CRA does not apply because the relevant action is not a       rule for purposes of the Act. Advanced Clean Trucks Waiver       Notice, 88 Fed. Reg. at 20726; Low NOX Waiver       Notice, 90 Fed. Reg. at 645; Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver       Notice, 90 Fed. Reg. at 643. In addition, the underlying       decision documents referenced in the Low NOX       Waiver Notice and Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver Notice       include similar statements about the inapplicability of CRA       and cite our 2023 decision determining that a Clean Air Act       preemption waiver notice of decision was not a rule       under CRA. See EPA, California State Motor Vehicle and Engine       and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; The       ``Omnibus'' Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption;       Decision Document (Dec. 17, 2024) (Low NOX Waiver       Decision), at 95 & n.281; EPA, California State Motor Vehicle       and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars       II; Waiver of Preemption; Decision Document (Dec. 17, 2024)       (Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver Decision), at 189 & n.504       (both citing B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023).

EPA subsequently submitted a CRA report for the three       Notices of Decision to Congress and GAO on February 19, 2025.       The House of Representatives and GAO received the report on       February 19, 2025, and the Senate received the report on       February 20, 2025. EPA resubmitted the CRA report to GAO on       February 27, 2025. The resubmitted report included additional       information for each notice, including the date of the       document, the nature of the action submitted, and proposed       effective date. EPA did not explain in either submission why       the agency was submitting the notices under CRA given its       statement in each notice that CRA did not apply.                                  DISCUSSION       GAO's 2023 Decision on a Clean Air Act Preemption Waiver           Notice of Decision

In B-334309, we examined an EPA Notice of Decision titled       California State Motor Vehicle Pollution Control Standards;       Advanced Clean Car Program; Reconsideration of a Previous       Withdrawal of a Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision       (Advanced Clean Car Program Waiver Notice). 87 Fed. Reg.       14332 (Mar. 14, 2022). This Notice of Decision rescinded       EPA's 2019 withdrawal of a 2013 preemption waiver for       California's greenhouse gas emissions standards and zero       emission vehicle sale mandate, thereby reinstating the       waiver. Id. at 14332; B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023.

We determined that the Advanced Clean Car Program Waiver       Notice was not a rule under CRA because it did not meet the       APA definition of a rule. We concluded that the notice was,       instead, an ``order'' under APA. APA defines an order as       ``the whole or a part of a final disposition, whether       affirmative, negative, injunctive, or declaratory in form, of       an agency in a matter other than rule making but including       licensing.'' 5 U.S.C. Sec. 551(6). APA further defines       ``licensing'' to include an agency granting or revoking a       license, and ``license'' to include an agency approval,       statutory exemption, or other form of permission. 5 U.S.C.       Sec. 551 (8), (9). An agency action that constitutes an       order under APA is not a rule under the statute and,       therefore, is not a rule under CRA. B-334309, Nov. 30,       2023 (citing B-334995, July 6, 2023; B-334400, Feb. 9,       2023; B-332233, Aug. 13, 2020 (rules and orders are       ``mutually exclusive'')).

We explained that an adjudicatory order is a case-specific,       individual determination of a particular set of facts that       has immediate effect on the individual(s) involved. B-334309,       Nov. 30, 2023 (citing United States v. Florida East Coast       Railway Co., 410 U.S. 224, 245-46 (1973); Neustar, Inc. v.       FCC, 857 F.3d 886, 893 (D.C. Cir. 2017); Yesler Terrace       Community Council v. Cisneros, 37 F.3d 442, 448 (9th Cir.       1994)). In contrast, a rule is a broad application of general       principles that is prospective in nature. B-334309, Nov. 30,       2023 (citing Florida East Coast Railway Co., 410 U.S. at 246;       Neustar, 857 F.3d at 895; Yesler Terrace Community Council,       37 F.3d at 448).

We concluded that the Advanced Clean Car Program Waiver       Notice met the APA definition of an order because the notice       determined that California was not preempted from enforcing       its Advanced Clean Car Program and therefore made a ``final       disposition'' granting California a ``form of permission'' as       described in the APA definition. B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023       (citing 5 U.S.C. Sec. 551 (6), (8), (9)). We noted that the       notice was particular to California's Advanced Clean Car       Program, involved consideration of particular facts, as       opposed to general policy, and had immediate effect on       California. Id.

We also concluded that even if the Advanced Clean Car       Program Waiver Notice met the APA definition of a rule, it       would still not be subject to CRA because of CRA's exclusion       of rules of particular applicability. B-334309, Nov. 30,       2023. A rule of particular applicability is addressed to an       identified entity and also addresses actions that entity may       or may not take, taking into account facts and circumstances       specific to that entity. B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023 (citing B-      334995, July 6, 2023). We noted that the notice concerned a       specific entity--California--and addressed a statutory waiver       specific to California's Advanced Clean Car Program;       therefore, the notice would be a rule of particular       applicability. B-334309, Nov. 30, 2023.      EPA's Recently Submitted Notices of Decision

(1) Applicability of GAO's 2023 Decision

The analysis and conclusion in B-334309 that the Advanced       Clean Car Program Waiver Notice was not a rule for purposes       of CRA because it was an order under APA would apply to the       three notices of decision at issue here. For example, all       three notices of decision involve waivers granted to       California under the same authority and process (42 U.S.C.       Sec. 7543(b)) at issue in the Advanced Clean Car Program       Waiver Notice. In each case, California requested preemption       waivers from EPA with respect to specific California       regulations, and EPA, after holding a public hearing,       receiving comments, and considering information presented by       California and opponents of the waivers, determined to grant       the requested waivers. See Advanced Clean Trucks Waiver       Notice, 88 Fed. Reg. at 20688?90; Low NOX Waiver       Notice, 90 Fed. Reg. at 643-45; Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver       Notice, 90 Fed. Reg. at 642-43.

The Low NOX Waiver Notice also involves an       authorization under a separate authority (42 U.S.C.       Sec. 7543(e)(2)(A)). As described above, the nature of the       determination and process used is very similar to section       7543(b), and our analysis and conclusions in B-334309 would       apply to this portion of the notice as well. See Low       NOX Waiver Notice, 90 Fed. Reg. at 644-45       (describing the relevant procedures and grouping the       corresponding findings in sections 7543(b)(2) and       7543(e)(2)(A) together in summarizing the decision).       Specifically, California requested EPA's authorization to       adopt and enforce specific California regulations, and EPA,       after holding a public hearing, receiving comments, and       considering information presented by California and opponents       of the authorization, determined to grant the requested       authorization. See Low NOX Waiver Notice, 90 Fed.       Reg. at 643-45.

(2) Effect of Resolutions of Disapproval

If Congress were to treat the EPA Notices of Decisions as       rules under CRA and subsequently enact resolutions of       disapproval, there is a question as to the precise effect       those resolutions would have. As described above, if a       resolution of disapproval is enacted, then the rule has no       force or effect. 5 U.S.C. Sec. 801(b)(1). However, two of the       three Notices of Decision submitted by EPA to Congress, the       Low NOX Waiver Notice and the Advanced Clean Cars       II Waiver Notice, appear to merely notify the public of       previously issued decision documents granting California the       requested preemption waivers and, in the Low NOX       Waiver Notice, the requested authorization for its       regulations. See Low NOX Waiver Notice, 90 Fed.       Reg. at 643-44 (stating that EPA ``is providing notice of its       decision'' and referencing the Low NOX Waiver       Decision); Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver Notice, 90 Fed. Reg.       at 642-43 (stating that EPA ``is providing notice of its       decision'' and referencing the Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver       Decision). EPA did not include the underlying decision       documents in its submission to Congress and GAO. In contrast,       the Advanced Clean Trucks Waiver Notice, like the Advanced       Clean Car Program Waiver Notice we examined in B-334309,       appears to be the decision document. See 88 Fed. Reg. at       20688 (stating that EPA ``is granting . . . California['s] .       . . requests for waivers''). Accordingly, if Congress were to       enact resolutions disapproving the Low NOX Waiver       Notice or the Advanced Clean Cars II Waiver Notice under CRA,       it is unclear whether or how those resolutions would affect       the underlying waivers and authorizations.                                  CONCLUSION

In these circumstances, our view is that our prior analysis       and conclusion in B-334309 that the Advanced Clean Car       Program Waiver Notice was not a rule for purposes of CRA       because it was an order under APA would apply to the three       notices at issue here. We provide this information to assist       Congress as it considers how to treat these Notices of       Decision and the application of CRA procedures.

If you have any questions, please contact Shirley A. Jones,       Managing Associate General Counsel, or Charlie McKiver,       Assistant General Counsel for Appropriations Law.            Sincerely,                                             Edda Emmanuelli Perez,                                                   General Counsel.

Congressional Requesters      Hon. Sheldon Whitehouse,

Ranking Member, Committee on Environment and Public Works,       U.S. Senate      Hon. Alex Padilla,

U.S. Senate      Hon. Adam B. Schiff,

U.S. Senate