Motion to Discharge--S. Res. 195


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I first want to begin by thanking my  colleagues Senator Kaine and Senator Van Hollen--I believe Senator  Schumer will be joining us--for this important issue. I want to thank  them for their efforts to provide some needed moral clarity at this  critical time.

Earlier this year--I hope you have seen the news reports--all across  the country, there were stories of families waking up to learn that  their loved ones had disappeared--a husband with no criminal record  detained after a routine immigration appointment, complying with the  conditions of his status at the moment; another instance was a makeup  artist, who had fled Venezuela after being targeted for sexual  orientation and political views, one day gone simply for having crown  tattoos in honor of his parents; a mother who learned the whereabouts  of her son only when she saw his face on propaganda videos released by  El Salvador.

Over 200 migrants were sent to El Salvador's notorious, high-security  prison known as CECOT. By the way, that includes eight women whom the  Trump administration mistakenly flew to the all-male prison, only to  have to fly them back. But hundreds of men have been sent to prison  with no trial even, no sentence, no end date, no communication with the  outside world.

Let me be the first to say and I think I speak on behalf of my  colleagues when I say that if you have committed a crime in the United  States of America, then, yes, you deserve to be prosecuted. But, as we  all know--and I hope we continue to respect--we have a justice system  to do just that, a justice system that has a process for those charged  with a crime to be found guilty or innocent, because, yes, you actually  have to be found guilty in a court to be guilty. Now, that shouldn't be  controversial.

Anyone who claims to be for ``law and order'' has to be for both law  and order. You can't just overlook the ``law'' part of the slogan. But  Republicans continue to leave out that fact and the fact that the  overwhelming majority of those deported had no criminal records.

A report from ``60 Minutes'' just last month showed that 75 percent  of those deported to CECOT had no criminal record. These were people  who in many cases had pending asylum cases or some other sort of  immigration protection. But simply because they may have tattoos, the  Trump administration has decided to use them for a poorly executed and  expensive publicity stunt.

As I think Senator Van Hollen began to explain to us, if Republicans  allow Donald Trump to make himself judge, jury, and executioner, then  we are all in trouble. This is the behavior of a foreign dictator, not  the President of the United States. A dictator wishes to do away with  due process and disappearing loved ones to foreign countries without a  trace.

This administration is violating Federal law by sending people to  places like CECOT and, soon, maybe Libya, where they may very well face  torture or some other horrific treatment.

For anybody who thinks this may not concern them because they are an  American citizen, think again. You may not actually be given an  opportunity to prove your citizenship before you are sent away. Donald  Trump has said publicly that he wants to imprison American citizens in  El Salvador next--not my words; his--so there is no telling where all  of this is going to lead.

We have seen Federal courts time and again rebuff the Trump  administration's lawlessness and order them to take steps to return  wrongfully deported immigrants. We have also seen the Trump  administration continue to resist and ignore court orders.

So, colleagues, the resolution before us today would force the Trump  administration to start opening up the books, to tell us what  meaningful actions they are taking to comply, to be accountable to the  American people, and, yes, demand that the administration publish a  report on the human rights violations being committed by the country  Trump is so willingly embracing. But it also does another thing. It  puts us all on the record because history will judge not only those who  willingly embraced the erosion of civil rights that is happening, but  it will also judge those who chose to sit back and watch it happen over  and over again.

Every Member of this body has to decide whether they will stand up  and demand answers from the administration or sit silently while Trump  imprisons innocent men.

This is more than just about immigrants or immigration. This is about  due process. This is about civil rights. This is about the foundation  of our liberties.

I urge my colleagues to join us in holding this administration  accountable.