Nominations for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, on May 19, 2025, I provided a statement  for the Record of my intent to object to the Senate proceeding to any  of the four nominations currently pending on the Senate's Executive  Calendar for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA.

Today, I am reaffirming those four objections and stating my intent  to object to the Senate proceeding to three additional EPA nominations,  if and when they are added to the Senate's Executive Calendar.

I do not raise these objections lightly. I recognize the importance  of Federal Agencies having qualified leadership, regardless of which  party is in charge. In several cases, I have voted in favor of  reporting the current administration's nominees out of committee and to  confirm them on the Senate floor, notwithstanding the political and  policy differences that we may have. But the Senate's constitutional  role to advise and consent regarding executive branch nominations is an  important check on Agency leadership's abuse and overreach and raising  these objections regarding EPA nominations is my duty on behalf of  people of the State of California.

I am objecting to expedited consideration of EPA nominees in response  to the Trump Administration EPA's abuse of the Congressional Review  Act--CRA--by submitting three waivers issued to the State of California  to Congress and claiming they are ``rules'' under the CRA despite the  Government Accountability Office's clear determination they are not.

In May, I stated that I would continue these objections unless the  Trump administration's EPA withdrew the waivers it knowingly and  falsely submitted as rules or the majority leader committed to not  overturning the Senate Parliamentarian's determination that these  waivers are not rules entitled to expedited consideration in the Senate  under the CRA.

Unfortunately, the Trump administration and the Republican majority  plowed ahead with an unprecedented power grab at the expense of the  health of millions of children and families in California and many  other States. They took advantage of EPA's abuse of the CRA to throw  out the rulebook, first overriding the procedural limits in the text of  the CRA itself and then by overturning the Parliamentarian's decision,  all in their quest to take away California's authority under the Clean  Air Act.

This is unacceptable. California has done nearly all it can do to  reduce emissions from stationary sources of air pollution within its  jurisdiction. Given our unique air quality challenges and the worsening  impacts of climate change, it is essential for our State to reduce  pollution from mobile sources such as cars and trucks if the Federal  Government will not do so itself. That is why Congress has provided  this waiver authority to our State for decades, and it has been used  over 100 times. But now, as a result of the Trump EPA and Senate  Republicans' abuse of the CRA, the people of California will be forced  to breathe more toxic air pollution and suffer increasingly devastating  impacts of climate change.

To hold the Agency's leadership accountable for their actions, I am  reaffirming my objection to proceeding to the four nominations pending  on the Senate's Executive Calendar and expanding it to include  additional nominations.

As of June 2, there are three additional Trump administration EPA  nominations in the committee process, four Senate-confirmed positions  for which the President has not yet made a nomination, and the  inspector general position, for which the President has yet to make a  nomination.

I want to make clear to my colleagues that I intend to object to the  Senate proceeding to all nominations for the U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency, EPA, except for the vacancy for the EPA Inspector  General, unless acceptable accommodations are reached for the State of  California's to protect the health of its people.