Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698259/nominations


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, at the beginning of every year, the White  House, on behalf of the President of the United States, and the  Department of Defense come to Congress with a request. They come to  Congress as a coequal branch of government to ask that we, Congress,  authorize and appropriate the funding they need to defend our Nation  and to protect our national interests on the world stage. And that  request traditionally includes a justification and a rationale for the  proposed plan.

For over 60 years, Congress has met its responsibilities, not by  rubberstamping the Department of Defense's requests but by, yes,  identifying areas of agreement, identifying and negotiating or saying  no to areas of disagreement, and, ultimately, passing, on a bipartisan  basis, what we refer to as the National Defense Authorization Act, the  final product reflecting the priorities of both Congress and the White  House for protecting our Nation. That is how it normally works.

But make no mistake, this year is anything but normal. What we have  seen just 1 year into this second Trump administration is the  destruction of eight decades of bipartisan foreign policy consensus and  the destruction of postwar alliances that have kept Americans safe for  generations.

And we have seen growing abuses of power meant to enrich Donald Trump  and his allies. And as best as I can tell, the Trump doctrine in his  second term is a transactional national security and foreign policy,  not of values but to the highest bidder.

Under Trump, the United States has pulled away from NATO and grown  closer to authoritarian dictators like Xi, Kim, and Putin, who Trump  idolizes. He has engaged in repeated hostilities against our closest  European democratic allies and cozied up to anyone who will shower him  with gifts or praise or both.

He is enabling Russia's plans to carve up Ukraine, a catastrophic  decision that will only encourage future aggression and pain for  innocent civilians.

He has even threatened to forcibly annex Greenland from our ally  Denmark.

And, earlier this month, the Trump administration released its new  National Security Strategy.

And some folks may wonder: What is the National Security Strategy  document?

It is a blueprint that provides strategic guidance for the  administration. It sets priorities and articulates a vision for  achieving them--or at least it should.

Trump's strategy rejects leading with democratic values in favor of  making short-term, transactional alliances. It is a complete  abandonment of the idea that democracies should stand together against  authoritarian governments.

And while it is foolish and shortsighted, it is also not surprising  to hear Defense Secretary Hegseth recently declare, at the Reagan  Defense Forum, an end to what he calls ``idealistic utopianism,'' while  calling for a renewed focus on the Western Hemisphere.

So what exactly does a renewed focus on the Western Hemisphere look  like for the Trump administration?

So far it has meant bombing alleged drug traffickers in the Caribbean  and Pacific, on shaky legal grounds--so shaky they won't release the  legal opinion that they are using to try to justify it.

Now, just this week, we heard the White House Chief of Staff--the  White House Chief of Staff--admit on the record that Donald Trump  ``wants to keep on blowing boats up until Maduro cries uncle.''

Folks, the fact of the matter is, Congress has not declared war, nor  has Congress authorized the use of military force in Latin America. Do  you want to have that debate? Let's have that debate. Let's put that up  for a vote if you agree, but that has not happened yet. And we know the  American people overwhelmingly oppose a military campaign there as  well.

But every week--it doesn't matter--Donald Trump keeps testing us to  see just how much he can get away with, threatening now a land invasion  of Venezuela and even seizing an oil tanker off its coast. Now, if this  were solely about stopping drug traffickers, I don't think there would  be disagreement or objection here to a law enforcement-based approach  to do exactly that. Of course, we want to stop drug trafficking. But  the Trump administration seemingly can't decide if it wants to be crime  fighters or warmongers, and they have decided to use the U.S. military  to bomb their way through the Caribbean either way.

And that is the larger point here. Donald Trump wants unchallenged  use of the military to achieve his every whim and every grievance--even  when it means violating our international norms, betraying our allies,  and violating the Constitution. How is that going to make us any safer?

If we can't be trusted in Europe and if we are manufacturing  conflicts in Central or South America, who would want to work with us  in the future? And if the United States won't respect international  law, why should we expect other countries to do so?

But somehow, even more shocking, is what is happening domestically.  Donald Trump is politicizing our servicemembers both by word and by  deed. He has diverted military resources away from numerous--numerous-- critical missions for his chaotic and violent mass deportation  campaign. He has federalized and deployed National Guard troops in  American cities against our own citizens in violation of the law.

That is why just last Friday the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals  ordered National Guard troops off the streets of Los Angeles, ruling  the deployment was unlawful. But that won't stop Trump from targeting  States and cities led by Democratic Governors and mayors for speaking  out against his power grabs.

Now, just imagine if President Biden would have federalized and  deployed troops into Florida or Texas to combat gun violence.  Republicans would be beside themselves. They would be apoplectic.

Finally, when six of our colleagues published a video reminding  servicemembers of their oath to the Constitution of the United States  and reminding servicemembers about their obligation to refuse unlawful  orders, Trump called that ``seditious behavior, punishable by death.''  And he demanded that the FBI and top Defense officials investigate them  and intimidate them.

This President is trying to corrupt the military for his own personal  gain and to silence all opposition. He is pushing the legal limits of  his authority.

But through all those unprecedented and dangerous decisions, what has  been the response from the Republican majority in Congress--both the  House and the Senate? ``Sir. Yes, sir.'' Maybe not quite, but their  silence has equaled acquiescence. Congress, under this Republican  majority, is nowhere near acting like the ``equal branch of  government'' that it is.

Let's just look at the record from this past year. Congress, not just  once but twice, failed to pass a War Powers Resolution and assert its  constitutional authority in response to the escalating attacks in the  Caribbean. In reaction to the controversial double-tap strike against  survivors in the Caribbean, the Defense Department has refused to  release videos so the American people can see for themselves what  played out. And if it is too sensitive to release to the American  public, then at least show it to all Members of the Senate, even if it  is in a secure classified setting. But the Defense Department refuses  to do even that.

Meanwhile, congressional committees have failed to conduct our  oversight responsibility and to demand it from the administration. With  each  passing day, Donald Trump continues to use the Department of Defense as  an extension of his administration's border enforcement apparatus.  Republicans have cheered him on the whole way, abdicating their  responsibility to this institution, to their constituents, and to their  oath of office.

And even with a majority party bending to his will, the Trump  administration is still floating proposals to blow up the bipartisan  Defense appropriations process altogether and pursue a party-line  reconciliation bill instead.

Colleagues, this is the President doing everything he can to build  unquestioned power over our military and a Republican Party that  refuses to challenge him.

At a time when the Trump administration is abusing its power,  destroying our standing in the world, deploying troops against our own  people, the annual Defense authorization bill offers an important  opportunity. It is an opportunity to hold this administration  accountable, not just out of responsibility to our constituents but to  the Constitution and to this coequal branch of government.

Mr. President, $900 billion is a lot to rubberstamp, and I refuse to  hand this administration any more tools to enrich themselves and  undermine our national security and our standing in the world. So for  these reasons, I will be voting no on this year's NDAA and encourage  all of you to do the same.