Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Relating to ``Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Fuel System Integrity of Hydrogen Vehicles; Compressed Hydrogen Storage System Integrity; Incorporation By Reference''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691542/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-highway-traffic-safety-administration-relating-to-federal-motor-vehicle-safety-standards-fuel-system-integrity-of-hydrogen-vehicles-compressed-hydrogen-storage-system-integrity-incorporation-by-reference


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, colleagues, today, on the Senate floor,  we are expecting to see some outrageous attacks on my home State of  California and important provisions of the historic Clean Air Act.

While it is not too late to turn back at this moment, I think it is  important for all of my colleagues to know that I will be back here  again and again and again throughout this process to make sure that  everyone knows what these votes mean, not just for the precedent and  procedures of the U.S. Senate but for the health of my constituents in  California and about the real threat to human life that comes when  California is denied the ability to control toxic air and greenhouse  gas emissions.

But before I do, I want Senators and the American people to fully  understand what we are about to witness on the Senate floor. Put aside  all the procedural back-and-forth--I will get back to that in a few  minutes--but overall it is actually pretty simple. Senate Republicans  are preparing to vote to overrule the Parliamentarian--the nonpartisan  umpire, referee for the Senate--who lets us know what is in order, what  is not in order. Senate Republicans are preparing to vote to overrule  the Parliamentarian. They will argue that they are not, but that is  indeed what is happening here. They want to do that in order to bypass  the filibuster in order to gut the Clean Air Act.

As I stand here right now, those joint resolutions that are going to  be before us are subject to rule XXII of the Senate and, therefore,  subject to the 60-vote filibuster threshold. They are subject to  debate. They are subject to amendments. That has already been  determined.

In this moment, they are in regular legislation and are subject, as a  result, to the legislative filibuster. But if we see what we expect to  see happen today, the status of these same bills--maybe later this  evening--will be very, very different. If Senate Republicans behave the  way that we expect them to, all of a sudden these same measures that  are subject to the legislative filibuster and debate and amendments  will all of a sudden be expedited procedurally--no amendments allowed,  very limited debate.

Colleagues, as I said here yesterday, it is not just the ``why''  Republicans are willing to endanger the health of Californians, it is  also the ``how'' they are doing it that is threatening.

A bit of history. In 1967, the Clean Air Act passed this body under  regular order by a vote of 88 to 12. In 1990, the landmark Clean Air  Act amendment passed the Senate 89 to 11--overwhelming bipartisan  support. But today, Republicans are trying to pass these bills to gut  California's Clean Air Act authority under a simple 50-vote threshold.  They are plotting to overturn the Senate Parliamentarian's  determination, plain and simple.

Why is that significant? Well, the majority leader said it himself at  the very start of this Congress that when it comes to overriding the  Parliamentarian, ``that is totally akin to killing the filibuster. We  can't go there. People need to understand that.'' But fast forward to  this week, and we have heard all sorts of excuses and explanations and  mental gymnastics as to why all of a sudden overturning the  Parliamentarian is not akin to killing the filibuster. It is a complete  180-degree shift.

But in one way, I guess, they might be right. No, this isn't the same  as killing the legislative filibuster. This actually goes way, way  beyond that because, first, they are doing more than going nuclear on  the Parliamentarian; they are going nuclear on the Congressional Review  Act itself. It is true that the Parliamentarian does not make law.  Under the Constitution, the House and the Senate set their own  procedures, limited by the requirements set in the Constitution.

For the good of the order and actual functioning democracy, we have  all come to rely on the Parliamentarian to call balls and strikes and  set the rules of the road. But the Congressional Review Act is a law,  and it says that all points of order are waived during a CRA  resolution. And that is what we are debating right now, an actual CRA  resolution relating to hydrogen fuel.

I oppose this particular resolution, but at least it is following the  law and Senate procedure. But what is about to happen is going to be  against the law and against Senate procedure.

As I understand it, Senate Republicans are preparing to have this  Senate go nuclear not just once but twice. First, we will go nuclear  and overturn the rule on points of order during a CRA, which is in the  law. Then Republicans plan to go nuclear a second time: to throw out  the rulebook and use the CRA against any Agency action that any Agency  submits, no questions asked. Like I said, this goes way beyond just the  legislative filibuster. So let's play it out a little bit so we are  clear as to what this would lead to.

Under this logic, the Trump administration can send an endless stream  of nonrule actions to Congress going back to 1996, including vaccine  approvals. After all, we have an HHS Secretary with a spotty history as  it pertains to the health and safety of vaccines. The administration  could send broadcast licenses because you know this is an  administration that is not shy about attacking anybody in the community  who disagrees with their agenda. We can see the administration send  merger approvals--again, not just those that are pending but go back to  1996--and any number of government decisions that apply to President  Trump's long list of enemies.

All it would take is a minimum of 30 Senators to introduce related  bills, and the Senate would be bogged down voting on Agency actions,  large and small, all day long. Is that how we want to spend our days  here in the Senate, voting on every vaccine approval because Secretary  Kennedy decides to send them to Congress?

And what about the next Democratic administration? All bets would be  off. Consider mining permits. Consider fossil fuel project approvals;  consider LNG export licenses or offshore leases, IRS tax policies,  foreign policies, and every Project 2025 or DOGE disruption or  overreach. Every Agency action the Democrats don't like--whether it is  a rule or not and no matter how much time has passed--would be fair  game if Republicans go through with this and establish this precedent.

So let's take a step back. Republicans are admitting that they don't  have the votes to pass these California resolutions under the Senate  rules that the Parliamentarian says apply in this case, so they will  overrule the Parliamentarian--why not throw out the rulebook  altogether?

By voting to go nuclear on the CRA, they are ignoring the law, not  just Senate rules but the text of the law itself. By voting to overrule  the Parliamentarian, they are saying that the rules are whatever the  Republicans say they are, not what the Parliamentarian has determined.  The majority here can tell themselves whatever they want, and they can  twist themselves into pretzels and knots to try and justify these  reckless actions, but despite their smoke-and-mirrors approach to  confuse the general public, we are all going to see it today with our  own eyes if they go forward.

The majority wants to go nuclear to bypass the filibuster and pass a  bill for the first time in Senate history. It has happened for  nominations before. It has happened on a few procedural questions  before, but never on a bill or three bills--never. And if this happens  under a Republican majority, it would actually be pretty ironic that  the party who claims to be the staunch defender of the filibuster threw  the rules aside as soon as it was convenient.

I have been honest on my views of the filibuster. I do think it needs  to be changed overall going forward, but it was my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle who fought hard to keep it.

Well, there is about to be a new precedent on the record, unless we  step back at the last minute. And it will stand as a guidepost going  forward. Democrats are in the minority today. Democrats will be in the  majority again some day--maybe later, maybe sooner--but we will  certainly not forget what happened here today. History will not forget.  California will not forget what is at stake today either.

I yield for now, but I will be back.