Recognizing California's 2025 Nobel Laureates


Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize five pioneering  Californians who this year were awarded Nobel Prizes for their  groundbreaking advancements in medicine, physics, and chemistry.

Just last month, the Nobel Foundation announced the annual recipients  of their world-renowned awards, recognizing those who ``conferred the  greatest benefit to humankind.'' In 2025, a record-breaking number of  them came from one public university system: the University of  California. Today, it is my honor to recognize each of California's  five Nobel laureates for their achievements.

Frederick J. Ramsdell, an alumnus of the University of California,  San Diego, and the University of California, Los Angeles, was one of  three scientists awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for  their research to better understand and protect the human immune  system. Dr. Ramsdell's research will help develop effective therapeutic  strategies for those fighting cancer, autoimmune diseases, and in need  of organ transplants, ultimately working to improve their quality of  life and save lives.

Professor Emeritus John Clarke of the University of California,  Berkeley, along with Professor Emeritus John M. Martinis and Professor  Michel H. Devoret--both of the University of California, Santa  Barbara--were all awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for their  groundbreaking research in quantum computing. Their work will advance  evolving technologies in everything from drug discovery to agriculture  to cybersecurity and beyond. As UC President James Miliken has said,  their work has truly ``opened the door to the next generation of  quantum technologies.''

Finally, Professor Omar M. Yaghi of the University of California,  Berkeley, was one of three researchers awarded the Nobel Prize in  Chemistry for ``the development of metal-organic frameworks'' that  could be used to help scientists do everything from ``harvest water  from desert air'' to ``capture carbon dioxide'' to ``store toxic gases  or catalyse chemical reactions.''

Together, each of these Nobel Prize awards represents not only a body  of work from some of the greatest scientific minds in the world, but  the product of intentional, meaningful Federal investments in our  Nation's academic and research centers. Federal research grants,  combined with the intellect and innovation of our Nation's top  researchers, once again has produced long-lasting and life-changing  contributions not only for California and our country, but for all of  humanity.

For their outstanding achievements and in recognition of the  University of California's new world record for Nobel Prizes awarded in  a single year, it is my honor to recognize each of this year's Nobel  laureates.

Congratulations, once again--you have made California and our country  proud.