Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702137/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. PADILLA. Madam President, of all the serious issues facing this  country, including but not limited to the affordability challenges that  so many working families are struggling with, I can't believe we are  back here debating a partisan attempt to rush through what I referred  to as a solution in search of a problem.

As we all know, and particularly the voters of Virginia will remind  us, voting is already underway this election year. And instead of  working to keep our elections safe and secure by making it more  accessible for eligible Americans to cast their ballot in our  elections, we have back before us a measure that would make it harder  for eligible citizens to register to vote, to stay registered to vote,  to cast their ballot, and make it tougher for election administrators  and volunteers to administer our democracy, as is so fundamental to our  country.

We have already gone down this road for several weeks and weeks and  weeks now. We have debated the so-called SAVE America Act, but I think,  despite how you talked about the SAVE America Act, which has certainly  not passed the Senate, even my Republican colleagues who have seen the  measure suggested by our colleague from Louisiana, it is an even more  extreme version.

Let me begin by saying, we already know that you have to be a citizen  to vote in our elections. That is nothing new. That is already existing  law. And despite the President's claims, there is zero evidence of  massive voter fraud across the country, which is the premise of these  proposals. So not only is it a solution in search of a problem, to  paraphrase a wise man, this measure is all foam and no beer.

This amendment seeks to eliminate or, at a minimum, restrict early  voting opportunities which 47 States in the country offer for eligible  citizens, 47 States. Why we would want to take away opportunities for  citizens to participate in our democracy, I don't know.

This proposal also suggests that all ballots be counted within 36  hours of the election. That may sound good, and it may be very doable  in States with smaller populations and smaller numbers of registered  voters, but in the larger States, yes, it takes more time to count more  ballots. And I know we can all agree that we want to do it securely to  maintain election integrity, things to ensure that if a ballot comes in  on election day, that that voter hasn't already voted by mail. It takes  a minute to cross-reference those records.

Or a ballot that is received on time by mail that you conduct a  signature verification to help confirm that the person submitting that  ballot is indeed the voter. You need more than 36 hours when you have  more than 20 million voters like we have in my home State of  California.

So what is this proposed amendment really about? It is about holding  on to power because the President knows that his agenda has failed, and  it is not just extremely unpopular but has done damage to families  across the country.

Just look at his most recent executive order seeking to ban vote-by- mail--changes to the rules when the primary season is already underway.  But the language has these changes go into immediate effect, just  adding to the rising costs, just adding to the rising chaos, just  adding to the rising corruption.

And it is unfortunate that the election administration has been  turned into a partisan issue.

I actually ask our colleagues to protect the early voters, not just  in my State but in yours. Protect vote-by-mail opportunities, not just  in my State but in yours. Let's protect women who are married and  change their name and their right to vote, not just in my State but in  yours.

Colleagues, I urge a ``no'' vote on amendment No. 5414.                                Point of Order

And, furthermore, Madam President, I raise a point of order that the  pending amendment is not germane and, therefore, violates section  305(b)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1984.

Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 4855 and ask  that it be reported by number.

Mr. PADILLA. Mr. President, my amendment would create a point of  order against reconciliation bills that would provide funding for  Federal Agencies that still have unobligated funds left over from  previous reconciliation bills.

Now, as I have described this amendment, many people are thinking:  Well, that is pretty common sense. Why is this even necessary?

Well, let me remind us that ICE and CBP still have a combined total  of $103 billion in unspent funds from last year's ``Big Anything But  Beautiful Bill.'' You heard me right: $103 billion. Let that sink in.

Let that sink in.

ICE is still sitting on $63.2 billion of its funding. That is 84  percent of the funding from that bill. The CBP is sitting on $40  billion. That is 62 percent of the funding from last year's bill. So  what are we even doing here? There is $103 billion that is unspent, and  you are trying to give them another $140 billion.

Mr. PADILLA. This doesn't make sense.

Mr. PADILLA. So, colleagues, I urge you to vote yes on amendment No.  4855.

Mr. PADILLA.                                 Vote on Motion