Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689475/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mr. PADILLA. Madam President, I have to agree. We have finally made  it to Donald Trump's promise and self-proclaimed liberation day. But  here is what I also observe: The stock market is down since the  beginning of the year. The cost of everything from groceries to housing  continues to rise. Americans' retirement funds have shrunk. The chances  of a recession are up.

That sure doesn't feel like a liberation to me.

I bring these examples up simply to highlight the hypocrisy of this  administration. Donald Trump campaigned on a promise to lower prices on  day one of his administration, but he has done  the exact opposite. His policies and his rhetoric are raising the cost  of living for hundreds of millions of Americans.

To make matters worse, he is simply lying about it. In fact, his top  trade adviser has gone on record promising Americans that we all must  just be confused and that the tariffs are really actually tax cuts.  This administration thinks so little of the American people that they  think that somehow we won't know the difference between whether our  personal wealth is growing or shrinking.

So let's be clear. A tariff is a tax on the American people--plain  and simple. Trump's tariffs equate to the biggest tax hike on Americans  in decades, because the way tariffs work is this: American companies  will have to pay more to import goods, and in turn, the American people  will have to pay more to buy those products.

Donald Trump knows this. It is not that he doesn't know; it is that  he doesn't care. And those aren't my words; they are his. Just this  past weekend, he was asked about the effects that his tariffs will have  on the price of cars, as one example. He said: ``I couldn't care less  if they raise prices.'' He followed it up by saying: ``I hope they  raise prices.'' Again, those aren't my words; those are words from  President Trump.

Well, colleagues, maybe the richest President in history doesn't care  when the cost of a new car or the cost of a new home or the cost of  groceries go up, but for the people that I represent in my home State  of California and the working-class neighborhoods like the one I grew  up in, this is not a game.

Here is what is most concerning to me: It seems like Republicans in  Congress simply want to double down on this agenda of making the  working class pay more in order to pass even more tax breaks for the  wealthiest Americans.

The latest number, as the proposals continue to evolve, is $5.3  trillion in tax breaks for the wealthy. It is clearly the No. 1  priority for Republicans. Well, to do that, to pay for that, working  families are just going to have to work harder?

These same Republicans who want to give the tax breaks to the wealthy  are also the ones supposedly concerned about our Nation's growing  deficit. They are trying to tell us that, well, we have to make cuts to  Medicaid or other important programs in the Federal Government. They  say we have to make cuts to nutrition assistance programs. They say we  have to make cuts to public education. They will go one further: They  are trying to eliminate the Department of Education.

I grant them this: If nothing else, the Republican Party's economic  plan has been consistent. They want to bleed the working class to  benefit the rich, and they are going to lie to our faces as they try to  do it. It is unacceptable.

Now, we know Republicans are already also considering any and every  accounting trick they can think of to fudge the numbers and hide the  real cost of the bill.

So my resolution would simply require that they be transparent with  the American people. It would require that any tariff used to offset  the tax cuts for the wealthy must be explicitly written into the text  of the Republican reconciliation bill.

If Republicans want to increase prices on hard-working Americans to  give handouts to billionaires, then own it.

You should not be allowed to hide behind President Trump as you do  it. Be transparent. Be honest. Put these price increases into the bill.  Tell the American people what you really stand for, because when  Americans wonder why their grocery bills and their energy bills and all  their other bills go up, they deserve to know why, and they deserve to  know who caused it.

And then we will see who is really on the side of the working class.

Mr. PADILLA. So I thank my colleague for his response, but I take  issue with some items that I do believe need to be addressed and  clarified.

He makes the claim that the tax reforms from about a decade ago, I  believe it was 2017 to be more precise, was good for the economy. It  begs the question: Good for whose economy? Good for whose pocketbook?  The breaks were disproportionately for the most wealthy in America, and  average working families didn't benefit nearly, nearly as much. That is  where we should be focusing relief, No. 1.

No. 2, he argues that the math has been settled because when tariffs  are imposed, those are revenues going into the U.S. Treasury. I repeat:  When the costs go up by American companies importing products, they are  going to pass along that increased cost to American consumers. So it is  a tax by another name.

And the last point I will make is this because it was relevant in the  Environment and Public Works Committee  hearing earlier today when Transportation Secretary Duffy talked about  the concern the administration has about the increased costs and  budgets of a lot of transportation projects compared to the costs of  projects 4 years ago, 8 years ago, et cetera. It begs the question:  What will be the impact of these tariffs, whether it is on  transportation projects, on water infrastructure projects, on energy  infrastructure projects when the cost of materials goes up?

It is going to increase costs. It is going to delay projects. And,  once again, who pays the price? Working families across America.