Denouncing the Antisemitic Terrorist Attack in Boulder, Colorado


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

I am in an unusual position here. This attack occurred in my home  State of Colorado, as well, and I am actually a cosponsor of the  resolution from my friend Mr. Neguse, and I am a cosponsor of the  resolution of my friend Mr. Evans.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Neguse would tell you that I called him the night of  this attack, and I offered my condolences to him and to his  constituents and asked him if there was anything that I could do  personally to help.

I offered to write a resolution, a bipartisan one. We didn't get that  done, but I offered.

I will tell you where I was this weekend. I am not going to malign  other Members of this Chamber and ask where they were, but I will tell  you where I was. I flew back on Friday night so that I could spend 1  day, because I had to be back here on Sunday, but 1 day, and I went to  a pro-life walk, and then, I went to three separate synagogues to be  with the Jewish community in my city.

Mr. Speaker, what I don't quite understand is the concern over this  resolution. Here is what, when you get to the ``now, therefore, be it  resolved,'' this is what it says, and here is the reality.

Mr. Speaker, we can cosponsor Mr. Neguse's resolution. We can  cosponsor and vote for Mr. Van Drew's resolution. We can cosponsor and  vote for Mr. Evans' resolution.

Mr. Evans' resolution, the one we are talking about, says: ``Now,  therefore, be it resolved that the House of Representatives.''

Tell me if I say anything, Mr. Speaker, that is radical. It says:  ``Be it resolved that the House of Representatives condemns Mohammed  Sabry Soliman and his antisemitic terrorist attack on peaceful  demonstrators supporting the release of the hostages held by Hamas.''

I am for that. That is why I cosponsored Mr. Evans' resolution.

Number three, it says: Be it resolved that the House of  Representatives ``affirms that free and open communication between  State and local law enforcement and their Federal counterparts remains  the bedrock of public safety and is necessary in preventing terrorist  attacks.''

It seems reasonable to me.

Number four says: ``Expresses gratitude to law enforcement officers,  including U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel, for  protecting the homeland.''

These are all things I can support and vote for. I guess I would ask  why anybody would not vote and support the ``be it resolved'' in that  resolution.

I rise today in support of my friend and colleague, Representative  Gabe Evans, and his resolution denouncing this anti-Semitic terrorist  attack.

We shouldn't even be here today debating this resolution. Because of  the radical, illegal, and harmful policies being rubberstamped by the  Governor of Colorado and the State legislature, here we are.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, this terrorist was in our country having  overstayed his visa. Instead of turning over this illegal alien to ICE  and law enforcement, Colorado lawmakers gave him a sanctuary pass. In  fact, they even went a step further and gave this terrorist a driver's  license.

I am proud to be from El Paso County, a county in Colorado that  stands for commonsense immigration policies and a community that works  with our law enforcement to give them every tool to protect our  community.

We must work with our Federal, State, and local law enforcement  professionals and give them every resource to protect our communities  and our country. I am proud to cosponsor and to support this resolution  for Mr. Evans.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.                             Parliamentary Inquiry