Epermit Act


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 4503) to improve environmental reviews and authorizations through  the use of interactive, digital, and cloud-based platforms, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4503

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``ePermit Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

The Congress finds that--

(1) coordination between Federal, State, and local agencies       and project sponsors is critical to ensuring the timely and       effective completion of environmental reviews and       authorizations, including through the sharing of relevant       information, alignment of environmental review timelines, and       integration of authorizations, while maintaining compliance       with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements;

(2) digital strategies for environmental reviews have       proven to make the community engagement process more       accessible, available, and transparent to all stakeholders,       especially the communities in which new projects are built;

(3) establishing robust data architectures will ensure data       integrity, improve transparency, reduce costs, and enhance       the ability of the Federal Government to serve the public;

(4) Federal agency use of modern software that can track       the full lifecycle of environmental reviews and       authorizations is critical for--

(A) effective project management and process improvement;

(B) enabling workflow automation, transparency, and       tracking; and

(C) simplifying reporting requirements;

(5) modern business process management systems that track       Federal agency workflows and produce vendor neutral,       interoperable event, task, and other milestone data that can       be shared with other Federal agency systems can reduce costs       and improve performance for Federal agencies responsible for       environmental reviews and authorizations;

(6) case and project management systems--

(A) are essential tools for managing the tasks and       activities associated with environmental reviews and       authorizations; and

(B) provide Federal agencies more data and insight into       such environmental reviews and authorizations;

(7) well-defined business rules can enable process       automation that allows Federal agencies responsible for       environmental reviews or authorizations to expedite routine       tasks and workflows, and improve transparency and accuracy of       project timeline estimates, which in turn can help project       sponsors better plan for application preparation and project       delivery milestones;

(8) taking a standardized, digital-first perspective to       environmental reviews and authorizations at Federal agencies       responsible for environmental reviews or authorizations will       improve document quality, lead to more concise reports,       enable the reuse and accessibility of the data underpinning       Federal agency analyses and decisions, and enable objective,       technology-assisted evaluation of environmental impacts,       analysis, and documentation, and accelerate future       environmental reviews and authorizations;

(9) Federal agencies responsible for environmental reviews       or authorizations, project sponsors, and the public should       have access to up-to-date information on accurate timelines       and the status of environmental reviews and authorizations;       and

(10) allowing for seamless information exchange among       Federal agencies and between Federal agencies and project       sponsors will increase predictability and efficiency of       environmental review and authorization schedules for project       sponsors.       SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF DATA STANDARDS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Council on       Environmental Quality, in consultation with the Federal       Permitting Improvement Steering Council, the Chief       Information Officers Council, the Office of Management and       Budget, and other relevant stakeholders and Federal agencies,       shall develop, publish, and iteratively update data standards       for the collection and curation of authorization data by       Federal agencies, which shall be used to--

(1) assist with environmental reviews and authorizations;

(2) organize, define, and standardize various concepts,       formats, and protocols that are included in environmental       reviews and authorizations; and

(3) reduce the need for redundant environmental reviews by       creating a shared vocabulary and software systems that will       support vendor neutrality, data interoperability, workflow       automation, and automatic data exchange between Federal       agencies.

(b) Inclusions.--The data standards developed, published,       and iteratively updated under subsection (a) shall include       the following:

(1) A standardized taxonomy that allows Federal agencies to       identify and track data types, relationships, and values.

(2) Comprehensive categories for data, such as--

(A) projects;

(B) processes;

(C) environmental documents;

(D) public comments;

(E) geospatial information;

(F) public engagement events, as applicable by process or       Federal agency;

(G) case events; and

(H) milestones to ensure clarity and uniformity.       SEC. 4. DEVELOPMENT OF PROTOTYPE TOOLS.

The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, in       consultation with the Administrator of General Services, the       Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council, the Chief       Information Officers Council, the Director of the Office of       Management and Budget, and other relevant stakeholders and       Federal agencies, shall design, test, and build prototype       tools for environmental reviews and authorizations that will       assist Federal agencies in implementing the minimum       functional requirements described in section 5. The Chair of       the Council on Environmental Quality shall prioritize       designing, testing, and building tools under this section       that--

(1) support authorization case or project management       systems that manage tasks, milestones, and activities       associated with environmental reviews and authorizations, and       provide Federal agencies more data and insight into such       reviews and authorizations;

(2) enable--

(A) application submission and tracking portals used by       project sponsors, enabling greater transparency; and

(B) public comment opportunity tracking portals to increase       transparency;

(3) facilitate automated applications, environmental       reviews. and authorizations;

(4) allow data exchange between Federal agency systems; and

(5) accelerate complex environmental reviews.       SEC. 5. PUBLICATION OF GUIDANCE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF DATA                     STANDARDS AND MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Publication.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Council on       Environmental Quality shall publish guidance for how each       Federal agency responsible for environmental reviews or       authorizations implements--

(1) the data standards published under section 3; and

(2) the following minimum functional requirements:

(A) Application data sharing that enables automated       transfer of relevant environmental review and authorization       data among Federal agencies.

(B) Automated project screening to assist frontline staff       with reviewing project sponsor provided information for       completeness and accuracy and determining if a categorical       exclusion or other general authorization applies to an       action. Automated project screening may not be used by the       Council on Environmental Quality or a Federal agency to       unlawfully restrict any activities on Federal lands.

(C) Public availability of screening criteria and related       decision models.

(D) Automated case or project management tools which       include a repository of relevant data and metadata that       enable advanced tracking, reporting, and optimization to aid       workflows.

(E) Integrated geographic information system analysis tools       which incorporate geospatial data layers and models for each       resource analyzed as part of an environmental review or       authorization for a given study area.

(F) Document management tools that preserve metadata       associated with geospatial analysis, modeling, and other       analytic processes conducted during an environmental review       or authorization, to support future reviews and enable       Artificial Intelligence-assisted analysis of past decisions.

(G) Automated comment compilation and analysis tools,       including services for comment categorization and response       that handle the lifecycle of comment submission, analysis,       categorization and response with Artificial Intelligence       support where appropriate.

(H) Administrative record management tools that maintain       both portable document formats and data-rich repositories       accessible to both machine and human users.

(I) Common or interoperable Federal agency services that       integrate shared services, shared applications, and common       user experiences for Federal agency staff, project sponsors,       and the public.

(b) Inclusions.--The guidance published under this section       shall include the following:

(1) Guidelines for cloud-based storage, data sharing       protocols, and application programming interfaces to enable       the Council on Environmental Quality to work with Federal       agencies to use authorization data to aid Federal agencies in       modernizing their environmental reviews and authorizations       and for iterative development of the authorization portal.

(2) Provisions that support scalability and adaptability of       the minimum requirements to emerging technologies.       SEC. 6. IMPLEMENTATION OF DATA STANDARDS AND MINIMUM                     FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Implementation.--The head of each Federal agency       responsible for environmental reviews or authorizations       shall--

(1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of       this Act--

(A) compare existing Federal agency systems for       environmental reviews and authorizations under their       authority with the data standards published under section 3       and the minimum functional requirements described in section       5(a)(2) and report findings from such comparison to the       Council on Environmental Quality;

(B) assess whether existing Federal agency technological       capabilities are consistent with the data standards published       under section 3 and the minimum functional requirements       described in section 5(a)(2);

(C) submit to the Council on Environmental Quality a report       that estimates the completion dates for implementing the data       standards published under section 3 and the minimum       functional requirements described in section 5(a)(2); and

(D) submit to the Council on Environmental Quality, in       consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality, an       implementation plan that--

(i) describes how the Federal agency will implement the       data standards published under section 3 and the minimum       functional requirements described in section 5(a)(2); and

(ii) describes how, to the extent the Federal agency       determines necessary to meet relevant statutory requirements,       the Federal agency will adopt or implement the prototype       tools tested, designed, and built under section 4; and

(2) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of       this Act, begin implementing the data standards published       under section 3 and the minimum functional requirements       described in section 5(a)(2).

(b) Report.--Not less frequently than twice each year, the       Chief Information Officer of each Federal agency, in       consultation with the Chief Environmental Review and       Permitting Officer of each Federal agency, shall submit to       the Council on Environmental Quality and the Director of the       Office of Management and Budget a report on the       progress of the Federal agency towards meeting the       requirements of subsection (a).       SEC. 7. UNIFIED INTERAGENCY DATA SYSTEM.

(a) In General.--

(1) Unified interagency data system.--To the maximum extent       practicable, the Chair of the Council of Environmental       Quality and the head of each Federal agency responsible for       environmental reviews or authorizations shall iteratively       develop and maintain a unified interagency data system       consisting of interconnected Federal agency systems and       shared services for environmental reviews and authorizations.

(2) Authorization portal.--

(A) In general.--The shared services developed and       maintained under paragraph (1) shall include a common       interactive, digital, cloud-based authorization portal, which       shall--

(i) be designed in a manner consistent with--

(I) the recommendations of the Council on Environmental       Quality included in the study submitted pursuant to section       110 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42       U.S.C. 4336d) titled ``Council on Environmental Quality       Report to Congress on the Potential for Online and Digital       Technologies to Address Delays in Reviews and Improve Public       Accessibility and Transparency under 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)'';       and

(II) the minimum functional requirements described in       section 5(a)(2);

(ii) serve as a platform for tracking and displaying real-      time data on environmental reviews and authorizations made       available through application programming interfaces or other       reporting mechanisms from Federal agency systems that are       compliant with the data standards and data architecture       described in this Act;

(iii) be supported by a decentralized, cross-network       digital infrastructure software that ensures vendor       neutrality and interoperability of data and models across       Federal agencies;

(iv) include a mechanism for the dissemination of relevant       information (such as a notice of intent for public comment,       public meetings, project statuses, or a notice of intent to       begin an environmental review) to local communities, as       applicable;

(v) allow a project sponsor to submit all necessary       documentation for environmental reviews and authorizations in       one unified and secure portal;

(vi) support interactive, digital, and cloud-based tools       enabling applicants to edit documents and collaborate with       relevant Federal agencies in real time;

(vii) support visual features, including video, animation,       geographic information system displays, interactive maps, and       three-dimensional renderings;

(viii) provide for the exchange of information to and from       Federal agency data systems via an application programming       interface or another reporting mechanisms;

(ix) allow for the submission of geospatial data associated       with project location, footprint, and impact;

(x) support automatic documentation of submission and       process timelines; and

(xi) allow the following metrics to be tracked over time--

(I) estimates of achieved efficiencies, such as reductions       in the time between receipt of applications and final       authorization decisions;

(II) comparisons of authorization timelines before and       after the implementation of this Act;

(III) usage of the authorization portal and other       statistics from the Digital Analytics Program;

(IV) metrics on the number of public comments received,       responses provided, and community meetings held;

(V) the number of projects subject to litigation based on       authorization deficiencies or inefficiencies;

(VI) a list of Federal agencies that are not yet fully       compliant with the data standards published under section 3       and the minimum functional requirements described in section       5(a)(2), along with their progress toward compliance; and

(VII) examples or repositories of Federal agency-developed       digital workflows enabled by the implementation of this Act,       including visualizations of data sharing, authorizations and       decision logic, and environmental reviews.

(B) Administrative support.--The Administrator of General       Services shall host the authorization portal as a shared       service for Congress, Federal agencies, and the public.

(C) Accessability.--The authorization portal shall be       accessible to Congress, Federal agencies, and the public,       with appropriate safeguards to protect sensitive or       classified information and information restricted by user       type as appropriate.

(D) Public accessibility.--To the extent practicable and       consistent with other law, the authorization portal shall       provide public access to non-sensitive data, including       authorization timelines, location, project type,       environmental reviews, and mitigation measures.

(E) Congressional access and oversight.--

(i) In general.--The authorization portal shall provide       Congress with direct access to aggregated performance data       and other analytics to enable real-time oversight of Federal       agencies.

(ii) Artificial intelligence support systems and training       materials.--Congress shall have access to the data, fine-      tuning procedures, and prompt configurations specifically       created or adapted for Artificial Intelligence systems used       to support environmental review or authorization activities,       excluding proprietary or general pretraining materials       unrelated to such agency-specific customization.

(iii) Technical assistance.--The Council on Environmental       Quality shall provide to Congress technical assistance upon       request to ensure effective use of the authorization portal       and Artificial Intelligence systems for oversight purposes.

(3) Cybersecurity and compliance considerations.--The       authorization portal shall be designed to promote vendor       neutral interoperability, reduce redundancy, and ensure       compliance and coordination with other laws, including--

(A) section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly       referred to as the Privacy Act of 1974), and subchapter II of       chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code;

(B) the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program       established under section 3608 of title 44, United States       Code; and

(C) the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of       the Department of Homeland Security, for a case in which the       project is in coordination with a Federal agency with       stringent security requirements.

(b) Deadlines.--

(1) Shared services pilot.--Not later than one year after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Council on       Environmental Quality shall oversee piloting of shared       services for environmental reviews and authorizations,       including the authorization portal under subsection (a)(2).

(2) Unified system development and implementation.--To the       maximum extent practicable, not later than December 1, 2027,       the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality shall       develop and implement the unified interagency data system       required under subsection (a)(1).

(c) Report.--Not less frequently than annually, the Chair       of the Council on Environmental Quality, in consultation with       the Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council, the       Chief Information Officers Council, and other relevant       stakeholders and Federal agencies, shall submit to the       Committee on Natural Resources of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public       Works of the Senate a report on the Council on Environmental       Quality's progress on developing a unified interagency data       system under subsection (a).       SEC. 8. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Council       on Environmental Quality may enter into contracts and other       arrangements for analyses, services, and products with       Federal agencies, private organizations, and businesses, and       make such payments as determined necessary by the Council on       Environmental Quality to carry out the provisions of this       Act.       SEC. 9. CLARIFYING RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.

Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the       Council on Environmental Quality or a Federal agency to       impose additional regulatory processes or requirements beyond       those expressly stipulated under the National Environmental       Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or any other law.       SEC. 10. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

To the extent that a data system, technology, or tool       developed or incorporated into a unified interagency data       system under this Act is not limited by project type, the       data system, technology, or tool shall not have its use be       restricted by project type.       SEC. 11. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Authorization.--The term ``authorization'' means any       license, permit, approval, finding, determination, or other       administrative decision issued by an agency and any       interagency consultation that is required or authorized under       Federal law in order to site, construct, reconstruct, or       commence operations of a project administered by a Federal       agency.

(2) Authorization data.--The term ``authorization data''       means--

(A) any data relevant for a Federal agency to--

(i) determine the effect on the environment of an action       for which an authorization is required by the Federal agency;       and

(ii) determine whether to issue such authorization; and

(B) any community input or public comment on such       determinations.

(3) Data architecture.--The term ``data architecture''       means the design and organization of data systems, including       frameworks for data storage, processing, and exchange.

(4) Data standards.--The term ``data standards'' means       agreed-upon specifications for data formats, structures, and       definitions to ensure consistency and vendor neutral       interoperability.

(5) Environmental review.--The term ``environmental       review'' means any Federal agency procedures or processes       for--

(A) applying a categorical exclusion; or

(B) preparing an environmental assessment, an environmental       impact statement, or another document required under the       National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et       seq.).

(6) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' has the       meaning given the term ``agency'' in section 551 of title 5,       United States Code.

(7) Federal permitting improvement steering council.--The       term ``Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council'' has       the meaning given the term ``Council'' in section 41001 of       the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m).

Mr. CRANK.  4503, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4503, the ePermit Act,  which will establish a governmentwide technology strategy to improve  Federal permitting processes and timelines. I thank my colleagues,  Representatives Johnson and Peters, for their strong bipartisan work on  this legislation.

Today's digital landscape for Federal permitting is out of date,  consisting of diverse and isolated systems spread across different  Federal agencies. Generally, these systems are not interoperable or  sufficiently accessible for project sponsors or the general public.

To address these issues, the Trump administration issued a memorandum  titled: ``Updating Permitting Technology for the 21st Century.'' The  Council on Environmental Quality, or CEQ, subsequently issued a  Permitting Technology Action Plan. The plan sets the foundation for the  seamless exchange of information between agencies, simplified  interactions for applicants, and greater transparency and  predictability on environmental review and permitting schedules for  project sponsors and stakeholders.

The ePermit Act would codify key aspects of CEQ's action plan and  provide Federal agencies with direction on implementation of electronic  permitting systems. It would also instruct CEQ to work with other  agencies to establish a unified interagency data system for  environmental permitting and integrate AI into agencies' permitting  processes.

As the world increasingly adopts new technology solutions to boost  productivity and improve project outcomes, the Federal Government must  do the same or risk being left behind.

The ePermit Act takes a strong step in the right direction by  modernizing Federal permitting technology in a project-agnostic manner.

Again, I thank my colleagues, Representatives Johnson and Peters, for  this commonsense bipartisan bill. I ask my colleagues to join me in  support.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Colorado for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I will admit to being pretty excited that the ePermit  Act is on the floor today, not just because it is my bill but because  America needs this.

For years, both parties have agreed that our permitting system is too  slow. It is too complicated. Frankly, it is too stuck in the past. That  is too bad because, really, the story of America has been in no small  part a history of big ideas and big projects. It is time for us to get  back to that: for more housing, for more broadband, for more critical  infrastructure that will power this American economy for decades to  come.

Too often in the last few years, our permitting process has stood in  the way of that. Here we are, arguably the most technologically  advanced nation in the world. Yet, our agencies have been using  decades-old fragmented systems that simply were not built for the kind  of scale and complexity that we see with modern projects.

It is almost laughable. We have got modern agencies. We have multiple  agencies that will look at the same project using different data  standards, using different approaches, and different systems. Believe  it or not, they are still trading old, outdated, mostly static PDFs.

Perhaps not surprisingly, this creates confusion, delay, and a lack  of transparency for project developers, for communities, for the  public, and for our own Federal agencies. Sometimes they don't even  know with specificity what is going on at a particular stage in the  process.

This bill, the ePermit Act, addresses those problems. Because of this  bill, we will modernize and digitize our permitting process with  uniform data standards and a unified permitting portal so that agencies  can work together and so that the public and communities can see what  is actually happening.

Of course, as the gentlewoman mentioned, we are not starting from  scratch. I was involved when Congress recognized the importance of  these digital solutions in the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023. She  is right that the Trump administration has prioritized this work, and  we have worked with the administration to bring legislative clarity to  that vision.

Let's be honest. There are many parts of the siting and permitting  process that Republicans and Democrats disagree on, but this is not one  of them. A more efficient and a more transparent permitting system is  bipartisan. Our diverse coalition of cosponsors and supporting  stakeholders shows just that.

I thank Mr. Peters for being a good partner on this legislation. I  thank Chairman Westerman and Ranking Member Huffman for their support.

Mr. Speaker, the ePermit Act is a win for builders, a win for  transparency, a win for communities and the public, and a win for  America's competitiveness. I urge my colleagues to join us in letting  America build again.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, this is an important piece of legislation. I  urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield back the balance of  my time.