Lowering Housing Costs and Advancing Main Street Community Banks


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, Mr. Haridopolos from  Florida, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, the pursuit of the American Dream, the dream of one day  owning a home, is quickly becoming increasingly unattainable for so  many Americans, thanks in part, to costly regulations and market  factors.

With housing prices surging, evidence shows that we have a supply  problem, but let's look more into why this might be.

In my home State of Colorado, regulations account for 39 percent of  the cost of building a new home. Thirty-nine percent of the cost is  government imposed regulation. For those who might be wondering what  that means, that means if you pay $5, $2 of that, Mr. Speaker, is just  because of regulation. That is what is causing the problem.

Government should exist to provide order and protection for its  citizens. It shouldn't be there with overbearing mandates that make  life more difficult and expensive, especially for something as  fundamental as property and homeownership.

One of the contributing factors to these regulatory costs is the  agenda informed energy codes that States like Colorado are mandating.  They ignore science, and they even push aside stakeholders, the  builders, the people who actually build the homes and make this  American Dream. They push them aside in the creation process. Unelected  bureaucrats have mandated these energy codes blinded in their pursuit  of climate change altering results.

Instead, I argue these codes should promote affordability, and they  should decrease the regulatory burden on our homebuilders instead of  increasing that burden.

Simply put, it is impossible to achieve a more affordable home  building atmosphere while adding regulations to the books instead of  removing them.

Mr. Speaker, it really is that simple. To incentivize States to roll  back these mandates, I introduced the Freeing Residential Affordable  Markets From Excess Regulations, or FRAMER Act. This piece of  legislation would require States to reimburse homebuilders for the cost  difference between State mandated energy codes and the Department of  Housing and Urban Development's minimum standard for homes built within  Federal Opportunity Zones.

Stakeholders in my district, builders and citizens who want to reach  the American Dream, tell me that the cost of energy code mandates  totals in the thousands in added costs. In some cases tens of thousands  of dollars are added to the cost for a home.

It is long overdue that States change their ways. If we want to make  housing more affordable, then we have to make it cheaper for  homebuilders to do what they want to do, build.

The only way we can do this is to get the government out of the way  and remove these costly regulations that are only increasing the cost  of housing across America to help every American realize the American  Dream.

Removing that regulation is part of what the Housing for the 21st  Century Act does. It cuts red tape, and it makes a difference for  average Americans.

I am very proud to have supported this piece of legislation. I do  hope that the Senate will take this up and get it over to the President  so that he can sign it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Florida for yielding.