Make State Wildlife Action Plans Efficient Act of 2025


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1676) to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to  require the Secretary of the Interior to  approve the wildlife conservation and restoration program of a State  within a certain period of time, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1676

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Make SWAPs Efficient Act of       2025'' or the ``Make State Wildlife Action Plans Efficient       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. TIMING OF APPROVAL OF WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AND                     RESTORATION PROGRAM.

Section 4(e)(3) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife       Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669c(e)(3)) is amended--

(1) by inserting ``, not later than 180 days after the date       on which the State submitted the comprehensive plan,'' after       ``, the Secretary'';

(2) by striking ``, as redesignated'';

(3) by striking ``If the Secretary'' and inserting ``(A) If       the Secretary''; and

(4) by adding at the end the following:

``(B) Upon submission of a comprehensive plan by a State       under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall conditionally       authorize the implementation of the wildlife conservation and       restoration program of the State and shall set aside amounts       as described in subparagraph (A).

``(C) The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall       develop a process to ensure sufficient and timely review of       comprehensive plans submitted by States under paragraph (1)       and final approval of the wildlife conservation and       restoration program of such States not later than 180 days       after the date on which a State submits such a comprehensive       plan.

``(D) It is the intent of Congress that the Secretary       prioritize the--

``(i) timely review of comprehensive plans submitted by       States under paragraph (1); and

``(ii) approval of the wildlife conservation and       restoration programs of such States.

``(E) Not later than June 1 of the year immediately       following the year in which a State submits a comprehensive       plan under paragraph (1), if the Secretary does not approve       the wildlife conservation and restoration program of the       State under subparagraph (A) within the time described in       that subparagraph, the Secretary shall submit to the Chair       and Ranking Member of the Committee on Natural Resources of       the House of Representatives and the Environment and Public       Works Committee of the Senate a report regarding the status       of such comprehensive plan and including the reason why the       wildlife conservation and restoration program was not so       approved.''.

Mr. CRANK.  1676, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1676, the Make SWAPs Efficient  Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative Donalds from Florida.

This bill advances a goal shared by both House Republicans and the  Trump administration to promote government efficiency by holding the  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service accountable when reviewing State  Wildlife Action Plans, or SWAPs.

SWAPs serve as blueprints for identifying each State's and  territory's unique conservation needs. By law, States must have an  updated SWAP to receive funding through the State Wildlife Grants  program, and SWAPs must be updated every 10 years.

The SWAPs of 44 States, the District of Columbia, and three  territories are up for renewal in 2025. In the past, the approval  process for SWAPs has taken as long as 18 months due to bureaucratic  delays at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Last year, the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and the U.S.  Fish and Wildlife Service entered into a memorandum of understanding to  simplify the review process for these plans. This bill is intended to  complement that work by directing the Secretary of the Interior to  approve SWAPs within 180 days of submission.

I commend Representative Donalds for his continued leadership, and I  urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1676.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, this bill will help make the Federal  Government more efficient and ensure our conservation programs work as  they were intended.

Once again, I thank Mr. Donalds for his diligent work and attention  to this issue. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.