Providing for Consideration of H.R. Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pregnant Students' Rights Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I can't help but notice. Some of my colleagues talk  about whether or not someone is a real doctor. I don't understand how  someone is not a real doctor when they show a patient an ultrasound.  Giving them all of the information and letting a woman make a decision  is somehow not celebrated here.

If we were really for life, wouldn't we be excited that a woman  looked at that ultrasound and said: You know what? I have decided I  want to have that baby.

That is not a choice everyone in this body wants that woman to make.  They want them to make a different choice for some reason.

Mr. Speaker, I am here today to support the pregnancy centers across  America, including Life Network in my home of Colorado Springs,  Colorado. Pregnancy centers offer hope, and they offer opportunity.  They promote life and give necessary and lifesaving resources to  struggling mothers and fathers. It is these very pregnancy centers  whose only focus is for the enrichment and support of these often  inexpectant parents who are the target of a punitive and distasteful  action by the previous administration.

In Colorado's Fifth Congressional District, Life Network has served  3,900 patients, providing high-quality pregnancy tests, ultrasounds,  early pregnancy care, and more for free to anyone who walks through  their door.

This is just the impact in my district. I know that the presence of  similar pregnancy centers across the country are providing hope and  support to thousands of parents each day. Funding for these mothers and  fathers, many of whom are underserved, should never be politically  taken away.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Fischbach for introducing the  Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act, which I  strongly support, to provide a statutory protection for pregnancy  centers under the Temporary Assistant for Needy Families program.