Resolving the Akwesasne Mohawk Land Claim in the State of New York


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2916) to authorize, ratify, and confirm the Agreement of  Settlement and Compromise to Resolve the Akwesasne Mohawk Land Claim in  the State of New York, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2916

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. AGREEMENT AND TRANSFERS AUTHORIZED, RATIFIED AND                     CONFIRMED.          The following are hereby authorized, ratified, and       confirmed:

(1) The Agreement of Settlement and Compromise to Resolve       the Akwesasne Mohawk Land Claim in the State of New York       (hereafter in this Act referred to as the ``Settlement       Agreement''), entered into by the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe,       the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne, the State of New York, the       Counties of Franklin and Saint Lawrence, New York, the Towns       of Fort Covington and Bombay, New York, and the New York       Power Authority.

(2) Any transfer of land, right-of-way, or easement that is       the subject of the claims in the Canadian Saint Regis Band of       Mohawk Indians v. New York et al. (82-CV-783); the Canadian       Saint Regis Band of Mohawk Indians v. New York et al. (82-CV-      1114); and the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe, by the Saint Regis       Mohawk Tribal Council and the People of the Longhouse at       Akwesasne, by Mohawk Nation Council of Chiefs v. The State of       New York, et al. (89-CV-829).       SEC. 2. LANDS OWNED BY SAINT REGIS MOHAWK TRIBE WITHIN                     SETTLEMENT ACQUISITION AREAS.

The following shall be Indian Country as defined in section       1151(a) of title 18, United States Code, subject to the       terms, conditions, and limitations of the Settlement       Agreement:

(1) Land owned on the effective date of the Settlement       Agreement by the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe within the       Settlement Acquisition Areas, as defined in the Settlement       Agreement.

(2) Land acquired by the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe within       the Settlement Acquisition Areas after the effective date of       the Settlement Agreement.

Mr. CRANK.  2916, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2916, to authorize, ratify,  and confirm the Agreement of Settlement and Compromise to resolve the  Akwesasne Mohawk Land Claim in the State of New York, introduced by the  gentlewoman from New York, Congresswoman Stefanik.

The Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe is located on the border of New York and  Canada along the St. Lawrence River. Following the Revolutionary War,  the Seven Nations of Canada and the State of New York signed the 1796  Treaty, which gave the Tribe its reservation.

In 1824 and 1825, New York acquired land from the Tribe without the  Federal Government's approval, violating the Non-Intercourse Act, which  reserves to the United States the exclusive right to acquire Indian  lands and prohibits conveyance without Federal approval.

After decades of court proceedings, a 2022 Northern District of New  York ruling determined that the State of New York's 1825 purchase of  land violated the Non-Intercourse Act. Mediation between the parties  resumed and culminated in a settlement signed earlier this year.

The settlement would return approximately 3,500 acres of land to  reservation status and would allow the Tribe to acquire up to 14,000  additional acres from willing sellers. Additional provisions in the  settlement include waived tuition and mandatory fees for Akwesasne  Mohawk students attending State University of New York institutions and  preferred-rate power from the New York Power Authority.

The settlement requires no Federal monetary contribution and clearly  defines the reservation's boundaries.

Negotiated settlements related to Indian land claims under the Non- Intercourse Act require congressional approval, and that is why we are  here today.

H.R. 2916 would authorize, ratify, and confirm the Akwesasne Mohawk  Land Claim Settlement Agreement and bring final resolution to a  longstanding claim.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Mr. CRANK.  Stefanik), the lead sponsor of this bill.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2916 gives the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe  clarity on their reservation land and resolves a centuries-old  violation of the Non-Intercourse Act. This settlement is long overdue  and widely agreed upon. It is up to Congress to take the final steps  and authorize the settlement.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.