Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2931. We have  allowed sanctuary cities to openly defy Federal immigration law for far  too long. There must be real consequences for it.

I thank the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Finstad) for introducing  this important piece of legislation. I am also grateful to Chairman  Williams of the Committee on Small Business for working with me to  ensure that my community, El Paso County and Colorado Springs, isn't  swept up in the radical sanctuary policies coming out of Denver,  Colorado.

Specifically, I thank the gentleman for accepting our amendment to  ensure that communities like mine, which are fighting back against  criminal-coddling politicians, remain eligible locations for SBA  offices.

We have heard a lot of folks who are opposed to this bill say things  like: It is undermining small business, or: It is creating a culture  war.

This is about the rule of law. This is about cities thumbing their  noses at taxpayers. You aren't entitled to Federal funds in America.

Mr. Speaker, there is a way to keep these offices in these cities:  Stop being sanctuary cities. Comply with the law.

When did complying with the Federal law become something that was  optional in America? It is incredible.

As we hold sanctuary jurisdictions accountable, we must recognize  that not every community in a sanctuary State is part of the problem. I  believe the amended bill draws that line distinctly, and it recognizes  districts, like Colorado-05 that I represent, that have been bravely  pushing back on their own.

When the Biden administration opened our borders and over 8 million  or more crossed into our country illegally, 300 migrants per day rolled  into Colorado because cities like Denver welcomed them with our  taxpayer dollars. Migrants with connections to dangerous gangs, like  Tren de Aragua, didn't just stay in Denver, but they moved to nearby  communities, and they took over apartment complexes that were owned by  individuals.

El Paso County, my county, recognized the threat, but had zero  support from the Colorado legislature, who at the same time passed more  laws to make it worse. The Colorado legislature passed laws prohibiting  law enforcement from honoring ICE detainers. The Colorado legislature  restricted data sharing with Federal immigration agencies. The  legislature also passed a law that banned contracts for immigration  detention centers.

This is lawlessness, and this body should recognize it as such.

In 2024, my good friend, Sheriff Joe Roybal of El Paso County, and  other county leaders filed a lawsuit against the State arguing that  these laws are unconstitutional and that they hamper public safety.

Contrast that with cities like Denver, which have exacerbated their  housing crisis, and they continue to support illegal immigrants, going  so far as to bar city employees from cooperating with Federal  immigration enforcement.

Mr. Speaker, talk about playing politics. That is playing politics.

They passed laws in Denver to create a legal defense fund for illegal  immigrants. They passed a law to spend more than $180 million a year on  related services, all while hosting the SBA regional office and  laughing at the American taxpayers while doing it.

This is unacceptable. Sanctuary cities should not be rewarded with  Federal offices and resources. That is why I wrote to SBA Administrator  Kelly Loeffler urging her to move the regional office to Colorado  Springs, where we cooperate with Federal authorities and support small  business, and we uphold law and order for our citizens.

While President Trump has delivered on his promise to regain  operational control of the border, the fight isn't over. We need full  cooperation between Federal, State, and local law enforcement.

It is unfortunate that Colorado's leadership is still going in the  wrong direction. Despite Governor Polis saying in January that he was  open to working with the Trump administration, he instead signed new  legislation in May that expands protections for illegal immigrants,  even after local officials raised serious concerns.

My community, meanwhile, is doing the work. El Paso County and the  Colorado Springs Police Department are partnering with ICE and the DEA.  In April, they led a nightclub raid that resulted in over 100 illegal  immigrants being detained for human and drug trafficking. This is  something that we are going to support with lawlessness? Not in my  community. In May, they turned over 13 illegal immigrants to ICE  custody.

We understand the real consequences of sanctuary policies. Colorado  has become a haven for illegal immigration. In one tragic case that we  all now know about this week, an illegal immigrant who overstayed his  visa launched Molotov cocktails at innocent Boulder residents in what  was a hateful, racial attack, despite the State knowing that that  person was already illegally in our country. The State of Colorado gave  him a driver's license. We can't let sanctuary jurisdictions defy  Federal law and endanger public safety.

I will be clear. El Paso County, my county, is not a sanctuary  jurisdiction. Despite the policies from Denver, we are committed to  working with Federal immigration authorities and protecting our  communities.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Williams and his staff for working with  me and working with my county. El Paso County is ready and willing to  host the SBA office.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 2931.