Expressing Condolences to the Families, Friends, and Loved Ones of the Victims of the Crash of American Eagle Flight 5342 and Pat 25


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688369/expressing-condolences-to-the-families-friends-and-loved-ones-of-the-victims-of-the-crash-of-american-eagle-flight-5342-and-pat-25


Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.  I rise in support of H. Res. 153, expressing condolences to  the families, friends, and loved ones of the victims of the plane crash  of American Eagle Flight 5342 and U.S. Army call sign PAT 25,  introduced by my colleagues from Kansas, Representatives Ron Estes and  Tracey Mann. I thank both Congressman Estes and Congressman Mann for  their leadership on this matter as well as the leadership and  cooperation of the entire Kansas congressional delegation.

The last couple of months have been heartbreaking and trying. It has  been a hard time for our country and the U.S. aviation system. There  have been numerous accidents, with the Potomac DCA midair collision  being among the most tragic.

At approximately 8:52 p.m. on January 29, 2025, American Airlines  Flight 5342, flying from Wichita, Kansas, to Ronald Reagan National  Airport, collided with UH-60 Army Black Hawk helicopter PAT 25 while on  final approach to runway 33 at DCA, resulting in both aircraft crashing  over the Potomac River.

There were no survivors. Mr. Speaker, 67 innocent lives were lost: 60  passengers, 4 flight crew, and 3 Army soldiers.

There is no one in my home State who hasn't been deeply affected by  this tragedy. Kansas is known as the Air Capital of the World, a place  where aviation is not just an industry, but a way of life. The  passengers on Flight 5342 were our neighbors, our coworkers, and our  loved ones.

We are forever grateful for the more than 300 first responders who  arrived almost immediately on the scene to try to rescue survivors.  Responding parties initially included Washington, D.C., Fire and  Emergency Medical Services, the Metropolitan Police Department,  Virginia State and municipal police departments, and multiple Federal  agencies, including the NTSB, FBI, and U.S. Coast Guard.

Sadly, this and other events stand as a stark reminder of the  complexities of the national airspace system and that we shouldn't take  the precious few moments with loved ones for granted.

We must investigate this accident thoroughly to prevent this event  from ever happening again and ensure that aviation safety always  remains a top priority.

With regard to the investigation, we are grateful to the NTSB  personnel who are actively supporting the victims' families through the  agency's family assistance program. Family assistance is a critical  function of the NTSB and invaluable to those mourning the loss of one  or more of their loved ones.

In times of tragedy, it can be difficult to sort through the torrent  of emotions--sadness, rage, loneliness, and regret. While counseling  cannot bring back the loved ones lost, it can help survivors process  the storm and maybe, just a little bit, blunt some of the pain.

The NTSB is also leading the accident investigation itself. The  agency deployed over 40 investigators alongside the Coast Guard, FBI,  dive teams, and the Army Corps of Engineers to aid in the recovery and  analysis.

Aside from the wreckage of both aircraft and the personal effects of  the victims, the agency has recovered the recording devices from both  aircraft, and they are being analyzed by NTSB experts.

This effort also extended far beyond the NTSB's personnel. Hundreds  of government employees are supporting this investigative mission,  including employees from the FAA, FBI, and Department of  Transportation.

As a Member of Congress and as a citizen who cares deeply for U.S.  aviation, I am proud of those public servants and grateful for their  sense of duty and sacrifice.

Even though we all want answers, we must resist the urge to speculate  on the causes of aviation accidents and allow the NTSB to complete its  work. Aviation safety is dependent on a stable operating environment  and technical analysis. I, for one, would like to trust the experts as  they continue their mission to make the skies safer.

When the final report comes out and the time comes to act, I hope  that this body remembers this moment. We must do everything in our  power, working across the aisle, to prevent this from ever happening  again. In the meantime, let us come together in expressing our deepest  condolences and agree to this resolution.

Our thoughts and prayers remain with the passengers, crew, their  loved ones, and first responders.

Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to  support H. Res. 153, and I continue to express condolences for all the  victims to their families, friends, and loved ones.