Recognizing the Crucial Work of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693340/recognizing-the-crucial-work-of-the-high-intensity-drug-trafficking-area-program


Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  crucial work of the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program, also  known as HIDTA.

Far too many Americans have been tragically impacted by our nation's  opioid epidemic. Thankfully, there is hope. Overdose deaths dropped by  24 percent from September 2023 to September 2024, and while that's  something to celebrate, we have a long way to go.

The 33 regional HIDTAs across the country are comprised of federal,  state, and local partners, resulting in robust interagency coordination  to respond to the most serious drug threats to the region. However,  recent proposals to cut HIDTA funding by more than 30 percent, and even  to remove the program from the Office of National Drug Control Policy,  threaten the effectiveness of HIDTA.

Without full funding, regional HIDTAs will lack the resources needed  to maintain this high level of coordination. That's why I recently  joined with my colleagues in urging House Appropriations Committee  leadership to ensure that the HIDTA program receives the full funding  and structural support needed to protect our communities.

Additionally, HIDTA's placement in the Office of National Drug  Control Policy, positioned within the Executive Office, ensures policy  neutrality, cross-agency alignment, and a whole-of-government approach  that is essential to countering complex drug trafficking networks.

When it comes to HIDTA's great work, I speak with some experience.  For years, I have held fentanyl roundtables that bring together  educators, law enforcement, teenagers, health professionals, and more.  At every single one of these roundtables, Midwest HIDTA Executive  Director Dan Neill has sat and listened to the tragic stories of loss  and the challenges faced by our communities.

Having spent a career in drug and law enforcement, Mr. Neill connects  with my constituents in the Kansas Third District, and all of those in  his six-state region, to ensure that the Midwest HIDTA provides the  top-notch coordination and leadership that is fighting the fentanyl  epidemic and has led to a reduction in overdose deaths. But just as  HIDTA has supported us, we must support HIDTA.

If we want to continue building on the progress we've made and  continue saving lives, we must resist calls to reposition HIDTA or cut  its funding. I am grateful for the heroic work of HIDTA and the  program's proven impact. I urge my colleagues in Congress to provide  full support for this worthy and lifesaving program.