United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, first, I thank Chairman Thompson, Ranking Member Craig,  and General Farm Commodities, Risk Management, and Credit Subcommittee  Chairman Scott for their leadership on this bipartisan bill.

The United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of 2025  strengthens the United States Department of Agriculture's ability to  improve grain grading technologies through flexibilities to pursue  modernization. Using new technologies to improve grain grading is an  opportunity to make the process more accurate, efficient, and  consistent.

Additionally, the bill reauthorizes key USDA authorities for the  grain inspection and grading system and clarifies existing law.

Reauthorizing the United States Grain Standards Act is critical for  farmers and for the rest of the agricultural supply chain.

The inspections provided by the Federal Grain Inspection Service  define and classify grains, as well as assign grades to specify weight  and quality requirements.

These inspections provide a gold standard assurance backed by the  U.S. Federal Government to both grain buyers and grain sellers.

I proudly represent Kansas, often called the Wheat State, where  agriculture plays a critical role in our State's economy.

Kansas farmers feed not just the Nation but the entire world. In 2023  alone, Kansas farmers exported $5.2 billion in agricultural products  around the world. Grain farmers in Kansas and across the country  participate in a very competitive global market. Foreign grain buyers  should be confident in the process we have in place to ensure that our  exports are adequately inspected.

The bipartisan United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of  2025 is critical for the global grain trade. Mr. Speaker, I urge my  colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Thompson, Ranking Member Craig, and  Chairman Scott for their work on this bipartisan bill.

As a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, I have made it a  priority to support family farmers and strengthen our supply chains  because I know how vital they are to rural economies, to our global  competitiveness, and to grocery costs.

To that end, the United States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act of  2025 is so important to ensuring the continuity and strength of our  grain grading and inspection system. This is critical to farmers in  Kansas and folks in the grain industry across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this  bipartisan bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.