H.J. Res. 131


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I come to the floor to speak on the  11:30 vote we are about to have. And I come because I want to speak  against the effort to overturn the land management plan for the Arctic  National Wildlife Refuge.

Congress established the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in 1980 to  protect the diverse and unique, very fragile ecosystem located on 20  million acres in the northeast corner of Alaska. However, at the time,  Congress failed to permanently protect 1.5 million acres of Coastal  Plain, the biological beating heart of this incredible wilderness--a  wilderness that is often called America's Serengeti; that is because of  the hundreds of thousands of caribou that migrate and depend on these  lands. Herds that Alaska Native Tribes rely on for subsistence and they  have been an essential piece of their traditional culture and way of  life.

Because it is one of the largest remaining untouched ecosystems on  our entire planet, I believe we should strive hard to protect it. It is  so unique. People do want to travel there. But many would like to  ignore the fact that it is a fragile and irreplaceable beauty that  lives along the Coastal Plain in order to search for oil and gas that  may lie beneath.

The battle has been the subject of many intense congressional debates  for decades. So far, we have been able to protect the Coastal Plain and  keep it intact, as it has been for millions of years. And many  Americans had hoped we had moved on. That is, moved on because even the  oil companies have said, by virtue of not wanting to pay for any  leases, that this area is not a good place to drill.

Some companies even paid to get out of their leases. I say moved on  because, time and time again, insurers and major banks have pledged not  to finance development in the refuge. The two failed lease sales under  both the Trump and Biden administrations should have been the end to  all of this, and that is because we were supposed to raise $2 billion.  In fact, when the language was passed, they said, well, we will raise  $2 billion, but they have actually only raised a few million.

So, in other words, this vote is about whether we want to spoil one  of the last great pristine spots on planet Earth for what the market  says is worth a few million dollars. I know, especially in Europe,  there is a lot of tourism in the Arctic today. There are many people  that want the last frontier experience and are paying for cruise ships  that actually have ice-breaking capacity to travel to the Arctic  Circle.

Why aren't we encouraging the same kind of tourism? And I think what  makes even less sense about the future is that, why would we vote to  destroy something so fragile and so irreplaceable when we have a  choice?

I want to point out that using the Congressional Review Act to drill  in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could very well backfire on our  drilling advocates. If Congress votes to overturn the Biden record of  decision today, it would create legal and regulatory chaos, not  clarity.

That is because it would revive the Trump era leasing plan that is  legally flawed and under active litigation, effectively leaving no  valid framework for how leasing could proceed. Just a way of saying, my  guess is, it would have more lawsuits that would be easier to attack.  That is because the CRA, if signed into law, the Department of the  Interior couldn't reissue a similar rule, and the old leasing program  did have serious legal deficiencies.

Contrast that with the existing record of decision, which followed  science, law, and public input and balancing environmental protections  and resource extraction in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.

So I hope we won't make an irrevocable, irredeemable mistake in the  Senate today by voting to overturn a science-based record of decision  that was done by the book and with the public input. We should be  hammering out a bipartisan agreement instead on other major issues like  healthcare affordability or finding other ways to reduce the cost of  living.

But this administration has opened up all drilling all over the  United States for oil and gas production, and yet it isn't much higher  than the record levels that were achieved during the Biden  administration. That is even after the Big Beautiful Bill gave nearly  $6 billion in tax breaks this year for some of the biggest oil and gas  companies.

So we gave huge, massive tax breaks that could have gone into paying  for affordable healthcare, and instead, we gave them to oil companies.  And yet we are not really producing much more than we have been  producing under the last administration.

Even after we have seen the repeal of dozens of environmental  regulations that protected America's health the oil companies had  complained about. Even after the administration opened millions of  acres in the sensitive lands, including the National Petroleum Reserve  in Alaska, and millions of offshore acres, even when coastal residents  are screaming they don't want these oil rigs off their coast.

So it isn't producing the effect that some of my colleagues hoped. So  this is not a CRA we should vote for. We should oppose the CRA and keep  the land management that is in place.