National Defense Authorization Act


Ms. CANTWELL. I would like to turn now before I get to healthcare,  Mr. President, to come to the floor to speak about the National Defense  Authorization Act. I see it was just delivered here from the House. I  was hoping that our House colleagues would have stopped that  legislation and actually made a fix to it. That is section 373, of this  year's Defense Authorization Act, which really undermines our critical  commercial aviation safety and it exposes the gaps that we saw when we  had the January 29 DCA air collision.

So I hope that my colleagues here will help us make changes to this  section of the Defense Authorization Act. We know how important this  is, the Flight 5342 passenger families, the Lilley family, along with  myself and Senator Cruz, have been trying to sound the alarm bells  around the Capitol in the airspace about why we shouldn't let the  military fly without this important broadcast system, so that people  know when they are in the region and can translate that communication,  so that air traffic controllers and other aircraft in a busy airspace  know when the military is there.

We know what happened when a Black Hawk involved in the January 29  collision wasn't actively transmitting its location. We know what  happened. We know that we have seen since then much from the NTSB. In  fact, tonight, a letter from the National Transportation Safety Board  is expressing their strong opposition to the inclusion of section 373,  in the National Defense Authorization Act. It basically is saying that  it significantly reduces the safety of the airspace around Reagan  Washington National Airport by allowing the Secretary of the military  Department to operate, transmitting its missions to the DCA airspace in  a manner that is basically how we got in to the collision to begin  with--basically with it not transmitting.

So I don't know why we have to have a letter from the NTSB telling us  what we are doing in the National Defense Authorization Act is making  the airspace less safe. I don't even know how this got in the bill  because I guarantee you, Senator Cruz and I didn't approve of this  being in the bill. I am pretty sure my colleagues in the House,  Congressmen Larson and Graves, didn't approve of this being in the  bill. So how is it that this is now in the bill that we all have to  respond today, including the National Transportation Safety Board,  basically saying this language should not be there.

It is so important, that the families that have had to come together  to support legislation that Senator Cruz and I do support, had to put  out their own tweet. They basically said that it doesn't fix the failed  system that produced the accident in January. So the families are  having to lobby.

So who is not listening? Who is not listening to the ranking members  of committees? Who is not listening to the NTSB? Who is not listening  to the families of the victims? Who is jamming this into a bill just  because they think that DOD still deserves to fly in a crowded airspace  without people knowing that they are there?

So I hope my colleagues will take this issue seriously. I hope my  colleagues will understand that this is not the way to fix legislation.  I mentioned my colleagues, Senator Cruz, and I have passed the ROTOR  Act out of committee, important legislation that does fix the problem,  that is endorsed by the families, that is endorsed by the NTSB, that is  endorsed by other groups. And yet we couldn't get that into this  legislation. But yet, somehow, mysteriously, without anybody knowing  how or why, this language is stuck into this bill. Listen to the Lilley  family, who lost their son, First Officer Sam Lilley in the crash. They  recognize this provision creates another loophole and stated: ``Safety  that depends on exemptions cannot be the foundation of [a secure]  airspace system.''

So not only does this provision fail to rein in the training flights  properly, it will keep making it more difficult for commercial aircraft  to see military training flights flying so close to the flights around  DCA.

Now, I will say it is astounding to me that in this last big bill,  other stuff was stuck in there, my colleague from the Commerce  Committee might realize, that some of our colleagues wanted to be able  to sue the Federal Government because the Department of Justice had  looked at their phone records. Have we struck that provision?

I am pretty sure these families who have lost loved ones would like  to be able to sue the Federal Government, the DOD or the FAA, who  basically make it hard to have safety provisions and have somebody in  the dark of night put another exemption in for DOD, which is what  caused the accident in the first place.

So we don't allow these families to have any recourse with the  government, but we are still here with a provision that some Senators  thought was  important enough that they get off and can basically sue the government  for millions of dollars. And yet this kind of behavior that makes it  more dangerous for the flying public, they get no recourse. We don't  even know who stuck it in. People should be asking: Who stuck in this  language? Who is standing by it? Who is committed to it? Who thinks it  is a good idea? Because none of the safety advocates think that it is a  good idea. I hope my colleagues will be as outraged as I am, over this  provision, outraged, along with the families, with the NTSB  Administrator and help us fight this issue.