One Big Beautiful Bill


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise today to urge my colleagues, my  Republican colleagues, to reverse course on their proposal that would  take affordable healthcare away from the many patients across the  United States who will suffer, I believe, financial strain and the  financial strain will be put on the rest of us in our healthcare  system.

Despite the talking points that you hear from our colleagues, they do  propose on Medicaid to really make cuts that will hurt us. This isn't  about waste, fraud, and abuse. Their plan is to allow enhanced premium  tax credits to expire. That has really nothing to do with lowering  costs on average Americans. And this whole idea, in my mind, is a  veiled attempt to repeal the expanded coverage that we saw for Medicaid  under the Affordable Care Act. Why is that important?

Well, it is critically important because Medicaid has been the  cornerstone of, in the Affordable Care Act, expanding care to working  families that could not find an affordable insurance policy. Medicaid  gave them that coverage.

And now, with the proposal by our Republican colleagues, they are  going to cut Medicaid and thus cut families who need the assistance to  cover insurance to get the coverage they deserve. The result will be  that Medicaid is stripped away. Coverage in the ACA marketplace will  become more unaffordable, and premiums for even employer-based  insurance will go up. But that is what happens when you take dollars  out of the system. In fact, we are already seeing some of these prices  start to go up.

Our healthcare system relies on people being insured so that they can  pay for care, and when you dismantle that, the medical costs for  everybody goes up. It only makes sense. Uncompensated care gets cost  into the system that is passed on to the rest of us.

Earlier this month, the Congressional Budget Office confirmed that  the House's reconciliation bill, if enacted, would cause 16 million  people to become uninsured--so that is the Congressional Budget  Office--so again, 16 million people currently insured. Now, all of a  sudden, uninsured, means cost to the system, to say nothing of the cost  to these individuals. Just as eye-popping is the projection that this  proposal will drive up premiums and out-of-pocket spending for millions  of people struggling to afford private insurance plans through the ACA  marketplace or those with employer provided coverage.

A new analysis by the Center for American Progress proves that  working-class families and people with all types of insurance will have  to foot the bill for these harmful policies. For Medicaid, a family of  four making $33,000 per year could see additional costs and copayments  up to $1,600 in annual out-of-pocket spending. I guarantee you, these  are people that already have had a tough time finding affordable  insurance.

For an ACA market plan, a 60-year-old couple making $85,000 a year  who want to keep the same plan could see their annual premiums  increase--and these are numbers according to the Center for American  Progress--and you could even see the cost of an annual premium increase  by as much as $15,000 a year. So these are all costs that we don't need  to see increased. But if you are taking people who have affordable  insurance and displacing them, according to CBO, 16 million of them, I  guarantee you that cost will be absorbed by the rest of us. For  Medicare, which President Trump pledged not to cut, low-income seniors  who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid will see their out-of-pocket  expenses rise.

For example, an older couple on Medicare, living on an annual income  of $21,000 could face an additional $8,340 in annual healthcare costs.  So this just shows that cutting almost $1 trillion in healthcare from  funding and making millions of people be uninsured does not save the  money. It basically gets into the system, and other people are paying  the cost. The Affordable Care Act lowered the individual uninsured rate  from 17.8 percent in 2010 to a historic low of 9.5 percent in 2024. So  we significantly decreased the number of uninsured. This drop in  uninsured Americans improved people's health. Saved money for  individuals, saved money for families. It helped States. It even helped  our State government.

According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, thanks to improved access  to general health services, cancer screenings, and other forms of  preventative care, Medicaid expansion alone lowered health-related  mortality rates by 3.6 percent. So funding available insurance under  the Affordable Care Act drove down the mortality rate and helped  substantially save money. By contributing to a more robust economy,  better societal well-being, lower mortality rates, it also helps States  generate more than $20 billion in increased tax revenue and welfare  savings.

So covering people--I like the best example of this, is the former  Vice President of the United States. As a Congressman, Mike Pence  didn't vote for the Affordable Care Act, but when he became Governor of  Indiana, everybody in Indiana, the healthcare providers and others  convinced him--oh, it is a good idea, you should get people covered in  your State. And they did. So this is about a smart way of providing  healthcare, and we have done it.

So States who were smart about this realized that their economy was  better, their access to affordable insurance was better, that revenue  stimulating the economy was better. They knew that the Medicaid  expansion literally kept people alive. We should not reverse that. We  have made great progress in the past 15 years to keep Americans  healthier and financially secure. Allowing 16 million people, including  306,000 people from the State of Washington, to become uninsured is a  bad idea.

Without any alternatives, this will be a shock to our healthcare  system. It will bring it to the breaking point and threaten the very  lives of our constituents. I would like to take a moment to read a  letter from my constituent highlighting the concerns and fears about  the impacts of the budget reconciliation bill.

Britton Winterrose from Richland, WA, is father to a joyful 5-year- old girl named Leda. He said he wrote to me because ``Without Medicaid,  my daughter's next nap could be her last.''

So now I want to read a letter from the Winterrose family:

Leda entered the world at the height of the pandemic and       spent the first 45 days of her life in the NICU. Doctors       finally identified a rare form of congenital central sleep       apnea.

If she falls asleep without oxygen, she simply stops       breathing, and will die.

The only path out of the hospital was a Medicaid waiver       that paid for in-home nursing and life-support equipment.

Medicaid gave us the opportunity to bring her home,       surrounded by her siblings, surrounded by the normalcy and       safety of parents that love her.

Since that day Medicaid has kept up with Leda's needs as       she has grown. A toddler who once needed a walker now sprints       across the yard because the program funded the therapy and       walker that strengthened her legs.

It's provided her with a bed, that keeps her secure so her       equipment stays connected and we can sleep at night.

Each stage of development adds new hardware, new supplies,       and new specialists. Feeding supplies, feeding pumps, G-      tubes, sensors, diapers, respite care, and an AEC device to       help my non-verbal autistic daughter communicate.

Private insurance, even the platinum plan that comes with       my job, rarely covers it.

There is not a private health insurance on the planet that       covers the edge cases of human existence for somebody with       medical complexities like Leda.

Tonight, like every night, my wife and I will hook our       daughter to an oxygen concentrator and a pulse oximeter, then       we will lie down and ``say no to death.''

The only reason we can sleep at all is because Medicaid has       provided the durable medical equipment and supplies needed to       support her.

From the days at the NICU until now, one thing has become       obvious: the last question on anybody's mind when they are       trying to keep their child or loved one from dying should be,       How can we afford these things?

I do not speak only for Leda. The bill before Congress       would strike thousands of Washingtonians from the rolls, and       when that happens clinics and long-term-care facilities       collapse.

That blow lands on veterans, on cancer patients, and on       newborns in rural counties as surely as it lands on my       family.

No one wakes up and decides, ``Oh, I want to be disabled       today.'' Everyone's health is a roll of the dice; Medicaid is       how we make sure the roll is not fatal.

I still lose sleep over what will happen when I am gone. As       a tired Dad, help me rest.

Please defend and strengthen Medicaid so that Leda, and       every child like her and those who are rightfully dependent       on this system can live and thrive.

That is the end of the letter from my constituent from Richland, WA.  What an incredible story of how a family has depended on Medicaid.

Today, I met with an organization and individuals from it,  MomsRising, where families from Washington State and all over the  country came to protest the cuts to Medicaid and SNAP. I heard myself  countless examples of how these programs are critical to families, to  their well-being, and how this program, if cut, would be devastating.

There is a common theme on all these stories; these families are  scared they will not be able to afford or get the care that their  family really relies on. They are also concerned that there is nowhere  to turn, even if the coverage is taken away. Does this mean these  patients will no longer need care, or their illnesses will just  magically go away? We all know that doesn't happen. This means that  uninsured patients will wait to see a doctor until they are so sick  they have to go to the ER, which costs more. This will lead to  increased costs across the board.

Specifically, it is estimated that 5.4 million Americans will incur  medical debt because they will become uninsured, and the total medical  debt that Americans owe will increase by $50 billion. I think this is  numbers from The Third Way. Hospital providers will have to shoulder an  additional $36 billion in uncompensated care costs, and a portion of  the costs will be recouped by increased premiums on employment-based  insurance coverage. As a result, people with employment-based insurance  will also see an additional anywhere from $182 to $485 in annual cost  increases.

That is what happens when you increase the cost of uncompensated  care, and the system has to make up for it somewhere; you increase  everyone's cost.

This is particularly damaging in the area of certified community  behavioral health. I am sure the President knows that behavioral  health--very tough challenge, particularly with the fentanyl epidemic  in our country.

I met with representatives of Peninsula Behavioral Health in Port  Angeles, WA, and Sound Health in King County, who told me that clinics  are already operating on narrow margins and have already sustained a 1- percent budget cut this year at the State level. If Congress passes the  budget reconciliation bill and enacts policies like the suggestion on  the State Directed Payment Caps, they will have to reduce their budget  by 20 percent, meaning they will have to cut staff and lay off people.

As a result, patients who rely on them for substance abuse treatment  will be left out in the cold. We literally will see an increase in  overdose deaths, law enforcement run-ins, and incarceration rates.  Where do you think these people go when they don't have behavioral  health treatment for fentanyl?

All this costs taxpayers more, actually, a lot more, a lot more than  just covering Medicaid. It would be better if we just kept the Medicaid  Program and funded patients so they could get the  care when they needed it. My Republican colleagues know that this bill  will cause harm; hospitals and physicians and various leaders across  the industry are at their doorsteps, telling them not to hollow out our  healthcare system.

But I beg my colleagues to drill down and listen to the fact that the  revenue that rural hospitals particularly live on are huge Medicaid,  Medicare budgets. That means there is no margin to have a 20-percent  decrease in funds. Spending money to fix a problem caused by not  spending money doesn't seem the smart thing to do; the logic doesn't  make sense. In fact, it sounds to me like waste and fraud to say to  people that you are going to somehow make this a better system, when in  reality, you are going to cut care and increase costs on all of us.

Passing this bill and enacting these policies will only hurt working- class and middle-class Americans. Americans are still reeling from the  effects of inflation, to say nothing about the tariffs. This is not the  time to be taking away healthcare coverage or increasing premiums on  anyone. We have already seen enough inflation. For most families, any  extra money from a tax cut will be swallowed up by these higher  healthcare costs. And every time a new report or analysis is done on  this bill, the outlook gets more challenging for people at home.

If we really had this serious of a waste, fraud, and abuse problem in  Medicaid, why haven't we had hearings on it? Why haven't we had  legislation trying to fix it? Why haven't we had communication that  this is a real issue? Because it is not a real issue. What is a real  issue is Congress has been trying to fix the uninsured problem by  passing the Affordable Care Act. It has worked successfully, and now  our colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to try to repeal it.

I hope that my colleagues will realize the only thing that you can  know for sure about this proposal that cuts Medicaid--the only thing we  know for sure is that thousands of Americans will become sicker and  will become poorer because, without the access to care, that is exactly  what is going to happen.

I urge my colleagues to really understand the harmful effects of this  legislation, understand the harmful health effects on the citizens of  our country, and I ask them to reject these Medicaid cuts.