Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Internal Revenue Service Relating to ``Gross Proceeds Reporting By Brokers That Regularly Provide Services Effectuating Digital Asset Sales''


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise to speak today on important  public policy issues related to my State's economy and appreciate the  opportunity to follow our senior Senator, Senator Murray, who is  articulating the impact of some of these so important public policy  issues on the State of Washington.

Trade is the lifeblood of the State of Washington and our economy.  Farmers in my State export $7.5 billion worth of agriculture products a  year. That was the number from 2023--$7.5 billion. So anytime somebody  starts a trade war, I guarantee you, you are going to get our  attention.

Under the President's trade war, the farmers in my State are going to  be the first victims. Trump said to our farmers yesterday on Truth  Social, ``Tariffs will go on external products on April 2. Have fun!''

Have fun? Have fun? When retaliatory tariffs strike our farmers, just  as they did in the first Trump administration, it is not going to be  fun; it is going to be a nightmare for our farmers. And many of the  farmers in my State worry that they will be able to farm at all.

It is not like they are going to lose farmland. There are rich  people, billionaires, software executives who will buy farmland. We are  going to lose farmers. I know this because we have already been through  this trade war, with many of my farmers struggling to overcome the  damage that was wrought during the first Trump administration.

The last time we went down this road, we lost the apple market  because  of retaliatory tariffs. We had a $120 million market that basically  collapsed, practically overnight, in India. And I traveled to India and  worked hard over several years to lift those tariffs, and now, we  finally are back growing our exports exponentially, but the market  still isn't fully recovered, and now, people are questioning what is  going to happen next.

I heard from a grower in my State who said, ``The alarms in ag are  sounding. The band has stopped playing, and the last lifeboats are  leaving the ship. We cannot endure another cycle similar to the one  that was started seven years ago when tariffs were first put in place.  And without meaningful, long-lasting solutions, you may very well be  looking at the last generation of farm families.''

That is just one of my constituents. He doesn't sound like he is  having fun. These family legacies, built on generations of work, cannot  be lost in a trade war. You can't get them back once they are gone.

I hope my colleagues will slow down on this tariff tirade. Under  article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution, Congress has the power  to set duties and regulate foreign commerce. However, Congress has  spent the last 80 years delegating its tariff authority to Presidents.

You can say, okay, well, that might have been okay because previous  Democrat and Republican Presidents worked to lower tariffs and to open  up markets. I have voted for many of those trade agreements. But this  President, I believe, is abusing this authority. He calls it an  emergency. He is using the trade wars to supposedly force countries to  do things like changing their border policies.

I believe it is time for Congress to start taking back some of that  power and considering how we are going to protect the family farm.

We know this--that in my State, families are paying more for  groceries. They are paying more at the gas pump. They are paying more  for electricity bills. And they are seeing the stock market plummet  because, as businesses grapple with Trump's unnecessary trade war,  businesses are concerned about the long-term impacts of the supply  chain and the cost of those tariffs.

The American people want to see the administration tackle inflation  and the high cost of everything. When President Trump was on the  campaign trail, he talked about inflation. He said, ``Starting day one,  we will end inflation and make sure that America is affordable again  and bring down prices on all goods.'' Well, I don't think that is what  is happening today.

The Wall Street Journal editorial board put it well this morning when  they wrote: ``Trump takes the dumbest tariff plunge.'' I agree. We  don't need to be doing this.

These tariffs are attacks on groceries bought by every American.  Canada is the largest exporter of meat to the United States, while 77  percent of fresh vegetables are imported from Mexico and 11 percent are  imported from Canada. So costs are going up on every American who is  buying, and that means they will also buy less.

The tariffs on Canada and Mexican goods that President Trump is  planning would cost American families an estimated up to $2,000 per  year. According to Anderson Economic Group, tariffs could raise the  price of a new car as much as $12,000. I am pretty sure nobody has  extra money for a new car.

Housing costs--one of the biggest drivers on inflation, but President  Trump's tariffs would drive up the cost of construction material,  making it even more expensive to address our housing shortage, slow our  new home construction, and one analysis found that tariffs could push  home construction up by 4 to 6 percent over the next 12 months.

I can tell you, we already have expensive housing in the Northwest.  We can't afford another 4 to 6 percent. And the tariffs also create  supply chain disruptions, making it harder to find alternative sources  of materials, delaying projects that are already underway, and these  short-term sticker shocks will put long-term pressure on housing  affordability, making the problem worse--not solving it.

Just last week, when people want to talk about GDP and where this is  going, it was amazing that the Atlanta Fed was forecasting GDP growth  over 2 percent for the first quarter of 2025. That is literally what  this line here was discussing, that the consensus was 2 percent, and  even the Fed was weighing in on that.

But we can see when we got to February, we fell off a cliff. We fell  off a cliff. And why? Because now the Atlanta Fed is saying we had one  swing of 5 percent in just 1 week. And now, this drop is the  representation of a cliff that President Trump is pushing the American  economy over.

So you can see they are going down to negative--not just zero growth,  but negative. We can't afford that, and we can't afford the stock  market dropping 700 points yesterday.

The only way that we can work together is that if my colleagues here  will start talking about these tariff issues. We don't need to weaken  our institutions here; we need to strengthen them. And our colleagues  need to work together to resolve these issues.

I would say, too, that as my colleagues start to plan how we deal  with these budget issues, that we should also keep in mind that some of  the cuts that these Agencies have been facing are really the cuts to  some of the most technical jobs the U.S. Government has.

Whether you are talking about NOAA or the National Weather Service or  the National Institutes of Health or the National Science Foundation or  the U.S. Department of Agriculture--they have all been targeted for  reductions. These Agencies are critical to our economic growth and to  our security. And at a time when we are seeing more extreme weather  events or more floods or more wildfires, why shouldn't we be investing  more in weather forecasting, not less?

And when you look at NOAA workers who support our commercial and  recreation and Tribal fisheries--they employ 1.7 million people,  including thousands in the State of Washington. Why would you cut  specialized workforce that are helping support the growth of GDP?  Because you want to basically cut those technical workers at the same  time you are putting on tariffs?

In 2023, the National Institute of Health awarded $1.2 billion in  highly competitive grants to the State of Washington--65 different  organizations. This supported 12,000 jobs and generated $3 billion in  economic activity. But DOGE wants to cap the overhead expenses of  research. University of Washington Medicine tells me that this would  leave them with shortfalls and that they might have to stop clinical  trials that are underway. You can't just stop medical research like it  is a faucet.

Once halted, the research, the data, the clinical trials, the  patients, the laboratories, the equipment, all that led to innovation-- will be lost. You think you just turn that back on? You know, these  kinds of ideas sound great, but they are not well thought out. It is  literally throwing tax dollars away.

Tonight, my guest at the State of the Union will be Dr. Paul Lange  from the University of Washington. With support of Federal funding, Dr.  Lange helped develop early detection tests for prostate cancer. Because  of these tests and other treatment breakthroughs, we have seen a  decrease in the death rate from prostate cancer. From 1993 to 2022, it  dropped by one-half--significant progress.

That is why we need research dollars to save lives. Similarly,  Washington State University researchers actively test on novel drug  treatment for advanced prostate cancer at Sharma Lab. If its work is  disrupted, they say that ``risk potentially is high, not being able to  replace data, and endangering the ultimate viability of potentially  lifesaving treatments.''

There are lives that might not be saved because of these budget cuts.  So it is time that Congress gets involved, that we fight for the  science that we believe will save lives, move our country forward and  grow our GDP, and help our farmers by stopping these trade wars, and  putting our farmers back in charge of growing an economy for the  future.

I hope that we don't cut ARS funding that USDA depends on. I hope  that we will give hope to our future constituents and the growth that  we need to grow our economy instead of cutting our opportunity.