Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I rise today to speak about the  important role that Congress plays in ensuring our economy remains  strong, and very important for the American people, to lower costs.

That is why today I am inducing legislation by myself and Senator  Grassley. Congress has a duty to ensure that our country remains  competitive and leads in the global marketplace. American families rely  on our economy for goods and to make ends meet and to provide shelter.

American manufacturers rely on an economy to maintain resilient  supply chains, keep production lines open--and that means aircraft from  Everett, WA, or cars and trucks from Detroit, MI.

American farmers rely on our economy to keep fields planted-- production in eastern Washington and northern and central Iowa depend  on the cost of fertilizer, seed, and equipment.

Small business owners across the country depend on consumer  confidence in our economy so that they can keep sales and stay afloat.  Sharp increases propose a major threat to that economy.

Inflation and high costs are a threat to stability and prosperity of  American  businesses of all size, to our farmers, and to our consumers. We live  now in an interconnected world--a global economy--and advances in  technology and transportation have brought that world closer and closer  together. We have a global economy.

That is why it is so important to have rules-based trading systems  that have been in place since World War II, and it is the bedrock of a  global economy. That is to have rules. Rules-based trade is essential  to have predictable and stable trade and promoting economic growth and  development and global cooperation.

No doubt, opening up markets has grown the pie, not just for those  economies, but for the U.S. economy. When you establish clear rules- based mechanisms, you can also resolve trade disputes and encourage  more investment and more trade.

Businesses need this certainty to move forward with deals, to reach  new markets, and grow. But now we are seeing a barrage of tariffs on at  least 185 countries.

We cannot have arbitrary policies create chaos and uncertainty. These  kinds of chaos and uncertainty kill business investment and make for  very challenging stock market assessments of investments for the future  based on predictability.

The current approach, in my opinion, is outside the predictable,  rules-based system. It is arguable that the current approach is  literally a misconstruction of statutory authorities.

But what we know today for sure is that 95 percent of the world's  consumers are outside of the United States. That means the global  middle class includes almost 4 billion people. Those are markets for  American businesses, for farmers to reach to grow and prosper.

According to the World Bank, in the recent decade, trade has lifted 1  billion people out of poverty. My colleagues here, who have worked on  deals in the past that opened up markets in places like Chile, Peru,  Singapore, the Central America Free Trade Agreement, the update of the  USMCA, all know that this hard work created economic opportunity.

Our trade agreements helped American farmers export $176 billion in  agricultural products last year. They helped ensure that the United  States is the world's largest agriculture exporter, with soybeans and  corn leading the way as the top export.

I want to return to trade agreements. I want to open up more markets.  I want us to have a robust export opportunity for the excellent U.S.  manufactured and grown products.

Our trade agreements have ensured that the U.S. remained the second  largest exporter of manufactured goods in the world--$2.06 trillion in  2024.

And it is clear today, the United States must be competing hard to  win in the race for emerging technologies like AI and quantum. Our  foreign adversaries and our competitors are in this global race too.

So that is why economic disruption puts America at risk. Straining  ties with trade alliances also put us at a security risk. Trade wars  have lasting consequences. Trade wars devastate Americans working  families and small businesses and manufacturers.

Article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution gave Congress--gave  Congress--the explicit authority to impose duties and regulate  commerce, given the far-reaching impact to our national economy that I  just mentioned.

As ranking member of the Commerce Committee, and my colleague from  the Senate Finance Committee, we both know how much our Nation needs to  continue to have interstate commerce and to have foreign commerce.

Since the 1930s, Congress has enacted or directed the President to  negotiate trade deals, including authority to negotiate the agreements  and impose or adjust tariffs.

But I think these Presidents have used this authority correctly by  opening up markets, lowering tariffs, and establishing a rules-based  trading system. The current approach, I believe, is creating  uncertainty and certainly raising costs unnecessarily.

Businesses rely on certainty and transparency from a rules-based  trading system. So how has Congress done on these issues? Well, it is  time, I believe, for Congress to reassert ourselves in our  constitutional duties.

Article I of the Constitution also gave Congress the power to declare  war. The Founding Fathers wanted to prevent any single individual from  unilaterally committing our Nation to war. The Founding Fathers wanted  to ensure that we had a strong check and balance.

I believe the same check and balance needs to exist now as it relates  to protecting our commerce activities and any Presidential overreach  that is not a rules-based approach.

Congress, in the War Powers Act, decided to reclaim its authority  because they thought a President had overreached. Senator Grassley and  I are trying to do the same thing today by introducing the Trade Review  Act of 2025.

Trade wars--which frequently trigger sharp price increases, foreign  retaliation, and huge shock impacts to our economy--could affect the  livelihood of workers, supply chain manufacturers, and hard-won markets  that American exporters have wanted to see continue to be open.

I want to thank Senator Grassley for his leadership over many years  for American farmers, for the people of Iowa, and for our country. I  want to thank him for working with me on the introduction of the Trade  Review Act of 2025 that ensures that Congress plays its constitutional  role in making sure that, as our Founding Fathers intended, we set the  duties and regulate foreign commerce.

This important reassertion of Congress's constitutional role is  important so we have a strong voice in trade policy. This legislation,  as I said, modeled after the War Powers Act, says that a President must  notify Congress within 48 hours of imposing or raising tariffs, provide  an explanation of why they are warranted, and an assessment of their  likely impact on American businesses and consumers.

Our legislation, though, protects that constitutional authority by  also saying these tariffs should be reviewed by Congress for approval  or disapproval, and doing so is in the best interest of our country.

I can't tell you how challenging I think competition in a fast-moving  information age global economy is. We can't afford a trade war that  lasts for 2 or 3 years, leaving our product off the shelves.

We must reassert Congress's role over trade policy and ensure that a  rules-based trade system is based on transparency, consistency, and the  benefits of the American public.                                  ______

By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms. Duckworth, Ms. Hirono, Mr.          Padilla, and Mr. Schatz):

S. 1276. A bill to prioritize funding for an expanded and sustained  national investment in basic science research; to the Committee on  Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.