Reauthorization of Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program Act of 1994


Ms. SCHOLTEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman and ranking member  for hearing my bill today. It is such a critical piece of legislation.

Those of us from Great Lakes States know how important it is to  connect our young people back to the water that surrounds them, to  nature, and to get off their phones and into the great outdoors.

I rise today in support of this incredible piece of bipartisan  legislation that I cosponsored with another great midwesterner, Rudy  Yakym, the Reauthorization of Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design  Program Act.

This program is an art- and science-based curriculum that educates  children on the importance of wetlands and waterfowl conservation. The  Junior Duck Stamp curriculum is a program during which students can  develop an understanding of waterfowl anatomy and habitats, culminating  in the Junior Duck Stamp art competition, where participants may draw  or paint a picture of an eligible North American waterfowl species.

The winning image of this contest then goes on to be featured on the  Junior Duck Stamp itself, with proceeds of the stamp being redirected  to educational activities for the students participating in the  program.

As was mentioned, this program has been in existence for 30 years,  and the benefits have been proven. This bill will provide an extension  of the Junior Duck Stamp program through 2031, empowering our children  to learn more about conservation and their world around them. If we do  not act today, we could lose all the good that comes from this program.

I am fortunate to come from an outdoorsy household, where we are a  camping, hiking, hunting, and fishing family. These experiences have  been critical to my own sons, James and Wesley, in their upbringing.  The extension of this program will ensure that other households have  consistent access to exploring our environment, as well.

We must encourage our children to connect with the environment to  understand how to preserve the natural world that makes Michigan and  the entire United States such a wonderful place to live. That is what  the Junior Duck Stamp program is all about, and I am thrilled to lead  this legislation to ensure future generations of children can learn  about conservation while tapping into their artistic skills.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.