Benefits of One Big, Beautiful Bill


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Kennedy for  yielding and for leading this important Special Order tonight to talk  about all the wins in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight an important promise President  Trump made to the American people that the one big, beautiful bill  fulfills.

The One Big Beautiful Bill Act delivers a long list of wins for  families, seniors, small businesses, farmers, energy producers, and our  military. It prevents the largest tax increase in U.S. history, putting  $4.5 trillion in Americans' pockets instead of in the government's  coffers. It delivers permanent tax relief, begins to rein in  Washington's out-of-control spending, makes historic investments in  border security and national defense, and restores the kind of  commonsense priorities people in my State of North Dakota live by every  single day.

There are so many wins in this bill that we need to break them apart  and highlight them separately.

Today, I will focus on a provision that many think is too good to be  true. In fact, in talking to people, they think, ``How can this  actually happen?'' but it will, and that is no tax on tips and  overtime.

During my time back home recently, I visited with folks across North  Dakota, including those working in construction, law enforcement, and  service industries. This bill is great news for them and the hundreds  of professions that regularly put in overtime to get the job done.

In fact, around 30 percent of all employees in North Dakota regularly  work overtime and could benefit from the no tax on overtime provision  in this bill.

According to the Council of Economic Advisers, an even larger 65  percent of workers in North Dakota are in occupations that are likely  eligible for overtime and could also benefit.

We cut taxes on up to $12,500 of overtime pay for more than 80  million hourly workers. This is estimated to increase yearly take-home  pay by more than $1,400.

The bill also eliminates Federal taxes on up to $25,000 of tips for  America's 4 million tipped workers. As a former waitress, I know how  valuable this provision would be. This applies to all tips, whether  they are tips that are cash or on credit. All tips qualify for the no  tax on tips. This is estimated to boost incomes by an average of $1,300  per year.

With these policies, we are rewarding everyday Americans' hard work,  and we are not waiting. These provisions are retroactive, meaning that  people will see the benefits of no taxes on tips and overtime this  year, even for hours worked prior to this bill passing.

I was very proud to join my colleagues in delivering on this  commitment to the American people, and I can't wait to see how it  benefits them all.