Big, Beautiful Bill


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Moore for  yielding. I never get tired of that joke.

Mr. Speaker, as we consider the critical reforms in the  reconciliation process, I rise today to make the case for why we must  eliminate the generous Federal subsidies for wind and solar energy paid  for by taxpayers.

By continuing to incentivize these intermittent energy sources with  generous tax credits, we are distorting energy markets, sending the  absolute wrong signal to investors, and spending hundreds of billions  of dollars in taxpayer money.

We must stop providing generous incentives that run contrary to the  types of energy resources we need, and tonight I want to highlight 10  reasons why. Yes, you heard me right. There are 10 good reasons to  eliminate these incentives.

First, the cost to taxpayers is enormous. Over the next decade, these  subsidies are projected to cost up to $900 billion.

Second, these subsidies are driving instability in our power grid.  Right now two-thirds of the country is at risk of not having enough  power to meet demand. That is not a few years from now. That is not a  near, long-term problem. That is today. Keep in mind, the power needed  for AI is also growing exponentially, further creating a more difficult  problem for us.

Third, grid operators are asking for dispatchable resources, such as  coal, natural gas, and nuclear. Yet, we continue to incentivize the  opposite.

These reliable resources are being prematurely retired, and we are  not replacing them with the technologies we can count on around the  clock.

This is not a political statement. It is simply a matter of physics.  We don't need to imagine the consequences of retiring these baseload  energy resources. Spain, just a few weeks ago, experienced nationwide  blackouts, and their economy came to a grinding halt.

Spain relied on wind and solar for 80 percent of its power, which is  ultimately what jeopardized their grid. This should be a wake-up call  for policymakers everywhere.

That brings me to reason number four. Despite the warning signs and  the cries from grid operators, 95 percent of the projects waiting to  connect to our grid in the U.S. are wind and solar; 95 percent.

That is not because of market demand for wind and solar. It is  because of the very generous subsidies that this body and the rest of  Washington continues to provide for these resources. This artificial  growth is making it harder for reliable baseload generation to connect  to the grid.

Number five, the incentives. These same incentives are distorting the  market. Eliminating these subsidies would allow private investment to  go toward other technologies that are more in line with what our grid  actually needs.

As I mentioned earlier, with the rise of AI, we are going to need a  lot more power. We should be sending the right market signals to bring  the power on that will actually meet the demand that we need for the  future.

Number six, wind and solar are no longer emerging technologies. They  are mature. They are widely developed. Wind and solar now account for  17 percent of our electric generation.

The cost of these technologies has also dropped dramatically, and  this is the seventh reason to phase them out. Wind and solar  technologies have less overhead, longer lifespans, and higher profits  than they did when these credits were introduced nearly 30 years ago in  the 1990s.

For example, the cost of solar has decreased more than 80 percent  since 2010. Truly, the market is more than capable of supporting  continued growth without subsidies.

As if that isn't compelling enough, there are yet more reasons to  phase out these subsidies.

Number eight, their efficiency has increased substantially. Today's  wind turbines and solar panels are far more productive than they were  even a decade ago.

When I first started permitting these projects 12 years ago, the  capacity factor for wind was around 25 percent. Today that average  capacity factor is up to 40 percent and in some places even 50 percent.  Clearly, these are proven technologies.

Number nine, the true cost of installing wind and solar is often  misrepresented. Advocates routinely leave out the cost of the massive  transmission infrastructure needed to connect remote wind and solar  projects to population centers.

They also ignore the cost of backup generation needed to keep the  lights on at night or when the wind isn't blowing. The low-cost claims  don't account for these expenses, but, rest assured, utility customers  still pay for them.

And last, but not least, eliminating these subsidies is fully  consistent with an all-of-the-above energy strategy.

I believe in competition. Wind and solar are viable, market proven,  widely available technologies. Mr. Speaker, it is time to let them  compete and succeed without the help of Federal taxpayers.

Phasing out these tax credits will save taxpayers billions of  dollars, help restore reliability to our power grid, and help deliver  on the promise of one big, beautiful bill to make America stronger,  safer, and more competitive.

Let's retire these subsidies permanently.