Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R.  3668, the Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act.

The truth is, interstate natural gas pipelines are what keep our  lights on, our showers hot, and prices reasonable.

To the gentleman from New Jersey's point, interstate pipelines also  have provided the largest decrease in emissions in our country, and  they have made it possible to deliver by backing up all of the  renewables that are on the system.

Mr. Speaker, overnight lows this weekend in my State of North Dakota  are forecasted to be 20 degrees below zero. Having heat provided by  natural gas is literally the difference between comfort and chaos, and,  yes, between life and death in States like mine.

If we want affordable and dependable energy in our country, then we  must build the infrastructure that delivers it. However, too often  these projects are delayed or blocked by a Federal permitting process  that is far too inconsistent. When one State can derail an interstate  pipeline, then entire regions pay the price. We have already seen this  time and time again in the Northeast. In the Northeast, shortages have  already threatened reliability and driven prices through the roof.

This bill brings long-overdue accountability and coordination to the  Federal permitting process for interstate natural gas pipelines. It  strengthens FERC's lead role, requires State and Federal partners to  follow clear timelines, and requires reviews to take place  concurrently, not in endless succession. Moreover, it still preserves  every requirement under the Clean Water Act.

This bill modernizes the permitting process so we can build the  pipelines that keep energy affordable, so we can build the pipelines  that power our economy, and so can build the pipelines that strengthen  America's energy security.

Mr. Speaker, did I mention that we can build the pipelines that keep  energy available and affordable for Americans?

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this important  legislation.