Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695691/promoting-cross-border-energy-infrastructure-act


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Guthrie for his  leadership on this issue, on all energy issues, and for the entire  Energy and Commerce Committee. He provides the exact type of leadership  we need at this time in our country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my bill, the Promoting  Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act and in strong opposition to what  my colleague from New Jersey just said about this bill, much of which  is just simply not true.

Energy is the foundation of everything we do. It powers our homes,  fuels our farms, and drives our economy. If we want to stay a global  leader, we must build the pipelines and power lines that move energy  from where it is produced to where it is needed. That is much more  challenging than it needs to be under current law in our country. I  know many of my colleagues across the aisle want to change that through  permitting reform. My legislation begins to address that and is a step  in the right direction.

This bill is about strengthening American energy security, protecting  good-paying jobs, and restoring common sense to a process bogged down  by bureaucratic delays and partisan politics.

For far too long, energy developers have faced an outdated and  unpredictable permitting process that has delayed and even canceled  critical infrastructure projects, costing taxpayers millions of  dollars, and weakening American energy security.

Right now, if you want to build a pipeline or a power transmission  line between the U.S. and Canada or the U.S. and Mexico, you are stuck  navigating a patchwork of executive orders, undefined agency processes,  and shifting political winds. That is no way to build long-term  infrastructure in our country.

We need a cross-border permitting process that is transparent,  predictable, and durable, a process that can't be undone with the  stroke of a pen. The Keystone XL Pipeline should have been a wake-up  call. It would have carried 800,000 barrels of oil each day from Canada  to refineries in the Midwest and Texas. It would have meant real  opportunity for North Dakota communities: more jobs, more tax revenue,  and more energy produced for the entire Nation.

After a decade of delays, protests, and litigation, Keystone XL was  finally approved in 2017 by President Trump, but on day one of the  Biden administration, that permit was canceled. It wasn't canceled  because the project wasn't needed or because it wasn't safe, but to  appease radical activists.

With that single decision, the Biden administration cost the U.S.  more than $3 billion in GDP and thousands of jobs, including many in my  State of North Dakota.

This uncertainty has created a chilling effect on investment in the  infrastructure we desperately need for American energy dominance.

That is why I introduced the Promoting Cross-Border Energy  Infrastructure Act. This legislation will help fix this problem. This  bill requires Congress to approve the reversal of a cross-border  project, no more unilateral decisions based on politics.

This bill would also replace the outdated Presidential permitting  process with a clear statutory framework: the certificate of crossing.

This process will be overseen by FERC for oil and gas projects and by  the Department of Energy for electricity. It establishes firm timelines  for reviewing applications and puts subject matter experts, not  politicians, in charge of decisions.

By creating a consistent statutory framework that protects all  existing requirements and environmental reviews, we can provide the  regulatory certainty energy developers need to invest, hire, and build.  Most importantly, this strengthens America's role as a global energy  leader.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and stand with  American energy dominance.