Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694907/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-north-dakota-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Westerman, the chairman, for  his leadership on this issue and all energy-related issues. He is  providing a great service to our Conference and to the country.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my resolution to  repeal the Biden administration's Bureau of Land Management Resource  Management Plan for North Dakota.

First, let me respond briefly to my colleague from Colorado's  comments about energy costs. His constituents, the dear people of  Colorado, and many other constituents in blue States, like New York and  California, probably are paying record prices for electricity and other  energy products. That is because of their very own States' unrealistic  and radical energy policies.

I promise, in North Dakota, citizens are not paying record prices. In  fact, they are paying the lowest prices of any other State for  electricity. I know this because, for the last 12 years, I helped set  those policies. Changing these policies so that the rest of America  could also pay lower energy prices was one of the driving forces of my  running for this office.

In my State, energy production isn't a political debate. It is our  way of life. It provides paychecks that feed our families, revenue that  funds our schools, and power that keeps America moving forward.

Unfortunately, President Biden, in his very last week of office,  chose to put special interests above all of that.

Mr. Speaker, North Dakotans saw the Biden administration's plan for  exactly what it was. It was a backdoor attempt to shut down fossil  fuels in our State. That is why our State immediately filed a lawsuit  against the previous administration.

As our filing made clear: ``The amended RMP is not only unlawful and  unwise but it is also emblematic of everything that was wrong with the  prior administration's approach to cooperative federalism.''

Amen. That is exactly why we are here.

The truth is because of the checkerboard nature of Federal land and  minerals across our State, this plan would close vast amounts of North  Dakota to oil, gas, and coal leases for future development.

In fact, it would lock up nearly 99 percent of North Dakota's Federal  coal acreage. That is more than 4 million acres. It would also block  nearly half of our federally owned oil and gas acreage. That is nearly  213,000 acres.

This is absolutely the wrong direction. As demand for energy reaches  record highs and Americans want to pay less for everything, we should  unleash American energy, not shut it down.

North Dakota does have a very clear vision for energy development. We  have proven that responsible energy development and environmental  stewardship actually go hand in hand. We have invested billions in  clean and emissions-controlled technology. We have reclaimed our lands  and maintained some of the strongest air quality records in the Nation.

We can grow the economy, power the country, and steward the  environment all at once. That is the American Way, and that is  certainly the North Dakota way.

The Biden administration failed to recognize that and completely  ignored all of my State's concerns with the plan. If we want to talk  about intellectual dishonesty, that is the definition of it. So is so  much of the Democrat's energy policy that ignores current technical  realities at the peril of our American citizens.

Mr. Speaker, that is why my resolution is so important. It reverses  the Biden administration's plan that ignored my State's serious  concerns, restores true cooperation between the State and Federal  Government, and gets North Dakota energy back on track.

Mrs. FEDORCHAK. At its core, this is about more than North Dakota. If  Washington can override State expertise here, it sets a dangerous  precedent for every energy-producing State in the U.S. Congress must  reassert its role to prevent unelected bureaucrats from locking up  resources, raising costs, and undermining our energy security.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. Stand  with innovation. Stand with American workers. Stand with the families  who power this Nation. This resolution puts States like North Dakota  back in the driver's seat where they belong.