Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689268/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers


Mrs. FEDORCHAK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J.  Res. 24, legislation led by my friend Representative Stephanie Bice.  This reverses yet another burdensome Biden administration mandate that  will add senseless costs for families and small businesses for no real  benefit.

The Biden Department of Energy's rule on walk-in refrigerator  equipment is a textbook example of government overreach. This rule  imposes sweeping, unrealistic energy standards that demand massive  energy reductions, but this isn't just about energy policy. It is about  the reality facing restaurant owners, grocery stores, and convenience  stores in North Dakota and across the country.

These businesses have battled through 4 years of inflation, supply  chain disruptions, and workforce challenges. Washington bureaucrats are  now telling them to replace perfectly good refrigeration equipment at a  nationwide cost of nearly $1 billion just to meet an arbitrary, one- size-fits-all efficiency target.

To comply with these standards, manufacturers will have to increase  prices on already expensive equipment. These costs will land squarely  on the businesses and, ultimately, the American people. Mr. Speaker, 90  percent of the food and drink retailers impacted by this rule are small  businesses. These are businesses that are critical to the U.S. economy,  employing millions of Americans and contributing more than $200 billion  annually.

This rule is not economically justified. It is Washington at its  worst. It is no wonder that before President Trump took office, 75  percent of the country thought that we were headed in the wrong  direction. It is rules just like this that they know about.

This is a bad rule. It is bad for business, and it is bad for  customers. Let's stop this misguided regulation before it does more  real damage to the small businesses that drive our economy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to put common sense over  bureaucratic overreach and support H.J. Res. 24.