Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693678/department-of-defense-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, it is our duty to afford the American people  the assurance that their tax dollars are spent fulfilling the needs of  the American people, not funneled to terrorist proxies that threaten  our very existence.

My amendment would ensure that not a single taxpayer dollar would be  sent to the Lebanese Armed Forces, a military force riddled with  Hezbollah sympathizers that acts as yet another proxy of the Iranian  terror regime.

To say that Hezbollah and its allies do not have any control over the  Lebanese state is just categorically false. Hezbollah and other terror  groups that operate freely throughout the country have launched  countless attacks on our ally Israel.

In the past year alone, Hezbollah has indiscriminately launched  nearly 2,000 missiles into Israeli territory, attempting to replicate  the horrific atrocities that occurred on October 7, yet the Lebanese  military has consistently failed to take any substantive action to  eliminate Hezbollah from its control over the Lebanese state.

Not only do Hezbollah and its allies control dozens of seats in  Lebanon's Parliament, but they literally sit at the helm of the  military force that the American taxpayer has been propping up since  2006.

As a matter of fact, Nabih Berri, the speaker of the Lebanese  Parliament, is a Hezbollah sympathizer himself. As the head of the Amal  Movement, his group joined Hezbollah in their war against Israel and  launched attacks upon the IDF. Like Hezbollah, Amal is just another  proxy of the Iranian terror regime.

Why should we trust the Lebanese Government that our assistance to  their military wouldn't be funneled to terrorism when their own speaker  of parliament is a terrorist supporter himself?

While the Lebanese military alleges a willingness to disband and  disarm Hezbollah, their actions prove otherwise. The Lebanese military  is conveniently absent in Hezbollah strongholds and is far too  reluctant to take any meaningful action to eliminate Hezbollah once and  for all.

That is why I introduced legislation providing for an eight-point  plan to condition aid to the Lebanese military, including provisions  that would disband Hezbollah, eliminate all coordination with and  support from the Iranian regime, and end persecution of American  citizens who have advocated against Hezbollah's influence over the  Government of Lebanon.

This bill, the PAGER Act, offers a clear roadmap to strategically  realign the Lebanese Government to no longer threaten the United States  or our allies and interests in the Middle East.

In fact, a significant portion of Lebanon's military expenditures  don't even go toward its defense. Over 70 percent of its budget has  consistently been allocated for personnel salaries and excessive  benefits, including domestic servants and drivers for high-ranking  officers. American taxpayers expect their hard-earned tax dollars to be  spent on American interests, not armored Mercedes and other luxury  goods for Lebanese generals.

This really should be a bipartisan issue. Where are the Democrats  complaining about Lebanon's human rights atrocities?

The Democrats were silent when the Lebanese military shot protesters,  silent when they forcibly repatriated Syrian refugees, and silent when  the Lebanese military failed to prevent Hezbollah from indiscriminately  targeting our ally Israel. Yet, they tell us to turn a blind eye and  let the Lebanese military abuse the generosity of the American  taxpayer.

We cannot, in good conscience, continue sending U.S. taxpayer dollars  to Lebanon when they are complicit in empowering a terrorist  organization whose primary mission is to destroy America and Israel.

Money is fungible, and every dollar funneled to Lebanon is another  resource aiding Hezbollah's operations, undermining regional stability,  and threatening Israel's security.

Until they finally eliminate Hezbollah and stop reporting to their  handlers in Tehran, any more funds to the Lebanese military are simply  unjustifiable.

I encourage my colleagues to recognize the pressing danger that still  exists within the Lebanese military and vote for my amendment.

Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, this is a headline from 2 days ago:  ``Israeli military attacks Hezbollah sites in eastern Lebanon.''

``The Israeli military on Tuesday said it attacked Hezbollah  positions in Lebanon. Fighter jets targeted military sites in the  eastern Bekaa Valley, which the Iran-backed militia used for training  purposes.''

I include in the Record this Yahoo News report.

Israeli Military Attacks Hezbollah Sites in Eastern Lebanon                               July 15, 2025

The Israeli military on Tuesday said it attacked Hezbollah       positions in Lebanon.

Fighter jets targeted military sites in the eastern Bekaa       Valley, which the Iran-backed militia used for training       purposes, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said.

``The military compounds that were struck were used by the       Hezbollah terrorist organization for training and exercising       terrorists       to plan and carry out terrorist attacks against IDF troops       and the State of Israel,'' the IDF stated.

``As part of the terrorists' exercises and training at       these military sites, the terrorists carried out drills for       gunfire combat and the use of various weapons,'' it added.

The Israeli military said ``the storage of weapons and the       activities of the Hezbollah terrorist organization at these       sites constitute a blatant violation of the understandings       between Israel and Lebanon.''

Lebanese security sources said that Israeli warplanes flew       more than 10 attacks in several eastern locations early on       Tuesday.

According to residents, loud explosions could be heard in       the region. The area is known as a Hezbollah stronghold.

Israel and Hezbollah agreed on a ceasefire November 2024       after more than a year of mutual shelling.

Nevertheless, the Israeli military continues to attack       targets in Lebanon. Both sides accuse each other of violating       the agreement.

Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I also include in the Record another one  from 2 days ago: ``12 said killed as Israel hits elite Hezbollah force  deep inside Lebanon.''

``Israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside Lebanon  aimed at stopping an elite Hezbollah unit from regrouping and  rebuilding . . .''

``The military camps that were targeted are used by the Hezbollah  terror organization for training and preparing terrorists for the  planning and execution of terror operations against IDF forces and the  State of Israel.' ''  12 Said Killed as Israel Hits Elite Hezbollah Force Deep Inside Lebanon                            (By Emanuel Fabian)

Military says targets in northeastern Beqaa Valley include       Radwan unit facilities, where military activity was taking       place in `blatant violation' of November ceasefire.

Israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside       Lebanon aimed at stopping an elite Hezbollah unit from       regrouping and rebuilding its strength, authorities said       Tuesday.

Lebanese state media reported that 12 people were killed.

``Enemy warplanes launched raids on the Wadi Fara area in       the northern Beqaa Valley, one of which targeted a camp for       displaced Syrians, resulting in the deaths of 12 martyrs,       including seven Syrians, and eight wounded,'' the country's       state-run National News Agency reported.

The strikes in Lebanon's northeastern Beqaa Valley were       aimed at military facilities belonging to the Hezbollah       terror group's Radwan force, where operatives and weapon       depots had been detected, the Israel Defense Forces said.

``The military camps that were targeted are used by the       Hezbollah terror organization for training and preparing       terrorists for the planning and execution of terror       operations against IDF forces and the State of Israel,'' the       military said in a statement.

The weapons stored at the sites and Hezbollah's activity       ``constitute a blatant violation of the understandings       between Israel and Lebanon, and pose a future threat to the       State of Israel,'' the statement added.

Defense Minister Israel Katz called the strikes ``a clear       message to the Hezbollah terror organization, which is       plotting to rebuild its invasion-of-Israel capabilities       through the Radwan force, and also to the Lebanese       government, which is responsible for upholding the       agreement.''

``We will strike every terrorist and thwart any threat to       the residents of the north and to the State of Israel, and we       will respond with maximum force against any attempt [by       Hezbollah] to rebuild,'' he added.

Israel has carried out dozens of strikes in southern       Lebanon targeting Hezbollah operatives and arms since       reaching a ceasefire with the group in November following       several weeks of intense fighting, while attacks deeper       inside Lebanon are less common.

There was no immediate comment from the Lebanese government       about Tuesday's strikes, though the official National News       Agency reported that ``enemy warplanes launched a raid''       southeast of Baalbek, the main city in the region.

The rugged Beqaa Valley is seen as a stronghold for       Hezbollah, and had been considered a key conduit for       smuggling weapons into Lebanon via Syria before Hezbollah       ally Bashar al-Assad was ousted from the leadership of Syria       late last year.

On Sunday, the IDF said Israeli troops had raided military       facilities of the deposed Syrian regime last week, seizing       some three tons of weapons. It indicated that the arms had       been intended to be smuggled into Lebanon.

According to Israel, the Radwan force had in recent years       planned to carry out a large-scale invasion of northern       Israel, but was forced to shelve the scheme after Hamas       attacked southern Israel from Gaza on October 7, 2023,       plunging the region into war.

A day after the attack, Hezbollah began firing rockets,       drones, and anti-tank missiles at northern Israeli       communities, carrying out attacks on a near-daily basis in       solidarity with Hamas.

The rocket fire displaced some 60,000 residents of northern       Israel. In a bid to ensure their safe return, Israel stepped       up operations in Lebanon in September, leading to two months       of open warfare with Hezbollah in which the terror group's       leadership and arsenal were decimated.

A ceasefire in November largely stopped the fighting, but       Israeli strikes against Hezbollah operatives have continued       on a regular basis. The agreement allows Israel to strike       imminent threats, though Jerusalem is required to bring less       urgent concerns to an international committee.

Hezbollah is currently under pressure from Lebanon's       Western-backed government to disarm as part of an arrangement       that could reportedly see Israel halt attacks and pull its       troops south of the border.

Mr. STEUBE. We should put America first, not Lebanon first and  America last.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I demand a recorded vote.