Recognizing Dakota Partelow, Gold Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690441/recognizing-dakota-partelow-gold-award


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me  in congratulating Dakota Partelow. Dakota is a member of Girl Scouts of  Gulf Coast Florida, Troop 608, and has exemplified extraordinary  leadership, innovative problem-solving, and a demonstrated commitment  to making a lasting, positive impact, by earning the most prestigious  award in Girl Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities and the  world with measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn  the Girl Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify  and investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead  a team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1-2 years, Gold Award Girl  Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and leadership,  distinguishing them from their peers. Through their resourcefulness and  perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to truly make the world a  better place.

Dakota's project in partnership with Valerie House was an excellent  endeavor to address youth mental health and grief in our community.  Dakota took action by researching youth mental health and grief, then  redesigning the children's waiting room at Valerie House to create a  more welcoming space. She repainted the room and assembled a resource  box filled with toys and activities to support the well-being of  grieving children. Her efforts will have a lasting positive impact on  the community.

On behalf of the 17th Congressional District of Florida,  congratulations to Dakota for achieving the highest distinction in Girl  Scouts, the Gold Award. We thank Dakota for her leadership and making  such a positive, lasting change in our community.