Recognizing Krysta Fowler, Gold Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690422/recognizing-krysta-fowler-gold-award


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me  in congratulating Krysta Fowler. Krysta is an individually registered  member of Girl Scouts of Gulf Coast Florida and has exemplified  extraordinary leadership, innovative problem-solving, and a  demonstrated commitment to making a lasting, positive impact, by  earning the most prestigious award in Girl Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities and the  world with measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn  the Girl Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify  and investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead  a team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1-2 years, Gold Award Girl  Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and leadership,  distinguishing them from their peers. Through their resourcefulness and  perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to truly make the world a  better place.

Krysta's project, ``BAT-vocate: Appreciation and Awareness for  Bats,'' in partnership with The City of North Port, North Port School  District, The Environmental Conservancy of North Port, Peace River  Wildlife Center, Girl Scouts of Gulf Coast Florida, was an excellent  endeavor to address the issue of bat endangerment, conservancy, and  awareness in our community. Krysta took action by constructing 26  sustainable bat habitats across Bradenton, North Port, and Ft. Myers to  support endangered bat populations. She led educational workshops for  Girl Scouts and community members on bat conservation and successfully  petitioned the City of North Port to establish a Bat Awareness Day.  Additionally, she collaborated with the council to develop a Girl Scout  badge curriculum, ensuring ongoing education on bat conservation. Her  efforts will have a lasting positive impact on the community. It is an  honor to represent brave individuals like Tigran Gambaryan in Congress,  and I celebrate his return home to his wife Yuki and their two young  children. God bless their family.

On behalf of the 17th Congressional District of Florida,  congratulations to Krysta Fowler for achieving the highest distinction  in Girl Scouts, the Gold Award. We thank Krysta for her leadership and  making such a positive, lasting change in our community.