Recognizing Victoria Morton, Gold Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690466/recognizing-victoria-morton-gold-award


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me  in congratulating Victoria Morton. Victoria is a member of Girl Scouts  of Gulf Coast Florida, Troop 135, and has exemplified extraordinary  leadership, innovative problem-solving, and a demonstrated commitment  to making a lasting, positive impact, by earning the most prestigious  award in Girl Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities and the  world with measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn  the Girl Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify  and investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead  a team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1-2 years, Gold Award Girl  Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and leadership,  distinguishing them from their peers. Through their resourcefulness and  perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to truly make the world a  better place.

Victoria's project, ``Pet Resource Central,'' in partnership with the  Community Resource Center of Punta Gorda, the Harry Chapin Food Bank,  the Animal Welfare League, the Suncoast Humane Society, and peers at  Port Charlotte High School, was an excellent endeavor to address food  insecurity and animal welfare in our community by creating a pantry for  low-income pet owners. She collected donations to stock the pantry and  hosted free workshops on affordable pet care. Additionally, Victoria  provided free grooming services, including ear and teeth cleaning, nail  trimming, and created a resource booklet with spay and neuter  information. Victoria dedicated 136 hours to her project, which will  have a lasting and positive impact on the community for years to come.

On behalf of the 17th Congressional District of Florida,  congratulations to Victoria Morton  for achieving the highest distinction in Girl Scouts, the Gold Award.  We thank Victoria for her leadership and making such a positive,  lasting change in our community.