Recognizing Reagan Graham, Gold Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690446/recognizing-reagan-graham-gold-award


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask my colleagues to join me  in congratulating  Reagan Graham. Reagan is a member of Girl Scouts of Gulf Coast Florida,  Troop 441 and has exemplified extraordinary leadership, innovative  problem-solving, and a demonstrated commitment to making a lasting,  positive impact, by earning the most prestigious award in Girl  Scouting, the Gold Award.

Gold Award Girl Scouts are recognized as trailblazers who are willing  to tackle the most pressing challenges facing their communities and the  world with measurable, sustainable, and far-reaching results. To earn  the Girl Scout Gold Award, high school-age Girl Scouts must identify  and investigate an issue they care about, devise a plan, and then lead  a team of experts and community members to implement a project that  produces lasting change. Over the course of 1-2 years, Gold Award Girl  Scouts demonstrate significant initiative, commitment, and leadership,  distinguishing them from their peers. Through their resourcefulness and  perseverance, they embody the Girl Scout Law to truly make the world a  better place.

Reagan's project, ``Heart & Sole,'' in partnership with Angel's  Attic, The Out-of-Door Academy, and Woodland Community Church, was an  excellent endeavor to address clothing access for homeless individuals  in our community. Reagan took action by educating and training over a  dozen volunteers on clothing insecurity among homeless individuals. She  guided them in organizing a clothing drive, collecting over 2,000 pairs  of socks, and establishing a permanent sock closet. Her efforts will  have a lasting positive impact on the community.

On behalf of the 17th Congressional District of Florida,  congratulations to Reagan Graham for achieving the highest distinction  in Girl Scouts, the Gold Award. We thank Reagan for her leadership and  making such a positive, lasting change in our community.