Removal of the Use of United States Forces for Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699365/removal-of-the-use-of-united-states-forces-for-hostilities-within-or-against-venezuela


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution  because it is nothing more than a weak and pointless attempt to attack  our President and undermine our national security.

We conducted a 40-minute operation to remove a drug-trafficking  narcoterrorist, and Democrats are acting like we started world war III.

For that brief, targeted action, they now insist Congress must step  in and tie the President's hands.

Let's be clear about how ridiculous this resolution truly is. It  orders the United States to withdraw forces from Venezuela, yet there  are no U.S. forces in Venezuela to withdraw. You cannot remove troops  that don't even exist. That alone shows how unserious Democrats are in  this effort.

They also claim the act to remove Maduro was unconstitutional, which  ignores Article II and decades of bipartisan precedent where Presidents  have undertaken limited military action without a declaration of war.

Clinton acted in Kosovo. Obama acted in Libya. Most similarly, George  H.W. Bush captured drug-trafficker Manuel Noriega back in 1990. No one  screamed constitutional crisis then. In fact, those acts were  celebrated by both sides, and they were upheld by Federal courts.

The bottom line is that Nicolas Maduro is a criminal defendant  charged by the United States Department of Justice for narcoterrorism  and drug-trafficking offenses, including conspiring to import cocaine  into the United States and related weapon charges. He has run his  regime like a cartel: flooding our country with poison and destroying  American lives.

This was not an act of war. It was an act of law enforcement. This  resolution does nothing to protect the Constitution, nothing to make  America safer, and nothing to stop the drugs killing our communities.

It should be rejected.