Successful Operation to Arrest Nicolas Maduro


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698883/successful-operation-to-arrest-nicolas-maduro


Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Chairman.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Trump administration's  actions in capturing Nicolas Maduro.

Over the past week, Democrats have claimed that Maduro's capture was  unconstitutional, illegal, and violated international norms. Democrats  argue that Congress must declare war or give explicit authorization  before the President can act.

Article II is clear. The President is the Commander in Chief, and the  Constitution has never required a declaration of war for every use of  force, national security or law enforcement operation against criminal  actors who threaten the United States.

President Clinton acted in Kosovo. President Obama acted in Libya.  President Biden even ordered strikes against terrorist leaders. In none  of those cases did Democrats suddenly discover a constitutional crisis.

The War Powers Resolution recognizes that the President may act first  and notify Congress afterwards. There is no legal requirement that  Congress be notified before the President takes action. That framework  has governed American foreign policy for more than 50 years.

Maduro is not a legitimate head of state. He is a criminal defendant  under United States law who was charged and indicted in 2020 by the  Department of Justice for drug trafficking and other related crimes.

There is legal precedent directly on point. All of these arguments  made by the Democrats that it is illegal should look no further than  President Bush's capture of Manuel Noriega in Panama in 1989. Like the  Maduro operation, the Panama invasion occurred without congressional  authorization.

Like Noriega, Maduro faces Federal drug trafficking charges. Like  Noriega, he was captured through military operations conducted without  congressional authorization. Like Noriega, he will surely argue head of  state immunity and unlawful seizure. However, just like the court found  in Noriega's case, he will be prosecuted for his crimes, and the  actions that led to his seizure are legally sound, as they follow a 36- year-old template validated by Federal courts.

Mr. Speaker, to the Americans whose communities have been devastated  by drugs, to the families who have lost loved ones, and to the people  of our hemisphere who have suffered under his criminal regime, this  action sends a clear message: Narcoterrorist dictators are not immune  from consequences, and the United States will not stand by while our  citizens continue to be poisoned and murdered by the Maduro regime.