No Tax on Tips Act


Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, hard-working families in Nevada and all  across this country are struggling to make ends meet because of rising  costs on everything, from groceries to housing, all of which has been  made worse by Donald Trump's tariffs that are driving prices even  higher.

Nevadans, our families, we are being squeezed, and they need real  relief. They need us to work together to lower costs for them. That is  why I introduced the No Tax on Tips Act alongside Senator Ted Cruz from  Texas, which would eliminate Federal income taxes on tipped wages.

For so many service and hospitality workers, tips aren't extra; it is  part of their income that they use to make ends meet. Tips are how  Nevadans pay their rent, cover their groceries, take care of their  families, their kids.

And Nevada has more tipped workers per capita than any other State.  So this bill would mean immediate financial relief for countless hard- working families.

No tax on tips was one of President Trump's key promises to the  American people, which he unveiled in my State of Nevada. And I am not  afraid to embrace a good idea wherever it comes from. So I agreed we  need to get this done.

This is not a time for politics. It is a time for progress for hard- working Americans. This bipartisan bill is a good idea that has support  from Democrats and Republicans. So we should pass it as soon as  possible without any poison pills.

The problem is that the House Republicans have included a version of  the No Tax on Tips Act in their bigger budget bill--a bill that cuts  Medicaid, SNAP, and other programs families rely on, to give more tax  breaks for billionaires and the ultrawealthy.

So we shouldn't be forcing working families to choose between keeping  their healthcare or keeping their tips, which is why we want this  bipartisan bill to pass on its own--on its own--not part of a harmful,  extreme budget bill.

If we are serious about providing service employees with financial  relief, let's do it now. Let's do it today because the American people,  they get sick and tired of Washington games.

So let's pass this bill without playing politics, without taking away  healthcare and food assistance from families who need it the most.  Let's pass it by itself.

That is why I am calling on the Senate to pass the bipartisan No Tax  on Tips Act right here, right now, as a stand-alone bill. We are going  to cut taxes for real hard-working Americans, for Nevadans, for  everyone, not just for billionaires. We are going to cut taxes on  service workers' tips without cutting Medicaid or SNAP. And let's get  this done with strong guardrails so CEOs and the ultrawealthy don't  exploit loopholes meant to help working people. Let's pass it today.

Nevadans sent me here to fight for them, and so I am going to keep  working to lower costs, to raise wages, and to make sure people who  power our economy--our working families--can keep more of what they  earn. And through this bipartisan bill, it shows that I am not going to  allow Washington gridlock and partisanship to block a bill without a  fight. That is why we are going to pass it today, taking matters into  my own hands, with the support of my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle, to pass our bipartisan No Tax on Tips Act by unanimous consent.

129  and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.

Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, I further ask that the bill be considered  read a third time and passed and that the motion to reconsider be  considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or  debate.

Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, before I yield my time to the Senator  from Texas, I just want to say this is great news for Nevada. Our bill  just passed. Our hospitality and service staff are working harder than  ever while being squeezed by rising costs. This bill is not the be-all  and end-all, but it is going to offer immediate financial relief while  the Senate continues to work to lower costs and find other avenues of  relief for hard-working families.