Recognizing the Significance of Jewish American Heritage Month and Calling on Elected Officials and Civil Society Leaders to Counter Antisemitism


Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, I want to begin by thanking my colleague  from Florida for his bipartisanship and his partnership, including to  pass this bipartisan resolution to recognize Jewish American Heritage  Month by unanimous consent.

I also want to take a moment to speak about the horrific murders that  took place last night. Like so many other Jews in America and around  the world, I woke up this morning heartbroken by the news of yet  another unspeakable act of anti-Semitic violence that occurred late  last night, this time--this time--in our Nation's Capital, less than 1  mile from where I am standing this very moment. This shooting occurred  outside of the Capital Jewish Museum, where the American Jewish  Committee was holding a large event. And the shooter went there  specifically to target and kill Jews and people whom he perceived to be  Jewish.

This is anti-Semitism--plain and simple. There is no justification in  the world for carrying out or condoning this violent and vile hate  crime. It is pure anti-Semitic violence.

My heart is shattered for the two Israeli Embassy workers who were  killed, Yaron and Sarah--taken from us far, far too soon. Both were  committed to public service, social action, peace, the betterment of  the world. They were a young couple in love.

I have read reports that Yaron was planning to propose to Sarah next  week in Israel.

They were cruelly taken from us far too soon at the beginning of  their lives. May their memory be a blessing, and may their killer be  brought to swift justice.

It is a tragedy that these innocent lives were cut short by hate, and  it continues to be a tragedy that these incidents continue to occur in  the United States and all over the world.

Over the last few years alone, we have seen anti-Semitic hate and  extremist violence. It has done nothing but increase across this  country. All over America, Jewish people, we have been threatened,  beaten, verbally accosted. We have been killed just because of our  faith, just because of whom they are--because of whom we are.

We have seen horrendous anti-Semitic incidents and attacks on Jewish  communities, at schools and on college campuses, and Jewish-owned  places of business, and on synagogues and places of worship.

And incidents of anti-Semitism in the United States and globally have  risen dramatically since Hamas's brutal terrorist attack on October 7.  All of it--all of it--is wrong and has no place in our country, no  place in our society, no place in the world.

Those who commit these egregious acts, they want to send a message.  They want to terrorize Jews. They want to scare Jews. They want to  intimidate us. And it is vital that we all stand up together and send a  clear and forceful message, and the message is this: We will not be  afraid.

We will not be afraid.

We cannot be silent. There is desperate need to confront dangerous  and growing anti-Semitism in our country and around the world to show  that bigoted efforts to intimidate us will not work. We cannot be  afraid. We cannot be silent.

That is why I am here on the Senate floor today. By passing this  resolution and recognizing Jewish American Heritage Month, we are not  just celebrating the numerous accomplishments and contributions that  Jews have made to our country, we are sending the message back, a  message that Jewish people have a place in America; that this is our  home as well; that our lives, that they have value and they have  meaning, just like anyone else; and that our country stands with it.

So I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for allowing this  resolution to pass, and I want to thank Senator Scott of Florida for  his partnership in the effort to counter anti-Semitism and hate  everywhere.

Res. 246 submitted earlier today.

Ms. ROSEN. Thank you, Madam President. Again, thank you to all my  colleagues for passing this important resolution unanimously today.