Introduction of A Resolution Recognizing ``Medical Research Week'' From September 15 Through September 2025


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to reintroduce a resolution  recognizing ``Medical Research Week'' from September 15 through  September 19, 2025. This important resolution will look to recognize  the important breakthroughs of medical research improving health  outcomes for patients and communities, securing global competitiveness  in science, boosting job creation, educating the next generation of  scientists, and strengthening economic growth.

Medical research through the support of the National Institutes of  Health (NIH), continues to serve a vital role in the medical research  enterprise. This research can lead cutting edge preventative strategies  and research for treatments and additional cures for longstanding  medical challenges such as cancer, Alzheimer's, heart disease, sickle  cell, and obesity. I have met with Hoosier families that are struggling  with these rare diseases, and I have been moved by the impact that  medical research has on their lives. This has educated me and my  colleagues about the necessity of medical research to provide more  treatment options and better diagnoses for all Americans.

NIH research funding generates nearly $93 billion in economic  activity and continues to support more than 400,000 jobs across the  United States. Medical research is not only focused on improving the  health of all Americans, but also as an economic driver in growth and  job opportunity. Their work ripples far beyond its headquarters in  Bethesda, Maryland, and into every State. It drives demand for medical  supplies and research equipment, boosts local and regional economics to  benefit manufacturers and suppliers across the country, and into many  United States territories.

The NIH supported medical research plays a primary role in several  sectors. The NIH supports noncommercial and clinical research with  private sector innovation, allowing for major achievements in rare  diseases such as ALS, substance use disorders, stroke, and Parkinson's.

During my time in Congress, I have continuously advocated on behalf  of medical research. Congressional action has helped support medical  research through the NIH and CDC, supported in part by the bipartisan  appropriations letter I lead each year to increase NIH overall funding  and increasing funding for the Veterans Medical and Prosthetic Research  Program. I urge all my colleagues to join me in both these  appropriations requests. Imagine what we could accomplish with more  robust investments in medical research in our Nation, from making  strides to combatting antimicrobial resistance, to harnessing the power  of personalized medicine to treat disease, and more. These critical  breakthroughs in medical research are our Nation's best hope in finding  cures, prevention measures, and treatments for diseases affecting  millions of Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this  resolution to recognize the importance of medical research in America.  I urge the House to support this resolution.