Introduction of Resolution Recognizing the Significance of National Caribbean American Heritage Month


Mr. CARSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to introduce my resolution  recognizing National Caribbean American Heritage Month. Caribbean  Americans have enriched our nation through their contributions in the  arts, sciences, education, business, sports, military, and government.

Since before our nation's founding, millions have emigrated from the  Caribbean to the United States. Today, more than 8 million Americans  are either born in the Caribbean or have Caribbean ancestry. Among the  many influential Caribbean Americans are: Kamala Harris, the first  African-American Vice President; Colin Powell, the first African- American Secretary of State; Eric Holder, the first African-American  Attorney General; Karine Jean-Pierre, the first African-American White  House Press Secretary; Deval Patrick, first African American Governor  of Massachusetts; David Paterson, first legally blind and first African  American to serve as Governor of New York State; Wes Moore, the first  African American Governor of Maryland; Patrick Gaspard, labor union  organizer and social justice advocate; Earl Graves, Sr, Founder of  Black Enterprise; Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, basketball great and social  activist; Marcus Garvey, Jamaican political activist and Pan-African  leader.

Caribbean Americans have made significant contributions to all  aspects of society, including fine arts, education, business,  literature, journalism, sports, fashion, politics, government, the  military, music, science, medicine, engineering, and technology. They  also share their vibrant culture through festivals, carnivals, music,  dance, film, food, and literature, enriching the cultural landscape of  the United States.

Members of the Caribbean diaspora also have a longstanding legacy of  economic contributions, both in the U.S. and in their countries of  origin. Through monetary and social remittances, they play a vital role  in supporting sustainable economic development in the Caribbean, with  these contributions representing significant percentages of their home  countries' GDP.

I would also like to recognize Dr. Claire A. Nelson, Founding  President of the Institute of Caribbean Studies, as the chief architect  behind the movement for the official proclamation of June as National  Caribbean American Heritage Month. Dr. Nelson has convened a network of  volunteer leaders through the National Caribbean American Heritage  Month Commemorative Committee to ensure continued recognition and  celebration of this important month.

It is essential that Congress continues to acknowledge the invaluable  contributions of Caribbean Americans to our nation's history and their  role in shaping our future.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring National  Caribbean American Heritage Month.