Space Dominance


Mr. FONG. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague from Florida  (Mr. Haridopolos) for leading this Special Order today about the  importance of America leading in aerospace and aviation.

My district in California encompasses a number of military, space,  and aerospace facilities, including Naval Air Station Lemoore, Edwards  Air Force Base, Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, NASA Armstrong  Flight Research Center, and the Mojave Air and Space Port.

We are known for our innovation and research and continuing to push  the boundaries of space exploration and our rich legacy in this  industry.

Dating back to almost a century ago, Chuck Yeager became the first  person to break the sound barrier in 1947 as a test pilot for what is  now Edwards Air Force Base.

During World War II, the Mojave Air & Space Port was used as a  training facility for the United States Marine Corps, and the Naval Air  Weapons Station China Lake was established for research, testing, and  evaluation of military weapons.

In the 1950s, NASA Armstrong Flight Research Center was the location  where many of the technologies for Project Apollo were tested,  including where the lunar landing research vehicle was flown in the  1960s in preparation for the historic American Moon landing.

With a deep, embedded history in the aerospace industry, my region  continues to defy odds, make historic discoveries, and innovate for the  future.

As we see our foreign adversaries like Russia, China, and Iran  increasing their space technology efforts, it is critical that we stay  ahead of the curve to ensure we stay at the cutting edge of  technologies.

This is one of the reasons why I introduced the Making Advancement in  Commercial Hypersonics Act, also known as the MACH Act. This  legislation authorizes the establishment of the MACH program at NASA  and allows NASA to support scientific experiments through high-speed  flights.

In order to stay competitive in hypersonics technology, we must fully  utilize public-private partnerships, like I have in my district, to  advance this necessary technology. East Kern County is making great  strides not only for our community but also for our Nation.

The MACH program builds on successes we have already seen in  commercial spaceflight and lays the groundwork for urgent, necessary  advancements to keep our competitive edge as a nation.

The MACH legislation was included in the NASA Reauthorization Act of  2024 and passed the House last Congress. I look forward to this  reintroduced legislation passing and getting signed into law this  Congress so we can continue to innovate and grow in America.

In addition to national defense efforts, the aerospace industry  continues to assist with our emergency responses in our Nation.

Earlier this year, we saw wildfires devastate my home State of  California. Unfortunately, this is something that we know all too well  in my community. Wildfires continue to ravage every part of California.  Unfortunately, fire season is now all year long, and we must take  advantage of the technologies available to try to fight these terrible  tragedies.

The Advanced Capabilities for Emergency Response Operations Act, also  known as the ACERO Act, which I introduced earlier this year,  authorizes NASA to leverage the use of drones to fight wildfires. This  project is especially helpful when there is low visibility, heavy  smoke, or unsafe conditions for our firefighters to fly. This piece of  legislation is lifesaving not only to help stop these wildfires, which  have devastated communities, but also to assist our brave firefighters.

There are not enough thanks to give to our selfless firefighters and  first responders in times of natural disaster. We should help them  fight these fires by passing legislation to give them additional tools.

The aerospace industry does so much for our country, from assisting  in national defense to helping in natural disasters to improving the  way we travel. As we continue to innovate and grow, it is crucial to  acknowledge the many advancements we continue to make.

Our work is just getting started in space as a Nation, and here in  Congress we are committed to seeing strides of advancement to make our  Nation dominant in new and advancing technology.

As we look to the future, I see my district continuing to make  history in the aerospace industry with its innovation and exploration  efforts.

Recently in my district, Boom Supersonic completed the first  successful civil supersonic flight at Mojave Air and Space Port, making  supersonic flight technology usable for all Americans.

In addition, in December, Stratolaunch made history with its first  fully reusable hypersonic flight test of the Talon-A 2 vehicle off the  coast of Vandenburg, which took off from the Mojave Air and Space Port,  signifying a new era of hypersonic flight technology, where traveling  at faster speeds may soon become a reality.

These important advancements for America show that my community will  continue to be a national leader in the aerospace industry.

I again commemorate all of the great work being done in my community.  The Nation thanks you. We have more advancements ahead being developed  in California's aerospace valley. I look forward to a future of growth  and innovation with California's 20th Congressional District in the  forefront.