Calling on Elected Officials and Civil Society Leaders to Counter Antisemitism and Educate the Public on the Contributions of the Jewish American Community


Mr. RASKIN.  Wasserman Schultz).

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Maryland for yielding and for his stalwart and unyielding support for  the Jewish community, for his leadership as a member of the Jewish  community, and for his decades of work to support Jewish community  values.

I rise in strong support of my resolution, H. Res. 352, to recognize  Jewish American Heritage Month and highlight the enduring contributions  of Jewish Americans to our country.

I proudly sponsored this bill when I was a freshman Member of  Congress, and it was the first piece of legislation that I passed as a  freshman 20 years ago. I thank my co-leads, Representative Troy Carter,  Congresswoman Miller-Meeks, and Congressman Fitzpatrick, for joining me  in co-leading this resolution. It is a resolution that highlights the  enduring contributions of Jewish Americans to our country.

Every May, we come together to celebrate Jewish American Heritage  Month, also known as JAHM, and the generations of Jewish Americans who  are integral parts of the rich mosaic of people and the heritages that  make up these great United States.

While we joyfully celebrate this month, it is the second JAHM that we  commemorate under the shadow of Hamas' October 7 attack on Israel. This  was the deadliest day for Jews since the Holocaust.

Since that fateful day, the United States has witnessed a historic  rise in anti-Semitism, which was already explosive prior to October 7,  with an absolute explosion of online hate.

In 2024, the ADL tracked 9,354 anti-Semitic incidents across America.  That marked a 344 percent increase over the past 5 years, and it was  the highest number on record since these instances of hate were first  tracked in 1979.

It is so disheartening that every year a new record is set of anti- Jewish incidents, but it also demonstrates that we have a lot of work  to do together.

According to the American Jewish Committee, in 2024, one-third of  American Jews had been the personal target of anti-Semitism over the  past year, and sadly, one-third of Jewish college students felt  uncomfortable or unsafe on campus due to their Jewish identity.

While we must take steps to protect Jewish students on college  campuses, we cannot allow anti-Semitism to be used as a vehicle to take  away the rights of others. Make no mistake, anti-Semitism is a canary  in the coal mine. Attacks on Jewish students in any school setting are  unacceptable, and there should be serious consequences.

By investing in policies that protect Jewish students, like fully  funding the Education Department's Office for Civil Rights to fund  investigations and hold colleges and universities--and, quite frankly,  schools across the country and secondary schools--tolerating anti- Semitism accountable, we can support all students' ability to live and  study in places that value and respect their heritage.

While there is no simple solution to end this extremist hate, we all  can take steps to end this violence.

In the Biden administration's national strategy to counter anti- Semitism, the U.S.' first-ever blueprint, it called on all aspects of  society to commemorate JAHM and use it as a tool to fight hate. That is  because we need Jews and non-Jews alike to learn about all the  remarkable Jewish Americans who served in government or the military,  or who won Nobel prizes, for example, and how Jewish Americans lead  universities and make lifesaving medical discoveries that we all count  on today.

However, the significant contributions Jewish Americans have made and  continue to make toward America's success are not widely known, so  today's resolution highlights Jewish American inventors who created  services and products that all Americans rely on each and every day.

For instance, Mr. Speaker, Irving Naxon invented the slow cooker. He  took inspiration from Jewish cooking traditions in Europe to allow  Jewish communities to have fresh and hot meals on Shabbat.

Sylvan Goldman invented the shopping cart, transforming the ease with  which people are able to shop for their families.

When Hedy Lamarr, the famous and accomplished actress, was not acting  in films, she invented the concept of frequency hopping, which opened  the door to a wide range of wireless communications technologies,  including WiFi, GPS, and Bluetooth.

There are a whole lot of gamers who would love that Ralph Baer  invented the Brown Box, a prototype for the first multiplayer,  multiprogram video game system.

These are just a few of the innovative contributions that American  Jews brought to all of our lives. As Jews, we have a longstanding  commitment to tikkun olam, a commitment to repair the world. We take  great pride regarding the impact we have made on so many generations of  Americans.

As we celebrate the 20th year of Jewish American Heritage Month, we  have made progress toward the goals of JAHM to educate Americans by  celebrating Jewish contributions, which promotes understanding and  reduces bigotry.

Mr. Speaker, I thank everyone on both sides of the aisle for helping  shine a light on this important moment in time, and I urge my  colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this resolution.

I thank the gentlewoman for her eloquence and lucidity in those  remarks and for sponsoring this legislation.

I speak very strongly in favor of Ms. Wasserman Schultz's resolution,  which recognizes Jewish American Heritage Month and the important  contributions that Jewish Americans have made to our country, and I  thank her for her continuing leadership within Congress and also within  the American Jewish community.

The resolution calls on elected officials, faith leaders, and civil  society leaders to condemn and counter all acts of anti-Semitism.

I also want to salute Mr. Schmidt, the distinguished Member from  Kansas, for his powerful endorsement of this idea.

The resolution also goes on to urge the House to take ``all possible  steps to ensure the safety, security, and dignity of American Jews in  all aspects of their lives.'' We are called upon to condemn anti- Semitism and to ensure the safety of the Jewish community, along with  everyone else. The appeal is appropriate and timely.

We have to do everything in our power to counter the poison of anti- Semitism, racism, and other forms of bigotry, which are really the  gateway to destruction of liberal democracy in our country.

That obligation means fighting anti-Semitism, even when, perhaps  especially when, it is expressed and endorsed by officials of the  United States Government.

Last week, President Trump finally withdrew the nomination of Ed  Martin to serve as the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia. Mr.  Martin's confirmation in the Senate faced many insuperable obstacles.  It was doomed.

First of all, he had no prosecutorial experience and no  administrative experience running a prosecutor's office.

Secondly, he had shown an extraordinary devotion to the extremists  who participated in the violent insurrection against the Capitol and  against Congress on January 6, 2021. He represented many of them as a  defense lawyer, but he championed the cause of a great number more in  not just legal but in political and civil contexts.

He also failed to disclose that he had appeared more than 150 times  on Russian state propaganda networks, like Russia Today and Sputnik,  when he was nominated to be the U.S. attorney for the District of  Columbia. These are networks that were forced to register as foreign  agents of Vladimir Putin's government.

The truth is that his nomination was doomed, regardless. I would say  that all of these disqualifications by themselves pale in comparison to  Mr. Martin's long and troubling relationship with a Hitler-loving neo- Nazi named Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, who was sentenced to 4 years in  prison for breaching the Capitol during the January 6 attack.

Hale-Cusanelli is an outspoken anti-Semite who proudly wears a Hitler  mustache, advocates killing the disabled at birth, and told coworkers  that Hitler should have finished the job. At his sentencing, a Trump- appointed Federal judge warned him that his actions and statements make  everyone, including Jewish people, less safe in our country.

How did Ed Martin, President Trump's pick for one of the most  important jobs in the American criminal justice system, react to all  the extraordinary statements and the lawless actions of Mr. Hale- Cusanelli? He invited him to go on his podcast multiple times to spout  his fascist propaganda. He presented him with an award before a big  audience. He praised him as an extraordinary man and an extraordinary  leader.

By attending President Trump's inauguration with his good friend, he  continued to promote him in establishment political circles, and he  headlined a fundraiser together with Mr. Hale-Cusanelli in Florida last  year.

By pretending not to know that he was a vicious anti-Semite, even  after he clearly had evidence that he was, Mr. Martin continued to  legitimize and validate the views of this man.

Mr. Martin's weak protests that he didn't know anything about what  his views really were were debunked not only by National Public Radio  but by the record of Martin's involvement with other extremists.

For example, Mr. Martin has also praised Jack Posobiec, an anti- Semitic conspiracy theorist with links to the Proud Boys, the Oath  Keepers, and several other white nationalist organizations.

Mr. Martin frequently praises Mr. Posobiec online and calls his anti- Semitic insights valuable and incredible. Mr. Martin's own views are  saturated with deranged analogies that dilute the meaning of Nazism and  Fascism.

In one episode about the 2024 election, he compared President Joe  Biden to Adolf Hitler, which either means that Biden committed genocide  or that Hitler was just a regular old politician. In another episode  about the election, he repeated the defamatory lie that Jewish people  who vote for Democrats are somehow less Jewish than those who vote for  Donald Trump.

How did President Trump treat this disturbed individual after his  nomination just collapsed across the hallway in the U.S. Senate in the  face of this mountain of evidence of his extremism? It was not by  cutting him loose, as he should have, but by appointing him to serve in  a senior role in the Department of Justice that does not require  confirmation by the U.S. Senate.

President Trump named him to be the U.S. pardon attorney, and he  named him to be director of a task force on the weaponization of  government. This was a perfect assignment, perhaps, for a man who  writes vituperative threat letters to Democrats when he hears them say  things that he doesn't like.

Mr. Speaker, it makes me wonder why President Trump would put up with  this and would insist upon placing him in a position of such critical  importance in the Department of Justice. President Trump saw very fine  people  on both sides of the anti-Semitic riot that took place in  Charlottesville. We know that he had Nicholas Fuentes to his house,  another neo-Nazi Holocaust revisionist.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that this is a matter of fundamental  importance, that both Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate  demand that Ed Martin not have a role in the U.S. Government, given his  close association with all of these extremists and his very damning  statements in the past, not to mention the fact that he had more than  150 appearances on Russian propaganda state networks.

We should be rejecting anti-Semitism wherever it appears: on the  left, on the right, or in the center. It doesn't matter what you call  yourself. If you align with hatred against any group, you are a danger  to American constitutional democracy, and we should not allow it to  gain a foothold in the Government of the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, let us adhere to the spirit of President George  Washington, who said in his famous letter in 1790 to the Hebrew  Congregation of Newport, Rhode Island, that ``the Government of the  United States . . . gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no  assistance.''

If these words are to mean something in our day in the 21st century,  we must insist that men like Ed Martin and his anti-Semitic associates  and friends have no place representing the people of the United States  in our government.

We must pay more than lipservice to the idea of fighting anti- Semitism. We must fight anti-Semitism when we see it in the Government  of the United States itself and even amongst our friends.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution. Let's  put the words and the spirit of this resolution into practice.

Mr. Speaker, I have not had the good fortune to meet our new  colleague from Florida, and I will be sure to come over to introduce  myself right after. I am glad the gentleman is in support of the  resolution.

The very first sentence of it says: ``The House of Representatives  calls on elected officials,'' which presumably includes us, ``faith  leaders, and civil society leaders to condemn and counter all acts of  anti-Semitism.''

If a discussion of anti-Semitism and the contributions of Jewish  Americans is not an appropriate time to talk about anti-Semitism in the  government, I wonder what is.

I would be very happy to pursue with my new colleague the subject of  Ed Martin. I don't know exactly where he stands on Ed Martin, whether  he opposed the President's withdrawal of his nomination after it came  out about his close association with a neo-Nazi.

The story behind it, if the gentleman is really interested in it, is  National Public Radio confronted him with all the evidence of Hale- Cusanelli's Nazi statements, including: ``Hitler should have finished  the job.''

Hale-Cusanelli was also associated with statements like he was right  about disabled people and when babies are born disabled, they should be  put to death immediately, and so on.

They presented him with a complete litany of it, and Ed Martin's  response to it was that National Public Radio is a propaganda network  paid for by the government, and he had nothing of substance to say  about his good friend's, this ``extraordinary leader,'' anti-Semitic  remarks.

It seems that for some people, there is never an opportunity to  actually repudiate and denounce anti-Semitism when it actually appears.  When it came out that he did know about it, they were forced to  withdraw the nomination.

Mr. Speaker, imagine everyone's surprise when Donald Trump decided to  then make him the United States pardon attorney overseeing a large  office of people considering pardon applications from across the  country.

Is that someone that I think can be trusted to deal fairly in terms  of minority groups, such as Jewish Americans, African Americans, and  Hispanic Americans? I don't think so.

I am sorry the gentleman doesn't think it is appropriate to talk  about anti-Semitism when we see it. We just have an honest difference  of opinion about that, but if the gentleman is interested in pursuing  it some other time, I would love to discuss it with him.

I think my colleague will come to find that we use the floor of the  House of Representatives to talk about a lot of things going on. My  Republican colleague might be able to stick narrowly to one particular  topic. Good for him if that is what he would like to do, but we like to  talk about all of our legislation in context here.

This is a matter that is actually called for directly in the very  first sentence of the resolution that we are all about to approve.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the distinguished  Representative from Florida, for being such a great leader in opposing  not just anti-Semitism but all forms of racism, bigotry, and anti- Semitism. One could say it was the original form of racism. It goes  back millennia, and it mutates and appears in different guises and  different forms and at different periods in history.

Mr. Speaker, anti-Semitism and racism are the gateway to destruction  of liberal democracy, so we need to recognize the extraordinary  accomplishments of Jewish Americans, along with  the extraordinary accomplishments of members of other groups, and to  fight and resist bigotry of all forms, as George Washington talked  about.

Mr. Speaker, let us continue to fight for an America that is going to  be open to the contributions of everybody, and I appreciate Ms.  Wasserman Schultz' ability to bring before us again the Jewish American  Heritage Month resolution. I am delighted to support it, and I urge all  Members of the body to vote for it.