Congratulating Ms. Maryam Azarion on Her Retirement After More Than 25 Years of Federal Service


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a dedicated public  servant. Ms. Maryam Azarion has given over 26 years of her career to  serving our Nation's veterans and advancing scientific innovation  across the federal government.

Maryam began her career as a microbiologist and inventor before  finding her way to the law and federal service. She has dedicated her  professional life to making government a force for good, one that  drives progress and innovation and provides exceptional care to our  Nation's veterans.

For nearly 20 years at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA),  Maryam brought her expertise in science and the law to the VA's senior  leadership. As a Staff Attorney for the VA's Office of General Counsel,  Maryam was in charge of giving legal advice about research agreements,  intellectual property licensing and smart phone application  submissions.

After her first five years at the VA, Maryam saw an emerging need to  create a legal team devoted to health research and innovation. Maryam  was entrusted with the responsibility of nurturing the VA's first  Specialty Team Advising Research (STAR), which she led with distinction  from 2012 until her retirement this year. Her leadership at STAR has  improved the quality of life for our Nation's veterans, spurred health  care business development and encouraged innovation across our  government.

Medical innovations are only lifesaving and life-changing if new  technology and treatments can reach hospitals and clinics and if the  veterans who need care can afford them. Maryam's vision and expertise  helped facilitate the transfer of technologies developed within federal  agencies to public, private and nonprofit partners.

Maryam developed her expertise in technology transfer after beginning  her career as a microbiologist and researcher at the U.S. Army Medical  Research Institute of Infectious Diseases. Discovering a passion for  technology transfer and a talent for the intersection of science and  the law, she lent her expertise to the U.S. Army Medical Research and  Materiel Command and the Naval Research Laboratory.

A Marylander to her bones, Maryam prepared for this remarkable career  at the Free State's world class colleges and universities. She's earned  degrees at the University of Maryland-College Park, Hood College, and  the University of Baltimore School of Law. On behalf of a grateful  Nation and the residents of Maryland's beautiful 8th District, I wish  Maryam Azarion nothing but the best as she begins a new chapter in her  life after her decades of federal service.