Epstein Files Transparency Act


Mr. Speaker, today, 4 months and 3 days after Mr. Khanna and Mr.  Massie introduced their discharge petition, perhaps the most famous  discharge petition in American history, the people's House unites  across party lines to draw a moral line. We draw a line against the  rape and sexual violation of children. We draw a line against the  global criminal trafficking of girls and young women to service the  pleasure of rich and powerful men who believe they are beyond all law  and all morality. We draw a line to put the voices of the victims and  the survivors first.

We ask the Senate to join us without changes rather than obstruct  this bill with dilatory amendments, legislative graffiti, and self- dealing, million-dollar jackpot provisions for lucky Senators.

Just pass the bill.

We are finally voting today because a bipartisan discharge petition,  led by Representatives Massie and Khanna and signed by 218 of us,  overthrew the determined obstruction of the Speaker. This forced vote  means the House will no longer acquiesce in this astonishing real-time  coverup of a multibillion-dollar global sex trafficking and child rape  ring that has ravaged the lives of more than a thousand girls and young  women.

We are here today because these victims, these survivors, these  citizens, these inspiring women who have come to Washington are  demanding nothing less than justice and the complete truth about who is  responsible for their vicious abuse, including those responsible for  enabling it, ignoring it, bankrolling it, and covering it up.

We join them today in rejecting any more dangerous lies about the  crimes they suffered. No, child sex abuse is not a hoax. It is a crime.  Human trafficking is not a hoax. It is a crime.

These crimes are a curse on children and young people across America,  in universities and elementary schools, in churches and mosques and  synagogues, in Boy Scout troops and college sports teams, in summer  camps, anywhere the powerful and the rich believe they have the  opportunity and the impunity to exploit the young, the poor, the  powerless, and the vulnerable.

We must face the truth and find the coconspirators still at large in  one of America's most extensive and sophisticated sex trafficking and  child abuse rings in history.

Release of the file will expose the role of everybody who facilitated  and covered up these crimes like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America,  Deutsche Bank, and Bank of New York Mellon, which executed billions of  dollars in transactions related to these offenses, as well as any bank  executives who participated in the sexual abuse of girls and young  women.

We must expose everyone who covered up these crimes like Alex Acosta,  the former U.S. attorney in Miami, Donald Trump's Labor Secretary, who  gave Jeffrey Epstein an unbelievable sweetheart plea deal, immunized  unnamed conspirators, and killed an investigation into Epstein's  financial crimes that could have brought down the entire criminal  network.

Mr. Speaker, I should just point out that we have heard now from the  two distinguished chairmen of the Committee on the Judiciary and the  Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and they have spoken  almost exclusively to denounce Democrats.

We have a bipartisan coalition here demanding the truth about the  largest child sex abuse and trafficking ring perhaps in American  history, certainly in this century, and they want to just throw stones  at the Democrats. What a remarkable failure of leadership we are seeing  from the other side.

I imagine that the chairman of the Committee on Oversight and  Government Reform will follow up his spectacular failure in trying to  impeach President Biden with his spectacular failure in trying to block  the resolution we brought to the floor today.

Mr. RASKIN.  Jayapal), a member of the Committee on the Judiciary.

Mr. RASKIN.  Kamlager-Dove).

Mr. RASKIN.  Clark), the minority whip.

Just very quickly, what happened under the Biden administration?  Well, under the Biden administration, Ghislaine Maxwell was prosecuted  for conspiring to sexually abuse and traffic girls in 2020. In 2021,  she was convicted, in December of 2021, after a month-long trial in  Judge Nathan's courtroom. In 2022, Maxwell was sentenced to 20 years in  prison under the Biden administration for sex trafficking and sexual  abuse of minors.

When President Trump took office in January of 2025, they killed the  investigation. They assembled all the materials, they got all the  prosecutors together, and they terminated the investigation.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his eloquent  remarks. Pardons are for people who are  contrite. Pardons are for people who are repentant. Pardons are not for  people who lie. Every Member of this body should immediately, verbally,  vocally denounce the idea of clemency, commutation, or pardon for  Ghislaine Maxwell.

Mr. RASKIN.  Leger Fernandez).

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, there were thousands of girls and  young women abused, trafficked, and used by Epstein and the elite and  the powerful who believed they could get away with it.

Epstein told the young victims that he controlled the banks and the  government.

Those women refused to be silenced. Today, they have pierced the dark  with their light.

Anytime any girl is trafficked, molested, or abused, the world must  stand up. Today, the House proves Jeffrey Epstein wrong. The Senate  must do the same tomorrow.

This whole bill is about protecting the innocent. Mr. Speaker, the  Senate must pass the bill, as we are passing it today and as the  President has said he would sign it, after changing his position on the  bill over the weekend when he could see the tidal wave of public  opinion moving against him. Let's pass this bill. Pass it in the  Senate. Sign the bill, and let's go ahead and release the complete  file.

Ansari).

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have never heard a more defensive  presentation in my life than we are hearing from over there. The  gentleman should spend a little less time pointing out hypocrisy and a  little more time trying to ferret out cruelty, humiliation, and rape.  That is what we are working on.