Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition.

I thank my colleague from South Carolina for his excellent  presentation, but this bill is a case study in a legislative majority  that is in search of not common ground and common sense but rather  extreme measures that divide and polarize the Congress and the people.

Once upon a time this was a sensible, bipartisan bill led by our  Democratic colleague, Val Demings from Orlando, Florida, who had been a  police chief. Her bill allowed Federal agencies to sell handguns that  they were no longer using to the active-duty officers, who previously  carried those handguns, for fair market value as long as they completed  a background check like everybody else in America.

Mr. Speaker, last Congress, Republicans weakened that bipartisan  bill, which I think commanded unanimous support in Congress, by  stripping the background check requirement while still restricting the  bill to handgun sales to current law enforcement officers only. So we  were willing to go along with that compromise. We accepted that in the  last Congress.

When the bill came to the floor for a vote, however, Republicans  filled the bill with a menagerie of more outlandish and extreme  provisions, and  that is the version that they started with in this Congress which is  before us today.

When we marked up this legislation, we offered an amendment that  would allow them to go back to the compromise version of the bill, a  version of the bill that they themselves had introduced and that we  support, but they refused to do it.

So today, in place of a reasonable, commonsense, and common-ground  bill, Republicans are dug in on another extreme proposal that riddles  our gun laws with loopholes and politicizes what should have been a  simple, bipartisan measure.

The bill before us today would allow surplus firearms to be sold not  only to active Federal law enforcement officers in good standing, but  also to retired law enforcement officers.

Because the bill now has no background check requirement, it could  create a situation in which it would be possible for an officer to  retire and commit a crime, such as domestic violence or assault, that  would ordinarily render him or her ineligible to purchase and possess  firearms but then still be able to buy a firearm from the Federal  Government without any background check at all.

While the bill includes a good standing requirement, as they remind  us, this is plainly meaningless as applied to retired officers who may  have left the department in perfectly good standing but could not pass  a background check today.

Agencies can certify that an officer is in good standing when they  retire, but they have no way to track the behavior of their former  officers after that if they cannot do a background check. So an agency  could unknowingly sell a surplus firearm to someone who cannot lawfully  buy a gun, and all of this would occur under the statute without any  background check at all.

The bill also allows for the sale of any firearm except machine guns.  That includes not just handguns, but also assault weapons, destructive  devices like hand grenades, and even firearms that are subject to  heightened restrictions under the National Firearms Act. Moreover, it  allows them to be sold at salvage value, effectively making it so that  the Federal Government and the taxpayers would actually be subsidizing  gun sales. They replaced fair market value with salvage value.

My colleagues have claimed that the bill would not really allow for  the sale of all of these types of firearms because it only applies,  they say, to service weapons. However, they need to read their own  bill. It allows for the sale of any firearm other than a machine gun  that is issued to an officer. That means if an officer uses not just a  handgun, but an assault rifle, a grenade launcher, or anything  classified as a destructive device, any firearm or destructive device  used by a SWAT team, any firearm or destructive device used by the  Secret Service, so long it is not a machine gun, if issued to an  officer, can be sold back to him or her without a background check  under the bill at salvage value.

If that is not what they mean, and they have been scrambling to deny  it, then they should change the language of the bill because that is  plainly what the bill says. Forgive me for insisting on scrupulous  attention to words, Mr. Speaker, but that is the business we are in  when we enter the legislative process.

Taken together, the bill makes it so that an officer could retire,  commit a crime, become a person who may not legally own firearms under  Federal law, then buy from the Federal Government a handgun, a  semiautomatic assault rifle, a sawed-off shotgun, or even a grenade  launcher, at a discount, with no background check at all.

Now, Mr. Speaker, this is a famously do-nothing or do-very-little  Congress. They don't have much on their agenda other than slashing $880  billion from Medicaid, SNAP, Meals on Wheels, Head Start, and the other  programs that actually serve Americans who don't live like Elon Musk  and Donald Trump. However, Mr. Speaker, you would think they would have  the time at least to write a bill that would not permit these kinds of  things to happen.

These are unacceptable risks of dangerous weapons being sold to a  person who may not legally have one. So reluctantly, I must oppose this  bill which began as a Democratic bill which commanded unanimous,  bipartisan support before.

Nothing in this bill is going to help law enforcement officers  actually do their jobs, which was how all of this was introduced when  we first started out today. Indeed, it doesn't provide a single Federal  dollar to help local law enforcement.

In fact, our colleagues have not advanced a single bill during this  entire Police Week or even this entire session of Congress to increase  funding to State and local police.

In fact, the party that now controls the White House and both  Chambers of Congress is now letting DOGE, Elon Musk, and their midnight  crew of computer hackers dismantle entire agencies, fire thousands of  Federal workers without cause, and generally wreak havoc across the  government.

Last month, DOGE decided unilaterally to cancel more than $500  million of Department of Justice grant funding for local law  enforcement, public safety, and crime prevention programs all over the  country in our communities.

What did we hear from our colleagues across the aisle?

Did they stand up to DOGE and object to this defunding of the police?

No, Mr. Speaker. Our colleagues said absolutely nothing, and I mean  that literally.

During the Judiciary Committee markup of the reconciliation bill,  Democrats offered a simple amendment to immediately restore hundreds of  millions of dollars in funding for the police and for hundreds of other  essential public safety grant programs dismantled by, as far as we can  tell, one employee at DOGE.

Every single one of our GOP colleagues voted against that amendment,  but they refused to utter a word in favor of Elon Musk's chainsaw  massacre of local law enforcement and public safety programs. They  don't want to be quoted supporting DOGE, but even if their quotes don't  support DOGE, their votes support DOGE, and they have voted not to  restore hundreds of millions of dollars that DOGE cut from our State,  local, and county law enforcement and public safety organizations.

In case some of our colleagues haven't heard yet from their outraged  constituents about this, let me offer just one example of more than 365  grants that were abruptly terminated by DOGE. That is one grant program  per day all across the country.

DOGE cut funding for a program called the Rural Violent Crime  Reduction Initiative, which provided funding to dozens and dozens of  rural law enforcement agencies across America allowing them, with their  strapped budgets, to hire more officers and purchase up-to-date  equipment and technology. They also supported rural victim services and  crime prevention programs. This program was created to assist small,  rural agencies that need Federal funding but are so small, short- staffed, or underresourced, they wouldn't even have the ability to  apply for the funding.

One such recipient of this grant from the Rural Violent Crime  Reduction Initiative was the Shawano, Wisconsin Police Department,  which was using the funding to pay for a detective dedicated to  investigating and solving unsolved violent crimes and to stop  narcotics trafficking in their community.

The police department said that the additional detective would build  trust with community members, increase patrols in hot spot areas,  enhance crime prevention, and sustain a reduction in violent crime in  narcotics-related crime. This is just one of the hundreds of rural  police departments and other agencies using this funding from this one  grant program from 365 that were suddenly terminated by one DOGE  employee running amuck in the Department of Justice.

This is funding, Mr. Speaker, that we in the House of Representatives  voted for on an overwhelming bipartisan basis and that the Senate  overwhelmingly voted for on a bipartisan basis. We had bicameral  passage and presentment to the President. The President signed it into  law. The Department of Justice got the funding. The Department of  Justice programmed the funding, and the Department of Justice awarded  those grants all across America.

Mr. Speaker, guess who stopped it without my knowledge, without their  knowledge, and without anybody's knowledge?

It was one DOGE employee, one of Elon Musk's junior lieutenants who  spent his career at Tesla, and then he decided he was going to wipe out  hundreds of millions of dollars going to our people.

Mr. Speaker, are our colleagues going to allow DOGE to get away with  this critical destruction of law enforcement in rural communities,  urban communities, and suburban communities across the land?

Apparently so. They remain silent on it. They won't utter a word in  favor of it, but they don't utter a peep against it. They just vote for  it. They just sheepishly get in line and support this destruction of  what we had already voted for to put into action.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose this legislation, which is a trivial  distraction from what is really going on in America today. They are  dismantling the priorities of the people as passed through the people's  House and through the Senate and signed into law.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join us in actually standing up  for law enforcement, for the police, and for community safety. I would  invite them to join us in actually standing up for the Article I powers  of Congress. I hope they will join us in rejecting DOGE's deranged  funding cuts that are undermining public safety and harming law  enforcement across the land.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, perhaps my friend from South Carolina would  indulge me a few questions because I am puzzled by some of the  representations that were just made.

The gentleman answers a point I didn't make. He said that the officer  must be in good standing in order to be sold the gun. That is true if  they are an officer. What if they are a retired officer? What does it  mean to be a retired officer who is in good standing when that person  no longer has a record and the department is not keeping track of them?  That is why the original legislation insisted that there be a  background check.

I am wondering if the gentleman would answer that question.

Well, you get that one.

Let me ask another question.

The gentleman says that only handguns would be issued to officers,  whether they are currently officers or whether they are retired, but  SWAT teams are included by your legislation, I believe. Are not members  of SWAT teams issued semiautomatic weapons and other kinds of guns? Are  you saying that this applies only to handguns? If so, why didn't you  write it to apply only to handguns?

Mr. RASKIN. I yield to the gentleman from South Carolina for the  purpose of a colloquy.

Mr. RASKIN. Even in the case of a SWAT team, the gentleman is saying  that a member of a SWAT team would not have a semiautomatic weapon?

Mr. RASKIN. Are they not issued to the officer?

Mr. RASKIN. That is while you are an officer. Now let's say you  retire and you commit domestic violence or assault or battery or some  other offense 2 years later. The department is not notified of that, is  not keeping track of it. What does it mean to say a retired person is  in good standing if they have committed a crime in the meantime?

Mr. RASKIN. There is nothing that would actually prevent the sale  actually by GSA, right? Who would effectuate the provisions of the  prohibited purchaser statute?

Mr. RASKIN. Then we are establishing legislative history that,  according to the gentleman, this legislation is designed to apply only  to handguns and not to all of these other things which the gentleman  says are irrelevant. Is that right?

Mr. RASKIN. Then why is it in this bill?

Mr. RASKIN. Neither are machine guns. The gentleman excluded machine  guns.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I will reclaim my time, and I yield myself  the balance of my time.

They went to the pains of excluding machine guns, saying that they  didn't want a retired officer to be able to purchase a machine gun, but  then they are allowing grenade launchers, semiautomatic weapons, and  all these other weapons. I don't understand why, when the gentleman now  is vigorously protesting that that is not the intention of the statute,  that is not the intention of the legislation.

Please rewrite the bill to be in accord with what you are saying,  which is that this applies only to handguns. Otherwise, you are just  multiplying  the proliferation of regulations which I thought you were opposed to.

Now you are saying we want the GSA to issue a whole bunch of  regulations to do the work that Congress refuses to do. I think you are  moving a little bit closer to what Congresswoman Demings' original  legislation was if you limit it to handguns. What she said is:  Obviously, someone who retires from the force can go out and purchase  whatever weapons they want. This was the sentimental value of allowing  an officer to purchase a gun that he or she used when they were  actually in service, at fair market value.

Now you have riddled it with all of these other exceptions and  completely changed the meaning of the legislation in a way that moves  us backwards in terms of public safety. In America, 80 or 90 percent of  the American people want a universal violent criminal background check.

We think we have enough loopholes as it is, with the internet  loophole, which the majority refuses to close; with the private gun  show loophole, which the majority refuses to close; with the person-to- person private sale loophole, which the majority refuses to close.

We don't need more loopholes. America already stands out as an  outlier in the world among advanced industrialized countries. We have  rates of gun violence and gun homicide that are 10 or 20 times higher  than Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Israel, and Japan.  You name it, nothing comes close to us.

Instead of helping police officers by getting guns out of the hands  of criminals, our colleagues are just looking for ways to create more  loopholes in the laws for purchasing guns.

Mr. Speaker, again, I just wanted to nail down into the weeds here  exactly what the legislation says. The term ``firearm'' is the meaning  given that term in section 921(a) of Title 18, excluding any machine  gun. They have properly decided that we should not put more machine  guns into the stream of commerce.

What is still swept within it? Any explosive, incendiary, poison gas,  bomb, grenade, rocket, missile having explosive or incendiary charge of  more than \1/4\ ounce, mine, device, and so on.

Why would we open this up if that is not the intention of my  colleague? I take him completely in good faith at his word. Let's write  that out of the bill because what we have seen is that people who mean  to do harm to other people will exploit any other opportunity to do it.  I don't understand the logic of excluding machine guns but then  sweeping in all of these other dangerous weapons.

I am happy to yield to my friend if he wants to elaborate on that, or  I will reserve my time. Maybe he can use some of his time.

Mr. Speaker, there is another bit of business we need to clean up  here, and I would invite my distinguished colleague from South Carolina  to join me in this.

We voted back on March 15, 2022, to erect a plaque in the Congress of  the United States to honor the police officers who fought tooth and  nail, with valor, courage, and heroism, to defend us against mobs of  thousands of marauding rioters and insurrectionists, Proud Boys, Oath  Keepers, Three Percenters, who came to try to overthrow a Presidential  election. They stormed the Capitol. They injured, wounded,  hospitalized, brutalized more than 140 officers, many of whom are still  suffering from the physical and mental wounds today.

We voted back on March 15, 2022, to put a plaque up in Congress to  honor them, and it reads: ``On behalf of a grateful Congress, this  plaque honors the extraordinary individuals who bravely protected and  defended this symbol of democracy on January 6, 2021. Their heroism  will never be forgotten.''

Alas, Mr. Speaker, their heroism seems already to have been forgotten  by some of our colleagues. The plaque exists. We have the plaque. It  has been produced. Yet, the Speaker of the House refuses to put the  plaque up 2 years later. Why? Why will we not honor the police  officers, like Sergeant Gonell who was forced to leave the police force  because of the severe injuries that he suffered then and is trying to  support his family on around half the salary that he had before?

Why would we not honor the officers like Michael Fanone, who wasn't  even on duty that day, but he heard about the riots at the Capitol, and  he came down to join the fight with his brothers and sisters in blue  and was nearly killed? He begged for his life to the mob, saying he had  four daughters of his own. He had a heart attack. Will we not honor  Michael Fanone?

Will we honor Officer Harry Dunn who fought for hours and hours,  enduring not just other physical attacks but savage racial epithets and  abuse?

Will we honor Officer Hodges who nearly died trying to stop the mob  from entering the Capitol? He got caught in the doorway on the western  front of the Capitol. He was tortured in front of the eyes of the  world. You have probably seen the pictures of him being caught and  beaten by the mob, which that day was wielding Confederate battle  flags, American flags, baseball bats, steel pipes, broken furniture,  you name it, to attack our officers.

These people gave blood, sweat, and tears. Several officers died in  the aftermath, including Officer Brian Sicknick who died the very next  day after receiving grievous wounds and injuries.

We could be doing a lot more for them. President Trump wants a fund  for January 6. That is good, right? No. He wants a fund for the  rioters' families. He wants a fund for the insurrectionists that he  pardoned, not for the police officers. Will my colleagues say anything  about that?

At the very least, let's put up the plaque to honor these officers.  Not a single Member of the majority has given us one reason why this  plaque, which is completed, has not been hung in the Capitol of the  United States. Why not? If you don't respect the law enforcement  officers and the police who fought tooth and nail for us that day, at  least respect the rule of law. This was supposed to be up 2 years ago.

Mr. Speaker, forgive my passion, but I was there. I was here on  January 6, 2021. I heard them chanting: ``Hang Mike Pence.'' ``Hang  Mike Pence.'' The words are still echoing in my mind from that day.  They were looking for Nancy Pelosi. They were quoted as saying they  wanted to assassinate Nancy Pelosi. They stormed her office. They took  over her office.

Do we honor police officers for real, or do we only honor them if it  is politically convenient for us to honor them? Like the prosecutors,  the new Attorney General got in. The new Acting U.S. Attorney, Ed  Martin, got in. They were forced to withdraw that nomination after it  turned out he had appeared 150 different times on Russian propaganda  networks, like Russia Today and Sputnik, and after it turned out he had  all kinds of Neo-Nazi affiliations and friendships. Anyway, he got in.  You know what he did? They fired more than a dozen of the most  experienced veteran prosecutors in the Department of Justice. Why?  Because they did their jobs, because they prosecuted the people who  committed that massive assault on American democracy. The greatest mass  assault, violent assault on the Capitol in the history of the United  States. We have never seen anything like it.

This administration not only pardoned more than 1,500 people who  participated in that brutality, in that attempt to overthrow an  election, which Joe Biden won by more than 7 million votes, 306-232 in  the electoral college, not only did they pardon all of those offenders,  whether they were nonviolent or violent--and a lot of them have already  gone on to reoffend since they got their pardons from Donald Trump--not  only did they do that but they wanted to sack the prosecutors for doing  their jobs.

Is there anybody on that side of the aisle who will speak out against  this obscenity? No, I don't think so.

Is there anybody on that side of the aisle who is uttering support  for law enforcement during our law enforcement week who will say it is  time to put up the plaque in honor of the officers who defended us?

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues have some good reason for doing  what they are doing. The Framers of the Constitution thought that  people who participated in the government would come to identify with  their branch of government. That is why I thought, well, when they  stormed the Capitol  and Donald Trump incited a violent insurrection against us, we would,  in bipartisan unison, denounce it and vote to impeach and convict.

Ten Republicans did join all the Democrats in doing that. That was  historic. Seven Republican Senators voted to convict after seeing  overwhelming evidence.

Mitch McConnell also found the evidence completely convincing, but he  said that he didn't think the Senate has jurisdiction to try to convict  a former President, despite the fact that that contradicted two  centuries of precedent, and the Senate ruled on the very first day  against that motion to dismiss the charges. He said there was nothing  that could be done, even though Donald Trump was actually, factually,  ethically, and morally responsible for everything that happened.

When will my colleagues finally break from the cultish obedience to  Donald Trump, who is now over in the Middle East on what looks like a  business trip for him and his family? They are all raking in not just  hundreds of millions of dollars but billions of dollars with their  business deals.

My colleagues are back home doing his bidding, trying to slash $888  billion from Medicaid and the programs that the American people have  built. Our parents and grandparents built those programs so we can take  care of ourselves.

The richest man in the world and Donald Trump have another agenda.  They have left your agenda behind. They left you guys to do the dirty  work.

Donald Trump is collecting a $400 million flying grift gift from  Qatar. They are giving him bribery force one. Nobody has ever seen  anything like this in the history of the United States. They are trying  to give him a jet plane.

It is humiliating for the American President to be flying around in a  plane created by the dictator, the theocratic monster of Qatar, while  they are collecting billions of dollars. His son-in-law, Jared Kushner,  has gotten $2 billion from Saudi Arabia.

This is totally in violation of the Constitution. Article I, Section  9, Clause 8 says that nobody holding an office of trust under the  United States shall, without the consent of the Congress, collect a  ``present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever from any  king, prince, or foreign state.''

That is Donald Trump's new business, to go collect foreign government  emoluments.

I hope my colleagues will join us in demanding that he come to  Congress to ask for permission to keep that $400 million bug-riddled  airplane that he wants to fly around on somebody else's tab. It is  absurd, the lengths that they have gone to, to mangle and trample our  Constitution.

Let's get back to law enforcement and the rule of law, starting with  the Constitution of the United States of America. The President wants  to keep all of these gifts from foreign dictators. Come to Congress.

That is what Abraham Lincoln did. The King of Siam gave Abraham  Lincoln elephant tusks. This is in the middle of the Civil War. Check  out the descent of honor and integrity in our country. In the middle of  the Civil War, President Lincoln comes to Congress and says: Can I keep  those elephant tusks? Congress comes back with a message: We love you,  Honest Abe. You are doing a great job in the war, but no. Turn those  over to the Department of the Interior.

My colleagues will not even demand that Donald Trump bring his  corrupt gifts, his royal spoils, to the Congress of the United States  to ask our consent. Every President has done it up until this one.

Let's get back to the rule of law. Let's enforce the Constitution.  Let's honor the police officers who defended us. Let's stay away from  bills that just put a lot more guns into traffic to make life more  dangerous for police officers and for everybody in America.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.