Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member McBath for her  extraordinary leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the Improving Law Enforcement Officer  Safety and Wellness Through Data Act, which seeks to improve law  enforcement officer safety and wellness by requiring that the AG and  other Federal officials issue regular reports on attacks on police  officers, aggression against police officers, and on officer mental  health.

I salute Mr. Fry, a freshman to this body, for his stewardship of  this bill. The collection of this information is important and useful,  but the mere passive gathering of data does little or nothing to  actually improve officer effectiveness or public safety.

In fact, none of the bills we have considered from the majority  during this law enforcement week would actually produce any measurable  gains in public safety.

We spent the week voting for bills that will do nothing really but  increase the number of weapons on our streets, our buses, our trains,  our subways, parks, restaurants, and in our schools. That is a strange  way to improve public safety or aid law enforcement in doing their  jobs.

Now, there are things we can actually do to improve public safety.

Mr. Speaker, forgive me. I know Mr. Fry is in his second term, not in  his first term. He is a valuable member of our committee.

Mr. Speaker, the last gentleman to speak said he never wanted to hear  about defunding the police again, and I agree with him completely.

The problem is, he is about to hear about it because DOGE is  defunding the police as we speak and, unfortunately, with your  cooperation and your passivity, they are getting away with it.

Now, this self-anointed fourth branch of government, DOGE, which I  think is getting run out of town right now because of its rank  incompetence and lawless assaults on the privacy data of hundreds of  millions of Americans and its unlawful summary mass firings of  professional civil servants like air traffic controllers, food and drug  inspectors, pediatric cancer researchers in my district, Forest  Service, and firefighters. They are getting run out of town now. I  don't hear a lot about Elon Musk. He has lost some elections for my  friends across the aisle, so they are trying to let him sink into  anonymity, but he has done his damage.

Over at the Department of Justice--and I have got to correct myself.  I was saying that his employee, who I can identify now as Tarak  Makecha, was responsible for slashing more than $500 million in public  safety, local law enforcement, and victim assistance organizations  across the country. Although that was technically correct, more than  $500 million, it really understates the gravity of this offense against  public safety. It was $811 million in grants that were terminated.

Now, understand what a grievous assault this is on our system of  government. Congress passes budgets. They are initiated here in the  House of Representatives. We voted to appropriate that money to the  Department of Justice. The House voted for it. The Senate voted for it.  It was signed into law by the President. The money went to the  Department of Justice. It was programmed for those purposes. $811  million was awarded to each of those grantees and now we have got some  reportage explaining what happened. It all came down to this one guy,  Tarak Makecha, working for Elon Musk.

Did anybody elect him around here? Did anybody confirm him for any  job? I don't think so.

He wrote some memos under the authority of dusk, which now I think is  an invalidated, discredited authority if you read the opinion from the  Federal District Court of Northern California on Friday night because  they remember how the Constitution works.

We don't have a fourth branch of government called Elon Musk or Tarak  Makecha. This guy wrote memos to the deputy attorney general demanding  that all of these grants to law enforcement and public safety and  victim assistance groups across the country in our districts be  deleted. He wouldn't rest until they were deleted. They were deleted so  he said he could report it to his superiors and to the White House.

Now, why aren't we using this valuable time not just to pass a mere  reporting bill, which is fine, but how about an action bill?

How about a bill that restores hundreds of millions of dollars to  actually promoting criminal law enforcement, public safety, aid to  victims of rape and sexual assaults, organizations fighting child  sexual abuse across the country? Why don't we do that?

Why don't we just pierce the fog of rhetoric a little bit and get  down to something that is actually happening?

Then we can follow that up with what I think would be a significant  symbolic statement, as Mrs. McBath urges us to do, let's put up the  plaque to honor the officers who defended us against the rampage of  January 6.

The gentleman from North Carolina, I think, tried to change the  subject as if one mob rampage justifies another. I am against all mob  violence. I am against all mob rampages. I don't feel like I have to  speak out against one of them. If I can't speak out against the one  that comes to our House, who will trust me to speak out against mob  violence anywhere else? I denounce it wherever it takes place, under  whatever guise, under any ideological auspice at all. I denounce mob  violence.

I challenge my friend from North Carolina to find me one Democratic  official who incited violent insurrection or incited mob violence on  that day because I will tell you, this Chamber voted to impeach that  President who incited mob violence against us in a sweeping bipartisan  vote, Democrats and Republicans, together. Then the Senate voted 57-43.

The President, in his inimitable way, was able to beat the  constitutional odds, but nonetheless, commanding majorities of both  Chambers found that he incited violence against us in order to  overthrow a Presidential election he had lost by more than 7 million  votes.

Find me a Democratic Governor who pardoned any of the mobsters or the  violent insurrectionists or people burning down buildings. Can you find  me one? Can you find me any Democratic politician who wants to honor  those people? Can you?

I can show you a United States President today who seems to think  that it was the rioters and insurrectionists who deserve honor and  praise.

Don't give me any false analogy or false comparison. We denounce  violence everywhere.

Will our colleagues have the courage to ask for the plaque honoring  the police officers who opposed the violence that came right into this  Chamber? I can hear them chanting: ``Hang Mike Pence. Hang Mike  Pence.''

Remember him? He was the Republican Vice President of the United  States, and they chased him out. Now, they would like his memory to go  down that Orwellian black hole so nobody remembers him or so nobody  remembers the things the Republicans said. They called it terrorism at  the time, but now it is inconvenient.

Donald Trump doesn't want police officers being honored for the work  they did defending our Constitution, our democracy, our Capitol, and  the Members of Congress, including people who sit on that side of the  aisle as well as the Members who sit on this side of the aisle.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding.

Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman stirred me out of my stupor  there by coming back with a couple of grants that apparently were  eliminated. I will take his word for it. If I did the internal math  correctly, that was less than $2 million out of $811 million cut in  awards that were made by the Department of Justice to local law  enforcement citizen community safety groups, and so on across the  country.

Now, apparently there are certain grants that the gentleman doesn't  want ever to go out. For example, I take it the gentleman doesn't think  very highly of anything having to do with citizens who are transgender.  We differ about that, apparently, because I think everybody has civil  rights and everybody's voice needs to be heard.

In any event, that needs to be brought up in the Appropriations  Committee where we can vote on it democratically. That should not be up  to one of Elon Musk's midnight riders, a computer hacker who comes in  and simply decides to wipe out all of the handiwork of the United  States House of Representatives and the United States Senate signed  into law by the President and then awarded by the Department of  Justice.

We do not have a fourth branch of government here, which is what the  Federal District Court, Northern California, was saying on Friday.

Are my colleagues aware that there have been more than 250 cases  brought against the reign of lawlessness and authoritarianism brought  down on America in the first 5 months of the Trump administration?  There are 156 preliminary injunctions and temporary restraining orders  right now.

A couple of hours ago, the Supreme Court heard the case about Donald  Trump in an executive order trying to destroy birthright citizenship in  America. Every sixth grader in America knows that if you are born in  America, you are a citizen of the United States. They tried to reverse  that. That got struck down by four courts.

They call them radical left rogue judges. Well, two of the ones who  struck it down were Democratic appointees, one by President Obama and  one by President Biden. The other two were Republican appointees, one  appointed by President Bush and one appointed by President Reagan, who  said that in his four decades on the bench he had never seen a more  unconstitutional law than that one. He had never seen an easier case  than that one.

You don't have to be a lawyer to understand what is wrong with that.  You just have to know how to read. The first sentence of the 14th  Amendment says: All persons born or naturalized in the United States,  and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United  States. . . . `'

These people are finger painting all over the Constitution. They are  usurping the rule of law as adopted by the Congress of the United  States. They are creating new branches of government. I am glad that  they finally ran Elon Musk out of town because he was no longer  politically useful to him, but in the meantime we have to deal with the  wreckage.

If he, by accident, did something the gentleman agrees with, bully  for him, great, but in the meantime, he has undone the will of  Congress. He has nullified and canceled hundreds of millions of dollars  going out to public safety and criminal law enforcement across America.

Let's get back to the rule of law. Let's get back to law enforcement.