No Immigration Benefits for Hamas Terrorists Act of 2025


Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

The terrorist atrocities committed by Hamas in Israel on October 7,  which took the lives of more than 1,200 innocent civilians, and the  subsequent war of mass destruction in Gaza, have been nothing less than  a catastrophe for humanity.

More than 70,000 people have been killed to date, including an  estimated 20,000 children. Hostages kidnapped by Hamas were abused,  shackled in cages, and isolated in underground tunnels--in some cases,  for more than 2 years. Many were killed there.

According to UNICEF, the Gaza Strip is now home to the world's  highest concentration of child amputees. More than 80 percent of  buildings in Gaza have been damaged or destroyed in the violence.

The world breathed a sigh of relief that a tenuous cease-fire was  finally reached and that all the living hostages were returned home.  Alas, the cease-fire continues to be breached. Violence and suffering  continue to afflict the people of the region, including escalating  vigilante settler violence in the West Bank.

Getting to a just and lasting peace in the region will require the  creative leadership and hard work of statesmen and stateswomen. It is  past time to break out of the brutal and circular logic of terrorism  and violence and war and instead address the underlying political  problems destabilizing the region. We must stay united around these  goals and committed to the continuation of a strong peace process.

Madam Speaker, in the meantime, we must all agree to the aim of this  bill, which passed the House with bipartisan support in the last  Congress. No one affiliated with Hamas, nor anyone involved in the  horrific and lawless attacks of October 7, should be admissible to the  United States or eligible for any immigration benefits whatsoever. That  is an obvious point of political and moral consensus in our Chamber.

However, I am afraid this is another missed opportunity for us to  work across the aisle in a bipartisan fashion because it departs  dramatically from the Judiciary Committee's traditional practice. This  bill is essentially what we call a visa sanctions bill. For decades, we  have relied on pre-negotiated, bipartisan, and bicameral texts for  every such visa sanctions bill. This legislation today departs from  this bipartisan practice by directly amending the Immigration and  Nationality Act, the INA, to impose visa sanctions.

To put into perspective just how anomalous this approach is, consider  our response to the 9/11 attacks. In the aftermath of that catastrophe,  we revised our immigration laws to overhaul significant parts of our  immigration system, and we created the Department of Homeland Security.  Even then, we did not amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to  specifically reference the events of September 11 or to bar the  individuals involved in the planning or commission of those outrageous  terror attacks from entering or remaining in the United States.

The reason for that is plain. The laws that we have in place already  bar noncitizens who engage in terrorism or are involved with terrorist  organizations from entering the United States. For any of those  noncitizens who happen to be here, our laws clearly allow us to remove  them and prevent them from obtaining any immigration benefits.

These laws were designed to apply broadly to any individual or  organization engaged in terrorism without having to specify them by  reference to specific historical events or attacks.

Under sections 212(a)(3)(B) and 237(a)(4)(B) of the INA, any  noncitizen who has engaged in any terrorist activity, provided any  material support to terrorists, or is a member or representative of a  terrorist group or organization that enforces or espouses terrorist  activity is presently inadmissible to the United States and is  presently deportable. Hamas has been designated as such a terrorist  group since 1997.

We already plainly have the legal tools to keep any noncitizen  involved with Hamas, as well as any noncitizen who was involved in the  horrific terror attacks of October 7, out of this country forever or to  deport them from the United States if they are already somehow here.

This approach is, alas, symptomatic of the syndrome we just discussed  in the last bill of the proliferation of redundant legislation and  redundant language simply to make a point.

The Judiciary Committee's standard visa sanctions language, which was  carefully crafted with the majority and minority on both the House and  Senate Judiciary Committees, would allow us to achieve all the aims of  this legislation without departing from negotiated sanctions language  and amending the INA in an unprecedented and incongruous way.

Amending the INA to impose visa sanctions sets a strange and  potentially self-defeating precedent where new statutory language  becomes necessary every time a new terrorist group or event emerges.

Nonetheless, we strongly support this legislation today, whose  purpose is incontestable and essential. I hope we can both pass this  bill and return to our bipartisan and bicameral practice for dealing  with visa sanctions whenever the occasion presents itself.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, again, we restate our support for this bill and its  purposes and only hope that we can return to the traditional visa  sanctions method of dealing with particular events. In the meantime, I  wonder if the gentleman would yield for a question.

I wonder how this legislation with the new language would apply to  the case of Changpeng Zhao, the former CEO of the crypto firm Binance,  who was prosecuted for and convicted of and sentenced to jail for  taking money from a number of terrorist groups, among them Hamas, as  part of his crypto venture. He was convicted of violating the Bank  Secrecy Act and turning a blind eye to terrorists, including Hamas,  cybercriminals, and child abusers.

I am wondering if the new language would cover Changpeng Zhao, who  just  received a pardon from President Trump.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Madam Speaker, again, I strongly support this legislation. We need to  be doing whatever we can to eliminate terrorist forces and those who  are providing critical material support to terrorist forces all over  the world, which is why I raised the case of Changpeng Zhao, who is the  former CEO of the crypto firm Binance, who was recently pardoned by  President Trump.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.