Protect Children's Innocence Act


Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the bill would subject doctors, nurses, other medical  providers, and even parents to up to 10 years' incarceration in Federal  prison and up to $250,000 in criminal fines for providing gender- affirming healthcare like hormone therapy to minors.

They want to criminalize more than a dozen different evidence-based  medical treatments and procedures that are presently being recommended  and used for gender dysphoria including the prescription of puberty  blockers, which are commonly used by families for young people who are  not trans but who face all the medical and social problems associated  with early-onset puberty.

The gentlewoman's bill would engineer a massive invasion of the  privacy rights of families engaged in medical decisionmaking in  America. I thought a belief that families should be able to make their  own decisions for their own children was something that united Liberals  and Conservatives.

These are hard and often agonizing decisions that loving American  families in our country face. Our colleagues now want to invite the  Federal Government to come barging into the family dining room and in  the doctor's exam room like a raging bull in a china shop.

Does anyone believe the Freedom Caucus and President Trump love  America's children more than their own parents do or that they can make  better decisions for tens of thousands of American children than their  own parents? I can't understand the logic of it.

At a time of skyrocketing healthcare costs--which our colleagues will  do nothing about except perhaps a handful of them who have crossed over  to join us today in a discharge petition--at a time of skyrocketing  healthcare costs, grocery prices, and housing, not to mention the  recent news of escalating unemployment higher than the last 4 years,  does anybody think that what the American people need right now and are  looking for is a Federal law authorizing FBI agents and government  prosecutors to investigate doctors, nurses, hospitals, and parents for  providing AMA-recommended medical care to children?

The politicians that have brought America to a point of crisis in  healthcare coverage for millions of Americans--and can't seem to do  anything about it--cannot be trusted to make the most intimate and  fundamental decisions for the physical, mental, and emotional well- being of America's children. Let us leave it to people's parents. Let  us leave it to the families.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished  gentleman from California (Mr. Takano), the chair of the Congressional  Equality Caucus.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from California.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, at a time when our colleagues are perfectly content to  see millions of Americans lose their health insurance, when they do  nothing to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits that millions of  Americans are depending on, at a time when they are happy to throw  millions of people off of Medicaid coverage, they decide to change the  subject in order to vilify and demonize a small minority.

That is a time-honored tactic in the authoritarian playbook, to pick  a small minority of citizens--here, we are talking about around 2  million people who are transgender in America--and scapegoat them,  dehumanize them, demonize them, satanize them, take away their basic  freedoms, and even deny their very existence.

It is happening to gay people right now in Putin's Russia and in  Orban's Hungary. It is happening to Uyghurs and Tibetans in China. It  is happening to Christians and free-thinkers in Pakistan. It is  happening to Muslims in India. Now, it is happening to trans people in  America when they are happy to attack them, vilify them, and try to  destroy their community. If they purport to be acting in the name of  the trans community, why is it that the trans community opposes their  legislation so strongly?

Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.  Krishnamoorthi).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Oregon (Ms. Bonamici).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 20 seconds to the  gentlewoman from Oregon.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, we know that the proponents of this legislation are  certainly not speaking for the families that have to deal with this  problem because all of them are lobbying against this. They are saying  that the last thing we want at this point is to send the FBI and  Federal prosecutors in to deal with the problem. Let them deal with it.  Well, perhaps they are speaking from medical authority? No, not at all.

Look at the letter that was just sent to Members of Congress. ``We,  the undersigned medical professional organizations, write in strong  opposition to H.R. 3492 and H.R. 498. These bills would criminalize and  dismantle healthcare for transgender young people and as such represent  a direct threat to patient welfare. We urge you to reject these extreme  proposals.''

Look who signed this: American Academy of Pediatrics, American  College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American College of  Physicians, American Psychiatric Association, and so on.

The leading medical authorities in the country are saying: Hey, we  can work this out at the State level.

The gentleman referred to California. There are States that are  regulating in the field as they regulate lots of different kinds of  medical treatments and procedures. Suddenly, we are going to turn the  United States Congress into a super-medical licensing board for the  entire country?

This is why our colleague from the other side of the aisle, Mr. Roy,  raised the question of whether this is even constitutional. Where is  the Federal jurisdictional nexus for us to be overriding State medical  boards in order to bulldoze into people's living rooms and their  kitchen tables to usurp the family decisionmaking process of Americans  across the country?

Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.  Salinas).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Oregon (Ms. Dexter), who is both a mom and a doctor.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Frost).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from  Illinois (Mrs. Ramirez).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Every major medical and mental health association in the United  States of America, representing 1.3 million doctors--the American  Medical Association, the American Psychological Association, and the  American Psychiatric Association--all reject this legislation that is  being advanced here. They all support gender-affirming care according  to the most up-to-date science and medicine.

So if they are not speaking for the transgender community, which  certainly they are not; if they are not speaking for all of the  families and parents who are involved, which certainly they are not; if  they are not speaking for the medical community and the scientific  community, who indeed are they speaking for?

They describe the position that these medical associations have as  satanic. I mean, are they looking for an exorcism to deal with the  reality of lives for millions of people in the country?

Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.  Hoyle).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, we are invited to believe that the United  States Congress is not only more competent to make medical decisions  for America's children than their own parents, but that the United  States Congress is more competent than all 50 State legislatures to run  medical practices within their States.

Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Washington  (Ms. Schrier), who is both a mom and a pediatrician.

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 10 seconds to the  gentlewoman from Washington.

Madam Speaker, it is outrageous for the government to commandeer  those decisions.

Madam Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill, and I encourage my  colleagues to all vote ``no.''

Mr. RASKIN.  Balint).

Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time for  closing.

Madam Speaker, we obviously disagree vehemently on this bill, but  this may be the last time that I get to share the floor with the  distinguished gentlewoman from Georgia. I thank her for her hard work  and her thoughtful comments in CNN news recently which moved me when  she said: ``I would like to say, humbly, I am sorry for taking part in  the toxic politics. It is very bad for our country. It has been  something I thought about a lot, especially since Charlie Kirk was  assassinated.''

Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman and wish her and her family  all the best in her future.

Having said that, on the gentlewoman's bill, Madam Speaker, there are  lots of people in the country who are not getting their kids vaccinated  for different reasons and for different kinds of illnesses. A lot of  people in the country reject that and oppose that, and perhaps the vast  majority do.

Does that mean we should come forward with a bill to the United  States Congress to say that we are going to put in jail any parents who  don't vaccinate their children because we think they are making the  wrong decision for their children?

In other words, we know better than the parents do, and we know  better than the doctors do. We know better than the medical  associations do, and we know better than all of the States do.

Madam Speaker, I think that would be an absurd abuse of our power  and, as the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy) has been saying, a very  questionable deployment of Federal power, given the fact that the  United States Congress has limited powers that are supposed to deal  with actual national and Federal issues, which is why medical care has  always been left to the States to deal with.

This is like a bulldozer going into everybody's house if you happen  to be dealing with this particular kind of medical crisis. You don't  have to agree with any particular decision that any particular family  or set of parents have made. All you have to do is respect their right  to make decisions with and for their own children. That is all that we  are talking about.

Do you know who is on this side and opposed to this legislation?  Medical associations, like the American Medical Association, the  American Psychiatric Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics,  and the American Psychological Association, representing more than a  million doctors in the country, are saying: No, don't let the  politicians start finger painting all over the protocols for dealing  with an actual medical problem that millions of people have had to deal  with in our country.

We will stand with the families. We will stand with the doctors. We  will stand with the medical associations. We will stand with the  States. We have got enough real work on our hands.

Let's just try to get medical care and medical attention to the  people of America. Millions of people are losing their access to health  insurance and to Medicaid. Why don't we try to deal with that before we  barge into the doctors' offices, and the living rooms and kitchen  tables of America to try to take over what is a fundamentally private  and personal decision that we should be trusting families to make for  themselves?

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.