Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, thousands of my constituents have been  illegally fired by Elon Musk and by Donald Trump. One of them was with  me last night, Dr. Lauren McGee, who was an NIH pediatric cancer  specialist heading up a team looking into osteosarcoma, bone cancer for  children. She got fired on February 14 because she was a probationary  employee. Probationary, not because she had done anything wrong, but  because she had been promoted into the new job. She was with me last  night, and she had to sit here and listen, along with me--and I had  spent the day with her--to Donald Trump saying one of their top  priorities is to fight childhood cancer, and she got sacked on that  Valentine's Day massacre.

Now they want to censure the gentleman from Texas. Why? Because he  challenged the President about his claim that he has a mandate to cut  Medicaid, and that is what the gentleman was trying to raise.

We have Republicans in the Chamber who have never voted to impeach  Donald Trump for inciting a violent insurrection against this Congress,  this Constitution, and his own Vice President, who have never voted to  even censure the President for doing that, and yet they want to censure  the gentleman from Texas.

Last night, President Trump called a U.S. Senator from Massachusetts  ``Pocahontas,'' using an ethnic slur to go after her. If you really  want to proceed to censure the gentleman from Texas for talking about  no mandate to cut Medicaid, then certainly we are going to have to move  to censure the President for using a racial and ethnic slur against a  sitting United States Senator.

I would prefer to stand by the tradition of free speech and even the  tradition of heckling. There is a fine American art of heckling. If you  read the Lincoln-Douglas debates, I recommend the Harold Holzer version  of it because the newspapers carried all of the hecklers' comments,  too. People would get up and heckle, and Lincoln would interact with  them and Douglas would interact with them.

Mr. RASKIN. Let's stop clutching our pearls. There has been lots of  heckling over on that side of the aisle. I saw the gentlewoman from  Georgia heckle the last President and have a whole heckling section  there. We didn't try to censure them or kick them out of Congress or  anything. We actually not only say we believe in free speech but we  believe in free speech. We will stand up for people's right to speak.

Now, I don't believe in the kind of heckling where you drown somebody  out and you make it impossible for them to speak, but the gentleman was  trying to start a conversation as opposed to just being spoken to all  night.