Letter to the Hon. Betsy DeVos, Secretary of Education - Senators Scott, Booker, Hassan, Loeffler Call on Education Department to Support Students Whose Financial Aid Eligibility is Impacted by COVID-19 Pandemic


Dear Secretary DeVos:

We write to urge you to help ensure that students whose financial circumstances have changed asa result of the COVID-19 emergency receive the federal financial aid for which they nowqualify. We appreciate the U.S. Department of Education's ("Department") effort to provideguidance regarding the financial aid disruptions resulting from this pandemic. Unfortunately,with the national unemployment rate at 14.7 percent and with fewer students applying for federalfinancial aid than last year, it is critical that the Department take additional steps to ensure thatshifts in financial circumstances receive due consideration and that students have the informationthey need to continue to pursue postsecondary educational opportunities.

We are concerned that the current financial situation of students who recently filed, or are in theprocess of filing, their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) may not be accuratelyreflected. Students and families who have recently become unemployed or suffered a significantdrop in income may fail to qualify for the support they need to afford college. To that end, webelieve the Department plays an integral role in ensuring that students and financial aidadministrators have the information and resources necessary to respond to the unique challengesthat this global pandemic has created and exacerbated. While colleges currently have tools attheir disposal to recalculate financial aid eligibility resulting from a loss of income, it is vitallyimportant to make students and families aware of these options.

Financial aid administrators should have the support, guidance, and flexibility of the Departmentto fairly and efficiently execute "Professional Judgment," their authority under the HigherEducation Act to recalculate financial aid eligibility when a student's expected familycontribution has abruptly changed. We request that the Department reissue guidance similar toGEN-09-05 regarding Professional Judgment to clarify that income earned from work performedby recently unemployed students should be treated as zero. Additionally, due to theunemployment insurance (UI) application backlogs experienced by many states, the guidancedocument in question should include accommodations and documentation requirementflexibilities with respect to individuals who have applied for UI benefits but not yet receivedthem. The Department should consider, for instance, allowing for unemployment verificationthrough electronic confirmation of application for, or receipt of, UI benefits.

Furthermore, the Department should provide resources for state unemployment agencies toensure that UI applicants know that federal financial aid and means-tested benefits are availableto support them during this difficult time. The guidance should encourage aid administrators toproactively reach out to students on the availability of Professional Judgment if their own, ortheir family's income has changed significantly. In order to encourage such practices amongadministrators, the Department should publicly announce the adjustment of the selection processfor Program Reviews for the 2020-21 and 2021-22 award years.

Additionally, to assist students and families during this time, we ask the Department to makeimportant changes to the FAFSA website and FAFSA itself. As you know, the FAFSA collectstax data from two years prior and does not account for recent financial changes. We recommendmaking a few key changes to provide an additional opportunity for applicants to note recentchanges to their income. To begin to help address this, the Department should highlight on thehomepage of FAFSA/FAFSA App that there is an existing "dislocated worker question" on theFAFSA, and that those who have lost a job, those who have been laid off, and those who arereceiving UI benefits should mark off the box for that question.

That said, we understand that the "dislocated worker question" may not capture those who werenot laid off but still experienced a substantial income reduction, nor will it necessarily accountfor self-employed individuals who reduced their own pay to keep their businesses afloat. Withthat in mind, we request that the Department add a temporary question to the FAFSA for the2020-2021 award year and the 2021-2022 award year that asks, "Was your income significantlyreduced due to the COVID-19 emergency?" Aligned with this change, the Department shouldalso update pages of the FAFSA website and the myFAFSA mobile application with guidancefor students and families to follow up with a student aid administrator at the institution thestudent plans to attend in order to provide information about income changes.

At a time when students and their families across the country face economic uncertainty, theDepartment and institutions of higher education must do everything they can to ensure thatstudents do not fail to matriculate or stop-out of their programs of study because they are unableto access the resources needed to do so. We appreciate your attention to this important matter.