Scott Statement on Today's Coronavirus Relief Package


After the United States Senate unanimously passed a new coronavirus relief package this afternoon, U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) released the statement below. Details on the legislation follow the Senator's quote.

"It is great news that our Democratic colleagues have finally relented on their blockade of funding for small businesses and their employees," Scott said. "This essential funding will help thousands of South Carolinians keep their jobs and their paychecks, and ensure more small businesses can continue operating."

Scott continued, "I am also pleased we were able to provide more financial assistance to our hospitals and funding to states for increased testing. Both of these issues will prove critical as we move to reopen our state and national economy."

Highlights of the $484 billion April 21 Coronavirus Relief Package:

Small Business

-Adds an additional $320 billion in funding for the Paycheck Protection Program   -$60 billion will be set aside specifically for community banks and credit unions to reach underserved communities   -$60 billion more for Economic Injury Disaster Loans

Healthcare

-$75 billion is provided for hospital and healthcare provider reimbursement. This is in addition to the $100 billion provided in the CARES Act.-$25 billion for research, development, validation, manufacturing, purchasing, administering and expanding capacity for COVID-19 testing.   -$11 billion for states   -$1 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)   -$1.8 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH)   -$825 million for Community Health Centers and rural health clinics   -Up to $1 billion to cover costs of testing the uninsured-Requires plan from States, localities, territories, and tribes on how resources will be used for testing and easing COVID-19 community mitigation policies.-Requires strategic plan related to providing assistance to States for testing and increasing testing capacity.