Senator Scott's Response to Tonight's State of the Union Address


U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) released the following video response to President Trump's 2020 State of the Union Address:

Tonight, President Trump addressed our nation praising the Great American Comeback.

Despite the polarized political environment of today, President Trump is focused on keeping his promises to help ALL Americans, especially for those who have been left behind.

Under the previous administration, we saw increased regulations, unemployment was climbing, and folks 401k's were falling. Under President Trump's administration, America is making a comeback and shocking the world.

Since the president took office, we have created 7 million jobs, and the unemployment rate is at a 50-year low.

Back home in South Carolina, we've seen the creation of 122,000 jobs, 19,000 in manufacturing, and the state's unemployment rate hit a record low of 2.3 percent.

African Americans, Hispanics and women have seen near 50-year low unemployment numbers.

Thanks to tax reform, American families are keeping more of their hard-earned dollars at home.

During this presidency, almost 2.5 million Americans have been risen out of poverty, with 67,000 of them coming from the Palmetto State.

President Trump's help on my Opportunity Zones initiative is uplifting our most vulnerable Americans.

In the 135 opportunity zones throughout South Carolina, from Rock Hill to Charleston and Greenville to Florence, we are attracting new investments and projects, creating opportunity for distressed and forgotten communities, much like the one that I grew up in.

Entrepreneurship is booming and we're seeing more small businesses throughout the Palmetto State.

At the national level, we can see new projects creating anywhere from hundreds to thousands of jobs for folks in underserved communities. This is great news for communities across the nation.

Needless to say, the American economy is doing great and folks who were previously left behind are benefitting more now, than before.

As a champion of School Choice and leading cosponsor of the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act, I was excited to hear the president discuss the importance of empowering our parents to make choices for their children's education.

Parents know what's best for their children, not bureaucrats in Washington.

We as a nation need to allow the parents to make decisions for their children, especially as it relates to their education.

It is clear that our nation is moving in the right direction, and it is so important that we move forward from the division of the past few weeks and months.

President Trump is winning for the American people and our country couldn't be in a better place than right now.

He delivered an optimistic address tonight, and I am hopeful that we will continue to grow the list of accomplishments for the American people and make America the greatest nation on earth!