Congratulating Chris Tungseth


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700169/congratulating-chris-tungseth


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Chris  Tungseth from Fergus Falls, Minnesota, on earning a golden ticket to  Hollywood on ``American Idol.''

Chris proved that the American spirit is built on more than just hard  work. It is built on resilience, faith, and the power of song.

Chris' journey to the golden ticket was not an easy one. He spoke of  his family's battles with illness, his mother's diagnosis of multiple  sclerosis, and the loss of his father, whom Chris called his Superman.

When Chris stood before the judges and performed his original song,  ``Lonely Road,'' he was not just singing for a TV show. He was singing  to honor his father's legacy and his family's strength. His performance  earned him a unanimous ``yes'' to advance to Hollywood.

On behalf of Fergus Falls and all of Minnesota, I wish Chris the best  of luck in the next round.    Glencoe-Silver Lake FFA Named 2025 National Model of Excellence Winner

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the Glencoe- Silver Lake FFA chapter for being named the 2025 National Model of  Excellence winner.

Glencoe-Silver Lake was selected for this award out of nearly 10,000  chapters. This is the highest honor a chapter can achieve, marking them  the gold standard for leadership, community impact, and innovation.

By fostering student-led initiatives that strengthen our rural  economy and prepare the next generation of leaders, these students have  proven that the future of American farming is in excellent hands.

I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the students,  advisers, and the entire Glencoe-Silver Lake community on this  prestigious award.

I congratulate the Glencoe-Silver Lake FFA on being the best in the  Nation.                       Commemorating National FFA Week

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in recognition of  National FFA Week.

Since 1925, FFA has changed lives and developed young leaders in the  areas of leadership, personal growth, and career success through  agricultural education. It is the top school-based youth leadership  development organization in the United States.

Opportunities within the agriculture sector are vast, and FFA fosters  the talents of members so that they can achieve real-world success.  They participate in leadership conferences, career development events,  and community service projects. The skills that these students develop  serve them well when they embark on their future career paths.

Not only are the students who participate in FFA future farmers, but  they are also future business leaders, entrepreneurs, teachers,  bankers, veterinarians, public servants, biologists, and so much more.

Every year, thousands of the iconic blue FFA jackets from across the  country visit our offices on Capitol Hill. In my home State of  Minnesota, FFA has 15,000 members and 220 chapters, as well as 97  alumni chapters. This year, Minnesota FFA chapters will participate in  local events aligned with the National FFA Week calendar.

I always appreciate having the opportunity to visit with these  students and future leaders. Anyone who spends time with these young  leaders will leave with a sense that our future is in good hands.