Congratulating Joe Jensen


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693572/congratulating-joe-jensen


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Joe Jensen on a  successful 50-year career serving as a 911 dispatcher. Joe started his  career at the Marshall Police Department as a dispatcher and is  wrapping it up with Lyon County.

His calm voice put people at ease, even during one of the scariest  times of their lives.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Joe for his courage, positivity, and service  throughout the years. The community will miss him, but they are  grateful to him for making it a better place. May he enjoy his well- deserved retirement and the next chapter of his life. Mr. Speaker, I  congratulate Joe.                    Congratulating Officer Sara VanLeeuwe

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Officer Sara  VanLeeuwe on a successful 30-year career at the Marshall Police Force.  From the time she was a teenager, Sara knew she wanted to be a police  officer, starting her career as a part-time officer.

Over her 30 years, Officer VanLeeuwe has had a huge impact throughout  her community and especially loved the work she did in the schools. She  taught antidrug classes to hundreds of students and served for 19 years  as the Marshall School resource officer.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Sara for her courage, compassion, and service. I  know Marshall will miss her presence on the force. May she enjoy her  well-deserved retirement.

Congratulating 2025 Meeker County Farm Family of the Year

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate the 2025 Meeker  County Farm Family of the Year: the Ahlgrens. Along with their six  children and a few part-time employees, Rick and Sarah Ahlgren run the  Ahlgren Dairy. The farm milks 220 cows and raises replacement heifers  in Ellsworth Township.

While the farm has been in the family for generations, since Rick and  Sarah purchased the operation in 2018, the family has invested in new  robotic equipment, cover cropping, and a new heifer barn. The family is  also active in their community, participating in educational events and  even hosting a live nativity scene for the public each December.

I am proud to have a family so committed to both responsible  agriculture and their community. It is because of family like theirs  that our rural communities thrive.