Congratulating Nathan Lund on Receiving Minnesota's Agriculture in the Classroom 2025 Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691916/congratulating-nathan-lund-on-receiving-minnesotas-agriculture-in-the-classroom-2025-outstanding-teacher-of-the-year-award


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Nathan Lund of  Starbuck, Minnesota, on receiving Minnesota's Agriculture in the  Classroom 2025 Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award.

This award is given to K-12 educators who can creatively incorporate  agriculture concepts into their teaching.

Nathan has taught fifth and sixth grade students at Glacial Hills  Elementary School since 2001. His students have been able to grow their  appreciation for agriculture through hands-on learning experiences,  like maintaining a school garden and hosting food-making contests.

Community members have been grateful for Nathan's work in the  classroom, as he has inspired many students  and helped them build important life skills.

I congratulate Nathan on this amazing achievement, and I wish him the  best of luck as he continues his fantastic career.            Congratulating Dominique Claseman and Ahren Jurgensen

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Dominique  Claseman and Ahren Jurgensen of Olivia, Minnesota, on raising nearly  $120,000 for a veterans memorial in their hometown.

Mr. Speaker, 3 years ago, Dominique raised over $77,000 to construct  a memorial for veterans. Since then, he has enlisted in the U.S. Army  and is currently completing his basic training.

In less than a year, his younger brother, Ahren, who also intends to  join the military after high school, raised $40,000 to expand on the  memorial, installing additional plaques, benches, flags, and pavers.

I congratulate Dominique and Ahren on their amazing achievements, and  I thank them for their service to their community and to their country.                Celebrating Lawrence Weinrich's 100th Birthday

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Lawrence Weinrich  of Ottertail, Minnesota, on turning 100 years old last Friday, May 30.

Lawrence was born in Fergus Falls and grew up during the drought in  the 1930s. He was one of the first drafted for the Korean war, serving  13 years. When he returned, he went to work for a lumber company and  only quit chopping wood a couple of years ago.

Today, Lawrence is an avid dancer who goes out dancing at least five  times a month in the winter and even more during the summer.

Lawrence credits his agility and dance ability to his active  lifestyle as he walks frequently and has had several successful deer  hunts. Reaching the century milestone is a testament to his strength,  wisdom, and many lives he has touched over the years. I wish Lawrence a  happy birthday and congratulate him on 100 amazing years.