Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Flexibility for Workers Education Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Tipped Employee Protection Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Local Business Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698949/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-prudent-investment-of-retirement-savings-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-flexibility-for-workers-education-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-empowering-employer-child-and-elder-care-solutions-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-tipped-employee-protection-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-save-local-business-act


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 988 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 988

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2988) to       amend the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to       specify requirements concerning the consideration of       pecuniary and non-pecuniary factors, and for other purposes.       All points of order against consideration of the bill are       waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Education and Workforce now       printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill,       as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and       Workforce or their respective designees; (2) the further       amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee on       Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the Member       designated in the report, which shall be in order without       intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as       read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in       the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent       and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for       division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2262) to amend       the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to exclude certain       activities from hours worked, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Education and Workforce now       printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in       part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying       this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and       Workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion       to recommit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House any bill specified in section       4 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such bill are waived. The respective       amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Education and Workforce now printed in each such       bill shall be considered as adopted. Each such bill, as       amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in each such bill, as amended, are waived.       The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each       such bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto,       to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one       hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair       and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and       Workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion       to recommit.

Sec. 4.  The bills referred to in section 3 of this       resolution are as follows:

(a) The bill (H.R. 2270) to amend the Fair Labor Standards       Act of 1938 to exclude child and dependent care services and       payments from the rate used to compute overtime compensation.

(b) The bill (H.R. 2312) to amend the Fair Labor Standards       Act of 1938 to revise the definition of the term ``tipped       employee'', and for other purposes.

(c) The bill (H.R. 4366) to clarify the treatment of 2 or       more employers as joint employers under the National Labor       Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms. Leger  Fernandez), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, we are here today to debate the rule  providing for consideration of H.R. 2262, the Flexibility for Workers  Education Act; H.R. 2270, the Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care  Solutions Act; H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee Protection Act; H.R.  4366, the Save Local Business Act, under a closed rule; and H.R. 2988,  the Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings Act, under a  structured rule.

One hour of debate each for H.R. 2262, H.R. 2270, H.R. 2312, H.R.  2988, and H.R. 4366 shall be equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking member of the Committee on Education and Workforce,  or their designees. The rule provides for a motion to recommit for all  five bills.

Mr. Speaker, the bills before us today are about one thing: getting  the Federal Government out of the way of the American worker.

For too long, outdated definitions and woke regulatory overreach have  stifled opportunities and created a paperwork trap for the job creators  on our Main Streets. Today, we take a stand for common sense and  economic growth.

We begin with H.R. 2262, the Flexibility for Workers Education Act.  Under current law, many nonexempt workers, the very people who could  benefit most from upskilling, are often excluded from voluntary  training because the Fair Labor Standards Act treats those sessions as  hours worked. This creates massive inconvenience for employers, who  ultimately choose not to offer the training at all.

This bill levels the playing field, allowing workers to pursue  voluntary professional development outside of regular hours without  triggering burdensome overtime costs for their employers.

In the same spirit of support, H.R. 2270, the Empowering Employer  Child and Elder Care Solutions Act, addresses the childcare crunch  facing so many families. By excluding childcare and eldercare benefits  from the regular rate calculation for overtime, we remove a major  financial barrier for some small business owners who want to help their  employees balance work and family life. This is a pro-family, pro- worker solution that requires no new Federal spending.

We must also protect the flexibility that makes the service industry  so vital. H.R. 2312, the Tipped Employee Protection Act, clears the  regulatory fog that has long surrounded tipped workers.

The Biden administration attempted to micromanage every minute of a  server's day through the unworkable 80/20 rule, a standard that is  virtually impossible to monitor or enforce. This bill provides a clear  and simple definition for tipped employees, an employee who receives  tips plus other cash wages that meet or exceed the Federal minimum wage  for a work period.

This provides stability for restaurant owners and protects the hiring  potential of our servers and bartenders.

Similarly, H.R. 4366, the Save Local Business Act, restores the joint  employer standard that served our economy for decades.

The Obama and Biden administrations weaponized the National Labor  Relations Board to target the franchise model, creating a scheme that  cost the franchising sector an estimated $33 billion annually. By  codifying that an employer must exercise direct, actual, and immediate  control over workers, we restore the certainty that small business  owners, contractors, and franchisees need to grow and hire more.

Finally, we must protect the hard-earned savings of the American  people.

H.R. 2988, the Protecting Prudent Investment of Retirement Savings  Act, ensures that Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA,  fiduciaries are focused on one thing, the financial bottom line.

We cannot allow woke fiduciaries to gamble with a worker's pension to  satisfy a political agenda. This bill reinforces the duties of loyalty  and ensures that investment decisions are based solely on maximizing  returns for the benefit of the retiree and not a social experiment.

Mr. Speaker, the American people are tired of the regulatory noise  coming out of Washington. They want a government that works for them,  not against them. These five bills deliver on our promise to cut red  tape, empower families, and protect the American Dream.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, America is suffering. Americans don't recognize the  country we live in. Trump's tariffs have caused prices to soar. We have  the highest unemployment rate in 4 years so fewer people have jobs.  Those out of work can't even afford those expensive groceries, housing,  and appliances.

Republicans refused to extend the health insurance tax cuts in time,  so now millions of Americans have health insurance premiums that are  double and sometimes even triple what they were 1 year ago. In their  big, beautiful bill, Republicans took a sledgehammer to our fragile  healthcare system to give permanent tax breaks to their political  donors, the billionaires, and the biggest corporations.

Our President bombed boats and then the capital of a foreign country  for oil, and now he says he is acting President of that country.

He wants our military to invade a NATO ally. Remember, Mr. Speaker,  America and our NATO allies fought fascism together in World War II.  Republicans claim we don't have money to keep healthcare costs down,  yet they are going to keep spending billions of taxpayer dollars for  Trump's reckless military action in Venezuela and everywhere else he  decides to invade or bomb.

Trump and Kristi Noem have militarized our streets. Masked men in  full military gear roam the streets of our cities. These masked men  invade church properties and schools, knock down doors without  warrants, ram cars, and assault pastors and people of faith. These  masked, armed men have arrested hundreds of citizens just for looking  Latino.

Last week, they killed a citizen. They shot a mother of three in the  face three times. Her last words were: I am not mad at you. His words,  after shooting her to death, are too obscene to say on this floor.

Kristi Noem and the President have now demonized this dead mother.  Trump wants Americans to deny what we can see with our own eyes: the  killing of a mother, Renee Nicole Good.

In the face of all this pain, chaos, and economic hardship, the  American people expect Congress to do something, to ask hard questions  of the administration, to be the check and balance that we were taught  about in school, conduct oversight, lower prices, and protect our  healthcare.

So what are Republicans doing?

Last week, following the invasion of Venezuela and the expiration of  the healthcare tax credits, their priority was a bill about  showerheads. This week it is worse. They are actively putting their  thumb on the scale in favor of big corporations and against workers,  lowering what parents get paid in overtime, reclassifying workers so  they can pay them less, or make it easy for corporations, like those  big meatpacking plants, to get away with hiring child labor or wage  theft. They want to block financial managers from even considering  environmental risks like flooding and wildfires.

Yes, Americans want Congress to do something. The problem is that  Republicans control the House and the bills we consider in the Rules  Committee and vote on.

However, Democrats can force votes, like we did on the healthcare tax  credits and like we will soon do on the War Powers Resolution. On the  floor of the people's House, we will call out Republicans who always  seem to stand with the biggest corporations and against workers.

Despite what the titles of their bills say, they do the opposite.

Mr. Speaker, we will force Republicans to face the consequences of  ignoring the economic struggles of everyday Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I want to clarify a few things, one in particular about  the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

The narrative that the One Big Beautiful Bill Act only gives tax cuts  to billionaires is just false. The bill cuts taxes for working-class  families who need it most. As a result of the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act, the top 1 percent will pay more in Federal taxes than they did  before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.

It ends $500 billion in Biden-era tax breaks and special interest  giveaways to wealthy individuals and large corporations. It stops a  Biden-era $1,700 tax increase.

Working families making between $15,000 and $30,000 will have their  taxes cut by 21 percent under the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. Mr.  Speaker, 66 percent of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act's tax cuts  benefit families making less than $500,000. Just because they keep  saying it doesn't make it true. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act does  help working families.

Mr. Speaker, I do have to address, because my colleague has decided  to bring ICE into this debate, or this discussion, regarding small  businesses and help that we may be able to give small businesses. I  just want to give a few examples of what ICE is actually doing in  Minnesota, because I am someone who is here from Minnesota.

They have arrested a registered sex offender from Somalia with 17  prior convictions, including domestic violence and threatening  terroristic acts.

They have arrested an illegal El Salvadoran alien convicted of sexual  assault on a child.

They have arrested an illegal alien from Mexico convicted of selling  cocaine and methamphetamine and multiple illegal aliens from Laos  convicted of rape, assault, kidnapping, and sodomy of children under  the age of 13 and domestic violence.

They have arrested convicted murderers from Mexico, Sudan, Burma,  Laos, Sierra Leone, Guatemala, Somalia, and El Salvador.

That is what ICE is doing in Minnesota. They are making it safer for  everyday people.

I ask my colleague to simply allow the investigation to take place  over what happened last week and to stop the inflammatory rhetoric that  is unnecessary at this point.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, what is amazing is that on the floor of this House we  heard my colleague talk about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, and I  guess they are going back to calling it that. They were trying to  change its name because they know that the American people know it is  not beautiful. It is only beautiful, Mr. Speaker, if you are a  billionaire and you have benefited from those tax cuts for the  millionaires, the billionaires, and the biggest corporations.

Remember, Mr. Speaker, that Democrats wanted to make permanent, and  offered amendments, so that we could continue tax cuts for middle-class  Americans. We wanted to do something more than what they did on tipped  workers.

Are you kidding me, Mr. Speaker? Republicans made tipped worker tax  credits temporary but gave permanent tax cuts to the billionaires. The  predominant benefit of that big, beautiful bill went to the richest  Americans, and there is no denying that.

There is no denying that $1.4 trillion went to the wealthiest  Americans. There is no denying the fact that they keep talking about  deficits, $4 trillion, that they are forcing our children and  grandchildren to pay because they wanted to give those tax credits to  the biggest corporations and millionaires.

Now, the other thing that is interesting that got raised is  Minnesota. She talked about a couple of immigrants who have been  arrested. We don't have any problem about enforcement and arresting  people who commit crimes. In fact, we have had Democratic Presidents do  that. Obama deported more people than Trump has, but he went after  people with criminal records.

Mr. Speaker, 80 percent of the people in ICE custody have committed  no crime. Hundreds of citizens have been arrested for no crime by ICE,  which has no jurisdiction. Why were they arrested? Is it just because  they look Latino? Is it just because they speak Spanish? That is not  okay.

Let's talk about criminal activity. Trump pardoned the January 6  insurrectionists who beat law enforcement right outside these doors,  violently beat the law enforcement officers who were protecting us.

What has happened since then? Do you want to talk about people who  have been arrested? Talk about all of those violent offenders who were  arrested, and what did they get? They got a pardon from this President.  We have dozens who have gone on to reoffend, who have gone on to  assault, who have been engaged in child pornography, in egregious  crimes because this President pardoned them. When you want to talk  about going after criminals, let's look at what this President has  failed to do.

Mr. Speaker, not to belabor the point, but I feel like I need to  repeat myself and remind others about what ICE is actually doing in  Minnesota. They have arrested a registered sex offender from Somalia  with 17 prior convictions, including domestic violence and threatening  terrorist acts, and convicted murderers from Mexico, Sudan, Burma,  Laos, Guatemala, and Somalia. I wish I didn't have to continue to  repeat myself about what ICE is really doing. What ICE is about is  making sure that our streets are safer.

As for the claim about the One Big Beautiful Bill Act not doing what  it is supposed to and only giving tax cuts to  billionaires, I had mentioned, I had explained what actually happened  in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, and I would ask the other side, I  would just ponder or wonder out loud why they didn't do it in their  Inflation Reduction Act. If it was that important, when they were in  control and they passed the Inflation Reduction Act, why didn't they do  all of these things that they talk about being so important right now?

It is a little confusing when they continue to repeat. They believe  that if they just continue to say the same thing over and over and over  and over, it makes it true, and it does not, if you take a look at the  One Big Beautiful Bill Act and what ICE is doing in Minnesota.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I find it interesting that in response to this litany  and this long list of criminal activity and the criminals who were  pardoned by Trump, we heard the same thing, there was a sex offender.  What about all those sex offenders that have now been pardoned?

What about all of the egregious actions that ICE is conducting in  Mrs. Fischbach's very own State? She won't stand up for the law  enforcement officers who she walks by every day and the attacks that  they faced, but she will stand up in favor of ICE activity that has  killed one of Minnesota's own citizens?

Let me read one of the President's latest posts: ``Do the people of  Minnesota really want to live in a community . . . '' His last  sentence: ``Fear not, great people of Minnesota, the day of reckoning  and retribution is coming.''

Retribution? We should not live in a society where we have a  President who goes after cities and States because they have Democratic  leadership. There are Republicans who live in that city. There are  Democrats who live in that city, Independents. It should not matter.

However, this President and Republicans who support him and refuse to  condemn him seem to think it is okay to beat up law enforcement  officers in our own Capitol, but it is not okay to question excessive,  egregious abuses by ICE not only in Minnesota, but across this country.

Hoyle).

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question,  I will offer an amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 20, the Richard  L. Trumka Protecting the Right to Organize Act of 2025, a bipartisan  bill that would expand workers' rights to organize and collectively  bargain in the workplace, hold employers accountable for violating  workers' rights, and allow for free, fair, and safe union elections.

Mr. Speaker, in addition to the slate of partisan bills that  Republicans want us to vote on this week, which lower overtime pay for  workers, cut workers' wages, give corporations more loopholes to  mistreat workers without consequence, and mess with workers' retirement  savings plan to combat supposed wokeness, whatever that is, Democrats  simply want to add another bill for consideration, one that actually  helps workers and is cosponsored by 214 Members of Congress, including  several Republicans.

The PRO Act was one of the first bills I got to cosponsor in  committee and in Congress when I joined in 2021. That was back when the  committee was called the Education and Labor Committee because  Democrats are not afraid of saying ``labor,'' and we will always  protect workers' rights. That is why when we held the majority, we  passed the PRO Act to support workers.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I will address something in one of  the bills that is about childcare and the care economy.

We all know the care economy is what makes all other work possible.  Women can go to work when they know their babies will be well taken  care of. When a parent or grandparent gets ill, we know that it is  women who  step in to fill the gap. In fact, because it is so expensive to get  care, we have seen a record number of women fall out of the workforce.  It is up to about 350,000 women, I think, who have left.

This is a problem because we need women to be able to participate in  our workforce, to be able to contribute to their own household's  income. We know that this is something that can be fixed with  governmental action.

In New Mexico, we now have universal childcare. It is something we  can get done, and the reason why we do this is because it is important  to allow women and parents to work. It is often men who stay home as  the father. It is also important for the child because when you get  good early childcare, you grow up to have more opportunities in life.

On average, though, parents spend between $6,500 and $15,000 per  child for 1 year of childcare. That is eating up more and more of  families' budgets. People can't afford this.

What we know that people have done is negotiate. They talk to their  employers, and those employers have often provided childcare as one of  the elements of compensation. This is why unions are important. They  have negotiated this and fought for this as part of compensation.

For decades, when you get paid overtime, you include all of your  compensation, including if you were getting assistance for care  expenses.

Now, they have named their bill and added ``childcare'' to it, and  they say this is to increase the availability of childcare. What it  actually will do is that it is going to decrease people's overtime pay.  You are no longer going to get paid overtime based on your full  compensation. This is overturning decades of precedence.

Once again, they are acting in a way that makes life more expensive,  that makes sure that parents who receive this benefit will get paid  less if they are forced to work overtime. Guess what. If you are forced  to work overtime and have to keep your kids in childcare, it is going  to cost you more.

Their spiral of increased costs for American families is always  looking out for the big guy, always looking out for those big  corporations. That is why Democrats oppose this bill.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I will clear up some of the rhetoric on  H.R. 2270. It is called the Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care  Solutions Act, but just to make it clear, this bill makes it easier for  employers to provide childcare benefits for their employees.

It excludes childcare and eldercare benefits from the regular rate  calculation for overtime, so we remove a major financial barrier for  some small business owners who want to help their employees actually  balance work and family life. It would be a helpful thing for those  employers and employees to help provide childcare.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I will point out that Americans know that Trump has been  horrible on the handling of their economy because he has done nothing  to lower the cost of living. In fact, everything he has done is the  opposite.

His tariffs have increased prices. Their failure to address the  healthcare crisis and extend tax credits for health insurance premiums  has increased the cost of healthcare for Americans. In fact, Americans  know this.

Mr. Speaker, I am so happy to get back to actually addressing the  rules and the bills that are before us, instead of listening to  Democrat talking points over and over.

I have listened to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  during this debate. It seems that they are once again choosing to  prioritize Federal bureaucracy and woke social agendas over the actual  needs of the American worker.

They claim to be the party of the worker. Yet, they oppose H.R. 2262,  which simply increases opportunities for hourly employees to  voluntarily take training classes to better their careers. They claim  to support families. Yet, they oppose H.R. 2270, a bill that makes it  easier for small businesses to offer childcare benefits.

The American people are tired of a government that treats every  voluntary interaction between an employer and employee as a potential  crime. They are tired of the 80-20 rules that make it harder for small  businesses. They are tired of joint employer standards that were  designated by union lawyers in Washington to destroy the franchise  model that has provided a path for the American Dream for millions.

With H.R. 4366, the Save Local Businesses Act, we are finally  bringing stability back to our Main Streets. We are telling the small  business owners in my district and across the country that if they do  not have direct, actual control over the worker, the Federal Government  is not going to pretend they do just to satisfy a political agenda.

We cannot ignore the retirement security of our constituents. H.R.  2988 is a commonsense safeguard. When an American worker hands over  their hard-earned paycheck to a fiduciary, they expect that money to be  invested to maximize their return and not to fund a political  experiment or a green energy fantasy. This bill ensures that pecuniary  factors are the only things driving retirement investments.

The legislation in this package represents a fundamental shift back  to the principles that made our country and our economy strong, which  are clarity, flexibility, and individual opportunity. We are removing  regulatory hurdles that have stifled upward mobility for far too long.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to put the interests of the American worker,  the small business owner, and the retiree ahead of the interests of  Washington bureaucrats. I am proud to support this rule, and I am glad  that I was able to speak about the rule and about the  bills, instead of talking points. I urge my colleagues to do the same.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Leger Fernandez is as  follows:     An Amendment to H. Res. 988 Offered by Ms. Leger Fernandez of New                                   Mexico

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 20) to amend the National Labor Relations Act, the       Labor Management Relations Act, 1947, and the Labor-      Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, and for       other purposes. All points of order against consideration of       the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill are       waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage       without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on Education and Workforce       or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of H.R. 20.

Sec. 7. The Clerk shall transmit to the Senate a message       that the House has passed H.R. 20 no later than three       calendar days after passage.