Providing for Consideration of H.R. Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. American Entrepreneurs First Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691940/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-american-entrepreneurs-first-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 458 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 458

Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this       resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule       XVIII, declare the House resolved into the Committee of the       Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of       the bill (H.R. 2483) to reauthorize certain programs that       provide for opioid use disorder prevention, treatment, and       recovery, and for other purposes. The first reading of the       bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be       confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be       considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu       of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill,       an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the       text of Rules Committee Print 119-4 shall be considered as       adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The       bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill       for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute       rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No       further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order       except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee       on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such further       amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the       report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the       report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for       the time specified in the report equally divided and       controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be       subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand       for division of the question in the House or in the Committee       of the Whole. All points of order against such further       amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of       the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report       the bill, as amended, to the House with such further       amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and       on any further amendment thereto to final passage without       intervening motion except one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2931) to direct       the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to       relocate certain offices of the Small Business Administration       in sanctuary jurisdictions, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Small Business now printed in the bill,       modified by the amendment printed in part B of the report of       the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be       considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Small Business or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2966) to       require the Administrator of the Small Business       Administration to require an applicant for certain loans of       the Administration to provide certain citizenship status       documentation, and for other purposes. All points of order       against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment       in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on       Small Business now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Small Business or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the       bill (H.R. 2987) to amend the Small Business Act to require a       limit on the number of small business lending companies, and       for other purposes. All points of order against consideration       of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a       substitute recommended by the Committee on Small Business now       printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill,       as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The       previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill,       as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Small Business or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues and I are here today to debate the rule  providing for consideration of H.R. 2931, the Save SBA from Sanctuary  Cities Act; H.R. 2966, the American Entrepreneurs First Act; H.R. 2987,  the CEASE Act, which will be considered under a closed rule; and H.R.  2483, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act to  be considered under a structured rule.

One hour of debate each for H.R. 2931, H.R. 2966, and H.R. 2987 shall  be equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking member of  the Small Business Committee, or their designees.

One hour of debate will also be provided for H.R. 2483 and shall be  equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking member of the  Energy and Commerce Committee, or their designees.

The rule provides a motion to recommit for all four bills.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues are here to deliver on the Trump  administration's agenda and solidify his executive actions with  commonsense legislation. With Congresswoman Van Duyne's American  Entrepreneurs First Act, my colleagues are going to help codify the  work that the Small Business Administration is doing to ensure that  businesses receiving Federal benefits are 100 percent owned by U.S.  citizens or lawful permanent residents and businesses that employ  illegal immigrants are ineligible for these funds. This is part of our  ongoing effort to stop subsidizing previous open-border policies. It  makes sense that only law-abiding American citizens should have access  to programs that American taxpayer dollars go towards.

SBA offices are being located out of sanctuary cities and into places  that do not limit their cooperation with Federal agencies that are  charged with immigration enforcement. The SBA Administrator announced  that the agency would be relocating offices in Atlanta, Boston,  Chicago, Denver, New York City, and Seattle, and moving them to less  costly and more accessible locations to better serve the mission and  comply with Federal immigration law. With Congressman Finstad's bill,  the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act, Republicans are supporting this  plan with legislation, giving the SBA 120 days to deliver on this  commitment and relocate those offices. Sanctuary cities need to be held  accountable and need to see the consequences of their disregard for  Federal law.

With Mr. Bresnahan's CEASE Act, it is strengthening SBA's programs by  limiting the number of nonprofit small business lending companies  licensed by the SBA to 16. This will allow the agency to provide the  necessary oversight to ensure that they are effectively serving the  small businesses that Congress intended.

Finally, my colleagues are here to debate the SUPPORT for Patients  and Communities Reauthorization Act. I thank Mr. Guthrie for  introducing this important legislation. This bill reauthorizes the 2018  legislation President Trump signed into law and strengthens it. I am  glad to say that across the country we are seeing a decline in overdose  deaths. Of course, the work is not over. My colleagues are making sure  we are investing in overdose prevention and equipping communities to  counter substance abuse disorders.

The Energy and Commerce Committee has taken a hard look at what  worked best from the 2018 law and built off its success by continuing  to provide resources for prevention, education, treatment, recovery,  workforce, and law enforcement to help patients struggling with  substance use disorder. It ensures first responders are able to  administer lifesaving drugs, ensures HHS cannot require States to use  one specific vendor over another, clarifies that Substance Abuse and  Mental Health Service Administration's State and Tribal Opioid Response  Grants can be used for test strips, and requires that Administration to  identify and address serious mental illness.

This bill is part of President Trump's and the Congressional  Republicans' promise to stop the flow of fentanyl by securing our  borders and then combat the crisis caused by these drugs in our  communities. President Trump has done his part to secure our border,  and Republicans will supply him with more resources to do so in the One  Big Beautiful Bill Act. Through the SUPPORT for Patients and  Communities Reauthorization Act, we will combat the existing opioid  crisis in our communities.

I am proud to stand in support of these bills. I look forward to this  debate, and I hope my colleagues can stay focused on the topic in front  of us today as we discuss these proposals that are important to  American families and taxpayers.

Mr. Speaker, I am just a little confused. My colleague mentioned  ``whiplash,'' and I am feeling a little whiplash over here because  Democrats liked Elon Musk. Then, the minority hated Elon Musk. Now, my  Democratic colleagues like him again?

I am just a bit confused and ask that maybe someone can clear that up  for me because it goes back and forth, and I feel like there is lots of  whiplash going on.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Massachusetts.

Mr. Speaker, it sure does feel like Democrats are going back and  forth on him, and there is lots of whiplash going on, so my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle need to make it clear because now  Democrats are quoting him on the floor.

What is embarrassing really, truly, is that the Democrats adhere to  their talking points and repeat them and repeat them, and this is a  perfect example of where Democrats are spreading misinformation.

The minority wants the public to believe that Republicans are cutting  Medicaid, and we are not. We are making sure it goes to those people  who need it and that we use every taxpayer dollar wisely. That means we  are making sure that American tax dollars go to American citizens.

That means strengthening the system so care can get to those who need  it most and that we weed out waste, fraud, and abuse. Individuals who  are suffering from substance addiction, like those we are working to  help with the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act,  are not subject to the work requirements in the One Big Beautiful Bill  Act.

Mr. Speaker, 11 Democrats voted for the SUPPORT for Patients and  Communities Reauthorization Act coming out of committee. I think that  we need to make sure that we are sticking to the facts instead of  Democratic talking points.

Mr. Speaker, I was just thinking about what we are talking about. The  notion that my colleagues are really considering voting against the  SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act is baffling to  me. Really, I think it all shows that they hate President Trump so much  that they are willing to vote against legislation that would help  communities combat opioid abuse.

They want to stick to their anti-Trump, anti-Republican talking  points and avoid talking about the bills that are in front of us. I  would like them to try taking that message, the message that they  refuse to provide resources to their communities to combat opioid  abuse, back to their constituents.

This bill brings resources to our constituents to combat opioid  abuse. That is what we are talking about. It is that simple. They can  hate the President, or they don't have to, but don't let these people  facing substance addiction and our communities suffer for their talking  points.

Mr. Speaker, I know that my colleagues on the other side have been  using the same anti-Trump, anti-Republican talking points for months  and months, and I understand that they don't like what the House  Republicans are doing and don't like what the  President is doing, but the American people do.

Poll after poll is showing that an increasing number of people now  believe this country is heading in the right direction. A Rasmussen  Reports survey shows that this is the first time in 20 years that the  majority of respondents have felt that way.

Go ahead and vote against these things that will increase work to  stop the opioid crisis, curb wasteful spending of the American taxpayer  dollar, and address illegal immigration, but know that it will be a  vote against the will of the American people.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I will clarify some things. My colleague continues to  talk about the tax bill, which is not actually in front of us right  now. We are talking about different things. I do feel  the need to address that in that tax bill that he is talking about, in  the reconciliation bill that he trashes and says that it is tax breaks  for billionaires.

I will just use my district as an example.

In my district, in the Seventh District of Minnesota, the  reconciliation bill that he opposes would prevent a 25 percent tax hike  for most people in my district where the average income is $70,000, not  billionaires, $70,000.

It also increases the standard deduction. It increases the child tax  credit. It helps small businesses through the 199A deduction. This is a  solid tax bill. We looked at what we can do to help the average citizen  in the country, and we made sure that it was a solid tax bill.

I just wanted to make sure that we are correcting some of the talking  points that the Democrats are using because this does provide tax  breaks for the middle income.

Mr. Speaker, again, I always have to take the opportunity to correct  things. What we are doing in the reconciliation bill--because this bill  in front of us is not what they are talking about because they have  digressed into Democrat anti-Trump, anti-Republican talking points, but  I do have to make a few things clear.

In the reconciliation bill for Medicaid, we have for able-bodied  individuals without dependents, there is a work requirement. That work  requirement could also be schooling or it can be community engagement.

We will be removing illegal immigrants who should not be on Medicaid.  We also are looking at that waste, fraud, and abuse. The people that  will be removed should not have been on Medicaid in the first place.  They shouldn't have been on the rolls.

We are not removing people that need Medicaid because those people  who need it will be getting it. It is that work requirement, the  illegal immigrants, and those who should not have been on it in the  first place.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, I will take an unorthodox step and associate myself with  the remarks of one of my Democrat colleagues from New Mexico in the  Rules Committee last night.

What is astonishing is that my Democrat colleague finally admitted  what we have been telling the American people for weeks. As I  mentioned, we are talking about the illegal immigrants in light of the  CBO score that 1.4 million illegal immigrants are, indeed, on the rolls  of State healthcare systems.

Now, our colleague tried to take us down a rabbit hole, and she ended  up twisting herself in knots to find the terminology to aid her in the  talking points. The latest argument, apparently, to hide the fact that  illegal immigrants are accessing Medicaid is that they are only  accessing State health systems, not the Medicaid program. I will point  out in a news flash that Medicaid is a State administered program that  supports State health systems.

Mr. Speaker, don't take it from me. Let me quote the Congressional  Research Service: ``Medicaid is a joint Federal-State program . . . The  Federal Government requires States to cover certain mandatory  populations and services,'' but ``allows States to cover other  optional populations and services.'' Due to this flexibility, there is  substantial State variation in ``factors such as Medicaid eligibility,  covered benefits, and provider payment rates.'' In addition, several  waivers and demonstration authorities and statutes ``allow States to  operate their Medicaid programs outside of [certain] Federal rules.''

Now, even Democrats are admitting that Medicaid dollars are being  used to benefit illegal immigrants and that is what we are trying to  stop, the draining of this program of funds that are intended to help  American citizens in need.

Mr. Speaker, as expected, my colleagues are unable to focus on the  task  at hand. Instead, they want to continue their fear-mongering and  falsehoods about what is in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

For the record, again: It does not cut Medicaid for any U.S. citizen  who needs it. It does strengthen the system and makes sure it benefits  the people who really need it. We need to be responsible to the  taxpayers, and we are going after waste, fraud, and abuse.

I will say it, again: Anyone who needs Medicaid will have it.

Mr. Speaker, as expected, my colleagues deviated completely from the  task at hand today, and instead, like I said earlier, they wanted to  continue these attacks on the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. As I have  mentioned repeatedly, Medicaid is not cut for those who need it.

We are ensuring that American taxpayer dollars are going to help  American businesses. The American Entrepreneurs First Act does not  prevent people with temporary visas or other legal immigrant statuses  from holding jobs at American businesses or from owning their own small  businesses. It just says that if you want support from American tax  dollars, you need to be an American citizen or a lawful permanent  resident.

Mr. Speaker, the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act further supports  that mission, a mission that the majority of Americans support, to end  pro-illegal immigration policies by showing these cities that the SBA  is serious and is going to move its offices if sanctuary cities do not  start following Federal law.

Mr. Speaker, we are here to further the great work that is being done  by our communities to put a stop to the terrible overdose and substance  abuse issues in this country through the SUPPORT for Patients and  Communities Reauthorization Act. I do not believe that there is a  person in this Chamber who does not see this as one of the most serious  issues facing our Nation today.

I support the rule and the underlying legislation, and I encourage my  colleagues to do the same.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 458 Offered By Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 2753) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of       1974 to provide for a point of order against reconciliation       measures that cut benefits for Medicaid or the Supplemental       Nutrition Assistance Program, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Rules or their rspective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 2753.