Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701509/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,  I call up House Resolution 1142 and ask for its immediate  consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 1142

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution, the House       shall be considered to have taken from the Speaker's table       the bill (H.R. 7147) making further consolidated       appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026,       and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto,       and to have concurred in the Senate amendment with an       amendment consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print       119-21.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, we are here tonight to debate the rule  providing for consideration of the Senate amendment for H.R. 7147, the  Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act of 2026.

The rule provides that the House shall be considered to have taken  from the Speaker's table H.R. 7147, with the Senate amendment thereto,  and to  have concurred in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of  the text of Rules Committee Print 119-21.

Simply put, a vote for this rule is a vote to fund the entire  Department of Homeland Security through May 22, 2026.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today because the American people are tired of  half measures when it comes to their safety.

Last night, the Senate passed a funding deal that can only be  described as an attempt to put a dead bolt on the front door while  leaving the backdoor wide-open.

They want us to believe they are securing our homeland, yet their  proposal dedicates exactly zero dollars toward our Border Patrol  operations. In a world of evolving threats, my colleagues across the  aisle believe that we can protect this Nation by halves, but the  message from House Republicans is clear: We will not and cannot fund  only half of our Homeland Security.

Security is not a buffet where you get to pick and choose which  threats you acknowledge. House Republicans are aligned with the  President on this. We will not accept a funding bill that does not  support our homeland defenders, our ICE agents, and our Border Patrol.

If it is important to stop tragedies from happening at our airports  and everyone can agree on that, then it is equally important to stop  these events from happening at our borders and in our communities.

This week, the country felt the weight of Sheridan Gorman's death, a  tragedy that is compounded by the bitter reality that it was entirely  preventable and the result of Democrat policies that allow violent  criminals to walk our streets.

This loss is a grim reminder that when policies prioritize a radical  agenda and the protection of violent illegal aliens over the protection  of American citizens, it is innocent families that pay the ultimate  price.

We need to protect our citizens, and House Republicans will not vote  for an even slightly open border. We will not leave portions of our  homeland vulnerable while pretending the job is done. We know what  happens when the border is treated as an afterthought.

Under the Biden administration, America faced a national security  risk. More than 20 million illegal immigrants entered the United  States, straining our communities to the breaking point. Customs and  Border Patrol recorded more than 2 million illegal immigrants were able  to cross into the Nation without any record of who they were. That is  nearly double what they tracked during the prior decade.

Between fiscal year 2021 and fiscal year 2024, more than 388 illegal  aliens on the terrorist watch list attempted to cross the border and,  most alarming, at least 99 illegal aliens on that same watch list were  allowed into our country. We saw members from one of the most notorious  gangs in the world, MS-13, infiltrate our cities, leading to takeovers  like we saw in Aurora, Colorado.

That is the result of Democrat hope-based border vulnerability  strategies, but we do not operate on hope or whims. We operate on facts  and action.

Under the Trump administration, we have seen what happens when we  prioritize enforcement. In the last 10 months, zero illegal aliens have  been released into the United States. We have proven that when the law  is followed and the border is secured, our communities are safer and  Americans are protected.

The transformation of Homeland Security is further proof that the  U.S. Coast Guard seized nearly 510,000 pounds of cocaine in fiscal year  2025, a 200 percent increase compared to the annual average in previous  years, and yet, despite this clear progress, Democrats are choosing to  block DHS funding leading to this shutdown.

They would rather see the entire Department shuttered than to see our  borders secure. This is a simple, commonsense, 60-day, 8-week clean CR  so we can properly pay our homeland defenders and continue the  discussions.

It secures the border by fully funding the paychecks and resources  that we need. It protects our airports. It supports the President's  decisive leadership in allocating TSA funds. It keeps FEMA ready to  ensure our disaster response is not a casualty of the Democrat  shutdown, and it guarantees the men and women on the front lines are  paid for the critical work they do.

Mr. Speaker, the Senate bill is a nonstarter because it treats  national security as an optional expense. House Republicans will not  fund a half-baked idea that leaves our borders open and our communities  at risk.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  and the other side of the rotunda to stop holding our security hostage.  Join me in supporting this commonsense, 8-week CR and funding critical  needs.

Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from the other side of the  aisle can yell and swear all he wants. The reality is this CR is a  commonsense solution to fund critical needs and to continue the  discussion.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I would like to tell you  what is true about what Mr. McGovern said. It is true that last night,  after midnight, the Republican majority leader introduced a piece of  legislation on the floor of the Senate. It is true that no Republican  Senator objected to that. I can tell you, I am very disappointed in the  Republican leader and in the Republican Party over there for not  objecting to it.

I want to read, for the American citizens, what is written in the  bill because I want you to understand why we cannot accept, and it is  not in your best interest as American citizens for us to accept, the  language that the Senate sent over here. While this is boring, I do  think the words on the sheet of paper matter, and you need to  understand the consequences of accepting the language.

Section 4, Explanatory Statement: ``The explanatory statement  regarding this act, printed in the House section of the Congressional  Record on or about January 22, 2026, and submitted by the chair of the  Committee on Appropriations of the House, shall have the same effect  with respect to the allocation of funds and implementation of this act  as if it were a joint explanatory statement of a committee of  conference, except that all contents printed under the headings `U.S.  Immigration and Customs Enforcement' ''--that is what they want you to  think it is about, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--``and  `Border Security Operations' under the heading `U.S. Customs and Border  Protection' shall have no force or effect for purpose of this act, and  amounts specified in the `Final Bill' column under the subheading  `Border Security Operations' ''--not just ICE, but border security  operations--``and under the heading `U.S. Customs and Border  Protection' and under the heading `U.S. Immigration and Customs  Enforcement' in the `Department of Homeland Security Act, 2026' table  shall all be $0.''

That is what you are demanding, that we zero out Customs and Border  Protection so that the border can be open the way you want it to be  open, the way you did it under Joe Biden.

Mr. Speaker, I am disappointed in the Republican leader, and I am  disappointed in the Republicans in the Senate for not objecting to this  madness.

Mrs. FISCHBACH.  Foxx), the chair of the Rules Committee.

Mr. MOORE of West Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I am listening to the other  side of the aisle right now, and I want you to know what you are  hearing right now is desperation.

It is desperation because they are this close to their ultimate  objective, which is defunding ICE, CBP, and HSI, which, by the way,  they are going after the 300,000 unaccompanied minors you all let into  this country that no one can find. That is what is going on here right  now.

This bill that the Senate has passed, I am going to call it Hakeem's  dream. That is what this bill is. It is Hakeem's dream, but it is  America's nightmare. That is what this bill is.

This Chamber here on this side of the aisle, we are not only saying  no to that, we are saying hell no. We are not going to pass this.

The Speaker of the House of Representatives has stood up and said we  are not going to take this anymore. We are going to fund ICE, CBP, and  HSI, and we are going to put a stop to the madness that has been going  on in this country for far too long. It is time to make America safe  again.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to close this debate with a clear and  unwavering message to my colleagues across the aisle and across the  rotunda: you cannot fund only half of our Homeland Security.

There has been a lot of loud voices from the other side of the aisle.  I think they believe the louder they speak the more the American people  will believe them. The American people do understand that this CR makes  sense. It funds everything, people get paid, and it allows more time to  continue the discussion. This is the commonsense thing to do.

The proposal sent to us by the Senate in the dead of the night is not  a solution. It is a Swiss cheese funding bill defined by its holes and  deficiencies. While we all agree on the importance of protecting our  airports, the Senate plan operates on the hope that we can secure our  borders by using supplemental funds meant for construction and  technology to cover basic operational needs.

The current bill does not just ignore the border. It actively harms  our border security infrastructure. It keeps our cybersecurity experts  at CISA furloughed while adversaries target our networks. It leaves  FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund depleted and keeps our Coast Guard crews  from the training they need to operate in hazardous conditions.

Our 60-day CR ensures that over 100,000 DHS employees receive  paychecks. It ensures that investigations into drug trafficking, human  smuggling, and child exploitation can commence.

It ensures that our BioWatch systems remain active in over 30 major  cities to warn us of bioterrorism attacks.

The American people are tired of games. They do not want half- security or partial funding. They want a government that protects them  at the airport, at the hospital, and at the border.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stop holding our homeland  defenders hostage to push a radical open-border agenda. Support this  rule, support this CR, and let's get back to the business of securing  the entire United States.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:   An amendment to H. Res. 1142 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

Strike ``with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules       Committee Print 119-21''.

At the end, insert the following:

``Sec. 2. The Speaker is directed to sign the enrolled bill       no later than one calendar day after adoption, and the Clerk       is directed to present the bill to the President immediately       upon signature by the Senate President.''.