Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699227/supporting-pregnant-and-parenting-women-and-families-act


Mrs. FISCHBACH. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the opportunity  to speak. I am so proud to rise today in support of my legislation,  H.R. 6945, the Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families  Act.

For too long, previous Democrat administrations have weaponized the  Department of Health and Human Services against pregnancy resource  centers by attempting to cut off their Temporary Assistance for Needy  Families, or TANF, funding. This bill puts a definitive stop to that  harassment. It clarifies that these centers fundamentally meet the  statutory purposes of TANF by providing essential assistance to  children and expectant mothers.

The TANF block grant is built on four specific statutory goals, and  States have broad authority to pursue them all.

Let's look at the second goal: to ``end the dependence of needy  parents on government benefits through work, job preparation, and  marriage.'' Cash assistance alone does not end dependence. It often  merely just manages it. Pregnancy resource centers offer the best hope  of achieving this goal by providing parenting classes and life skills  training to help that mother move from a crisis to self-sufficiency.

Pregnancy centers are the backbone of community-based support. The  impact of their work is undeniable.

In 2024 alone, over 2,700 centers aided nearly 3.8 million women,  children, and families. These centers provided over $452 million in  total medical care, education, and material goods.

As Democrats continue to attack pregnancy care centers, I have asked  them repeatedly if they have ever visited a center, ever bothered to go  and see what they are talking about because if they had, they would see  the compassion, the support, and love that are present in these  facilities. These centers are staffed by trained men and women who  guide and support mothers, fathers, children, and families. They are  for the families from pregnancy through childbirth and beyond with  parenting classes and assistance such as formula, diapers, and whatever  else that family may need.

The attempt to strip TANF funding from these centers was never about  fiscal responsibility. It was a targeted, ideological attack on  organizations that provide a real alternative to abortion.

Democrats say choice, choice, choice over and over, but they try to  deny women the choice to choose life.

H.R. 6945 codifies the operations of TANF to ensure this funding  stream remains focused on its mission, helping needy families and  children, rather than serving as a tool for ideological gatekeeping.

I am incredibly proud of this bill, which protects the most  vulnerable among us and ensures that every woman facing adversity has  the options, resources, and support she deserves.