During Calls Hosted By New Hampshire's Emergency Operations Center, Senator Hassan Thanks State, Local Leaders for their Work to Confront COVID-19 Pandemic


During the regular calls with communities hosted by New Hampshire's Emergency Operations Center, U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan thanked state and local leaders for their work to confront the COVID-19 pandemic, and emphasized the need for leadership from the Trump administration to increase testing capacity and address supply chain issues. The New Hampshire Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management opened the State Emergency Operations Center in mid-March to bring together emergency management directors, first responders, municipal leaders, health officials, and other agency personnel to coordinate efforts to combat COVID-19.

 

"This pandemic has produced unique challenges for our state, and I know all of you are working around the clock to combat this virus while facing health risks yourselves," said Senator Hassan. "I have been working across the aisle at the federal level to help boost testing capacity and address supply chain issues. We are a strong and resilient state and we will get through this."

 

"First responders and state and local personnel across New Hampshire have been working hard to prevent the spread of the virus, serving NH citizens during this challenging time," said Jennifer Harper, Director of NH Homeland Security and Emergency Management. "I appreciate Senator Hassan for joining our call as we continue to discuss how to best support those on the front lines of this pandemic and protect the health and safety of our residents."

 

The CARES Act that Congress passed into law includes $150 billion in funding for state and local governments to help address the COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Hassan also recently worked with Dean Kamen, Governor Chris Sununu, and Senator Jeanne Shaheen to bring personal protective equipment to New Hampshire's frontline workers. Additionally, the Senator has repeatedly called on the Trump administration to expedite shipments of additional medical supplies to New Hampshire.