Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, considering whether to convict a President  of the United States on Articles of Impeachment is a solemn and  consequential duty, and I do not take it lightly. Even before we had a  country, our Founders put forward the notion of ``country first,''  pledging in the Declaration of Independence their lives, fortunes, and  sacred honor--a pledge they made to an idea, imagining and hoping for a  country where no one was above the law, where no one had absolute  power. 

  My dad, a World War II veteran, and my mom raised me to understand  that this is what made our country the unique and indispensable  democracy that it is. 

  My obligation throughout this process has been to listen carefully to  the case that the House managers put forward and the defenses asserted  by the President's lawyers, and then to carefully consider the  constitutional basis for impeachment, the intent of our Founders, and  the facts. 

  That is what I have done over the past few days. The Senate heard  extensive presentations from both sides and answers to the almost 200  questions that Senators posed to the House managers and the President's  advocates. 

  The facts clearly showed that President Trump abused the public's  sacred trust by using taxpayer dollars to extort a foreign government  into providing misinformation about a feared political opponent. 

  Let me repeat that. The President of the United States used taxpayer  money that had been authorized, obligated, and cleared for delivery as  critical military aid to Ukraine to try to force that country to  interfere in our elections. He violated the law and the public trust.  And he put our national security, and the lives of the Ukrainian  soldiers on the frontlines of Russian aggression at risk. 

  Although the country was alerted to the possibility that the  President had crossed a critical line because of revelations about his  now-infamous July 25 phone call, it is not the phone call alone that  led to the President's impeachment. Instead, the phone call was a  pivotal point in a scheme that had started earlier, spearheaded by  President Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani. 

  Mr. Giuliani has acknowledged that he was doing the President's  personal and political bidding when he engaged with the Ukrainian  government. 

  As the newly elected anti-corruption Ukrainian Government came into  power, in need of recognition and support from the United States,  President Trump forced officials from Ukraine and the United States to  negotiate through Mr. Giuliani, conflating his personal and political  interests with the national security and diplomatic interests of our  country. 

  And then, as President Zelensky resisted the request that he concoct  and announce a fake investigation into the Bidens, the President and  Mr. Giuliani increased the pressure. Suddenly, and without explanation  or a legally required notification to Congress, the President ordered  that previously approved and critically needed military aid to Ukraine  be held up. 

  Mr. Trump, at first through Mr. Giuliani, and then directly,  solicited interference with an American election from a foreign  government. And he ordered others in his administration to work with  Mr. Giuliani to ensure this scheme's success. 

  While there is still more evidence that the Senate should have  subpoenaed both witnesses and documents that would have given us a more  complete understanding of what happened, we know as much as we do  because of the courage and strength of American patriots who put  country before self--patriots like the intelligence community  whistleblower, who was followed by Army Lieutenant Colonel Vindman, and  former U.S. Ambassadors to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch and William  Taylor, as well as current members of the administration. 

  These Americans who came forward were doing exactly what we always  ask of citizens: If you see something wrong, you need to speak up;  ``See something, say something.'' It is a fundamental part of  citizenship to alert each other to danger, to act for the greater good,  to care about each other and our country without regard to political  party. 

  When Americans step forward, sometimes at real risk to themselves,  they rightly expect that their government will take the information  they provide and act to make them safer, to protect their fundamental  rights. That is the understanding between the American people and their  representative government. 

  While the brave women and men who appeared before the House did their  jobs, the Senate, under this majority, has unfortunately not. Rather  than gathering full, relevant testimony under oath and with the benefit  of cross-examination, the Senate majority has apparently decided that  despite what it has heard, it is not interested in learning more; not  interested in learning more about how a President, his personal agent,  and members of his administration corrupted our foreign policy and put  our Nation's security at risk; not interested in learning more about  how they planned to use the power of his office to tilt the scales of  the next election to ensure that he stays in power; not interested in  learning more about how they worked to cover it up. 

  Increasingly, over the last few days, the President's defense team  and more and more of my colleagues in the Senate have acknowledged the  facts of the  President's scheme. Their argument has shifted from ``He didn't do it''  to ``He had a right to,'' to ``He won't do it again,'' or even ``It  doesn't really matter.'' 

  I disagree so strongly. 

  The idea that in our country, established by the very rejection of a  monarchy, the President has absolute power is absurd, as is the idea  that this President, whose conduct is ultimately the cause of this  entire process, will suddenly stop. President Trump continues to invite  foreign powers to interfere with our elections, maintaining to this day  that ``it was a perfect call.'' 

  Our Founders knew that all people, all leaders, are fallible human  beings. And they knew that our system of checks and balances could  survive some level of human frailty, even in as important an office as  the Presidency. 

  The one thing that they feared it could not survive was a President  who would put self-interest before the interests of the American people  or who didn't understand the difference between the two. As citizen-in- chief, and one wielding enormous power, Presidents must put country  first. 

  Our Founders knew that we needed a mechanism to hold Presidents  accountable for behavior that violated that basic understanding and  that would threaten our democracy. And they provided a mechanism for  removal outside of the election process because of the immense damage a  President could do in the time between elections--damage, in the case  of this President's continuing behavior, to our national security and  election integrity. 

  Our Founders believed that they were establishing a country that  would be unique in the history of humankind, a country that would be  indispensable, built on the rule of law, not the whims of a ruler.  Generation after generation of Americans have fought for that vision  because of what it has meant to our individual and collective success  and to the progress of humankind worldwide. 

  That is the America that I have sworn an oath to protect. I will vote  in favor of both Articles of Impeachment because the President's  conduct requires it, Congress's responsibility as a coequal branch of  government requires it, and the very foundation and security of our  American idea requires it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT