Letter to the Hon. Donald J. Trump, President of the United States - NH Congressional Delegation Calls on the President to Swiftly Approve Governor Sununu's Disaster Declaration Request


Dear President Trump:

 We write in support of New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu's request for a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of New Hampshire in response to the Coronavirus Pandemic of 2019 (COVID-19). The Governor's request includes the statewide activation of Public Assistance: Emergency Protective Measures (Category B), all Individual Assistance programs, and Hazard Mitigation. As the nation faces the historic challenge of COVID-19, it is critical that communities across the United States receive the full and complete backing of the federal government.

 Health care workers, first responders, government officials, and other essential staff across the state continue to assist New Hampshire communities as we all work to respond to this pandemic. Many in our state are aiding the effort by self-isolating in their homes to deprive the virus of opportunities for possible transmission. Considered in total, these actions are heroic, purposeful, and necessary. However, the magnitude of this pandemic's impact is such that an effective response is beyond the capacity of state and local governments, justifying federal assistance. We urge you to support the state and its residents by leveraging your authorities under the Robert T. Stafford Act.

By approving the Governor's request for a Major Disaster Declaration, you will provide critical federal assistance to support local governments that are investing heavily to keep their residents safe. In addition, your activation of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA's) Individual Assistance programs will assist individuals and households experiencing a historic reduction in economic activity. As you are aware, Congress provided an additional $45 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to ensure that FEMA has the funding it needs to provide this critical assistance.

 We thank you for your consideration of this request.