Letter to President Donald Trump - Feinstein, Peters, Menendez, Colleagues Push to Waive Cost-Sharing Requirements for States Battling Coronavirus


Dear President Trump:

We write to urge you to direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide 100 percent cost-share for all states, tribes, territories, and the District of Columbia for the emergency declaration issued on March 13, 2020, and under any subsequent major disaster declaration for the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. States and territories across the country are currently assuming overwhelming costs for COVID-19 response while coping with massive reductions in revenue due to economic slowdown. It is the federal government's duty to aid these states in this critical hour. We cannot let them down. 

The COVID-19 pandemic is a disaster of unparalleled scale for our nation, and FEMA must adapt their response accordingly. For the first time in our nation's history, every state in the union has been issued a major disaster declaration, accompanied by your national emergency declaration on March 13. These issuances give FEMA the ability to assist and empower states in response to the crisis and support initiatives on the on the ground. We are encouraged by these efforts thus far, and know that they make a difference in our communities.

As the pandemic continues to spread, however, states are increasingly being put in impossible positions. Many state governments are slashing budgets and implementing layoffs at a time when Americans need support more than ever. These reductions are unsustainable and dangerous, and only the federal government has the capability to alleviate these concerns. Therefore, we urge you to increase FEMA's cost-share to the full 100 percent, to remove financial burdens from the states and enable them to maximize response efforts.

You have stated that our country is engaged in a fight against an "invisible enemy." This battle we face has presented unprecedented challenges, and therefore merits unprecedented actions from the federal government in response. We must come to the aid of our states as soon as possible, to combat the destructive impacts the virus will have on our public health and economy. Thank you for your consideration of our request.

Sincerely,