NH Delegation Pushes for Expanded Housing Options for Domestic Violence Survivors in Next Covid-19 Package


Amid concerns of increasing domestic violence as the COVID-19 pandemic continues, U.S. Senators Maggie Hassan and Jeanne Shaheen and Representatives Annie Kuster and Chris Pappas are pushing for additional funding to expand housing options for domestic violence survivors in the next COVID-19 emergency package.

"While public health experts continue to advise Americans to stay at home for their own safety, for victims of domestic violence, staying home with their abusers could be extremely dangerous. Victims of domestic violence and their children need places to stay where they can practice social distancing while also remaining safe from their abusers," the Congressional Delegation wrote in a letter to Congressional leadership.

The Congressional Delegation continued, "Any future COVID-19 legislation must contain additional funding and measures that address the housing needs of domestic violence victims. These measures could take many forms, such as through additional grant program funding, housing vouchers, or partnerships with hotels to house domestic violence victims in currently vacant rooms. And future legislation should recognize, expand and support the important work happening at the state level, in places like New Hampshire, to help victims and survivors of domestic violence."

As the Congressional Delegation notes in their letter, New Hampshire is leading efforts to address the rise in domestic violence as a result of COVID-19 by dedicating funding and resources for victims of domestic and sexual violence.

Additionally, the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation is working to provide more resources and services to domestic violence victims nationwide. Senators Hassan and Shaheen have called on Congressional leadership multiple times to include additional funding to support the victims of family violence, domestic violence and dating violence in the fourth COVID-19 legislative package.