NH Delegation Announces More Than $1.4 Million to Boost NH Hospitals' Readiness & Response Capabilities to COVID-19


Today, U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Chris Pappas (NH-01) announced that $1,451,902 will be awarded to the Foundation for Healthy Communities in support of its efforts to bolster and expand New Hampshire health care providers' readiness and response capabilities to the COVID-19 pandemic and other health care challenges. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) Hospital Preparedness Program, as a part of more than $350 million in hospital preparedness appropriations provided under the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that were passed by Congress and signed into law.

"As this public health emergency continues to impact New Hampshire, we need to do everything we can to ensure that our health care system has the resources needed to continue mitigating the spread of COVID-19 and care for those affected," said Senator Shaheen. "These federal dollars will deliver much needed assistance to hospitals throughout our state and will help bolster their ability to prepare for and respond to COVID-19 and other public health challenges that may arise. I'll continue to fight for the resources New Hampshire needs to protect the health of Granite Staters."

"Health care professionals have responded heroically to the demands of the COVID-19 pandemic and they must receive the support that they need to continue saving lives," Senator Hassan said. "This federal funding will help prepare our hospitals to respond to the challenges of public health emergencies, including the one that we are currently in. I will continue working to secure additional resources to support health care providers as they continue their life-saving work."  

"The COVID-19 pandemic has put immense pressure on New Hampshire's health care providers, and it is essential that they have the resources they need to continue caring for patients and combat the spread of the virus," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This CARES Act funding will provide much-needed support to our health care providers and strengthen the Granite State's overall response to this crisis and future health challenges. I will continue working to ensure New Hampshire has what it needs to weather this storm."

"For months our hospitals and health care providers have been working around the clock to treat and mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in our communities," said Congressman Pappas. "These additional federal dollars will support their ongoing efforts on the frontlines, and we must continue to collaborate with state and federal partners to ensure they have the resources they need to keep New Hampshire safe and healthy."