NH Delegation Announces Nearly $16 Million in Additional Funding Through CARES Act for NH Health Care Providers


Congressman Chris Pappas, U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH), and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) announced today with that New Hampshire health care providers received $15.95 million from a second installment of federal grants established under the bipartisan Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that was passed by Congress and signed into law. In total, the law includes $100 billion for health care providers. The first $30 billion was dispersed to providers throughout the country earlier this month and included $164.5 million for Granite State providers. An additional $10.8 billion will be soon be made available for providers in New Hampshire and across the country.

"This latest round of federal funds from the CARES Act is another crucial step in getting New Hampshire the resources we need to beat this virus, get back on our feet, and get our economy back to work," said Congressman Pappas. "We need a comprehensive approach to dealing with this pandemic that strengthens our hospitals, gets the necessary PPE and equipment to frontline health care workers, and rescues our Main Street small businesses. There is much more that must be done and as these funds arrive, I remain focused on advocating for New Hampshire priorities in subsequent response packages to address the full breadth and depth of this crisis."

"It's incredibly alarming that New Hampshire's hospitals have had to furlough workers during a global pandemic. Every effort needs to be made to make sure that our hospitals can fight this crisis and address the many health needs of our communities, which is why federal support is so important," said Senator Shaheen. "I continue to insist that Congress make every effort to support our health care providers on the frontlines of COVID-19. Further, the Trump administration must quickly disburse the remaining funding that Congress has approved while providing better guidance to providers on how to access this relief. I'll keep working across the aisle and with every level of government to see our state and country through this crisis."

"This additional CARES Act funding for New Hampshire hospitals will provide crucial support as they continue the fight against COVID-19--hospitals are under immense pressure right now as they work to secure the medical supplies they need while facing budgetary shortfalls," said Senator Hassan. "As the administration continues to implement the CARES Act, it must swiftly distribute the funding to all providers on the front lines of this crisis. Critically, the administration must also follow through on getting testing supplies and other necessities out to states. I'll continue to work with the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation to get our state the resources and support it needs to combat this pandemic."

"Hospitals across New Hampshire are doing a remarkable job responding to this unprecedented health crisis, but revenue shortfalls as a result of this pandemic have put immense financial strain on these facilities, forcing many to furlough workers," said Congresswoman Kuster. "Granite State hospitals need additional funding so that they can continue to care for patients and keep our communities safe. These resources are an important step but we must continue to push for more funding to our hospitals and health care providers in New Hampshire. We owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to all of our frontline workers -- I'll continue working to ensure that our health care workers, first responders, hospitals, and all who are on the frontlines have the necessary resources including personal protective equipment throughout this public health and economic crisis."

Following conversations with Granite Staters and during negotiations of the CARES Act, Shaheen called on Senate leadership to prioritize a number of health care-related issues in the legislation, including a boost in funding for health care providers on the front lines. Heeding a bipartisan call led by Shaheen and Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA), earlier this month, the Trump administration agreed to address Medicare's Accelerated and Advance Payments Program interest rates for health care providers on the frontlines of the coronavirus pandemic in future economic response legislation. To date, New Hampshire providers have received $689 million in upfront payments through this program to mitigate the economic shortfall caused by the pandemic.

In total, Congress has now provided $175 billion for grants for health care providers. Of that total, more than $135 billion has yet to be awarded.  The first $30 billion was dispersed to providers throughout the country earlier this month and included $164.5 million for Granite State providers.

The New Hampshire congressional delegation has fought to secure additional funding and supported numerous efforts to help the state in its response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Last week, Congress passed a fourth coronavirus response bill to replenish federal funds for small business assistance programs, bolster support for hospitals and providers on the frontlines and to ramp up testing for COVID-19. This legislation includes an additional $75 billion in health care provider grants.