NH Delegation Announces $3.6 Million in Funding Through CARES Act to Support Affordable Housing for Granite Staters


Congressman Chris Pappas (NH-10), along with U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) announced that housing authorities and agencies throughout New Hampshire will receive $3,594,661 through the CARES Act to support affordable housing for Granite Staters during the COVID-19 crisis. Specifically, funding was distributed through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Public Housing Operating Fund, which is used to support housing authorities in funding the operating and maintenance expenses of their buildings, and its Housing Choice Voucher Program, which is used to help low-income, disabled and elderly people afford safe and decent housing in the private market.

"I'm pleased to see that these federal funds will be heading to New Hampshire through HUD to support housing authorities that provide affordable housing options for Granite Staters," said Congressman Pappas. "Now more than ever as we battle the Coronavirus pandemic, we must ensure that New Hampshire has the necessary resources to guarantee the health and well-being of all our people -- that includes a safe place to live and to call home. This CARES Act funding will go a long way to bolstering our efforts to beat this virus, get back on our feet, and safely reopen our economy. I remain committed to advocating for every federal dollar available to help Granite Staters in that effort."

"As this pandemic continues to evolve, delivering urgently needed relief to Granite Staters has been my top priority," said Senator Shaheen. "I'm very glad HUD has awarded these funds, which will help boost access to affordable housing and provide many of our most vulnerable citizens with support as they are especially endangered by this crisis and are in desperate need of help. I'll continue to work in Congress to address the most pressing needs of our state and secure the critical funding and supplies it needs to combat this pandemic."

"As Granite Staters grapple with severe economic strains as well as increased health risks due to COVID-19, it's more important than ever that families' housing needs are met," said Senator Hassan. "This CARES Act funding will provide significant support for affordable housing all across our state, helping more families stay safe and healthy. I will keep working with our Congressional Delegation to support Granite Staters who are hardest hit as this unprecedented pandemic continues."

"In addition to the tremendous health consequences, the coronavirus pandemic has also had a far-reaching impact on the economic security of Granite Staters, particularly vulnerable individuals like those living in public housing," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This CARES Act funding will help protect the health and safety of the residents and staff of public housing in New Hampshire. It will prevent residents from experiencing economic ruin during this pandemic, and ensure housing authorities have the resources to protect their residents. I'm pleased this much-needed funding has been released, and I will continue working to provide all Granite Staters with the support they need during this crisis."