NH Delegation Announces $147 Million in Additional Funding That NH Can Expect From New Law to Respond to COVID-19


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a negotiator of the recent COVID-19 economic response legislation, and Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Chris Pappas (NH-01) announced $147 million that New Hampshire can expect from this new law that was signed by the President on Friday. This funding is in addition to the $1.25 billion that the state will receive to compensate for COVID-19 emergency response efforts. Further allocations to New Hampshire through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) and other response legislation will be announced as they become available.  

"Throughout this crisis, delivering desperately needed assistance to the Granite State has been my top priority," said Shaheen. "During negotiations, I was adamant that this bipartisan legislation help our state and local communities as Granite Staters work around the clock to respond to the spread of COVID-19. This funding will provide needed relief to our schools, public transit, health care workers, law enforcement and many other areas. This crisis is impacting every aspect of our society which is why state and local officials need these resources as soon as possible to protect local communities. I'm urging the Trump administration to quickly distribute this funding to our state, as time is of the essence."

"This pandemic is taking an unprecedented toll on public health and our economy, and our communities need substantial support for everything from medical supplies to child care and public transit," said Hassan. "On top of the $1.25 billion already announced for New Hampshire state and local government, this additional funding will help address some of the most pressing needs for our families and communities. We will keep working together as a Congressional Delegation and with the governor to get critical funding and supplies to those on the frontlines and communities across our state."

"The coronavirus outbreak has upended normal daily life in New Hampshire and across the country," said Kuster. "This additional funding will help sustain our communities and crucial aspects of our society, such as public transit, and ensure our valiant public health care workers have the childcare they need to save lives during this crisis.  I'll continue to actively monitor COVID-19 cases in New Hampshire and work to ensure our state has the resources it needs to adequately respond to this pandemic."

"New Hampshire needs every available resource to fight this virus, bolster our state and local response, and support our communities through this difficult time," said Pappas. "There is not one corner of our state or part of our daily lives that has not been affected been by this pandemic, and it is crucial that federal funds allocated to New Hampshire get to those who need them as quickly as possible. These are unprecedented times, and we must work together to realize a whole of government response that will keep people safe and keep our communities strong."

Additional funding that New Hampshire can expect from the CARES Act ($147 million total):

 

-$82.47 million for education which includes:   -$37.6 million for elementary and secondary schools.   -$36 million for higher education.   -$8.9 million for the Governor's Emergency Education Relief Fund.-$37.8 million to help sustain public transit during this crisis.-$6.94 million for child care, including for health care workers who are on the frontlines of this crisis -- this was a provision included in the legislation at the insistence of Senator Shaheen.-$5.45 million in additional funding for public health emergency preparedness.-$5.54 million in additional heating assistance for low-income families and seniors through LIHEAP.-$4.4 million in additional funding to support law enforcement and the prison system as they respond to COVID-19.-$3.26 million for state election assistance.-$427,000 for arts and $423,000 humanities funding.-$305,000 to support manufacturing in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis.

**Additional allocations to New Hampshire through the CARES Act and other COVID-19 response legislation will be announced as they become available.**

Earlier this month, New Hampshire received $4.9 million in initial funding to help the State prepare for COVID-19. This funding was made available by the first bipartisan coronavirus response bill which was strongly supported by the Delegation.