NH Delegation Announces More Than $641K in Federal Funding to Dartmouth in Support of Breast Cancer Research


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Chris Pappas (NH-01) today announced the award of $641,864 in federal funding to Dartmouth College in support of research efforts to improve the detection and diagnosis of breast cancer. Specifically, the grant will be used to develop and evaluate a new breast imaging system that will improve detection rates for breast cancer. This funding is distributed from the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) Cancer Detection and Diagnosis Research grant program. NCI is housed under the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

"Cancer research is a vital part of our fight for a cure, so I'm very encouraged to see this federal investment in Dartmouth's ongoing efforts," said Senator Shaheen. "These federal dollars will empower scientists and researchers with the resources they need to develop innovative and effective technology to improve detection and hopefully save more lives. Increasing the availability -- and improving the effectiveness -- of preventative and diagnostic screenings will continue to be a top priority for me so doctors can catch and treat cancer early."

"This federal grant will help researchers at Dartmouth College test a new and innovative technology to improve the accuracy of breast cancer diagnoses and help save lives," Senator Hassan said. "I will continue working with the rest of the New Hampshire delegation to fight for critical funding for New Hampshire's talented scientists and researchers, and help them stay on the cutting edge of medical advancements."

"Breast cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers among American women, and we have to pull out all the stops to prevent and fight back against this disease," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This funding will help support and develop a cutting edge breast imaging platform at Dartmouth College that could lead to earlier and more accurate diagnoses of breast cancer. I'm encouraged by this development and I will continue working to secure funding and resources for programs that invest in the health of Granite Staters and people across the country."

"There are so many people whose lives have been touched by cancer, and while progress has been made to prevent, diagnose, and treat cancer there is more work to be done," said Congressman Chris Pappas. "I'm pleased that these federal funds are returning to New Hampshire to support researchers at Dartmouth who will pursue technology to improve detection and treatment of breast cancer. Every advancement we can make in is this fight will save lives and improve outcomes."

Senator Shaheen has strongly supported efforts to increase funding for cancer research efforts. In the fiscal year (FY) 2020 government funding legislation signed into law in December, Shaheen supported a 6.6% increase in overall funding for NIH, from approximately $39.1 billion in FY 2019 to approximately $41.7 billion in FY 2020--an increase of $2.6 billion. Senator Shaheen has led a number of measures in the Senate to improve access to breast cancer screenings. In January, in response to a bipartisan call from Senators Shaheen and McSally (R-AZ) and following introduction of their bipartisan legislation to address the issue, the Department of Defense agreed to expand TRICARE coverage to include 3D mammography -- the most effective breast cancer screening option. And just last month, Shaheen worked with Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO) to introduce the Access to Breast Cancer Diagnosis Act to make breast cancer diagnostic tests more accessible and affordable.