NH Delegation Announces More Than $2.4 Million to Expand COVID-19 Testing in NH Community Health Centers


Congressman Chris Pappas (NH-01), U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH), and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) announced that $2,404,930 will be awarded to community health centers throughout New Hampshire to expand their COVID-19 testing capabilities. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and is part of $583 million that has been distributed nationally to community health centers as part of funds appropriated by the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act that was passed by Congress and signed into law in last month.

By standing firm in negotiations on the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, Senator Shaheen and the delegation helped secure $25 billion in funding for a nationwide effort to ramp up testing capacity.

"Community health centers play an instrumental role in delivering quality care most vulnerable, and this additional federal support could not have come at a more pivotal time," said Congressman Pappas. "As we begin to re-open our economy, this increased funding and testing capacity will ensure we are securing the health and well-being of our communities and responding effectively to this pandemic."

"We must dramatically ramp up testing to understand the full scope of the spread of this virus in our communities, which is critical to shaping public health guidelines and social distance practices that have helped keep people safe," said Senator Shaheen. "Our community health centers in New Hampshire and across the nation have an especially important role to play in achieving this objective. By ensuring they have the funding they need to increase their testing capacities, we will significantly improve our ability to track the spread of COVID-19 and ensure those who need treatment can get the help they need. Though I'm pleased this funding is out the door, we still have much work to do, and I'll continue to work across the aisle until we reach a point where anyone who needs a test can get it without hindrance or delay."

"Community Health Centers are working hard to support their patients during this difficult time, and they must receive the federal resources necessary to continue to provide high-quality, affordable health care to Granite Staters," Senator Hassan said. "This additional federal funding will help Community Health Centers ramp up their testing capacity, and I will continue working with the rest of the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation to ensure that our frontline workers have what they need to safely combat this deadly virus and keep people safe."

"Expanding the availability of reliable COVID-19 testing is key to combating this public health crisis," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This funding will enable Granite State community health centers, which play a vital role in protecting vulnerable populations, to increase their testing capacity while also keeping patients and staff safe. I'm pleased by this positive development and will continue working to ensure New Hampshire has the resources and support it needs to effectively respond to the COVID-19 pandemic."