NH Delegation Announces More than $356K for New Efficient Vehicles for Nashua Public Transit


Today, U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Chris Pappas (NH-01) announced a $356,046 Low or No Emission Grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to replace the three oldest vehicles in the Nashua Transit System's fleet -- two 2009 diesel vans and one 1999 gasoline-powered supervisor vehicle -- with two new hybrid electric gasoline vans and one fully electric car and electric charging station. These new vehicles will reduce emissions from the city's fixed route fleet while also increasing fuel efficiency.

"This grant is a win-win as it will deliver new vehicles to transport Nashua residents while reducing environmental impact and fuel costs," said Senator Shaheen, who advocated for this funding as a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "I'm proud to announce this funding and will continue to work across the aisle to advocate for investments in our aging transportation infrastructure and public transit systems in New Hampshire."

"I'm pleased that Nashua will receive this federal funding to replace some of their oldest vehicles with eco-friendly ones," said Senator Hassan. "I will continue to work with the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation to prioritize investments like these that support communities and our environment."

"Climate change poses a serious threat to our environment and our economy in the Granite State, and public transportation can play an important role in reducing carbon emissions," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This funding will enable the city of Nashua to acquire more environmentally-friendly public transportation vehicles, helping to reduce carbon pollution. I will continue to fight for resources to support the expansion of clean energy initiatives in New Hampshire and work to combat climate change to protect our environment for future generations."

"I'm pleased to see these federal funds coming to New Hampshire to support public transit, specifically for buses that will improve service and reduce emissions," said Congressman Pappas. "As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to advocate for New Hampshire's transit needs. Now is the time for a bold infrastructure package to help create good paying jobs, finish important projects, and increase economic opportunity as we emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic."