Senator Hassan Statement on President Trump Signing U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement


U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan, a member of the Senate Finance Committee who voted to advance the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), released the following statement after President Trump signed into law the bipartisan bill implementing the trade agreement:

 

"The USMCA is a real win for businesses, consumers, and workers. In particular, the bipartisan trade agreement will help to level the playing field for New Hampshire businesses and expand markets for our dairy farmers. And importantly, during the process for considering the agreement, Republicans and Democrats came together in good-faith efforts to help support businesses while also including labor and environmental enforcement standards. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to help our economy grow so that communities in New Hampshire and across the country can thrive."

The USMCA is supported by key business groups in New England.

 

Business & Industry Association of NH President Jim Roche said, "BIA is pleased Senator Hassan supports the United States Mexico Canada Agreement. This is an important trade pact for New Hampshire businesses, particularly manufacturers and technology companies. Our North American neighbors make up the state's largest trading bloc. Approval of USMCA will protect jobs and maintain New Hampshire's access to a $1.4 billion market."

 

New England Council President & CEO Jim Brett stated, "The importance of trade with Canada and Mexico for New England cannot be overstated, and USMCA will be a huge boost for our region's economy. In 2018 alone, New Hampshire exported just over $1 billion in goods to Canada and Mexico -- $13 billion for our region -- and trade with these two nations supported tens of thousands of jobs in New Hampshire. Whether it's protecting intellectual property, ensuring data can flow across borders, or implementing strong enforcement measures, businesses throughout New England will benefit from USMCA and we are grateful for Sen. Hassan's support."

 

Earlier this month, Senator Hassan visited Contoocook Creamery to discuss the impact of the USMCA on dairy farmers. When the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on the possible agreement last summer, Senator Hassan questioned former Agriculture Secretary and current President & CEO of the U.S. Dairy Export Council, Tom Vilsack, on the importance of strong enforcement mechanisms of the dairy provisions impacting New Hampshire farmers, as well as the impact the USMCA would have on New Hampshire's small businesses.