Senator Hassan Releases Statement on Bipartisan Coronavirus Legislation that Passed the House


Following the U.S. House of Representatives' overwhelming bipartisan vote to pass a coronavirus package, Senator Maggie Hassan released the following statement:

 "As the coronavirus pandemic continues to grow, it is hurting the health and financial stability of Americans. I am glad that congressional leaders and the administration agreed on a coronavirus package with critical provisions including free testing for anyone whose doctor recommends it, nutrition assistance, a major increase in Medicaid funding that will help support states, and paid emergency leave for those who cannot work because they are sick, caring for loved ones, or in quarantine. I urge Senator McConnell to quickly bring this package to the floor for a vote and urge President Trump to sign it without delay.

 "The coronavirus pandemic requires all of us to come together and do what we can to limit the spread of the virus and support each other. I urge all Granite Staters to continue to follow flu prevention protocols and practice social distancing -- which means taking steps like not shaking hands or attending large events -- and I remain steadfast in my commitment to continue working with public health officials in our state and members of both parties in Congress to address the coronavirus."

 This week, Senator Hassan joined a group of senators urging the president to consider disaster and emergency declaration requests so that states can utilize additional funding in their efforts to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus and protect public health, and today, the President declared a national emergency. 

 Senator Hassan has been sounding the alarm on the need for additional federal funding and access to public information as the coronavirus spreads. This week, Shaheen and Hassan pushed Trump administration officials to provide necessary support to students and workers impacted by the coronavirus. Both senators supported bipartisan government funding legislation to help states' response efforts, which was signed into law. The CDC disbursed the initial $4.9 million funds for New Hampshire included in that funding package earlier this week.