Senator Hassan Applauds Passage of U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement


Senator Maggie Hassan today voted to send bipartisan legislation implementing the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to the President for his signature. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee, Senator Hassan helped to advance the bill, citing feedback from New Hampshire businesses and workers, as well as improved labor and enforcement standards. The deal is also supported by key New Hampshire business leaders.

 

"I applaud today's passage of the USMCA, which will help to level the playing field for New Hampshire businesses and consumers, support our small businesses and dairy farmers, and cut red tape for our businesses," Senator Hassan said. "Thanks to the good-faith efforts of Democrats and Republicans alike, the USMCA will help businesses and consumers thrive and includes key labor and environmental enforcement standards. I will keep working with members of both parties on critical priorities to support economic growth and expand opportunity for all Granite Staters and Americans."

 

The USMCA is supported by key business groups in New England.

 

Business & Industry Association of NH President Jim Roche said, "BIA is pleased Senator Hassan supports the United States Mexico Canada Agreement. This is an important trade pact for New Hampshire businesses, particularly manufacturers and technology companies. Our North American neighbors make up the state's largest trading bloc. Approval of USMCA will protect jobs and maintain New Hampshire's access to a $1.4 billion market."

 

New England Council President & CEO Jim Brett stated, "The importance of trade with Canada and Mexico for New England cannot be overstated, and USMCA will be a huge boost for our region's economy. In 2018 alone, New Hampshire exported just over $1 billion in goods to Canada and Mexico -- $13 billion for our region -- and trade with these two nations supported tens of thousands of jobs in New Hampshire. Whether it's protecting intellectual property, ensuring data can flow across borders, or implementing strong enforcement measures, businesses throughout New England will benefit from USMCA and we are grateful for Sen. Hassan's support."

 

Last week, Senator Hassan visited Contoocook Creamery to discuss the impact of the USMCA on dairy farmers. When the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on the possible agreement last summer, Senator Hassan questioned former Agriculture Secretary and current President & CEO of the U.S. Dairy Export Council, Tom Vilsack, on the importance of strong enforcement mechanisms of the dairy provisions impacting New Hampshire farmers, as well as the impact the USMCA would have on New Hampshire's small businesses.