Senator Hassan Discusses COVID-19 Response with NH Medical Society and Clinicians Across New Hampshire


U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan, a member of the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee, held a discussion today with the NH Medical Society and clinicians across New Hampshire to thank them for their efforts and hear directly about their most pressing needs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Hassan recently joined the rest of the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation in announcing $164.5 million to New Hampshire health care providers as a result of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act that was recently passed by Congress and signed into law.

 

On the call, Senator Hassan discussed the need for additional resources to medical professionals on the front lines, including testing supplies and personal protective equipment, and how Congress is working across the aisle to react to emerging needs and provide additional support.

 

"As our state continues to grapple with the unprecedented impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, I spoke with clinicians on the front lines who are working around-the-clock to get Granite Staters the care that they need," Senator Hassan said. "I am pleased that additional federal funding has already made its way to hospitals in the state, however, far more resources will be needed in order to help hospitals and smaller practices safely and effectively treat patients amid this pandemic."

 

"I want to thank Senator Hassan for taking the time to speak with our members about the issues that physicians on the front lines of this crisis are facing as they work to confront this deadly virus," said Jim Potter, Executive Vice President of the NH Medical Society. "This public health challenge is unlike any that we have faced, and I am grateful for Senator Hassan's continued advocacy on behalf of Granite State physicians and patients."

 

Senator Hassan is working to get health care facilities the funding and resources that they need to confront this pandemic. The Senator voted in favor of the bipartisan CARES Act, which is now law, and provides more than $100 billion to help hospitals and frontline health care workers scale up their capacity to treat more patients, purchase essential supplies and personal protective equipment, and cover the costs related to hospitals cancelling elective procedures. Senator Hassan recently worked with Dean Kamen, Governor Chris Sununu, and Senator Jeanne Shaheen to bring approximately 91,000 pounds of personal protective equipment to New Hampshire's frontline workers. The Senator has also repeatedly called on the Trump administration to expedite shipments of additional medical supplies to New Hampshire.