Senator Hassan Honors 2019 Granite Staters of the Month in Manchester


Senator Maggie Hassan honored the New Hampshire citizens she recognized in 2019 as Granite Staters of the Month this past Saturday in Manchester, where she commended them for all that they have done to help their fellow citizens, improve their communities, and build a stronger state and country.

"This year's Granite Staters of the Month embody what it means to be active and engaged community members," Senator Hassan said. "From sending care packages to our troops overseas, to working to combat the substance misuse epidemic, to improving the lives of those less fortunate, I applaud these exemplary citizens for all that they have done to better their communities."

 

Senator Hassan recognized the following individuals and groups in 2019:

 

·       January: Evelyn Ellis-Haines of Belmont for launching a clothing drive that collected more than 700 items that were donated to her community's largest family shelter.

 

·       February: Heather McGlauflin of New Boston for working with a variety of organizations since she was a sophomore in high school to help prevent substance misuse among young people.

 

·       March: Gerald Kotkowski of Hampton for serving as a volunteer driver to help people undergoing cancer treatment, as well as those who experience visual impairments.

 

·       April: Thaddeus Luszey Jr. of Hudson for co-founding Operation Care for Troops, which has sent nearly 110,000 packages to deployed service members.

 

·       May: Elizabeth Guillotte of Hill and Richard "Ricky" Mazur of Franklin for revamping "Karma Korner" at their school, which gives students in need a space to pick up free basic necessities.

 

·       June: Students from Gilford High School's Introduction to Engineering class for successfully creating personalized, easy-to-use mobility devices for three young students in their community who experience disabilities.

 

·       July: Caroline Dillon of Rochester for her work ensuring that every public high school and middle school in New Hampshire provides free menstrual products to students who cannot afford them.

 

·       August: Erik Becker of Lancaster for taking on a variety of roles in his North Country community to lend support to those in need, including handing out free lunches over the summer months and supporting individuals struggling with substance misuse.

 

·       September: Brooke Mills of Concord for working to raise awareness about concussions, including helping successfully establish National Concussion Awareness Day.

 

·       October: Lilie Murray of Rye for mobilizing members her community to help those in need, including organizing a clothing drive, raising money to buy washers and dryers for families after the neighborhood laundromat shut down, and building a reading nook for children at a community recreation center.

 

·       November: Captain Gregory Ferry of Hooksett for his leadership in strengthening the partnership between New Hampshire's law enforcement and the Special Olympics.

 

·       December: Melissa Matthews and Belle Rae Zachesky/Copp of Raymond for seeking to turn their own grief into positive change and mental wellness for their community.

 

To read a Medium article that the Senator published highlighting some of last year's Granite Staters of the Month, click here.

 

Senator Hassan launched the "Granite Stater of the Month" initiative in 2017 to recognize outstanding New Hampshire citizens who go above and beyond to help their neighbors and make their communities stronger.