Senator Hassan Announces Support for US-Mexico-Canada Agreement


Citing improved labor and enforcement standards, as well as feedback from New Hampshire businesses and workers, U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan said today that she will support the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement when the Senate Finance Committee, on which she serves, considers the trade agreement tomorrow.

 

"International trade -- when done right -- helps business and consumers alike by expanding opportunity, reducing costs, and boosting economic growth. In evaluating any trade deal, including the USMCA, I use two key benchmarks. First, trade deals must help to level the playing field for New Hampshire's and our country's innovative businesses that are competing in the global economy. And second, trade deals must contain strong enforcement mechanisms that protect workers, consumers, and the environment. After carefully considering the provisions and listening to businesses and people across our state, I believe that the bipartisan USMCA now meets both those standards, and I support implementing this agreement," said Senator Hassan.

 

Senator Hassan continued, "I am particularly pleased that the agreement boosts New Hampshire businesses' ability to be competitive in the global economy, cuts red tape and tariffs for small exporters, and removes long-standing trade barriers that have prevented dairy farmers in New Hampshire and other states from accessing the Canadian market. And in addition to the strong labor and environmental enforcement mechanisms, the agreement also helps protect consumers from soaring pharmaceutical prices by eliminating provisions that would have shielded brand-name drugs from competition. I appreciate the diligence and good-faith efforts of both Democratic and Republican negotiators on the USMCA, and I will continue to work across the aisle to promote trade that boosts our New Hampshire economy and protects workers and consumers alike."

 

The Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over trade policy, is scheduled to discuss and vote on legislation to implement the USMCA tomorrow. If approved by the Senate Finance Committee, the bill to implement the USMCA will go to the floor of the Senate for final approval.