Senator Hassan Speaks Remotely with Fourth Grade Students at Exeter's Lincoln Street School


U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan joined a virtual discussion with fourth grade students at Exeter's Lincoln Street School, who have been learning remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic. The class's scheduled visit to the State House was canceled due to COVID-19, and Senator Hassan wanted to give the students the opportunity to ask questions about her experience as Governor and now as Senator.

 On the call, the Senator recognized the challenges that the students are facing while tele-learning and applauded the students for their hard work, "I know that it's been quite an adjustment doing school from home, and I am really proud of everybody for how hard they have pitched in to do that because I know it's a different kind of day and I know it must be a particular kind of challenge for your parents too. Good work everybody, because what we really want to do right now is to work together to stay safe and healthy but keep learning too. It's just really important that you're all hunkering down and doing your work even though it's an unusual time."

 The Senator continued, "I raised my family in Exeter, and both of my children, Ben and Meg, went to Lincoln Street School, so it's a place and a school I know well and I'm happy to be here with you this morning."

 The Senator answered questions from the students on what it is like to work in Congress, why she decided to enter into public service, and whether she prefers being a Senator or a Governor.   

 The Senator is working to support students during this challenging time and ensure that they have the tools and resources that they need to keep up with their studies as they learn from home. Senator Hassan supported bipartisan COVID-19 response legislation, which is now law, that provides emergency funding for public schools and colleges, including funding for needed technology for remote learning and increased sanitation needs. The Senator has also urged the Federal Communication Commission to provide Wi-Fi hotspots or devices with Wi-Fi capability to students who lack internet access at home.