Funding Cuts to Science


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695749/funding-cuts-to-science


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today because we face a critical  moment for American leadership.

Amid mounting pressure to compete with China in energy,  biotechnology, and AI dominance, any smart country would invest in  itself and invest in the future. Unfortunately, this administration  seems committed to doing the exact opposite.

Funding cuts to the National Institutes of Health and the National  Science Foundation have kneecapped the world-class research ecosystem  that has made America great in the 20th century.

The politicization of science hurts the health and well-being of  hardworking American citizens, and it compromises our ability as a  nation to compete with other nations.

During August, I held a townhall with hundreds of my constituents who  are researchers and graduate students in science, technology,  engineering, and math. During the townhall, I discussed the dangers of  this administration's agenda for public health, national security, and  global competitiveness, and they asked that I tell you some of their  stories.

One researcher studies ocean and Earth sciences at San Diego's  prestigious Scripps Institution of Oceanography. Her research focuses  on addressing the threats that toxic algal blooms pose to public  health, fisheries, and coastal recreation.

With cuts to NASA, NOAA, and the National Science Foundation, she has  seen labs at Scripps shut down and watched her coworkers lose their  jobs.

Another scientist whose research focuses on ensuring energy security  has felt the consequences of this administration's policy. She has had  her research censored by an administration that is indifferent to and  may be hostile to scientific research. She has watched critical  datasets and research tools disappear from government websites  overnight. As she so aptly put it: ``I have sacrificed so much of my  livelihood for the betterment of our planet, only to see it all burn  down in less than half a year.''

Myiesha, a researcher at UCSD, overcame her own traumatic brain  injuries and chronic illnesses so she could study the effects of  infectious diseases on vulnerable patients. Now, Myiesha faces a new  challenge: overcoming an administration that has cut her authorized  research, cut her working hours almost in half, and cut her income  significantly.

Mari is a Ph.D. candidate studying biomedical sciences at UCSD. She  researches the neuroscience behind drug addiction so we can fight the  opioid crisis. Just as her field gained momentum--overdose deaths  declined in 2024 for the first time in over two decades--her lab was  threatened with funding cuts. Mari has watched her lifesaving research  be halted and had two of her own fellowship applications withdrawn  because of the administration's actions.

Eugene is a Ph.D. candidate at Scripps. He is researching how to  repurpose bacteria to stop certain cancer-causing proteins. The lab  next door to Eugene's was doing a $129 million trial on monkeys,  working to develop an HIV vaccine. After the Trump administration  canceled the lab's grant, the monkeys were killed needlessly, funding  already spent was wasted, and patients will now have to wait even  longer before we find an HIV vaccine.

Maya, a UCSD grad, cofounded BrainStorm Therapeutics, a biotech  startup researching treatments for brain diseases like Alzheimer's,  Parkinson's, and epilepsy. Maya has seen the grants that support  startups like hers cut. This threatens the transformational science  that she and her colleagues are working on.

The final story I will tell, and maybe the most emblematic of the  issue, is that of Dr. Ardem Patapoutian. He is a world-renowned  researcher who won the Nobel Prize for his work on researching the  sense of touch.

Mr. Speaker, I think we can all agree that is the kind of talent we  strive to encourage in this country.

When his research funding was delayed by the Trump administration,  Dr. Patapoutian received a call from China within 2 days. They offered  him his pick of whatever research institution he wanted in China,  guaranteeing his funding for the next 20 years.

Although his funding is still delayed, Dr. Patapoutian chose to stay  here because of the world-class research ecosystem in the United States  that is currently being eroded and under attack.

These stories show the risks we take when we cut funding that  supports critical scientific advancement. China is far outpacing us in  the research and development space. If we are going to keep up, we have  to put up. If those of us in this body are truly serious about putting  America first, this is simply not the way.

It is encouraging that, despite the administration's attempt to  politicize science, a bipartisan bloc of the Senate Appropriations  Committee has chosen to modestly increase scientific research funding  rather than cut it. I am very thankful for that. I hope we will do the  same here in the House.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the commitment to investing in America's  future. We in the House should do the same. We need to invest in  science and not undercut it.