International Boundary and Water Commission Authority


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692166/international-boundary-and-water-commission-authority


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 1948, allows the International Boundary  and Water Commission, or IBWC, to accept up to $5 million per year from  other Federal agencies or outside entities like cities, States, and  nonprofit organizations for wastewater treatment and flood control  projects like those that would fight the cross-border sewage crisis in  and around San Diego and Coronado.

The IBWC has jurisdiction over the South Bay International Wastewater  Treatment Plant in San Diego, where longstanding operational and  maintenance failures have allowed raw sewage to flow from the Tijuana  River onto San Diego's beaches. This has created a public health crisis  that strains local resources, poses significant environmental risks,  and forces servicemembers to train in polluted sewage water.

Under current law, Federal agencies, State governments, and local  entities cannot transfer funds to projects under IBWC's jurisdiction.  This leaves IBWC solely reliant on annual appropriations or emergency  funding to build and maintain its facilities.

My office, along with the rest of the San Diego delegation and our  California senators, have worked hard to secure $360 million in  emergency funding to help address chronic issues at the South Bay  International Wastewater Treatment Plant. This bill would provide  another tool to ensure that San Diego and Coronado do not need to move  from emergency to emergency to secure adequate funding for this plant.

I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who have helped move  the ball forward on this issue, including the San Diego delegation, our  California senators, and my colleagues who are former Navy SEALs, who  understand the harm of training in these polluted waters.

I also thank the cities of San Diego, Coronado, Imperial Beach, the  San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, San Diego Coastkeeper,  WILDCOAST, and other San Diegans who have made stopping this  catastrophe a top priority.