Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, my amendment includes the language from my  bill, H.R. 1948, allowing the International Boundary and Water  Commission, or IBWC, to accept up to $5 million per year from other  Federal agencies or outside entities, such as cities, States, and  nonprofit organizations, for wastewater treatment and flood-control  projects like those that would fight the cross-border sewage crisis in  San Diego.

The IBWC has jurisdiction over the South Bay International Wastewater  Treatment Plant in San Diego, where longstanding operational and  maintenance failures have allowed raw sewage to flow from the Tijuana  River into San Diego's beaches. This has created a public health crisis  that strains local resources, poses significant environmental risks,  and forces our servicemembers to train in polluted sewage water.

Under current law, Federal agencies, State governments, and local  entities cannot transfer funds to projects under IBWC's jurisdiction.  This leaves IBWC reliant on annual appropriations or emergency funding  to build and maintain its facilities.

My office, along with the rest of the San Diego delegation, has  secured $360 million in emergency funding to help address chronic  issues at the South Bay treatment plant. I thank all of the people in  this Chamber who have supported that, including a number of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle who are veteran Navy SEALs  and have been very concerned about this issue.

This amendment would provide another tool to ensure San Diego does  not need to move from emergency to emergency to secure adequate funding  for the plant. If we can get money from other sources, there is no  reason not to accept it. For some reason, current law prevents us from  accepting even a donation from a nonprofit that would want to help us  with the issue.

Mr. Chair, I say let's get out of the way. H.R. 1948 passed out of  the House on suspension in June of this year, and I hope to see it  become law on any topical legislative vehicle before us. In this case,  our amendment would authorize additional funding sources to further  expedite the completion of clean water projects that fall under IBWC's  jurisdiction. I think it makes sense and is good for everyone.

Mr. Chair, I appreciate the support of my colleagues, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PETERS. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the support of my colleague,  the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Rouzer), and the committee. I  urge support of the amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.