Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Waste Emissions Charge for Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems: Procedures for Facilitating Compliance, Including Netting and Exemptions''


Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to strongly oppose efforts to repeal the  waste emissions charge, commonly known as the methane fee, which is a  commonsense measure that benefits American industry, protects  consumers, and provides much-needed regulatory certainty in the energy  sector.

Addressing methane emissions, especially fugitive emissions from oil  and gas, is one of the most effective ways to combat the climate  crisis, protect public health, and ensure America's energy sector  remains globally competitive.

Methane has a global warming potential 80 times higher than carbon  dioxide over a 20-year period, meaning that even small leaks can erase  the climate benefits of utilizing cleaner energy sources.  Unfortunately, methane regulations have been caught in a cycle of  constant change.

The first Trump administration repealed methane regulations from the  previous administration. When President Biden took office, we led  efforts to reinstate these crucial protections. Then, in 2022, House  Democrats passed the Inflation Reduction Act, which not only reinstated  strong methane controls but also implemented a market-driven approach  to reducing waste, the methane fee.

The methane fee is not a blanket tax on energy production. I think  the gentleman from Virginia suggested that this was a tax on small  polluters. Actually, it is a tax only on larger emitters because it is  only applied for 25,000 metric tons annually, so it is on the larger  ones.

It is designed to encourage companies to capture more methane rather  than venting or leaking it. The methane fee provides proof to consumers  and competitors that we are serious about producing the cleanest, most  efficient natural gas on the market.

Repealing the fee would hurt American industry by eliminating  incentives to modernize operations and remain competitive in an  international market that increasingly values low-emission energy.

Now, I am supposed to get up here and bash Big Oil, but actually, Big  Oil is for the methane fee. The largest companies--ExxonMobil,  TotalEnergies, and Cheniere Energy--support strong methane rules. They  oppose this repeal because they know reducing waste makes business  sense. How is that? Because the customers for our gas around the  world--Korea, South Korea, Japan, the EU--are demanding cleaner gas.

These companies know that the methane fee demonstrates that our gas  is cleaner. Also, the consumer demand from those customers has led to  the development of technologies to detect methane, its presence, and  its concentration in a way that we can make much more efficient ways to  regulate it.

A repeal would undercut responsible producers who have invested in  cutting-edge methane detection and capture technologies that make them  globally competitive.

Even if this CRA passes today, the problem doesn't simply disappear.  My colleagues on the other side never miss a chance to point out that  the natural gas revolution has contributed to our historic energy  independence and cut our CO2 emissions from energy  production. That is true, but even small leaks of methane wipe out that  advantage from a climate perspective.

World markets and domestic politics are demanding that the industry  can prove with real credibility and transparency that we fixed this  methane problem. It is increasingly apparent that the viability of  exporting U.S. liquefied natural gas depends on American policies to  address methane pollution.

If we don't do this, we are going to have to pass bipartisan  legislation to do the same thing to ensure that the industry standards  provide for the cleanest, most efficient natural gas production.

Industry and ratepayers have asked us for certainty, consistency, and  an assurance that America will remain a global leader in energy  production and resilience. The customers want this to happen. The large  producers want this to happen. I don't see why Democrats and  Republicans can't agree on this.

We need long-term solutions, not more political whiplash. I urge my  colleagues to stand with responsible energy producers and American  consumers to reject efforts that repeal this vital provision.