-9999


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, a few days ago the U.S. House of  Representatives--and the House Armed Services Committee--bid farewell  to one of its most invaluable, talented, professional staff experts:  Mr. John Phillips MacNaughton, Jr.

At the end of January, Phil, as he is known, completed 30 years of  public service to our Nation. That service began as a plebe entering  the U.S. Naval Academy in 1996, continued as a naval aviator who flew  missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as missions all over the  world, and then transitioned to Capitol Hill, where he worked as a  staff member at the Navy Office of Legislative Affairs and finally as a  director on the Armed Services Committee. As so many in the Navy and  Congress can attest, our country benefited from his experience,  knowledge, judgement and wisdom at every post he was assigned to. He  retired from the U.S. Navy Reserve holding the rank of Commander and  received well deserved commendations and medals for his outstanding  service.

Mr. Speaker, as both the Chair and Ranking Member of the Seapower and  Projection Forces Subcommittee to which Phil devoted much of his time  on the Hill, I had the privilege of seeing up close his work in action.  The Seapower Subcommittee has a long tradition of bipartisan success,  thanks in large part to Phil's ability to rise above partisan  squabbling and work with Members and staff from both sides of the  aisle. When Phil first came to the committee, Congressman Ike Skelton,  the 14th Chair of the Armed Services Committee, took him under his wing  and gave him an education on how to successfully navigate the sprawling  annual task of passing the National Defense Authorization Act. He could  not have learned from a better teacher.

At Seapower, Phil diligently followed the north star of the  Constitution's mandate in Article One, Section 8, Clause 13, that  ``Congress shall provide and maintain a Navy''. He recognized, as did  the founders, that the United States is a maritime Nation and ensuring  a strong fleet is essential to our success and national security.  During his time, the National Defense Authorization Act plussed up Navy  shipbuilding every year above the budgets submitted by Presidents Bush,  Obama, Trump 1.0, Biden, and Trump 2.0. Programs at the high end of  complexity, such as the Columbia and Virginia class submarines, and at  the lower end, like supply ships and the maritime training ships, all  grew because of Phil's work.

In 2023, Phil was at the epicenter of what could be described as the  pinnacle of his Congressional service, namely, passing the AUKUS  legislative authorities which brought that critical security agreement  for Australia, the U.K. and the U.S. to life. Operating under a very  tight legislative timeline, Phil tirelessly worked with House and  Senate committees--many outside of the Armed Services Committees--as  well as the Pentagon, State Department and the Embassies of Australia  and the U.K. to ensure that all necessary legal authorities fell into  place when the measure was signed into law in December 2023.

Mr. Speaker, Ambassador Kevin Rudd from Australia described Phil's  work as follows:

Mr. MacNaughton played an integral role in drafting and       shepherding through the groundbreaking AUKUS authorizing       legislation in 2023. Over the course of his time working with       our Embassy, he has shown deep expertise and incredible work       ethic to help take AUKUS where it is today. He has helped to       strengthen the bilateral relationship between our countries       and advance our Alliance collaboration at a critical       strategic moment. He is a much-valued friend of Australia.

H.E. Dr. Kevin Rudd AC, Australia's Ambassador to the       United States.

As Phil departs, it can truly be said that his work here on Capitol  Hill made a difference, and over time as subs and ships are launched,  and our alliance with Australia and the U.K. deepens and grows, he can  look back with great satisfaction for time well spent.

To him, his wife Micki, his children Cooper, Jack, and Parker: I wish  them all the best on their next chapter in life and thank them  sincerely for being part of Phil's amazing work on behalf of our  Nation.