Budget Reconciliation Bill


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, for the last 5 months, across the  country, people have been waiting with bated breath to see what this  big, beautiful bill is that the Republicans have been working on behind  closed doors, much of it down in Florida putting it together,  particularly America's healthcare sector. It has been clear from the  outset that the Medicaid program, the program which provides more  coverage for more Americans than any other program, 72 million  Americans, was a target in this budget reconciliation bill.

Over the weekend, the measure had been released and we finally get to  see what, in fact, it looks like. The chairman of the Energy and  Commerce Committee, who is a good friend and a good guy, came right out  and said that Democrats are going to use this as an opportunity to  engage in fear-mongering and misrepresent our bill as an attack on  Medicaid.

Madam Speaker, it is not just Democrats and Republicans that have an  opinion about what is happening here, it is about the people that the  Medicaid cuts are going to impact, particularly our healthcare sector,  particularly the hospital sector.

This morning, Politico's headline shows what their reaction has been  over the last 48 hours, which is ``Hospital groups slam cuts to  Medicaid in megabill.''

This is a sector that has many trade associations, the biggest one,  the American Hospital Association, came right out and said that it will  lead to millions of Americans losing access to healthcare and leaving  many of our hospitals struggling to maintain services and stay open for  their communities.

The Catholic Health Association said, Congress has a moral obligation  to consider the harm that this would have for America's most vulnerable  communities, cascading effects of lost coverage and cost-shifting will  impact nearly every American.

Children's hospitals, who depend on Medicaid, can't cost-shift to  older patients on Medicare. They have been blasting this proposal from  day one and they have continued it.

Essential hospitals, which are the safety net hospitals for this  country, have also said that it is going to lead to closures of  hospitals as well as the private-sector hospitals.

The Federation of American Hospitals, Director Chip Kahn, came right  out and said that it is imperative that congressional Republicans go  back to the drawing board. Too many lives depend on it.

The American Cancer Society, not a Democrat organization, said the  results of these Medicaid cuts will be devastating. Lives will be lost  and State economies will suffer.

It is not too late for this Congress to finally engage in a  bipartisan negotiation about ways that we can address the budget  deficit and protect the most vulnerable people in our country, but  unfortunately, part of this plan, this, megabill, is a tax cut, and  this chart shows who benefits.

This bar here, that is the rich folks in this country, the top 20  percent; everybody else gets peanuts. That is what this cut is aimed at  trying to offset, the impact, the fiscal impact, on the deficit that  these tax cuts will produce over the next 10 years.

The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget issued their report  last night and they conclude that this plan is going to add $4 trillion  to the national debt. That is even with the cuts that were part of the  Medicaid plan, which I talked about a little bit more. We have a bill,  which is going to cut services, basically put one of our most  vulnerable sectors in our economy which we all rely on, our hospitals,  at greater financial risk all for the benefit of the small slice of  America's population and it is going to add to our national debt, which  according to what the committee said is now $36.2 trillion.

Last month, we paid $89 billion in interest on that national debt.  That is the second biggest expenditure for the Federal Government. It  is bigger than the Department of Defense last month in terms of what  was paid, and that is what we are faced with.

This is a gut check moment for this country in terms of where are  your values? Where are your priorities? Are you going to listen to the  caring professionals, the people who are the nurses and the people that  take care of us in times of healthcare crisis? Are we going to listen  to that top 1 percent who are clamoring to make sure that their tax  cuts--the Bezoses, the Musks, the Gateses--they don't really need the  help. The people who are working their butts off every day in hospital  wards making sure that we are all healthy and safe and cared for, they  are the ones that need the help.

We need to reject these Medicaid cuts and reject this plan. Let's go  back to the drawing board, as Mr. Kahn said from the Federation of  American Hospitals, and do it the right way. Let's protect our values  and protect our priorities, which all Americans depend on.