Congress' Long To-Do List


Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, after an extraordinarily lengthy recess  that Speaker Johnson ordered at the third week of July, Congress is  finally back in session with a huge to-do list.

If there was any benefit in terms of having Members back home,  though, it was an opportunity to go out and listen to what is on  people's minds. Townhall meetings and community gatherings offer,  again, Members of Congress a chance to listen to people in terms of  what they care about the most.

I had a number of those events, in Mansfield, Colchester, and Old  Saybrook, Connecticut, with very packed rooms. The issue that was of  most concern was H.R. 1, what President Trump calls the one big,  beautiful bill.

While Congress was away, the Congressional Budget Office had a chance  to finally zero in on final numbers in terms of the impact of H.R. 1,  the one big, beautiful bill.

It was being written over and over again and changing up until the  final minutes, but they finally got some clarity. What they determined  was that the number of people who will lose their health insurance  coverage because of H.R. 1 is 10 million, 7.5 million people on  Medicaid and another 2 million people who get their insurance through  private health plans on the exchange.

They also calculated the debt impact in terms of H.R. 1 because of  the massive giveaway to billionaires and the top 1 percent of this  country. They determined that the bill is going to add $3.4 trillion to  America's deficits between 2025 and 2034.

The debt service on that additional debt is an additional $718  billion. That is just pure interest. It has no value in terms of  services or programs that actually help the American people.

Because of that debt figure, the bill triggered another law called  paygo, the pay-as-you-go law, which was passed in the 1990s to put  pressure on Congress not to pass legislation with that big of a deficit  impact. Unfortunately, the majority ignored the paygo rule.

What CBO told us on August 15 is that will trigger automatic cuts to  other programs. That is the way the paygo law was designed to create  some deterrent on Congress from excessive deficit spending.

Madam Speaker, the Medicare program, the program that helps people  over the age of 65, will take the hit of 4 percent across the board. It  will be a $45 billion paygo cut because of this measure.

In addition to those numbers, we are also hearing from the groups who  are going to be impacted. Madam Speaker, in this morning's Connecticut  press, there is a story titled: ``What worries CT hospital leaders  about Trump's Big Beautiful Bill.''

Madam Speaker, I include in the Record the article from the CT  Mirror.                      [From CT Mirror, Sept. 2, 2025]     What Worries CT Hospital Leaders about Trump's Big Beautiful Bill                             (By Katy Golvala)

Connecticut's health care leaders and state officials have       been warning for months about the potentially devastating       impacts of President Donald J. Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill       Act on access to care for millions of Americans.

Nearly two months after the law's passage, hospital       executives here say there are critical details still unknown       that make it difficult to determine exactly how it will       impact providers and patients.

``My best guess is it's not going to be good for hospital       providers and health care in general,'' Vincent Capece,       president and CEO of Middlesex Hospital, an independent       hospital located in Middletown, CT. ``There's going to be       less money available, but exactly how much and how that all       works out when the dust settles is really hard to       calculate.''

The law makes several changes to Medicaid, known as HUSKY       in Connecticut, that are projected to kick anywhere from       100,000 to 170,000 residents off the program in the next       decade. It also impose new limits on the amount of Medicaid       funding states can collect from the federal government       through what's known as the ``hospital provider tax.''

Those are just some of the policies that could spell       trouble for a hospital's bottom line.

Health care researchers predict the law's major components,       some of which aren't slated for implementation until 2027 at       the earliest, will pose the greatest challenge to rural       hospitals and those that serve a large share of Medicaid       patients. Hospitals that aren't performing well financially       might also be less poised to absorb potential revenue hits       that the law's measures could bring.

The Connecticut Mirror spoke with hospital executives from       around the state about how they're approaching major pending       federal changes.

Most of the hospital leaders who spoke for this article       said it's still too early to consider scaling back services       in response to the federal cuts.

Ben Wade, chief strategy officer at Stamford Health, said       he's hopeful they'll be able to manage costs without reducing       access to services.

``We have not identified any programs at this time for       closure,'' Wade said. ``We don't plan to do that.''

However, leaders at small community and rural hospitals       acknowledged that they may have to scale back the       availability of certain services.

``It's not necessarily cutting programs,'' Kurt Barwis, CEO       of Bristol Hospital, said. ``It's starting to look critically       and strategically at ``How do I retool these programs to       accomplish the same thing but at a lower cost?' ''

Barwis said he's established partnerships with larger       hospital systems, like UConn Health and Hartford HealthCare,       and expects to do more of these in the future.

Kyle Kramer, CEO of Day Kimball Hospital in Putnam, said       service changes are ``inevitable'' at rural community       hospitals like his, where they must always think about       whether there is enough demand for a particular service, he       said.

``There has to be a high enough level of volume to maintain       that proficiency,'' Kramer said. ``And if it becomes a       service that is too expensive to offer, we've got to think       about, `Okay, is this something that we should partner with       somebody else who has larger scale to provide it?' ''

While the federal changes directly impact people who get       coverage through Medicaid and state-based exchanges, the       ripple effects will be felt by everyone, health care leaders       warned.

``The impact goes far beyond those who lose coverage. Our       entire health system and every community we serve will feel       the effects. Reduced services, longer wait times, staff       reductions, and the potential closure of programs and       facilities,'' Daniel Keenan, vice president of government       relations at Trinity Health of New England, stated in emailed       comments.

Keenan pointed to emergency rooms as an example. When       people don't have coverage, they turn to emergency       departments for basic care, resulting in crowding, service       delays and staffing issues that impact the entire system, he       said.

The changes could drive UP costs for people with private       insurance, as well.

Leaders at both Stamford and Middlesex hospitals say the       reductions in government Medicaid payments will likely force       them to negotiate increased payments from commercial       insurers, which could result in higher premiums for those       with private coverage.

``We will need to think about the upcoming commercial       insurance negotiations that we have to make sure that we have       the resources that we need to cover our expenses,'' Wade       said, adding that if insurers and employers don't opt to       absorb these costs, they will end up hitting people's       premiums.

One of the big areas of uncertainty lies with the hospital       providers tax, several hospital executives said. The provider       tax is an arrangement that allows states to increase the       amount of federal Medicaid dollars they get from the federal       government by collecting taxes from hospitals and then       redistributing those funds back to the facilities. The       exchange counts as Medicaid spending by states and entitles       them to extra reimbursements from Washington.

The federal budget bill decreases the ``safe harbor       limit''--or the rate at which states can tax hospitals--from       6 percent to 3.5 percent by 2031, with a phased-in reduction       beginning in 2028.

Even though the new limit won't take effect for several       years, federal waivers for the tax rate will pose an issue as       soon as next year, when the current provider tax agreement       between the state and hospitals expires. In advance of a new       agreement, approved by the legislature this year and slated       to take effect in July 2026, Connecticut will have to reapply       for a federal waiver to tax the hospitals above the safe       harbor limit in order to go ahead with its plan to increase       hospital taxes by $375 million.

In the past, states have been permitted to apply for       waivers to tax hospitals at rates exceeding the safe harbor       limit. Connecticut, for example, taxes hospitals at the       maximum       6 percent for inpatient revenues, but received a federal       waiver to tax outpatient revenues at slightly over 10       percent, said Paul Kidwell, senior vice president at the       Connecticut Hospital Association. It's unclear whether the       federal government will continue to grant such waivers, he       added.

``It's a big question mark,'' Kidwell said. ``We're       proceeding as if we can continue, with the knowledge that we       need more information from CMS in order to be certain.''

Capece, CEO at Middlesex Hospital, said the tax change       could be the biggest financial disruptor for his hospital,       even more so than changes to Medicaid eligibility.

``The risk really lies with regard to the provider tax       issue,'' Capece said. ``It's a huge amount of money.''

Barwis, of Bristol Hospital, called the expiration of the       agreement at the end of this fiscal year a looming ``day of       reckoning'' for Connecticut.

``Will [the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services]       grant a new waiver to keep it at 10.5 percent? Or will CMS       say, `No, no, no, we're not going to grant this waiver again.       You need to go down to 6 percent.' And how will that affect       hospitals in the state of Connecticut?'' Barwis said.

At least some Connecticut hospital leaders hope the most       potentially damaging effects of the bill could get scaled       back or repealed before they go into effect.

Wade, who oversees strategy at Stamford Health, said       there's a chance that, if Democrats take control of Congress       in the midterm elections, some of the changes could be       ``pushed off or unwound entirely,'' he said.

``We're still doing a lot of advocacy at the federal level       because this is still a moving target,'' Wade said.

Kramer, who heads up Day Kimball, agreed that there's still       time for things to change. Capece from Middlesex said he,       too, is ``cautiously optimistic.''

CHA's Kidwell is less convinced the law could be scaled       back but, he said, he's grateful to be facing these federal       changes in a state that wants to help as many people as       possible keep their health coverage.

``We all have this goal of making sure as many people stay       insured as possible and that compliance with federal rules is       not so onerous that people fall off because of paperwork,''       Kidwell said. ``I don't think that's the same in other states       where they might have a different motivation.''

Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, again, this journalist went out and  interviewed hospitals across the State. This included urban, rural, and  suburban hospitals. What all of them are reporting is that the hit of  $1 trillion of Medicaid is going to ripple through the system and cause  impact for everybody who relies on those critical services.

Daniel Keenan from Trinity Health Of New England, Saint Francis  Hospital of Hartford is one of their big members. I was born there a  number of years ago. He stated: ``The impact goes far beyond those who  lose coverage. Our entire health system and every community we serve  will feel the effects. Reduced services, longer wait times, staff  reductions, and potential closure of programs and facilities.

``Keenan pointed to emergency rooms as an example. When people don't  have coverage, they turn to emergency departments for basic care,  resulting in crowding, service delays and staffing issues that impact  the entire system.''

That affects everyone, and it will spill over into other people's  employment-based insurance premiums, which the article goes through in  great detail.

Madam Speaker, President Trump the other day said he actually doesn't  think he wants to call the bill the One Big Beautiful Bill Act anymore.  As he said, it was good for getting it approved, but it is not really  good for explaining it to people. People have figured out enough in  terms of deficit impact, taking away people's health insurance  coverage, and the impact on services, particularly in the hospital  sector, which they warned us about before the bill was passed. Yet, the  majority and the White House turned a deaf ear.

We have a lot of work to do when we get back into town, starting  tonight. Again, what would be nice is if all of the Members who had  townhalls--and I know Republicans heard about this as well as  Democrats--recognized that this bill is not the Ten Commandments.

Madam Speaker, we have the ability and the legal authority to make  changes and listen to the people who are warning us that it is actually  going to harm the American people, and there is nothing beautiful about  it.