Cost of Living Still High


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, candidate Trump and President-elect Trump  consistently and repeatedly promised the American people that when he  was elected, on day one that he would lower the cost of living for  Americans. He very effectively campaigned on that issue, and I think  that that was a major driving force in terms of why he prevailed on  November 5. In fact, he said that in a number of interviews after the  election.

However, then-President Trump was sworn in on January 20, and to this  day, despite over 100 executive orders, countless rescissions that have  come out of the White House, not one has been directed in terms of  lowering the cost of living for Americans in this country.

In fact, last week, the Consumer Price Index was released. It showed  that prices jumped again at 2.8 percent, well above the Federal  Reserve's target of 2 percent, which is why interest rates are going to  continue to stay unnecessarily high.

On Wednesday, a couple days from now, so-called Liberation Day, he is  now going to announce another wave of tariffs that every economist of  every stripe will tell you is going to, in fact, raise the price of  goods for Americans.

Don't take my word for it, listen to the National Association of Home  Builders, a staunch Republican organization that has warned this  administration that putting tariffs on everything from steel to copper  and nickel is going to drive up the price of home construction.

In fact, screws and nails, made from steel, are already showing huge  increases. They have already been hit with a 25 percent tariff from one  of our biggest importers of steel, our friend and ally for many years,  Canada. I now suddenly sort of wonder where this White House is coming  from.

Steel and lumber used in home construction were one of the biggest  factors of increased prices on last Friday's Consumer Price Index. That  is, again, why the homebuilders are warning us at this time of a  housing crisis. We are seeing an administration that is doing  everything in terms of driving those prices up still further.

There is a belief in the White House that somehow Americans are going  to be inoculated from tariffed goods from other countries because we  are going to have this burst of output that is going to happen, even  though we don't mine for things like copper and nickel, and even though  the steel industry in the U.S. will tell you they do not have the  capacity to replace incoming foreign steel. Yet, they somehow believe  that commodity price is not going to leak into what American importers  are actually going to be paying, which is going to get passed along to  the American consumer.

He has invoked a law, a 1976 law, the International Emergency  Economic Powers Act, which was put into place by Congress in this  Chamber to provide the President with the ability to raise tariffs  against a foreign adversary or threat. That is the law that he used  against Canada, and the reason he said was that fentanyl is coming into  Canada.

Last week, the Director of National Intelligence testified before the  House Intelligence Committee. They released their annual threat  assessment listing all the countries that are threats to the U.S. Do  you know what country was not on that list? Canada. Because, in fact,  if you look at the data from DEA and people who work at the border,  less than 1 percent of fentanyl comes from Canada. Yet, he used that  law, without Congress' approval, to strike at that nation.

We have already heard from the new Prime Minister that they are going  to raise countertariffs against the U.S. This is a vicious cycle where  there is not going to be a good ending unless this Congress, led by Mr.  Trump's party, grabs the steering wheel and listens to the people who  are out there on the front lines of our economy and says: Stop. Enough.

The Dow tanked on Friday, dropping 700 points. Futures opened today  down 400 points. The warning lights are everywhere. Liberation day is  just going to worsen the situation that we are seeing, not only for  people who are in the stock market, which, you know, they are big boys  and girls. They can handle themselves. It is really the people on Main  Street who are going to feel the brunt of a tariff policy that goes  completely in the opposite direction of the promises that he made on  the campaign trail.

It is time for Congress as a coequal branch of government--and,  Speaker Johnson, if you are listening, please, you have the ability to  bring to the floor a countermeasure to the International Emergency  Economic Powers Act and stop the madness in terms of where this  administration is taking our economy.