Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, in 2025, with growing global maritime  threats, it is particularly important for Congress to exercise its  constitutional mandate to ``provide and maintain a Navy.'' The Seapower  portion of this bill accomplished that goal.

For example, the bill includes a plus-up of $5 billion to  shipbuilding above the administration's request, including $1.9 billion  to address glaring OMB budget request shortfalls in the Virginia  submarine account. The Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee also  strengthened the industrial base by replenishing last year's wage  improvement authorities with 615 million new dollars to continue  progress in hiring a new generation of shipyard workers in the metal  trades.

For the Columbia-class program, the Navy's number one priority, the  bill again fixes another glaring OMB blunder which short-funded  Columbia in both the reconciliation bill and last month's continuing  resolution.

The subcommittee provides Navy with contracting authority for five  new Columbia subs, with incremental funding authority, eliminating the  risk of a stop-work order which came close to happening because of the  Columbia omission in last month's CR.

The bill also authorizes a boost to sealift, the new Marine Corps  Landing Ship program with a vessel construction manager model, and the  fourth Ford-class aircraft carrier.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud of the strong bipartisan support for allies  and partners in the bill, the $400 million refill of the Ukraine  Security Initiative and streamlining exports to our AUKUS partners.

Last week, the Pentagon's AUKUS review endorsed that security  agreement, and this bill's massive commitment to the submarine  industrial base and export reforms will keep us on track to sell three  Virginia-class submarines starting in 2032 to our great ally Australia.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee  colleagues, particularly Chairman Trent Kelly, for their outstanding  bipartisan work as well as the subcommittee staff: Phil MacNaughton,  Kyle Noyes, Kelly Goggin, and Abby Snyder.