Stop This Insane Attack on Healthcare That Affects Every Single American


Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, today is June 24, and it is almost exactly  a month ago that in this House, the misnamed One Big Beautiful Bill Act  was passed in the dead of night after hours and hours of debate while  the American people were asleep at home. With the rush of events that  take place every single day, it sometimes gets hard to remember exactly  where that stands and what is going on.

The bill is moving in the Senate, literally as I stand here in the  well of the House. In the light of day over the last month or so, a lot  of the rocks have been kicked over in H.R. 1 to sort of see what is in  there. A lot of pretty ugly things have slithered out, including a  provision to auction off some of our precious public lands out West,  basically robbing those treasured assets from future generations.

There are deregulated gun silencers, which have been on the National  Firearms Act since the 1930s. Who benefits from that? I am sure there  are a lot of criminals that are rooting for them to be able to go out  and buy tax-free gun silencers.

It increases the national debt by $5 trillion, with about $3.5  trillion in new debt with another $1.5 trillion in interest payments.  It cuts taxes for American families with a yearly income above $500,000  to the tune of over a trillion dollars with a pittance for middle-class  and working families. It raises the debt ceiling by $5 trillion so the  government can sell bonds to finance debt. Again, it is a bill that  basically benefits the Elon Musks and Jeff Bezos of the world.

What is really at the heart of H.R. 1 that should concern every  single American is a provision that includes the largest cut in  healthcare spending in American history with over a trillion dollars of  cuts in the bill as it left this floor on May 22. I have here a poster  next to me that talks about what the real-life impact is going to be on  hospitals all across the country. It is not coming from me as a member  of the minority caucus. This comes from the Robert Wood Johnson  Foundation, which has been around for 50 years and is a completely  nonpartisan analyst in terms of healthcare spending and healthcare  financing throughout the country.

What it did was break down State by State what the impact of this  bill will be. For the State of Connecticut, where I am from, it is  actually about a $9 billion cut over the next 10 years in terms of the  Medicaid program, as well as eliminating the premium tax subsidies for  people who get their health insurance through the Affordable Care Act.  That is about 15 million Americans. The hospitals, in particular, are  going to take the biggest hit. As this headline says in the Connecticut  press, it is about $4 billion over the next 10 years.

All of my colleagues that are here today, I encourage them to look at  this analysis which shows State by State, sector by sector within  healthcare spending, hospitals, physicians, and prescription drugs, in  terms of the impact that this bill will have. There was a lot of hope  that maybe in the Senate this bill might be fixed and addressed,  particularly because it hits rural hospitals so hard. There are so many  Republicans in the majority caucus in the Senate that obviously are  going to feel the pain if this provision goes through.

Unfortunately, what we saw come out of the Senate Finance Committee  is even worse in terms of what came through from the House. Don't take  my word for it. Listen to the Catholic Hospital Association, who issued  a statement just a few days ago after this provision came out. They had  warned them before of the devastating impact it would have,  particularly on safety net hospitals which Catholics are definitely a  part of all across the country. It fell on deaf ears.

Children's hospitals rely on Medicaid to a greater proportion than  other hospitals because they don't have elderly patients, obviously.  They are children's hospitals, and Medicare pays for a lot of those  patients. Children's hospitals have no place to cost-shift, so they  have uncompensated care with this devastating Medicaid cut that is  going to hit every State in terms of its Federal matching funds. This  is going to land on the most vulnerable in our society and the people  who are delivering the care. They are not partisans. They are not  approaching Congress as Democrats or Republicans. They are there as  people who are doing their job day in and day out.

I visited one of those hospitals last week, Lawrence Memorial  Hospital in New London, Connecticut. Over 40 percent of their patient  census is on Medicaid. It is in the heart of New London, a wonderful,  historic community, but it has a high Medicaid population.

Mr. Speaker, we have to stop this insane attack on healthcare that  affects every single American. We have got to block H.R. 1. We got to  go back and do a better job for the American people.