-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, I come to the floor to speak  about a favorite topic that my friends know I am proud of, protecting  whistleblowers and the roles that they play in government.

I have long held that government oversight can't be done without the  patriotic work of whistleblowers. Even Department and Agency heads need  whistleblowers to know what is really going on in their respective  Departments and Agencies.

I tell people that come to my office before their Senate confirmation  that whether you are in a very small number of employees Agency or, you  know, hundreds of thousands of employees in our Agency, you are at the  top; you can't know what is going on at the bottom. And you need to  listen to whistleblowers, and they usually come forward with very  important information.

When they don't get that respect from the Department heads, they  usually end up coming to the Congress, and many of them come to the  office of this Senator.

Just this year, to show you the importance of whistleblowers, I made  records public, exposing the political origin of Arctic Frost. Arctic  Frost is the case that ultimately became one of Jack Smith's cases  against President Trump. Anti-Trump FBI agents and Department of  Justice prosecutors started Arctic Frost.

Based on even more records that I have made public, those very same  anti-Trump FBI agents were involved in the investigation and  prosecution of Peter Navarro, now serving with President Trump in the  White House, like he did in the first Trump administration. Those  agents that took on Peter Navarro were Assistant Special Agent in  Charge Thibault and Special Agent Walter Giardina.

Whistleblowers have also disclosed to me that J.P. Cooney wanted to  potentially open yet another case on Trump. J.P. Cooney was Jack  Smith's deputy. Allegedly, Cooney wanted to use compulsory process to  obtain more information. He improperly based that desire to do so, in  large part, on partisan news outlets.

And guess who was included in the communication about the new case  against Trump? That same person's name shows up, Special Agent Walter  Giardina. I will have more to speak on that matter later.

Whistleblowers have told me that Special Agent Giardina openly stated  his desire to investigate Trump, even if it meant false predication.

I have been able to make all these records publicly available because  of brave, patriotic whistleblowers. They are patriots to the highest  order. And a lot of this information that I received from  whistleblowers wouldn't have been made available or even known that it  existed without the help of these whistleblowers.

And because of those whistleblowers, it is now an absolute fact that  these cases against President Trump and his associates were politically  motivated. My investigative work won't rest. There will be much more  coming from this Senator.