-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, once again, in the Chaplain's prayer, he  brought up the issue before the U.S. Senate and presented it to the  Lord about the problems created by the shutdown of the government. Not  only are the employees of the U.S. Senate not being paid and 750,000  civil servants are furloughed without pay, but we are also beginning to  read in business pages of the newspapers about the impact on the  economy. For the State of Iowa, the White House Office of Economic  Policy said that, weekly, it was doing damage to the economy of my  State of Iowa of $137 million.

So we have to get the government back to work because it costs money  to shut the government down, and it costs money to open the government  up. The government is supposed to be a service to the American people,  besides protecting the American people, and quite frankly, none of that  can be done when it is shut down.                         United States Postal Service

Mr. President, I come to the floor today to speak about some  information that I got from whistleblowers the first time on September  23 of last year. At that time, I spoke to my fellow Senators, making  public very concerning whistleblower allegations.

The whistleblower alleged to my office that the Postal Service, which  is an independent government Agency, had hired registered sex offenders  as  mail carriers. So I investigated to find out how bad this problem was  at that Agency.

To date, the Postal Service has refused to provide a list of names of  registered sex offenders. The Postal Service has provided some  information about the number of sex offenders working at the Postal  Service.

On July 7, 2025, the Postal Service confirmed that in 2024, the  Agency employed 150 registered sex offenders. The letter said that of  the 150, 102 had ``access to the public.'' Of the 102, 77 were mail  carriers.

News even more alarming in that letter: The Postal Service doesn't  track the routes used by employees who are registered sex offenders. We  don't even know the locations where these carriers deliver their mail.  The Postal Service also doesn't track the crimes that led to an  employee's registration on the sex offender register.

On August 7, 2025, I wrote the Postal Service requesting additional  information. So this is what I want to know about how the Postal  Service ensures our communities are safe and what the crimes were, and  that is just among other questions I have. To date, I have received no  response.

When it comes to this matter, our communities deserve much better  than what they are getting from the Postal Service, and we have to make  sure that the Postal Service is as protective of people's safety as any  other Agency of government.

Recognition of the Majority Leader