-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today is a good day for the Senate and a  good day for the American people. The Senate will soon pass a bill that  is entitled ``HALT Fentanyl Act.'' The House is expected to take the  measure up very soon and send it to President Trump, who is waiting  with pen in hand to enact one of his campaign promises.

The HALT Fentanyl Act permanently schedules these deadly substances  that have been the main driver of overdose deaths in the United States.  No longer does the Drug Enforcement Agency need to play this game of  Whac-A-Mole every time a cartel develops a new fentanyl knockoff. In  other words, today, a fentanyl knockoff might be illegal, and then they  change the chemical makeup of it, and it becomes legal. It is a  nightmare for law enforcement.

So no longer will Congress be kicking the can down the road with  temporary extensions. We have had many, many extensions over the last  several years to keep fentanyl scheduled and its analogs scheduled in  I. It also revises policies to research schedule I substances. These  are changes the research community has welcomed.

Drug overdoses in the United States have exploded to the highest  levels we have ever seen, and, of course, this is thanks to fentanyl  and fentanyl knockoffs. The Drug Enforcement Agency has called fentanyl  and its knockoffs the ``deadliest drug threat the United States has  ever faced.''

Since 2016, I have been raising the alarm on deadly synthetic drugs  like fentanyl. As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I held a  hearing on these substances and the need to stay ahead of the peddlers  of this poison. Sadly, it has taken us 9 long years to get to  permanently scheduling these deadly knockoffs.

Of course, we thank each of the previous Congresses that, on a  temporary basis, extended the scheduling of fentanyl and fentanyl  knockoffs, but this bipartisan HALT Fentanyl Act takes care of this by  making it permanent.

Senators Cassidy, Heinrich, and Johnson were very instrumental in  this effort. Their interest in permanently scheduling fentanyl  knockoffs inspired the Senate to move this bill to the floor.  Republican leadership was also crucial in prioritizing this bill for  the floor and helping us navigate the floor process.

Credit is also due to our House colleagues--Representative Griffith,  Chairman Guthrie, and now retired Chairwoman McMorris Rodgers--who led  and championed the HALT Fentanyl Act on the House side.

I would also like to thank Dr. Tim Westlake, who came up with the  temporary scheduling structure that we have been using since the year  2018. He has testified before my committee and before the Congress on  numerous occasions, and I thank him for his hard work and unflappable  dedication.

So, in the end, this campaign earned the support of nearly every  major law enforcement organization and also several medical  associations and research associations supporting the research  component of this bill.

Most importantly, we must say thanks to the countless families  organized over a long period of time across the country that have lost  loved ones to fentanyl poisoning and have not given up on this type of  legislation to make permanent the scheduling.

I want to thank my Senate staff who helped make this possible,  especially Colleen Bloss and Michael Perkins, who spearheaded this  effort for me and all the committee members. Together, we have taken  steps to open the doors of research to permanently schedule the  deadliest substance the United States has ever faced and to send a  clear message that Congress is willing and ready to act. Together, we  have taken an important step to live up to our commitment to our  constituents and to the loved ones lost to put them first and to serve  them.