-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the floor this very day to  correct the public record. That public record has become so distorted  by fanatical allegations of Republican tyranny that it no longer  records actual history.

My Democratic colleagues have obscured the transcript with tales of a  constitutional crisis, corrupt law enforcement, and Democratic  knighthood defending the very rule of law that they abandoned for open  borders not 1 year ago. Dare they pause in their breathless  accusations, the historical record might reflect the consequences of  Democratic leadership.

It was Democrats who threw open our southern border with foolish  policies that paroled over 6,000 criminals and terrorists into the  United States and lost track of over 2 million known ``got-aways.''  Those same Democrats are now criticizing efforts to remove those  threats.

They have hurled one-sided accusations of ``masked agents acting with  unnecessary force.'' This inflammatory rhetoric is a breeding ground  for physical threats. As we have seen on TV, law enforcement have been  pelted with rocks, assaulted with homemade explosives, and defamed and  doxed by the far left.

At a hearing I just held, agents told the Senate Judiciary Committee  of an officer whose photograph was taken during an operation and posted  on Instagram with a message that the community needed to remind him  where he came from and where he was. The officer felt so threatened, he  changed his appearance to protect his family. In another example, an  FBI agent was threatened to back down from an investigation with photos  of his children.

These men and women held the line against every national security  threat while Democrat Homeland Security Secretary Mayorkas and Director  Wray of the FBI refused to appear for their annual congressional report  on threats to the homeland because they didn't want to face the tough  questions they would get on why they weren't enforcing the law.

Congress didn't make this Nation's laws subject to the whims of  purported righteous indignation. Passionate protests don't justify  laying hands on law enforcement, and bleeding hearts don't erase  immigration laws critical to our national security.