-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, probably all my colleagues are very  concerned that we have learned, over the last few months or couple  years, that our Department of HHS is not tracking the 300,000  children--unaccompanied children--under our immigration laws. We don't  know where they are. And if you are one of these Senators that is  concerned about that, I would like to say, this morning, I want to  discuss a Department of Homeland Security inspector general report that  everyone in the Senate or their staffs ought to be on top of.

Last week's report confirmed alarm bells that my investigative work  had been ringing for a decade. The Health and Human Services Office of  Refugee Resettlement is responsible for placing unaccompanied children  with fully vetted U.S. sponsors. And so what we are finding out is that  children are being placed in sponsorship that has not been properly  vetted.

Hundreds of thousands of children were unaccounted for during the  Biden administration. This inspector general report confirmed that the  Biden administration's Health and Human Services failed to take  necessary steps to protect and find migrant children.

Last Congress, my oversight attacked these failures on behalf of  these children. The Biden administration obstructed my oversight. More  than that, the Biden administration also ripped up an agreement made  during President Trump's first term allowing much more sharing of  sponsor information with law enforcement.

The Biden administration worried that the information would show  sponsors were here illegally. This was the Biden administration's  priority over the lives and health of children. To emphasize whether or  not sponsors were here illegally was more important than protecting the  lives of these children.

So simply put, the last administration's conduct, to include its  obstruction of my oversight, is a textbook example of what not to do.  So I urge my colleagues, please, read the inspector general's report.