-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, July 11 is recognized by the United  Nations General Assembly as the International Day of Reflection and  Commemoration of the 1995 Genocide in Srebrenica.

This town in Bosnia and Herzegovina was the scene of the worst  genocide on European soil since the Holocaust. Bosnian Serb separatists  murdered 8,000 of their fellow Bosnians at that time--these fellow  Bosnians had been their coworkers, their neighbors, even friends-- because of their Muslim heritage, practicing that faith or not  practicing.

Many Bosnian families who survived the genocide but who lost their  family members became refugees and found a home in my State of Iowa.  Bosnian Iowans have enriched Iowan communities with their strong work  ethic, family values, and unique culture.

Today, there are renewed calls for ethnic separatism in Bosnia. That  dredges up painful memories for those who lived through the genocide of  the 1990s.

As we commemorate the loss, which so many Bosnian families  experienced, we ought to be alert to the renewed efforts to finalize  the ethnic cleansing project that began in the 1990s.

The Dayton Accords are rightly celebrated for ending that killing of  8,000, but they essentially froze the frontlines and enshrined ethnic  divisions by creating two entities within Bosnia and Herzegovina. These  two entities are named Republika Srpska and the Federation.

Prior to the war and the ethnic cleansing, Bosnians of Orthodox,  Muslim, and Catholic heritage were very intermixed; although, many  Bosnians were not particularly practicing their respective religions.

The territory that is now the Republika Srpska used to have a large  percentage of Bosnians of Muslim heritage, but most are now gone.  However, I have talked to Bosnians in Iowa of Muslim heritage who still  have family living in the old country.

Separatists in Bosnia and their advocates here falsely imply this  area was always populated overwhelmingly by Orthodox Bosnian Serbs so  they ought to have their own state. They also spin narratives that this  is some great clash of faiths or civilizations.

Bosnians share a common European culture. However, it seems like  ethnic identity--not whether or how a Bosnian practices a faith--has  been the focus of conflict.

There are no easy answers for Bosnia's future, but I am convinced  that state-building based on ethnic cleansing is not the right way to  go, and we should have learned that from the genocide of 1995.