-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the Senate floor today to  express my concern about recent attacks on the legitimacy of the  judicial branch of government.

A fair and neutral judiciary plays a very indispensable role in our  constitutional structure. Judges wield enormous power, and their  decisions determine the legal rights of the parties before them.

One especially potent power of the judiciary is the practice of  judicial review. As we all know, the judiciary sometimes decides cases  that impact the operation of laws passed by Congress or the actions of  the executive branch. We accept this judicial review because neutral  arbiters are necessary in a system based upon the rule of law, but this  system only works if everyone accepts that the arbiters are, in fact,  neutral. Litigants, the coequal branches of government, and the  American people must be confident that judges are merely saying what  the law is and not what those judges wish the law to be.

Our judicial system also requires respect for appellate review. The  Federal courts are hierarchal, and the rule of law depends on public  confidence that lower courts will faithfully apply and respect the  decisions of the higher courts. It is no surprise that some people are  not always happy with how the courts exercise judicial power. Criticism  is fair and sometimes warranted, but too often it has strayed into  outright attacks on the judiciary as an institution.

Today, however, I am here to discuss attacks on the judiciary coming  particularly from a concerning place that is within the judiciary  itself. It is one thing for the political branches or the public to  criticize the Supreme Court. It is entirely different for Federal  judges themselves to undermine their own branch of government. In two  high-profile instances in the last few months, numerous judges have  anonymously gone, as you might expect, to the press to denigrate the  Supreme Court. This ought to be deeply concerning not only to this  Senator but to the public at large.

On September 4, 2025, NBC News published a report alleging that 12  Federal judges gave anonymous interviews, and 10 of them took that  opportunity to criticize the Supreme Court.

One judge described the Supreme Court's conduct as ``inexcusable.''

Another judge said the Supreme Court ``is effectively assisting the  Trump administration in `undermining the lower courts.'''

Then we have a big hit piece by the New York Times on October 11,  2025. That newspaper ran a story where they sought out judges  specifically to criticize the Supreme Court. The Times approached 400  of the almost 1,500 Federal judges with questionnaires. The Times  intentionally solicited judges in districts that litigants considered  to be unfavorable to the current President. Of the 400 judges  approached, thank God only a small percentage took the offer. I think  this is an important point. Then we can draw the conclusion most  Federal judges didn't take the bait of the New York Times because it  violated the ethics of the judiciary. So only a small percentage did,  but that is still a fabulous 65 judges responding to the Times'  questionnaire. It happens that some responded with very harsh  criticism. They then gave the Times the fodder that they needed to spin  the narrative of a judiciary in crisis.

The Times wrote:

[F]ederal judges called the Supreme Court's emergency       orders ``mystical,'' ``overly blunt,'' ``incredibly       demoralizing and troubling'' and ``a slap in the face to the       district courts.''

One judge compared their district's current relationship with the  Supreme Court to a ``war zone.''

Another said the courts were in the midst of a ``judicial crisis.''

I am deeply concerned--and I hope the public at large is--that these  public  attacks on the Court from sitting Federal judges damage the public's  faith and confidence in our judicial system. When judges call the  legitimacy of their own branch of government into question, they erode  the faith of the institution itself.

My colleague, the chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary in the  House of Representatives, shares these concerns. Together, we sent a  letter of concern to Chief Justice Roberts. We expressed our concern  that the conduct of the judges, as reported, may violate the applicable  ethical canons. We also asked whether the judicial branch will give  guidance to Federal judges or even investigate this matter.

The document called the Code of Conduct for U.S. Judges is very clear  that judges have an obligation to uphold public confidence in the  judiciary. For example, canon 2 states:

[A judge] . . . should act at all times in a manner that       promotes public confidence in the integrity and impartiality       of the judiciary.

In 2024, Chief Judge Diaz of the Fourth Circuit applied the canon in  resolving a judicial complaint against a judge for authoring an opinion  piece lambasting a sitting Supreme Court Justice. He concluded that the  judge in question violated the canons and ``diminish[ed] the public  confidence in the integrity and independence of the federal  judiciary.'' Chief Judge Diaz's reasoning appears to apply with similar  force to the recent anonymous attacks on the Court.

Anonymous public comments from sitting judges describing the  relationship between the Supreme Court and lower courts as a ``war  zone'' and otherwise attacking the legitimacy of the Supreme Court  rulings undermine public confidence in the integrity and impartiality  of the judiciary. In fact, it may violate the Code of Conduct.

Judges shouldn't mimic the infighting and rhetorical attacks that are  so common among us in the political arena. This damages the public's  faith in the judiciary.

The Supreme Court is a uniquely American institution that has played  an important role since our Republic's founding. In contrast to the  other branches--meaning the political branches of the Federal  Government--the Supreme Court is meant to stand above the day-to-day  squabbles of politics. And that is not just the Supreme Court, as I  implied; that is every level of the judicial branch. For the most part,  the Court does this remarkably well--speaking of the Supreme Court. We  know this because neither Democrats nor Republicans are always happy  with the decision of our highest Court. The Court is either too  conservative or too liberal, depending on the day and whom you ask. But  at the bottom, the job of the Court is not to please us or agree with  us but to say what the law is.

In recent years, we have seen vicious attacks against the Court from  a variety of directions, many aimed at weakening public confidence in  this important institution. This is bad for all of us. So today, I am  here to defend the integrity of the Supreme Court and to urge the  judicial branch to address these attacks that are coming from within-- mostly by district court judges--and the ones that reply to everything  anonymously and really don't have the guts to stand up publicly with  their criticism of the Supreme Court.

So here is my bottom line: I call on the Federal judiciary to give  clear guidance to Federal judges on acceptable public commentary and to  take seriously the public's perception and confidence in the courts.