-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on January 23, people from all over our  country came to Washington, DC, to celebrate the 53rd annual March for  Life. These peaceful movements are exercising their free speech, their  free association, and their right to petition government for redress of  grievances--all First Amendment constitutional rights. They exercise  this through using the Constitution to express their views.

This year's theme of the March for Life was ``Life is a Gift,'' so  they were inviting folks to embrace the joy of innocent human life in  the womb. They marched in solidarity with mothers who deserve better  than abortion; who deserve life, love, support, and encouragement. They  marched, hoping for a day when all people see babies as the blessings  these babies are, for a day when the word ``abortion'' is unthinkable.

So I say to this group of marchers: Thank you. You came to Washington  on January 23 for the 53rd year in a row to call attention to the value  of life. Thank you for your faithful example of what it means to be  pro-life.

In Congress, we must do all we can to support mothers and their  babies, and I  hope I am doing that by being a proud sponsor of the bipartisan bill  that I call the Healthy Moms and Babies legislation, which would better  support pregnant moms to receive high-quality healthcare no matter the  ZIP Code they live in. I am also a cosponsor of the Pregnant Students'  Rights bill--a pro-mother, pro-family legislation ensuring pregnant  mothers receive support while pursuing their dreams. I look forward to  continuing this work.                            Tribute to James Rice

Mr. President, I come to the floor to say bon voyage to a very  talented and trusted employee of mine who has worked hard for the  people of the State of Iowa. When I say bon voyage, as I will say  later, he probably has the prospects of being a college professor, a  think tank researcher, or maybe even a diplomat.

So, today, I come to the floor to pay tribute to a trusted, loyal  member of my staff whom I am honored to say has been a member of Team  Grassley for 25 years, and I am glad to have him here on the floor with  me right at this minute.

James Rice will leave his post as my legislative director at the end  of this month. He has devoted the past quarter century in service to  the people of Iowa here in the U.S. Senate. Now, he didn't start out to  be the important staffer he is right now because he started as an  intern in 1997. That summer, he even served in some positions that  don't get a lot of attention because they are behind the scenes.

He served as boots on the ground during my sixth Foreign Ambassadors  Tour. For over two decades, I organized every other summer an  Ambassadors trade tour across Iowa. I invited members of the foreign  diplomatic corps here in Washington, DC, along with their spouses  serving here in the Nation's Capital, to join me for a weeklong road  trip to showcase my home State's people, our products, and our places.

From securing overnight stays in the homes of Iowans to keeping the  trade delegation on schedule visiting farms, factories, and always  ending at the Iowa State Fair, this devoted team player, James, was  among the many helping hands working behind the scenes to make the week  run smoothly. That just might be why James first got bitten by the  foreign policy bug that has fostered his interest and expertise in  foreign affairs and international unity and diplomacy and why he has  been a valuable adviser to me on foreign affairs.

James is a native of Davenport, IA, majoring in political science,  history, and government. After graduating from Drake University in Des  Moines, he joined my staff here in Washington, DC, 3 years after being  an intern in the year 2000.

James has referred to the Grassley team as the embassy for Iowa. With  tireless conviction, he managed his work with proficiency. James  exemplifies the Biblical ``Parable of the Talents.'' He has been a good  and faithful servant to the people of Iowa. I will miss his very  scrupulous attention to detail and ability to finesse bicameral,  bipartisan victories for Iowa. I could always count on his counsel and  valued his wisdom.

James has an uncommon mastery of parliamentary procedure here in the  U.S. Senate, an encyclopedic knowledge of Iowa, and, of course, he  shares my love for history.

As legislative director, James cultivated exceptional depth of  knowledge in his policy portfolio, including education, foreign policy,  and the rules of the U.S. Senate.

When I hire people to join my staff, I tell them I expect them to do  their job the Grassley way, and that means adopting my approach to  representative government, which is to treat people with respect, do  your homework, and go the extra mile for the people of Iowa. James  worked tirelessly to provide outstanding constituent service.

One of my priorities as the senior Senator for Iowa is to respond to  every phone call, letter, and email I get from Iowans. James was  instrumental in his leadership to revolutionize my constituent  correspondence operation. Some may say that he was a tyrant over what  we call in the office ``old mail.'' To that, I would say he was doing  just as I asked: ensuring Iowans receive a thoughtful and timely  response to their questions and concerns.

During my 45 years of holding county meetings in each one of the 99  counties--during those meetings, I want to make sure things are going  right in my office. I say ``Write me a nasty letter'' if they haven't  heard back from me regarding their email or their postal mail or if  they left their name and address in a telephone call. They get a  written response. So, thanks in large part to this man's meticulous  efforts, that doesn't happen very often, that I am told somebody did  not get a response to their letter.

As legislative director, he mentored scores of legislative  correspondents over the years, many of whom climbed the staff ladder to  become legislative assistants or pursue careers off of Capitol Hill. He  also cultivated longstanding relations with Iowans, particularly  educators from across the State as well as Ambassadors from across the  world.

A rock-ribbed conservative, James practices what he preaches. He is a  warrior for freedom and liberty. Each year, he has hosted a tea in our  office in October to celebrate Margaret Thatcher's birthday because he  so admired her as a leader and Prime Minister of Great Britain.

In another quirk, James also spearheaded an annual observance of St.  John's Day--a summer solstice celebration in Estonia. That is when the  Estonian people celebrate Victory Day to mark the defeat of the German  troops in their war for independence in 1919. This goes to show that  James doesn't do anything halfheartedly. Although a dyed-in-the-wool  Iowan, he is a dual citizen of Estonia. In fact, he loved the Baltic  nation so much, he built a house there.

As I mentioned, James is leaving my staff and his Senate service at  the end of this month. He will dive into academia and passion for  foreign policy to obtain a doctor of philosophy in statecraft and  strategy at the Institute of World Politics, where he also earned a  master's degree.

I told him I liked his speeches so much that I hope he will continue  to keep me in mind when he feels a speech coming on to bring much  needed historical context to these modern-day problems that we face  around here.

So, James, Barbara and I wish you all the best, a great future, and  we thank you for your decades of service to the people of Iowa.

When you announced your departure to your fellow staff members, you  said you will always be a part of the Grassley family, and I couldn't  agree more. I like that you will do just that--be a member of the  family.