-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, if you hear the term ``Arctic Frost,''  for most of us in Washington, DC, it is not a meteorological term. It  is a name that the Biden administration put on the efforts through  Special Counsel Jack Smith to put then-citizen Trump in prison so he  could never run for President again.

I have been trying to make as much of this information that we  discover public. So I come to the Senate floor now to discuss this now- infamous Arctic Frost investigation that I and Senator Johnson of  Wisconsin have exposed.

As we have shown through our investigation, Arctic Frost was not just  about putting President Trump in prison, but it was a means to an end.  That end that the Arctic Frost investigation sought was a vehicle by  which partisan FBI agents and partisan Department of Justice  prosecutors could improperly investigate the entire Republican  political apparatus.

As Arctic Frost became Special Counsel Jack Smith's election case, it  also targeted over 400 Republican groups and individuals. Recently,  Senator Johnson and I have exposed that the Special Counsel's office  obtained phone records of at least 11 Senators and 6 Members of the  House of Representatives--all of them Republican. I expect there will  be more Members of Congress added to that list. Each of these subpoenas  included a court-issued nondisclosure order.

Recently, I made public Department of Justice documents, including  emails. These documents showed that Special Counsel Smith's office knew  of the constitutional implications of issuing a subpoena for  congressional data.

A May 17, 2023, email shows that Molly Gaston from Special Counsel  Smith's office emailed John Keller, one of the heads of Biden's  Department of Justice Public Integrity Section. In that email, Gaston  consulted Keller about issuing subpoenas for Members' phone records.  Keller, from the Department of Justice, told her that there might be  litigation risk if you do that.

So Smith's staff was warned.

And the reason why? Keller said subpoenaing congressional information  could violate the speech or debate clause of the Constitution.

As we all know, the speech or debate clause protects Members of  Congress from any retaliation or civil action for what is said right  here on the floor of the House and Senate.

Well, no kidding--they were warned.

Of course, the Department of Justice knows that core constitutional  activity of constitutional officers is protected in the Constitution.

Keller's email to Gaston also notes case law saying legislators  asserting an invasion of speech or debate may intervene and oppose  subpoenas. So it is a constitutionally based opposition. However,  affected Members--remember they are all Republicans--weren't afforded  the opportunity to challenge the subpoenas, as the law would give them  the right to do.

It is all about the subpoenas having a nondisclosure order in it.

Now, these nondisclosure orders, rubberstamped by a judge named  Boasberg and others on the same court, kept secret Jack Smith's action  against the Republican Members. So far, almost all of the nondisclosure  orders for Members' own records were signed by Judge Boasberg.

On November 20, 2025, I, along with Chairman Johnson and Mr. Jordan,  chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote to Judge Boasberg. We  asked what information Special Counsel Smith's office presented, if  any, to the court that led to the approval of the nondisclosure orders  of Members' phone records, in violation of Federal law.

We also asked Mr. Boasberg if he ever denied any Department of  Justice nondisclosure order requests.

Now, Judge Boasberg never answered our letter. He had Judge Robert  Conrad, the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts,  responding on his behalf. Judge Conrad failed to fully answer our  questions. The letter claimed that responding to our letter fully would  ``encroach upon the separation of powers.''

Now, the court ought to have raised that concern when Special Counsel  Smith requested the nondisclosure orders for the legislative branch  phone records--not after it became public as a result of our getting  these documents.

But the limited response by the judge shows that the Federal court,  including Judge Boasberg, essentially acted as a rubberstamp in  approving Special Counsel Smith's nondisclosure orders.

Judge Conrad's letter stated that the Department of Justice typically  doesn't include a subpoena with a nondisclosure order request and only  provides a signifier, like a phone number, to the court. Thus, the  information before the court would reveal that a phone number belonged  to a Member of Congress.

Judge Conrad's response appears to indicate that Special Counsel  Smith's office failed to disclose to the court that any subpoenas  sought phone records for Members of Congress. Jack Smith took this  egregious action even though Smith and his team knew case law was clear  that legislators could challenge the grand jury subpoena on grounds it  violated the speech or debate clause of the Constitution. The letter  from Judge Conrad raises serious questions about Special Counsel  Smith's candor--or lack thereof--before the court.

But the volume of subpoenas issued by the special counsel's office  should have raised alarms with Judge Boasberg and any other judges  involved in issuing those subpoenas--alarms that maybe congressional  records could have been swept up by the government's conduct.

So there are some questions: Did Judge Boasberg and others even ask  the question? Was even a small amount of due diligence done? Boasberg  and others won't say. Not asking these simple questions appears to be a  clear dereliction of duty.

The actions by the Biden Justice Department and the Federal court  raise more questions that Congress and the American people deserve  answers to.

These things are very important because when the power of the Federal  Government, particularly through the Department of Justice prosecutors  and the FBI to be politically weaponized to put anybody in prison--and  if they can attempt to do it to a former President then and now  President Trump for 4 years, it could be done to anybody. And we need  to know that this should never happen again in the United States of  America.

So I am giving you this update. Accordingly, my oversight will  continue.