-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, one of the most fundamental  constitutional responsibilities afforded Congress is the power of the  purse. It grants Congress the authority to raise and spend revenue, to  operate the government, and examine spending decisions.

The Federal Government is primarily funded through 12 annual  appropriations bills. The Federal fiscal year begins on October 1 of  each year. If the appropriations bills are not signed into law by  September 30, lawmakers and the President must agree on a temporary  spending resolution that is known in this town as a continuing  resolution, keeping the government open for business. If that fails,  the unfunded parts of government shut down.

History has repeatedly shown that shutting down the government is bad  policy and also bad politics. It costs the taxpayers money to shut down  the government and even more to reopen it. A government shutdown  reduces essential services for the American people, erodes the trust of  the American people, and limits the ability of Congress to conduct  oversight over Federal Government operations.

Government shutdowns don't make for great bargaining tools. How many  times have we heard Members of both political parties--probably not at  the same time--but say: If I don't get what I want, I am not going to  vote for a continuing resolution. We are going to shut down the  government.

What happens after a few days or even, in one case, 3 weeks?  Eventually, the heat gets so bad that Congress votes to reopen the  government and the Members who crowed that they were going to shut down  the government if they didn't get what they wanted--who were eventually  pushing for certain policy changes that they wanted--usually, in the  end, don't get what they want. That is why it is bad politics, as well  as bad financial management.

Instead, Congress is in the same spot, but now is stuck with a last- minute omnibus bill or a long-term continuing resolution. Neither a  last-minute omnibus or a long-term continuing resolution allows  Congress to carefully analyze spending and make necessary tough  decisions. In other words, that is not a good replacement for passing  12 appropriations bills separately. In short, shutdowns have always  been a losing proposition for the American people.

On Thursday, I joined Senator Lankford and others in reintroducing a  bill entitled the Prevent Government Shutdowns Act. This bill would  permanently end government shutdowns by creating an automatic  continuing resolution.

This would continue critical services and operations and hold Federal  workers harmless while Congress negotiates a final spending agreement.  To encourage Members and the President to reach an agreement on  funding, the Lankford bill would prohibit Members of Congress,  congressional staffs, and Office of Management and Budget officials  from traveling outside of Washington, DC, during the automatic  continuing resolution. In other words: Do your job. Stay here in town  until you get it done and prevent a shutdown.

It would also prevent Congress from recessing or from considering  legislation unrelated to appropriations bills  with limited exceptions after 30 days of an automatic continuing  resolution.

So Congress needs to stop governing from crisis to crisis, respect  the appropriations process, and fulfill its constitutional  responsibilities to keep the government funded. Moreover, we need to  put an end to the recurring political side show of costly government  shutdowns.