-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, if you watch television, you are hearing  a lot of reports from Nigeria about kidnappings and murders, other  reports of violence, and particularly you are hearing it about  Christians in Nigeria.

This violence has grown more frequent and more troubling as time goes  on. The enforcement of blasphemy laws by the Nigerian Government  coupled with the rise of violent attacks by terrorists against  religious communities represents a serious infringement upon the  freedom of religion that you are supposed to have in that country.

Blasphemy laws are enforced in 12 Nigerian states and also at the  Federal level. That enforcement is resulting in the prosecution and  imprisonment of Christians, Muslims, traditional practitioners, and  even humanists. Furthermore, violence by terrorists like Boko Haram and  the other organization called the Islamic State West Africa Province  continues to pose serious security challenges.

Unfortunately, these challenges are not new developments. For years,  we have been hearing from our own government Agencies, particularly the  FBI and the Department of Justice, urging our own State Department to  designate the terrorist group Boko Haram as a foreign terrorist  organization, a step that was delayed until 2013.

For my part, I have consistently sought information and action to  address this ongoing threat. Going way back almost 10 years in 2016, I  sent a letter to then-U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting  information regarding the yearslong process of designating the Nigerian  Islamist group Boko Haram as a foreign terrorist organization.

In 2020, I wrote to then-Secretary Pompeo and Ambassador Sam  Brownback asking what steps were being taken to protect Christians in  Nigeria and whether a Special Envoy might be appointed.

At that time, the Department assured me that they were actively  addressing the issue at multiple levels with the Nigerian Government,  but now, years later, we continue to see concerning reports about  violence and religious prosecution in Nigeria.

That is why I was so very happy to see our own President Trump take  long-awaited action in designating Nigeria a country of particular  concern. That designation puts Nigeria on a watch list, puts Nigeria on  notice that if they don't take care of this situation, other things can  intervene.

The Nigerian Government must take immediate action to end this  violence, and the United States should do all it can to support and  encourage those efforts. Once again, I am proud to see President Trump  on television, at his news conferences and things like that, speaking  up for the Nigerian Government to take action and supporting the plight  of Christians in Nigeria.