-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the floor to speak about the  Pentagon's unending audit failures and to once again call for  corrective action.

People who have been in the Senate a while know that I have been  continually talking about this issue, many times--so many; I don't know  how many--but I think it is something I need to keep beating the drum  about.

The fact is that the Pentagon is the only Government Agency that  can't get what is called a certified audit or sometimes referred to as  a clean audit--the only Agency of the Federal Government.

I have been conducting oversight on this issue since the audit began  in 1993 and have spoken about it many times. Today, I provide my  colleagues with a new update.

Recent Government Accountability Office testimony may have pinpointed  the root cause audit problem. It is called the universe of  transactions. It is a special bucket of transactions manually  transferred from several hundred systems. It should play a pivotal role  in the audit process.

In theory, the universe of transactions is an accurate record of  every transaction in financial statement balances. Auditors should be  able to follow audit trails to verify samples taken from those  balances.

In practice, it doesn't work. The data is inaccurate and incomplete.  Transactions can't be matched. Audit trails don't exist, so audits  fail.

I found essentially the same disconnect in the inspector general's  first audits 30 years ago. Those audits contain these telling words:  ``No audit trail found.'' It is the same old problem--no controls over  transactions then; none today.

The Marine Corps recently developed a workaround for the no-audit- trail. It is a predicament that needed attention, and they gave it some  attention. As a result of giving it some attention, the Marine Corps  earned two clean opinions, but they did it the hard way.

The marines had to create missing audit trails with labor-intensive,  pick-and-shovel work. They dug up, ran down, matched, and verified each  transaction. Obviously, the marines deserve credit for a job done well.

But manual audit trail reconstruction is not a very cost-efficient  alternative to modern accounting systems. Fully integrated systems are  the solution. They are called for in the Chief Financial Officers Act  that mandated the audits that I am talking about.

Instead of investing in modern systems, Pentagon bureaucrats keep  pouring millions year after year into ancient systems that belong in  the junk heap.

Thirty-five years and billions of dollars down the rat hole, and the  DOD is still scratching their heads, wondering how to control  transactions. Surely, they know traders solved that problem thousands  of years ago when records were first kept on clay tablets.

So why is the Pentagon still in the stone age? It is due to  incompetence or deliberate bureaucratic foot-dragging or whatever.

Getting a handle on every transaction is the key to success, and  therein lies the rub. Integrated systems are needed, but there is  relentless resistance to acquiring them.

I call on Secretary of War Hegseth to create a team of independent  system experts to examine and resolve this problem. Controlling  transactions is the heart and soul of every accounting system--except,  as you see, at the Pentagon. Until that truth is accepted, clean  opinions will remain nothing but a pipe dream.