-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, having a job gives individuals purpose  and dignity. We should promote policies lifting people out of poverty.

In the 1990s, we passed welfare reform with a Republican Congress and  a Democrat President. The results? Welfare rolls went down, poverty  rates decreased, and employment and earnings increased.

Establishing work requirements in Medicaid for able-bodied adults  with reasonable exemptions, then from the previous precedent of welfare  reform--that all makes common sense yet today.

States like Iowa are already leading the way in establishing work  requirements for able-bodied adults in Medicaid. Iowa's Governor  Reynolds has said:

If you are an able-bodied adult who can work, you should       work.

We are doing the same thing at the national level.

Work requirements under the One Big Beautiful Bill only apply to  able-bodied adults between the ages of 19 and 64. Individuals will have  to complete a minimum of 80 hours of work a month, or about 20 hours a  week, of qualifying community engagement activities like working, job  training, going to school, volunteering, or a combination of all these.

We have reasonable exemptions for veterans with a disability rated as  total, individuals who are medically frail or otherwise have special  medical needs, individuals who are blind, have a substance use  disorder, a disabling mental disorder, a physical or intellect  disability that significantly impairs their ability to perform one or  more activities of daily living, or serious or complex medical  conditions.

We also have exemptions for parents, guardians, and caretaker  relatives of children aged 14 or under or disabled individuals and  foster care youth through the age of 26.

We give ``good cause'' exemptions for short-term hardships like  hospitalizations or for an individual receiving psychiatric care.  Individuals impacted by a natural disaster, living in a high- unemployment area, or having to travel outside their community for an  extended period of time to receive medical service would also be  exempted.

States will obviously be required to establish streamlined processes  and use reliable data, like payroll data, to avoid individuals  submitting their own documentation. There will also be significant  outreach and education to those who will be required to work.

Labor force participation data for prime-age men--25 to 54--indicates  that between 1950 to 1970, less than 1 in 30 was out of the labor  force. Now--maybe it shouldn't be surprising--since then, participation  declined steadily, so that 1 in 30 figure is now 1 in 10. This  represents nearly 7 million prime-age men absent from the workforce.

On top of this, recent research found that nonworking Medicaid  recipients spend 6 hours a day on socializing, relaxing, TV, and video  games. They spend 125 hours during a 30-day month watching TV and video  games alone. That is more than 50 percent higher than the 80 hours they  would be required to work in a month.

Commonsense Medicaid work requirements for able-bodied adults take  the same approach as welfare reform did in the 1990s--move people from  welfare to work and self-sufficiency. The  contrary--being on government programs--is a life of poverty. If you  want to get out of poverty, you have to be in the world of work, and  that is what we are trying to accomplish through this legislation, just  like we do work requirements for every other government program.