National Security


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I have a short article that I want to  put in the Record, and I want to describe it before I ask permission.

In a column published in the Wall Street Journal on Monday, October  13, Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorganChase, called out the need for  investment in national security. He mentions many areas that have been  talked about a lot in Washington, like securing supply chains for  critical materials like rare earth elements, ramping up defense  modernization and innovation, energy independence and resilience, and  accelerating advancements in strategic technologies.

The problem is that in Washington here and particularly in the  Congress, it has been mostly just talk.

As a private sector leader, Jamie Dimon is putting his money where  his mouth is. Congress ought to take note and follow his lead.

13, 2025]                     Investments for National Security                              (By Jamie Dimon)

The brutal invasion of Ukraine, the indescribable terrorist       attack on Israel and other major conflicts should dispel any       illusion that the world is safe. The U.S. has allowed itself       to become too reliant on unreliable sources of critical       minerals, products and manufacturing--all of which are       essential for our national security.

America remains the bastion of freedom and, equally       important, the arsenal of democracy. Our own security is       predicated on a strong and resilient domestic economy, which       guarantees our ability to build, innovate and to maintain the       most capable military in the world. Global peace and world       order depend on it.

Our adversaries and potential adversaries aren't waiting--      we no longer have the luxury of time. America needs more       speed and investment. It also needs to remove obstacles that       stand in the way: excessive regulation, bureaucratic delay,       partisan gridlock and an education system misaligned with the       skills we need.

That is why JPMorganChase is launching the Security and       Resiliency Initiative, a 10-year, $1.5 trillion effort to       facilitate, finance and invest in industries crucial to       national security and economic resilience, from critical       medications and minerals to military equipment and       semiconductors. This will also help create economic growth,       innovation and jobs in America. It will include direct equity       investments of up to $10 billion of our own capital in select       companies. This effort will cut across investment banking,       middle-market banking and commercial banking. It will include       special research on private industries and important issues       like supply-chain weaknesses on rare-earth metals. It will       also include trying to design policies that can accelerate       these efforts, including training, research and development,       permitting, and regulations conducive to growth.

Our efforts will focus on four priority areas:

Supply chains and advanced manufacturing to strengthen the       production of critical materials, pharmaceutical precursors,       robotics and components such as semiconductors and rare-earth       elements.

Defense and aerospace to support innovation and scale       production for modern deterrence, including drones,       autonomous system and next-gen connectivity.

Energy independence and resilience to modernize the U.S.       grid and invest in reliable clean power like battery storage       to meet surging demand.

Frontier and strategic technologies to accelerate       breakthroughs in artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and       quantum computing.

Consider two examples: U.S. drug manufacturers depend       heavily on foreign sources for active ingredients for       medication. Seventy-seven percent of those facilities are       overseas. There is an opportunity for America to rebuild and       invest in its ability to manufacture lifesaving pharma       ingredients and avoid supply-chain challenges and the risk of       shortages of essential drugs.

Similarly, the U.S. electric grid is rapidly aging and ill-      equipped to handle the massive increase in demand from AI and       advanced manufacturing. Strategic investment can       modernize transmission lines, harden energy systems, and       reduce blackout risks.

As a top investment bank for the defense, healthcare and       energy sectors, and a manager of trillions of dollars in       clients' assets including in infrastructure and AI, we know       how to put capital and expertise to work to solve big       challenges like this.

Policy will be essential, too. America needs a permitting       process measured in months, not years. Vocational and       apprenticeship programs must be expanded to close the       manufacturing skills gap. And we must create consistent long-      term incentives for private investment in these critical       industries so that more capital is available. Fortunately,       bipartisan legislation has begun to modernize procurement and       streamline industrial policy, and new federal initiatives are       encouraging domestic production of chips and critical       medications.

We hope that America will come together to address these       challenges, as we have in the past. We need to act now.