Nomination of Rebecca L. Taibleson


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I want to thank Chaplain Black for his  reminding all of us about the government shutdown and how irregular it  is and how we aren't helping people that government would normally be  helping.

Today, we will vote on Ms. Rebecca Taibleson, the nomination to the  U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, so I want to take a few  minutes to express my support for her nomination.

Ms. Taibleson is highly qualified. She will be serving on the Seventh  Circuit. Her resume speaks for itself. She attended top schools and  demonstrated academic excellence. She clerked for two Supreme Court  Justices--Justice Scalia and now-Justice Kavanaugh when he was on the  DC Circuit.

She has extensive experience in both private practice and public  service. She has been a Federal prosecutor for nearly a decade and  currently serves as appellate chief for the Eastern District of  Wisconsin. As a prosecutor, she protected her community from violent  criminals and the scourge of narcotics. She is also a member of the  Attorney General's Review Committee on Capital Cases.

During the first Trump administration, she worked on detail in the  Solicitor General's Office. She drafted numerous briefs and presented  oral argument to the U.S. Supreme Court. Her former colleagues in the  Justice Department wrote to the Judiciary Committee, commending Ms.  Taibleson for tackling some of the most difficult legal questions  facing the country and doing so with very thoughtful leadership.

Most importantly, Ms. Taibleson has consistently demonstrated her  steadfast commitment to upholding the rule of law, even at personal  cost. Two moments in her career particularly illustrate her willingness  to take positions even at personal cost.

In 2018, she spoke publicly in defense of Justice Kavanaugh's  nomination to the Supreme Court. She chose to stand up and to speak the  truth even though she knew that she would become embroiled in that  public spectacle that the Kavanaugh nomination brought to the country.  Ms. Taibleson's voice during that testimony was courageous and very  instrumental in Justice Kavanaugh's confirmation.

The same dedication to the rule of law was evident during her time in  the Solicitor General's Office. She raised her hand to handle complex  and important cases on behalf of the United States without regard to  political pressure or personal benefit. Standing up for the rule of law  without fear or favor is exactly what we should want to see in our  Federal judges. I see those attributes in Ms. Taibleson.

Ms. Taibleson will make an outstanding judge, and I know she will  serve the people of Wisconsin and the Seventh Circuit with distinction.  President Trump made an excellent selection for this seat, and I urge  my colleagues to join me in supporting her nomination.