One-Year Anniversary of Trump Assassination Attempt


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, on July 13, 2024, an assassin nearly  killed President Trump. The gunman injured him and two rally  participants and killed Corey Comperatore. We keep him and his family  in our prayers as well as everyone affected that day. Today, 1 year and  1 day later, I come to the floor to provide an update on my ongoing  oversight of that attempted assassination.

The day of the shooting, I launched an investigation focused on  gathering and releasing information to the public. I didn't want the  public to be kept in the dark. Public transparency stops conspiracy  theories. Sixty years after JFK's assassination, we still have  questions being asked. Unfortunately, there are still aspects to that  shooting where the government hasn't been transparent.

The Biden administration stonewalled my oversight requests. I  strongly urge the new administration to let all the facts breathe,  unlike the last administration.

The day of the shooting, my oversight unit quickly got to work. They  talked to patriotic whistleblowers. They performed dozens of witness  interviews, including local law enforcement officials, rally goers, and  local businesses. My staff obtained and reviewed weeks' worth of  security footage, text messages, pictures, law enforcement briefing  materials, after-action reports, and other records. They also obtained  police body camera footage that provided the first video of what  happened in the aftermath of that shooting. I made it all public.

At the time, my investigative work unveiled the most detailed picture  of the Trump assassination attempt. As part of my oversight, I asked  the Department of Homeland Security inspector general to review the  matter. I also requested that the Government Accountability Office do  the same as I asked the inspector general to do. The American people  wanted answers. They wanted accountability in the aftermath of this  tragedy. I worked hard to do just that, and I know there is more work  to be done.

This past weekend, the Government Accountability Office produced to  me its report on the July 13 assassination attempt. The Government  Accountability Office report starts by stating:

The U.S. Secret Service failed to implement security       measures that could have prevented the assassination attempt       on then-former President Donald J. Trump during a July 13,       2024, campaign rally.

According to the report, prior to the July 13 rally, Secret Service  received information from the intelligence community about a threat  against President Trump's life. Yet this threat information wasn't  shared with Secret Service personnel or local law enforcement  officials--all responsible for securing that event. Clearly, had all  Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials known of this  threat, it would have changed how they secured the AGR building where  the sniper opened fire from.

As I previously made public, Secret Service and its local partners  had cell phone issues on July 13. The Government Accountability Office  report found that the Secret Service didn't have a policy to assess  cellular service at the site even though communication is key during  any major event like this. This resulted in the Secret Service not  receiving real-time threat information and updates during the search  for the gunman. Every delayed second in finding the gunman meant that  he was one step closer to carrying out his evil objective.

I previously made public documents showing that the Secret Service  had issues with a counterdrone system at the rally. The Government  Accountability Office confirmed my previous oversight. GAO found that  the Secret Service's counterdrone operator lacked the training,  knowledge, and support to fix and operate the counterdrone system.  According to the Government Accountability Office report, these  problems occurred because the Secret Service didn't follow its own  requirements that personnel must complete training before operating a  counterdrone system.

The GAO report says the Secret Service said that using a counterdrone  is like ``turning on a flashlight.'' Yet the counterdrone did not work,  and the Secret Service could not fix it. Had a counterdrone been  operating as planned, it could have identified the shooter's drone and  even the shooter.

The Government Accountability Office's report also found that the  Secret Service planned to use farm equipment to address a line-of-sight  issue when securing the AGR building. Before the rally, a campaign  staffer asked Secret Service to modify the plan, and the advance team  did as the staffer requested.

But they didn't notify senior officials overseeing the rally of these  changes. If they had, the senior officials might have overruled them.

While the report says the Secret Service has made changes to correct  some of these problems, they still have more work to do. The Secret  Service operates in a zero-fail mission, and they don't have room for  any error.

Every failure exposed by the Government Accountability Office report  must be turned into positive changes in the Secret Service. I want my  colleagues to know that I will be riding hard on them until I am  satisfied the job is done.

I want to close out by thanking the law enforcement officers serving  on the frontlines, including the Secret Service, Capitol Police, their  law enforcement partners, and, of course, their families--all working  hard and sacrificing to keep the public and the government safe.

I am grateful to you all and do not, in the future then, take the  days that seem uneventful for granted.