Senate Resolution 259--Recognizing June As the 39th Anniversary of C-Span Chronicling Democracy in the Senate


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today is the 39th-year celebration of  the U.S. Senate being covered by C-SPAN2.

I have come to the floor countless times since my first term in the  U.S. Senate, beginning in 1981. It is a privilege to represent Iowans  and my home State here in the greatest deliberative body in the world.

For more than four decades and counting, I have joined my colleagues  here in this Chamber to debate public policy, shed light on wrongdoing,  and celebrate historic milestones. I have cast votes on behalf of  Iowans, given my assent or dissent to nominations and legislation on  matters both foreign and domestic on issues from A to Z.

For a period of time spanning more than 27 years, I held the longest  voting streak in Senate history. My 8,927 consecutive rollcall votes  ended in November of 2020, when I was quarantined for exposure to  COVID-19.

My good friend from Maine Senator Susan Collins now holds the baton,  as she continues her unbroken voting streak since she was sworn into  office in 1997.

During the 116th Congress and now the 119th Congress, I am honored to  serve as Senate President pro tempore. From this leadership position, I  open the Senate daily, lead the Pledge of Allegiance, and often take  the opportunity to deliver brief remarks during what we call morning  business.

Since 1986, every minute of the people's business conducted here in  the Senate Chamber has been made available live to the public, from  memorable moments--including televising 16 Supreme Court nomination  debates and 3 Presidential impeachment trials--to subjects that are  often very mundane.

Thanks to C-SPAN2, this public service allows our constituents to see  the swearing-in of newly elected Members, watch all-night sessions  during vote-aramas, and tune in to history being made.

Speaking of the historic moments, it was 39 years ago today, June 2,  when C-SPAN2 started its gavel-to-gavel coverage of the U.S. Senate.  That was 7 years after C-SPAN started broadcasting live coverage of the  U.S. House of Representatives in 1979. At that time, I was a Member of  the House and appreciated C-SPAN's mission to foster civic engagement  and let the sun shine in on the people's business.

So, today, I wish C-SPAN2 a happy birthday and thank those who are  dedicated to its mission to bring the people's business to the people  of our country.

C-SPAN does not receive one penny of taxpayer dollars. It is funded  primarily from satellite and cable providers.

Senator Klobuchar of Minnesota and I have introduced a bipartisan  resolution to recognize C-SPAN2 and the public service it provides the  American people through its live, nonpartisan coverage. Our resolution  calls for television providers, including streaming services, to make  C-SPAN public affairs programming available to all Americans in  realtime on all platforms.

For tens of millions of Americans who have cut the cord and get their  content from streaming services, they should not be cut off from the  civic content made available by C-SPAN. C-  SPAN gives our constituents a front-row seat to the legislative branch,  providing unfiltered access to debates and deliberations that impact  their lives and their livelihoods.

C-SPAN2 has recorded more than 43,830 hours of Senate sessions that  span the spectrum of political views, policy debates, and personal  testimony, including more than 169,000 speeches. It has documented more  than 23,439 rollcall votes, providing a live testimonial of Senate  decision making. Its coverage helps hold elected officials accountable  to our constituents, who are able to see every rollcall vote as it  actually happens.

And it just so happens, on C-SPAN2's inaugural day, on June 2, 1986,  I took my turn as Presiding Officer during the Senate session. I also  delivered remarks to introduce a bill on human rights and free speech,  issues that involved protesters outside of the then-Soviet Embassy,  here in Washington, DC.

Thanks to C-SPAN, Americans can watch history unfold before their  very eyes. As an advocate for civic engagement and transparency, I  applaud C-SPAN's commitment to chronicling democracy in action here in  the Congress.

In fact, for more than 20 years, I have pushed to allow cameras into  the Federal courthouses, including the Supreme Court, to foster a  better understanding of the Federal judiciary and its role in our  system of checks and balances and in resolving legal disputes.

Keeping C-SPAN's cameras rolling here in Congress keeps lawmakers  accountable to our constituents by providing a valuable conduit for  civic engagement and civic education.

As James Madison wrote in 1822, after he had been President 10 years  before--no, I better say 6 years before--some 35 years after he helped  write the Constitution, he had this to say:

A popular Government, without popular information, or the       means of acquiring it, is but a prologue to a Farce or       Tragedy; or perhaps both. Knowle[d]ge will for ever govern       ignorance: and a people who mean to be their own Governours,       must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives.

C-SPAN helps arm Americans with knowledge in realtime and in a  refreshing, nonpartisan lens. In this era of civil discord and  polarization, C-SPAN serves the public interest, not a partisan agenda.

I encourage my colleagues to support our bipartisan resolution that  Senator Klobuchar and I have introduced.

And I will finish with another James Madison remark. As he noted, an  engaged and educated citizenry is necessary to advance the public good  and secure the longevity of our Republic.