Voting


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, in early November, the U.S. Citizenship  and Immigration Service announced improvements to their voter  verification system. Now, States can use a program named the Systematic  Alien Verification for Entitlements to verify that only citizens are  voting in the Federal elections. This is welcome news.

So here is why it is welcome news: During the 2024 election, Iowa's  election official, Secretary of State Paul Pate, sought confirmation of  citizenship status for 2,176 voters that, based on driver motor vehicle  records, may have been noncitizens.

The Biden-Harris administration refused--yes, refused--to give  Secretary Pate the information he needed to confirm whether these 2,176  voters were eligible to vote, which kind of proves that the previous  administration was not interested in verifying citizenship for voting.

Now that the Trump administration has allowed Secretary Pate access  to the SAVE Program, we know that 277 people from Iowa's 2024 voter  registration list were noncitizens. In other words, potentially, 277  people could have voted if they wanted to, and I will tell you that  some did.

While the Biden-Harris administration refused to verify the  citizenship of these voters, 40 noncitizens attempted to vote in Iowa.  Five of those attempts were caught before the ballots were counted, but  35 unlawful ballots were actually tallied.

Thanks to President Trump's Executive order concerning election  integrity and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service's needed  upgrades to the SAVE system, other States can avoid the uncertainty  that Iowa had in last year's election, and the voters in those States  can have peace of mind that noncitizens won't be voting because when  noncitizens vote, it reduces the value of every legal vote.

I would encourage these States to participate in this program. I want  to thank the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service for their  improvements to the SAVE Program, and I also want to thank Iowa's  Secretary of State Paul Pate for his commitment to election integrity  and the Trump administration for providing Iowa the information needed  to confirm the citizenship of its voters.