Whistleblowers


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today I would like to address a  whistleblower complaint that I received the morning before Emil Bove's  nomination hearing. That is the complaint that was given to the New  York Times for them to report on it the very same morning.

One group has publicly accused this chairman of the Judiciary  Committee of undermining that whistleblower. That group also said:

I used to be a champion of whistleblowers.

Then the whistleblower and his lawyers took part in a political hit  piece on my handling of this situation, and so now my Democratic  colleagues have all of a sudden found whistleblowers to be of benefit  to them.

Let me be absolutely clear. I appreciate the whistleblower's  disclosure being sent to my office. My door is open to anyone, but that  doesn't mean that I am going to jump at every allegation in a way that  some may want this Senator to do. So let me respond with a very short  history lesson.

Last Congress, during the Biden administration, I worked to protect  many whistleblowers, as I have throughout my Senate career. I recall  with pride the work that I did during the Reagan administration with  Department of Defense whistleblowers.

In some cases, my whistleblower work never sees the light of day  because the situation demands nonpublic attention. In other cases,  publicity is required.

In my efforts to protect the IRS whistleblowers who came forward  during the previous administration, my Democratic colleagues didn't  join me. In my efforts to protect the Department of Homeland Security  whistleblowers, my Democratic colleagues refused to join me.

And those whistleblowers even disclosed problematic conduct during  the Trump administration, conduct which that administration actually  tried to fix.

In my efforts to protect Health and Human Services' whistleblowers,  my Democratic colleagues didn't join me in that effort either.

Last year, I hosted two oversight roundtables, one on the Biden  administration's failure to protect unaccompanied children from  trafficking, another on the Biden administration's failure to collect  DNA at the border, resulting in Americans being subjected to senseless  crimes from illegals.

At that roundtable, the witnesses said that Rachel Morin's murder by  an illegal could have been prevented had his DNA been taken by the  border people, as required under law.

At both of these roundtables, my whistleblowers testified. On both  roundtables, not a single Democrat attended, even though I invited them  to come.

During Trump's first term, I made a public statement that it appeared  the Ukraine complaint followed whistleblower laws. I said that even  though I had serious concerns about the complaint's substantive  legitimacy--concerns which have been proven right over time. Now, at  that particular time, Democratic groups praised me.

During Trump's first term, I investigated Russian collusion, then- Ranking Member Feinstein joined me in that effort. We and our staffs  interviewed Donald Trump, Jr., and other Republicans. As we found out,  there was nothing there.

And what ended up happening is the exposure of the Clinton campaign  and Democratic National Committee paying for the fake Steele dossier.

Yet, with overwhelming evidence of Biden family corruption, my  Democratic colleagues didn't do any investigation of that matter. And  when I say ``overwhelming,'' I made bank records public proving the  case, and it was still crickets from the other side.

During the Kavanaugh nomination, many alleged whistleblowers came  forward. I directed my oversight and investigative staffs to dig in: 45  witnesses were interviewed, 25 written statements, and an over 400-page  report.

Some of those witnesses were sent to us by my Democrat colleagues.  The conclusion of that, no evidence to support the allegations that  were brought forward against Kavanaugh. Indeed, what ended up happening  were several criminal referrals for felonious lies from these same  witnesses. This committee made four criminal referrals for materially  false statements and obstruction, two of these four referrals also  included criminal conspiracy.

One witness was referred to my staff by a fellow Senator who also  referred that witness to a reporter. That witness's information was  used to question Kavanaugh under oath. That witness later publicly  admitted that they lied.

When individuals provide fabricated allegations, it diverts committee  resources when other time-sensitive investigations are ongoing.  Resources were diverted away from whistleblowers to handle the  Kavanaugh matter. Such conduct impedes the Senate's work. During  Kavanaugh, my investigative staff spent hours, days, and many weeks  investigating one claim after another.

So getting back to the matter I opened with, Emil Bove, my first  question to him at a public hearing was directly about the  whistleblower complaint that my staff received the very single day  before the hearing.

So the nominee, Mr. Bove, denied the allegations under oath. The  Deputy Attorney General has denied the allegations publicly. Two high- level principals have made outright denials publicly. The whistleblower  also signed papers acknowledging the Justice Department had complied  with court orders. So right now that is the state of the play.

Every day my office receives many whistleblower cases. My  investigative staff study them and run down the facts.

There are many government employees who need help. And just this  year, I have had a lot of success with whistleblowers that were  discriminated against, investigated against, maybe fired, maybe put on  administrative leave. But in most cases, it was all an attempt to hurt  them professionally, besides being out of a job.

So in regard to the IRS whistleblowers, they were finally helped--one  of whom is a Democrat. My Department of Homeland Security  whistleblowers got their guns, badges, and retirement back. On another  example, I spent significant time helping FBI whistleblowers, and it  appears their cases are trending in the right direction.

And guess what. One of those whistleblowers is also a Democrat.

I would always welcome more bipartisan oversight. It is just that the  Democrats apparently don't want to join my efforts.

So when I read unfounded public broadsides about my operation in that  political piece I have already referred to, let what I said today be a  reminder of my dedication to helping the whistleblower community. And  let me also remind everyone that sometimes what I do to protect  whistleblowers is nonpublic, as it should be. And I don't care about  that. All I care about are the results of helping whistleblowers and  bringing attention to the wrong that the whistleblowers say are wrong  within our government.