Whistleblowers


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, I am here to again speak about  the New York Times' anti-whistleblower reporting. Obviously, it is very  misleading.

On January 18, 2026, Glenn Thrush, Alan Feuer, and Adam Goldman gave  another big, wet kiss to their fired friends from the Biden Department  of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and they did so in  an effort to intimidate, to smear, and to discredit brave and patriotic  whistleblowers. This has now become a pattern of conduct by the New  York Times, dating back to articles starting in 2023.

On January 30, 2025, Alan Feuer and Adam Goldman mischaracterized my  and Senator Johnson's Arctic Frost disclosures by saying ``messages  showed that FBI investigators took normal bureaucratic steps and  precautions'' when opening the case.

Now, was this supposed to be an opinion piece on behalf of terminated  FBI agents or a real news article?

Normal steps weren't taken. As I noted in my February 3, 2025, floor  speech about FBI agent Thibault:

Does the New York Times [truly] believe that it is normal       for an Assistant Special Agent in Charge to prepare case       predication for the opening of an investigation and then feed       it to a street agent?

Is it normal for an Assistant Special Agent in Charge       responsible for the most sensitive political investigations       in the FBI to be forced to resign for partisanship on the job       and then be found to have violated the Hatch Act for that       same partisanship?

These two New York Times articles are merely examples out of others  that could be addressed with the same rebuttals. So, in the interest of  time, I will only address the January 18, 2026, article that I came  here to discuss with my colleagues.

In that article, Thrush, Feuer, and Goldman issued the same  slobbering defense of fired FBI agents whose emails Senator Johnson and  I made public. So who does the Times end up attacking? They have chosen  this Senator, and they have also chosen to attack my whistleblowers.

First, Thrush, Feuer, and Goldman did get something right. Can you  believe that? They said the FBI is producing records ``in response to  longstanding inquiries by Republicans on Capitol Hill.'' The House and  Senate have finally begun to receive responsive productions to our  oversight requests as the New York Times has correctly stated. Some of  those requests date back many years. Indeed, some requests date back to  the first Trump administration. This isn't a scandal the Times would  like to create. The Justice Department and the FBI have an obligation  to respond to congressional inquiries.

To Attorney General Bondi's and FBI Director Patel's credit, they  have done better in that regard than any of their predecessors of  Republican Presidents and Democrat Presidents. Now, am I fully  satisfied? Of course not, but Bondi and Patel deserve credit. If the  Biden administration had done the same, I would have given the Biden  administration credit as well.

By and large, the records I have made public in this and the last  Congress are directly from whistleblowers in unredacted form to which  my office applied limited redactions or the records are from the  government in response to whistleblower disclosures that I have shared.

There have been examples in this Congress and the last where the  government had no idea what records were  in the files of the executive branch of government until I transmitted  whistleblower disclosures to that same executive branch, the most  recent being the email about an FBI agent wanting to criminally  investigate Elon Musk. This, too, is not a scandal that the Times would  like to imply because that is called good government oversight, and I  have done good government oversight all of my career in the Senate.

Second, the Times said I called the raid at Mar-a-Lago, where the FBI  reportedly searched the rooms of the First Lady and Barron Trump, a  miscarriage of justice. Of course, when the Times said that, they  didn't include my full tweet. They left out the beginning of the  sentence where I said: ``Based on the records'' those records showed  that the FBI agents had many concerns about the raid and ``will not  do'' the search warrant unless the Deputy Director were to provide  direction.

These are records that were covered up by the Biden administration.  Indeed, the public ought to know and give credit to those FBI agents  for expressing their concerns and doing it in writing; in other words,  following what the law requires.

I gave the same credit to FBI agents who were obstructed by their  leadership and then-Secretary of State John Kerry during the Obama  administration. For example, at that time, I released a majority staff  report just last year. That report made public FBI emails that showed  agents tried to arrest high-level Iranians but were stopped from making  those arrests. Those agents were stopped then from doing their jobs  because of political considerations relating to the 2015 Iran nuclear  deal that President Obama was so intent upon getting finalized.

Lastly, I released records this year showing FBI agents wanting to  investigate election matters but were obstructed. Those agents created  an investigative document that was suppressed, in part, because the  information would have contradicted then-FBI Director Wray's testimony.  The records show real frustration among the FBI rank and file. Again, I  made this information public to inform the American people and to give  due credit to those agents who were standing up for their work and  following the law.

Relating back to the Times article, the third issue to raise is that  Thrush, Feuer, and Goldman did something unforgivable. That  unforgivable thing was their article essentially accusing my  whistleblowers of violating the law. It does so, in part, by citing a  complaint filed by J.P. Cooney and Molly Gaston. These were two of Jack  Smith's partisan prosecutors--prosecutors with a mission to put  President Trump in prison when he was a private citizen while he was  between his two terms in office. J.P. Cooney and Molly Gaston  reportedly accused the whistleblower disclosures of violating grand  jury secrecy rules when I obtained 197 of Jack Smith's subpoenas--wide- ranging subpoenas--that violated the privacy of a lot of people,  including a lot of Members of the Senate and Congress.

Senator Johnson and I then made these subpoenas public--almost 2,000  pages of information. That information exposed that Jack Smith, the  prosecutor, and his team targeted over 400 Republican individuals and  Republican and conservative organizations. In some cases, Prosecutor  Smith and his team sought communications with the media and the  legislative branch. J.P. Cooney and Molly Gaston were a part of Jack  Smith's team; so that reported complaint they filed against my  whistleblowers is littered with a lot of conflict of interest.

But let's focus on this: Prosecutor Smith and his team sought  communications with the media. Instead of the New York Times  investigating and reporting on that major constitutional red flag, the  Times brushes it aside and gladly runs with the false accusations from  Cooney and Gaston against my whistleblowers. In doing so, the Times  also links a 2020 Justice Department opinion memo to the article to try  and support Cooney's and Gaston's whistleblower-chilling efforts.

The Department of Justice's opinion was scoped to ``leaks to the  press [of] confidential information concerning prosecutorial decision- making.'' The whistleblower disclosures were to Congress, not to the  media.

The same Department of Justice's opinion also says in footnote No. 2  that a separate statutory provision exists that ``protects disclosure  to Congress using significantly different language and raises distinct  issues that we don't discuss in this opinion.''

The same Department of Justice opinion also says, in part, that an  employee is provided whistleblower protection ``when the employee  reasonably believes that the disclosure reveals a violation of law or  rules or exposes serious wrongdoing as defined by statute.''

Thrush, Feuer, and Goldman's opinion piece fails three ways. They  misled the public by creating a false narrative that whistleblower  disclosures provided to me and Senator Johnson were somehow illegal.

Moreover, a fundamental precept of whistleblowing is the First  Amendment. I thought the New York Times and its left-leaning  compatriots loved the First Amendment.

Here, in this January 18 article, the Times shreds the First  Amendment and, in doing so, undermines and devalues patriotic  whistleblowers. That is an historic disgrace that will age very poorly  for these authors, their editors, and the New York Times at large.

The January 18 article also argues that my critics say these  whistleblowers won't face reprisal because Trump is in office. Reprisal  isn't a condition precedent to be a whistleblower. And how dare the  Times make any insinuation that my whistleblowers haven't put  themselves at risk. Whether there is a Republican or Democrat running  the White House, whistleblowers always face real risk: ruining  themselves professionally, losing their job, all that and more. And  mine--my whistleblowers--have faced years of risk because their  disclosures to me have occurred over a period of years, not just during  the Trump administration.

Here, too, the Times and the authors try very hard to undercut the  assertion that my whistleblowers are protected by law. It is an act  done to chill, to intimidate, and to smear patriotic government  workers.

In closing, perhaps the most disappointing element of this article is  the quote from the Government Accountability Project. The Government  Accountability Project is a group that I have worked with for decades  on legislation and whistleblowers, and I consider them a very fine  organization, not only helping whistleblowers, but helping all of  Congress in our responsibility of oversight to see that the executive  branch faithfully executes the laws according to the constitutional  requirement.

The Government Accountability Project said this to the Times about my  whistleblowers not facing any risk of reprisal:

There is no risk, given that it looks like the entities who       ordinarily might retaliate apparently might be behind the       release.

This is a shameful statement for the New York Times and their authors  to make. So my office approached the Government Accountability Project,  and this is what they told us: First, the Government Accountability  Project apologized. They said about the New York Times article:

It is not something the Government Accountability Project       wanted to have our organization part of.

Second, the Government Accountability Project said the quoted  employee ``is a contract lawyer who isn't authorized to speak for the  organization beyond his clients.''

The Government Accountability Project asked the Times to make that  correction, but, ``unfortunately, they declined.''

Third, the Government Accountability Project said it didn't stand  behind the statement, as it ``violated Government Accountability  Project standards, because it was speculative rather than evidence  based.''

Fourth, the Government Accountability Project said the quoted  employee ``didn't know the context when a reporter asked him a  hypothetical question and has promised to check before any future  public statements that could overlap with Judiciary Committee work.''

So I hope it is clear. It appears that, based on Government  Accountability Project's representations to my office,  the New York Times misled the Government Accountability Project  employee to get a quote, as you could expect, that would fit the Times'  predetermined narrative--so much for following the facts and the  evidence, as you would expect any journalist to do.

The Government Accountability Project also submitted a letter to the  editor in support of this Senator. I thank the organization for doing  that.

What really shoddy work by Thrush, Feuer, and Goldman. Thanks to  these three reporters, the New York Times is a paper of record when it  comes to attacking and undermining whistleblowers.

So I say to my whistleblowers: I will defend you. I will protect you.  I will continue to make public the records that you are giving to me.

And so to the New York Times, shame is not a strong enough word to  describe these unprofessional articles.