Cortez Masto Applauds Faa's Implementation of Collegiate Drone Training Program


U.S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) applauded the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) implementation of the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Collegiate Training Initiative, which was originally proposed as part of the senator's Safe DRONE Act and included in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018.

"Nevada is a national leader in drone technology, and we must ensure our workforce has the necessary skills to drive innovation and growth in this industry. I'm pleased that the FAA has opened the Collegiate Training Initiative to colleges and universities across the country, and I urge Nevada's institutions of higher learning to take advantage of this opportunity," said Senator Cortez Masto. "As our state faces economic uncertainty due to the coronavirus pandemic, it is essential that we continue to make these critical investments in our students and workers to ensure Nevada remains the Innovation State."

BACKGROUND:

As part of her Innovation State Initiative, the senator has made expanding the economic and safety benefits of the drone industry a priority -- from applications to help reduce threatening situations for our law enforcement and first responders, such as wildfires, to helping deliver needed medical supplies. During the course of the 2018 FAA Reauthorization process, the senator also extended Nevada's FAA designated drone test site, and included and tracked the implementation of various drone safety measures to ensure the safe and efficient adoption of this technology into our national airspace.

Colleges and universities may apply to the FAA to become designated as a UAS Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) school. The FAA will work with partner schools to deliver up-to-date UAS training tools, resources, and guidelines that will prepare students for careers in drone technologies.

In order to be eligible to become a UAS-CTI school, the institution must offer a Bachelors or Associates degree in Unmanned Aircraft Systems, or a degree with a minor, concentration, or certificate in UAS.