Cortez Masto Hosts Call with Military Spouses During Military Appreciation Month


In honor of Military Appreciation Month, U.S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) hosted a phone conversation with military spouses from across Southern Nevada. During the call, Senator Cortez Masto listened to the challenges military families are facing during the coronavirus pandemic and every day as their loved ones bravely serve our country at home and abroad. The Senator also shared what she's working on in Congress to ensure our service members and their families have all the resources they need to stay safe and healthy.

"Nevada's military spouses always show incredible strength and resilience. Each day, they share in the sacrifices of their loved ones bravely serving our country, which is why I'm working in Congress to protect them and their families. I'm doing all I can in in the Senate to ensure that these brave men and women have the necessary resources -- from child care and military housing accountability to mental health support and career opportunities -- so they can keep supporting their loved ones in the military, and so that service members have every resource they need."

BACKGROUND:

Senator Cortez Masto has advocated for numerous legislative efforts to support Nevada's military families during the coronavirus pandemic. The Senator has called for more funding for non-profit organizations, including child care and education programs, in the next coronavirus funding bill. In addition, Senator Cortez Masto is a cosponsor of the Emergency Rental Assistance and Rental Market Stabilization Act of 2020 to create a $100 billion emergency rental assistance fund to help families and individuals stay in their homes during and after the coronavirus crisis. She also recently cosponsored the Examining Mental Health Services for the National Guard and Reserves Act to improve mental health resources for members of the National Guard and Reserves.

Senator Cortez Masto has also led recent legislation to help improve housing, health care and career services for our nation's veterans and military members. The FY2020 NDAA included language from the Senator's Better Military Housing Act of 2019 to improve the management of privatized military housing and prioritize the needs of families, and her Servicewomen's Health Transition Training Act of 2019, to help service women transitioning from active duty to civilian life learn about the VA health services and benefits available to them. She has also introduced the SERVICE Act, which would expand access to mental health services for combat veterans seeking care more than five years after discharge.