Cortez Masto Commemorates Denim Day


U.S. Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) issued the following release commemorating Denim Day, a day Americans are able to show solidarity and support for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault. During Sexual Assault Awareness Month, this day brings awareness to victim blaming and destructive myths that surround sexual violence. As part of today's commemoration, Senator Cortez Masto held a video conference with the Nevada Coalition to End Domestic and Sexual Violence.

"Today we wear denim to rededicate ourselves to the fight to create a culture in our country where men and women can come forward as survivors, tell their story and seek justice. In Nevada, and across the country, we wear denim alongside, and on behalf of, survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault and together make clear that no one should ever be told it's their fault. I want to thank organizations in Nevada like the Nevada Coalition to End Domestic and Sexual Violence and the Rape Crisis Center for all they're doing to support survivors and be the drivers of that culture change in America. I'm fighting alongside you today, and every day."

BACKGROUND:

Since her time as Nevada Attorney General, Senator Cortez Masto has been a strong advocate for survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault and human trafficking. Most recently, the Senator passed two bipartisan bills with Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) to combat the epidemic of missing, murdered, and trafficked indigenous women and girls. In addition, since the onset of stay at home orders during the coronavirus pandemic, Senator Cortez Masto has led letters with her colleagues, including fellow Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), to Senate leaders, asking that future legislation to address the coronavirus pandemic also include resources to meet domestic and sexual violence survivors' needs, including immigrant survivors. Senator Cortez Masto has also been a strong advocate for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which plays a critical role in addressing gender-based violence and providing services and protections for survivors in Nevada, and across the country.