Following Urging from Cortez Masto and Colleagues, New National Housing Assistance Website Launched


Following calls by U.S. Senators Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawai"i), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) partnered together to launch a new website to help renters and homeowners learn more about all the resources and assistance available to them during the coronavirus pandemic. The website details new housing-related policies, benefits, and protections established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. On April 1, Senator Cortez Masto joined Senator Schatz in calling on the relevant government agencies to collaborate and create this new website.

"I'm pleased that the Administration heeded our call to create this website. Now homeowners and renters will have a one-stop source for all the federal assistance available to them during the coronavirus pandemic; I hope it meets the needs of Nevadans and enables them to stay in their homes," said Senator Cortez Masto.

Previously, each federal agency maintained their own individual resource websites, forcing people to navigate multiple pages to find information about the protections and benefits they need. This new website consolidates information about CARES Act programs, including mortgage relief, protections for renters, resources for additional help, and information on how to avoid coronavirus-related scams. It also provides search tools for homeowners to help determine if their mortgage is federally backed, and for renters to find out if their rental unit is federally financed. 

The website will be continuously updated to reflect the most recent information and to help answer frequently asked questions.

BACKGROUND:

In addition to Senators Cortez Masto and Schatz, U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.), Mazie K. Hirono (D-Hawai"i), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), and Tina Smith (D-Minn.) signed the April letter calling for a single website.

In their April letter, the senators wrote, "Americans throughout the country are grappling with the realities of the pandemic response. Social distancing guidelines are placing physical, emotional, and economic pressures on nearly everyone. Accordingly, we urge you to develop and rapidly make available a single website to serve as a clearinghouse for all new housing policies and tools that homeowners and renters can avail themselves of to get through this crisis."