Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Majority Leader and to the Hon. Chuck Schumer, Democratic Leader and to the Hon. Nancy Pelosi, Speaker of the House and to the Hon. Kevin McCarthy, Minority Leader - Rosen Leads Nevada Delegation in Bipartisan Letter Urging Congressional Leadership to Include Gaming Small Businesses in Paycheck Protection Program in Future Coronavirus Legislation


Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer and Leader McCarthy:As you continue negotiations on additional funding for the Paycheck Protection Program -- a newU.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) program authorized by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief,and Economic Security (CARES) Act -- and move toward a fourth coronavirus stimulus package,we ask that you ensure that businesses with 500 or fewer employees that derive more than onethird of their an annual revenues from legal gaming activities are made explicitly eligible forassistance under PPP.Small businesses in the gaming industry support more than 350,000 jobs in the United States. Instates like Nevada, many of our communities rely substantially on the gaming industry foremployment, tax revenue, and economic growth. Many of our casinos -- including hotels -- aresmall businesses, and they employ many tens of thousands of employees across our state, makingup the backbone of Nevada's economy. These small businesses are located in both our largeurban areas and rural communities. Furthermore, many Nevada small businesses such asrestaurants, bars, grocery stores, and convenience stores operate gaming equipment and deriverevenue from it. Our state is also home to a large number of small businesses in the gamingequipment manufacturing industry.Unfortunately, recent guidance released by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) andthe U.S. Department of Treasury exclude any small business that derives more than one-third oftheir revenue from legal gaming activities from participation in PPP. While SBA has in the pastprecluded gaming businesses from participating in its traditional programs such as the 7(a) Loanand Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDL), Congressional intent in the CARES Act for the newPaycheck Protection Program was for all small businesses to be eligible for PPP, in directresponse to the nationwide economic downturn resulting from the coronavirus pandemic. In fact,in Section 1102 of the CARES Act, the legislation explicitly states that "in addition to smallbusiness concerns, any business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization, or Tribalbusiness concern described in section 31(b)(2)(C) shall be eligible to receive a covered loan" ifthe business has 500 or fewer employees. We are extremely disappointed that the SBA released this guidance not only over our repeatedobjections, but also in contravention of explicit congressional intent that any business should beeligible if it has 500 or fewer employees. Small businesses across the country are strugglingbecause of the impact of COVID-19 and Congress passed the CARES Act to ensure that smallbusinesses can keep people employed and that our economy quickly recover from the pandemic.Excluding certain industries based on regulations from previously existing programs jeopardizessmall businesses, workers, and the communities that depend on them.For these reasons, we believe it is critical to provide clear statutory language in all future relieflegislation regarding the eligibility of businesses that derive revenue from legal gamingactivities. We urge you to incorporate the following language into the next bill to fund PPP orany forthcoming coronavirus stimulate package to ensure that legal gaming entities receivemuch-needed SBA assistance to weather this economic storm:"Notwithstanding 13 CFR ยง 120.110 or any other provision of law or regulation, thereceipt of gaming revenue shall not prevent any person from being eligible for anyprogram, loan, grant or any benefit made available by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, andEconomic Security Act (P.L. 116-136), the Families First Coronavirus Response Act(P.L. 116-17), or the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response SupplementalAppropriations Act, 2020 (P.L. 116-123)"This bipartisan issue deeply affects Nevada and many states throughout the country that dependon the revenue and jobs created by the gaming industry. Given these dire and unprecedentedtimes due to the coronavirus outbreak, we ask that you provide much needed relief for Nevadasmall gaming businesses as soon as possible.We appreciate your work on behalf of Nevada and our nation's small businesses. We lookforward to working with you on this issue.