Senate Resolution Supports National Trafficking, Modern Slavery Prevention Month


Senator Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today joined Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) to introduce a bipartisan resolution to bring awareness to human trafficking. The resolution expresses the Senate's support for National Trafficking and Modern Slavery Prevention Month. "Human trafficking and exploitation has no place in our society. Sadly though, it occurs all too often in communities all across our country, including Iowa. Bringing greater awareness to this form of modern-day slavery is critical to facing it head on and restoring the dignity and addressing the trauma of those impacted. This resolution shines a light on trafficking and continues our important work in the Senate to put an end to this abomination," Grassley said. "Human trafficking and modern-day slavery are scourges on our society that must end. Turning a blind eye to sexual exploitation and forced labor won't hide the fact these heinous acts still happen in our country. We have a responsibility to speak out and tell victims that we know about this problem, we see them and we support them. That's what our resolution does," Feinstein said. "The human trafficking industry generates an estimated $150 billion in illegal profits a year and is rapidly increasing across the nation. In fact, in Alaska it is the second fastest growing crime in our state. It is one of the most evil and sickening crimes imaginable, and it is happening in plain sight. Education and awareness are key steps in addressing human trafficking. Our efforts to put an end to these heinous crimes must be year-round, but I am glad to join Senator Feinstein in this resolution to raise awareness on the high rates of human trafficking of Alaskan Natives and to recognize January as National Trafficking and Modern Slavery Prevention Month," Murkowski said. "As Nevada's Attorney General, I saw firsthand how devastating human trafficking -- modern-day slavery -- is for its victims. I've been fighting trafficking in every way I can, and so I'm proud to join in this resolution in support of National Trafficking and Modern Slavery Prevention Month. I'm committed to continue pushing in the Senate to halt trafficking and support trafficking victims," Cortez Masto said. Other cosponsors include Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Dan Sullivan (R-Ark.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.).