Israel At 77


Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record  remarks submitted at the request of a Virginia Beach constituent, Rabbi  Dr. Israel Zoberman of Temple Lev Tikvah, and are a reflection of his  views:

Israel At 77--How poignant to affirm the special       relationship between the U.S. and Israel, two close       democratic allies, in our own Hampton Roads and Commonwealth       of Virginia! Hampton Roads' military might is ever ready to       stand by beleaguered Israel. Early in the Gaza War, the USS       Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier, where I had lectured on       Holocaust Lessons, rushed to the Mediterranean to deter       Israel's Iran led enemies. Currently the USS Harry Truman       aircraft carrier is there hitting Yemen's Houthis who hit       Israel. Uniquely, The Virginia Israel Advisory Board (VIAB)       established in 1996, a Virginia government agency, advises       the Governor on promoting economic, cultural and educational       ties with Israel. Israel's 77th anniversary takes place in       the long and dark shadow of the transforming events of       October 7, 2023, continuing to impact the survival and       meaning of the Jewish state from within and without. All       those seeking searing reflection should turn to an essential       book of blood, pain and love. Amir Tibon gifted Israeli       author and noted journalist's recent The Gates of Gaza (A       Story of Betrayal, Survival, and Hope In Israel's       Borderlands), Little, Brown and Company. 2024 is bound to be       a classic.

This literary masterpiece offers eye-witness report from       that ``Black Sabbath'' with its shocking Holocaust images,       continuing to shake up the State of Israel, the Middle East       and beyond. Tibon, his wife and two very young daughters       survived a harrowing nightmare in their home's safe room in       Kibbutz Nahal Oz, the closest Israeli community to Gaza. On       that day, that will also live in infamy, they were terrorized       in darkness and very small quarters till liberated by Amir's       father, Noam, a retired Israeli general, who rushed with his       wife from Tel Aviv to save their family. Both Amir and Noam       were invited to share with then President Biden when he       arrived in Israel on October 17. Both father and son firmly       requested the release of barbarically treated 251 hostages,       including American citizens. Captives' redemption is a top       Jewish commandment and an honored Israeli tradition. Saving       the remaining hostages is paramount! The author's angst is       with the Nazi-like Hamas leaders as well as Prime Minister       Netanyahu and his government for the colossal failure to       forestall the October 7 debacle, requiring a state inquiry       commission. A disturbing inclusion is the eulogy by the late       Moshe Dayan, the iconic Israeli leader who back in April 30,       1956, spoke at Nahal Oz's first funeral. Dayan, initially       arriving the day before for planned four weddings only to       face the brutal murder of Roi Rutberg, Nahal Oz's security       chief, by infiltrating Gazans. Dayan's stirring words created       a stir in the young community for its pessimistic message       relevant years later for the October 7 much larger calamity,       raising troubling questions about a peaceful future. ``Have       we forgotten that this group of young people dwelling at       Nahal Oz is bearing the heavy gates of Gaza on its shoulders?       Beyond the furrow of the border, a sea of hatred and desire       for revenge is swelling awaiting the day when serenity will       dull our path . . . This is our life's choice: to be prepared       and armed, strong and determined, lest the sword be stricken       from our fist and our lives cut down''

Yet, unsettling as the current scenario is we are duty-      bound at this significant 77th celebration of an Israel       reborn representing 4,000 years of Jewish experience and       persistence, to keep a balanced perspective. Israel's       monumental accomplishments and gained substantial power--      though still vulnerable--since its fragile 1948 establishment       in the Holocaust's consuming shadow are promising. However,       its internal conflicting core issues demand resolution and       reconciliation to guarantee a robust democracy in a       pluralistic Jewish context, eschewing both secular       authoritarianism and oppressive theocracy. Otherwise, the       gates of Gaza (the book's title) that biblical Samson carried       facing the threatening Philistines, would now prove too heavy       for heroic Israel at multi front war!

Rabbi Dr. Israel Zoberman is founder of Temple Lev Tikvah in Virginia  Beach. He was born in Chu, Kazakhstan (USSR) to Polish Holocaust  survivors who had met in Siberia. He spent his early childhood in  Poland, Austria and Germany before moving to Israel in 1949.