The Triumph of Life


Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record  remarks submitted at the request of a Virginia Beach constituent, Rabbi  Dr. Israel Zoberman of Temple Lev Tikvah, and are a reflection of his  views:                       The Jewish High Holy Days 5786

The Jewish High Holy Days of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur,       an ancient people's peak spiritual drama of courageous       contemplation and heartfelt contrition, are captured in the       life and work of Rabbi Irving Greenberg, acclaimed modern       Orthodox rabbi and author. His latest book, The Triumph of       Life (A Narrative Theology of Judaism), is Greenberg's own       triumphant accomplishment offering Jews and non-Jews alike an       encompassing scholarly yet accessible work of theological       art, bound to rank high as a pioneering beacon of light,       learning and enlightenment in our postmodern new age with       revolutionary promise as well as colossal dark threats to       human life, the painstakingly garnered civilization and the       very survival of all life on our planet Earth. Greenberg       attributes the impetus to writing this inspirational guide--      which aims to reassure readers from all persuasions that       covenantal life of the spirit is worth laboring and fighting       for--to his shaking 1961 experience in Israel while attending       Tel Aviv University as a Fulbright scholar and encountering       the enormity of the Holocaust for the first time.

Referring to the famous Adolf Eichmann trial of the       notorious SS officer in Jerusalem, with profound impact on an       entire mesmerized nation. I vividly recall as a teenager       living then in Israel and myself son of Polish Holocaust       survivors, the shock of the horrific events described by       shaken witnesses. The author offers us a touching       confessional of a crisis of faith of an Orthodox raised Jew,       challenging his basic assumptions about God, covenant and       life's meaning. ``My loving wife (Blu is a distinguished       feminist Orthodox Jew and author) and family saved me from       nihilism and despair by showing me the incredible tenacity       and unspent power of embracing life. The emergent State of       Israel suggested to me that the Divine was still operating in       the world, and testified to the human capacity to take power       for reestablishing life and reasserting its value.''

Referring to his book with its far-reaching conclusions of       ushering in the hoped for messianic era which Greenberg       testifies is within human reach in our postmodern era with       its new opportunity for creative human unity within enriching       diversity, upholding universal human dignity and equality via       restoring God's violated image, ``I hope it will appeal to       non-Jewish readers as well, especially to Christians,       partners in the struggle to overcome millennia of hostility       and delegitimization. People of all religions must work       together to repair the world politically, economically, and       culturally, and turn the Earth into the paradise all humans       deserve.'' The admirable Orthodox rabbi who found his way       back to faith and his own particular belief structure       following a most challenging crisis impacted by the       shattering Holocaust, was enabled to reach beyond the       confines of his own faith's traditions and give credit where       it's due.

His own Jewish people historically have not lacked       fracturing divisions among opposing ideologies not allowing       for urgently required unity at times of grave danger, such as       during the Holocaust. The prosecution of the Gaza War       following Hamas's barbarism both united and divided Israelis       with a backlash of antisemitism in the United States and       Europe. It is evident that events in Israel affect the Jewish       Diaspora, even as the author emphasizes the debt of the       latter to the Israeli partner. It is clear though that       influential American Jewry is the glue to the essential       relationship between Israel and the United States. Greenberg       hails Israel's 1948 creation as reassuring that God's       covenant with the Jewish people yet continues in spite of the       Holocaust's heavy toll. The world's only Jewish state's       robust democracy with multiple accomplishments benefiting       humanity has served as a source of pride and unity to world       Jewry even though       challenges to Israel's existence and character persist from       within and without. May life's universal blessing yet       triumph!