Ice Turns Courthouses Into Traps


Ms. BALINT. Mr. Speaker, right now, ICE is showing up at courthouses  across the country, waiting to arrest people after their official  immigration hearings.

Is this what we thought we would see in America? ICE officials lying  in wait to grab people who are actually following the rules? In some  cases, these people had just had their cases dismissed.

They walk into court, following the rules, doing what they were told,  following the legal pathways, and they are being taken into unmarked  cars and fast-tracked for deportation.

Let's be clear: This isn't about catching dangerous criminals. It was  never about catching dangerous criminals.

These are moms, dads, students, grandparents, workers, people who are  trying to get through the legal process the right way, but ICE is  turning our courthouses into traps.

The very places that immigrants are supposed to go to follow a legal  path to citizenship have now become traps to lure people in so that  they can be arrested, detained, and disappeared.

ICE tricked a Vermonter, Mohsen Mahdawi. He has been legally in our  State for 10 years. He showed up for the final step in his citizenship  process only to have masked men detain him after he exited the  courthouse. He knew it was a risk to show up, but he decided it was  worth the risk to maybe finally become an American.

Imagine going to court, following the process, and then getting  arrested the second you step outside. That is what is happening in  America right now.

Last month, in San Francisco, four asylum-seekers were taken by ICE  after their hearings were over. In New York City, even a city official,  Comptroller Brad Lander, was detained by ICE while trying to support an  immigrant friend.

If they are willing to rough up city officials, mayors, and even a  sitting U.S. Senator, what does that mean for the rest of us? These  tactics are to scare people. People are now afraid to go to court.

How does that possibly make our country more safe? People are  skipping hearings, risking automatic deportation, because they don't  trust the system anymore. How is anyone supposed to follow the legal  steps if even those are now a risk?

Republicans claim over and over again in committees that this is only  about illegal immigration. It is not. If that were the case, then they  would be just as outraged as I am that people are being snatched  outside of their court hearings.

It is an attack on due process, plain and simple. It is an attack on  the idea that we all deserve a fair shot in this country. It is also a  clear tactic to instill fear in all of us so that we will be  intimidated into submission and stop standing up for our neighbors.

ICE agents without visible ID, without any official markings on them,  and with masks are acting more like vigilantes than agents of our  government.

Mr. Speaker, how can we even trust that these are government  officials? It is nothing more than kidnapping, and it needs to stop.  There should be no more secret arrests and no more plainclothes agents  waiting outside of courtrooms. This kind of thing does not happen in  democracy. It doesn't.

The only way to protect Americans from these abuses is to provide due  process to anyone facing deportation. Due process exists to protect  American citizens and to protect all of us from wrongful deportation  and wrongful detention.

This administration does not seem to care about this complete and  total violation of our constitutional rights, a right that we are all  entitled to, regardless of status.

Under Trump, ICE and DHS have become a means to carry out political  arrests and to silence anyone that disagrees with their extreme agenda.  That is what we are looking at right now. It has never been about  removing the criminals. It has always been about creating mass fear and  mass intimidation so they can retain more power.

This is not what Americans want. I need my Republican colleagues to  fight for everyone in their district. I need them to speak up.

Mr. Speaker, where is your line?