Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


Ms. BOEBERT. Mr. Chair, I rise today with deep respect and unwavering  gratitude for the brave men and women who have worn the uniform of the  United States of America. My support for the members of our military  does not end when their service is complete, and I will always take  steps to ensure that our Nation's veterans and their families receive  the benefits that they were promised and are owed.

My amendments included in this package today ensure our Nation keeps  its sacred promise to those who have served our great country.

From providing additional funding for the construction of new State  extended care facilities to increasing funds for medical and prosthetic  research, and from reducing the backlog at the Board of Veterans'  Appeals to providing burial services and benefits for veterans in rural  areas lacking a VA national cemetery, my amendments will directly  improve the quality of life for veterans throughout Colorado and  America.

This bill makes good on President Trump's promises that he made to  our veterans. It mirrors his executive orders on no funds for DEI and  on radical transgender surgeries while also supporting the President's  efforts to combat veteran homelessness through investment in the new  Bridging Rental Assistance For Veteran Empowerment program.

This bill protects the Second Amendment rights of veterans by  preventing the VA from sending information to the Federal Bureau of  Investigation about veterans without a judge's consent.

It also prohibits the VA from processing medical care claims for  illegal aliens.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bipartisan  en bloc and for this critical piece of legislation. Our veterans are  the living embodiment of duty, honor, and sacrifice. They have stood on  the front lines for our freedom, and this bill is a great opportunity  to now stand for them.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my  time.