Protecting Education for Children with Disabilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698941/protecting-education-for-children-with-disabilities


Mr. MANNION. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share what is at stake for  students with disabilities as this administration continues its attacks  on the Department of Education.

Last year, one of our Nation's most fundamental laws, the Individuals  with Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA,  reached its 50th anniversary. IDEA opened the doors to opportunities  and protected the rights of millions of students with disabilities and  their families. It guaranteed a free, appropriate public education  where students with disabilities could learn in the least restrictive  environment and with the proper support.

Before this landmark piece of legislation, generations of students  with disabilities were routinely denied equal access to education. As a  teacher for almost 30 years and the founding chairman of the New York  State Senate Disabilities Committee, I have seen firsthand how IDEA has  transformed lives and what it means to families.

Yet, for all of the progress that we have made, much work still  remains, and IDEA is still more at risk today than it has ever been.  This administration has recklessly conducted mass layoffs across the  Department of Education, with no regard for the impacts on programs,  school districts, students, and families whom they serve.

Sadly, these firings have reached the Office of Special Education  Programs, which administers IDEA, as well as the Office for Civil  Rights, which investigates cases of disability discrimination. Without  these agencies and their dedicated employees, parents would have little  recourse when schools fail to protect their students and provide  appropriate accommodations.

From day one, it was obvious that this administration wanted to  transfer IDEA oversight out of the Department of Education entirely by  moving it to HHS, an agency with no expertise or legal authority over  special education.

Countless disability advocates have sounded the alarm on this  proposal. We cannot let these attacks continue, and we must also  continue to call out the vile rhetoric and misinformation about  disabilities in this country and around the world that this  administration has spread.

Parents of students with disabilities fight hard every single day for  their children, and there is no reason that they should have to fight  harder. I came to Congress to be a voice for those families and to  ensure that our country lives up to its promises and our values.

That is why my very first bill was the Protecting Students With  Disabilities Act, which would protect IDEA programs from the illegal  dismantling of the Department of Education. This should be a bipartisan  cause, as it has long been, and we should be talking more about fully  funding IDEA and strengthening it. Instead, we are left defending it  from political attacks.

I thank my colleague, Representative Hayes, for organizing this  discussion. I also thank my fellow members of the Education and  Workforce Committee for their commitment to maintaining IDEA. As a  fellow educator, I am proud to stand with Representative Hayes in this  fight.