-9999


Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Arizona for his  remarks just now, for his patriotism and his leadership.

Today, we mark the anniversary of the January 6 attack on our  Capitol, on our law enforcement officers, and on our democracy itself.

You have heard my colleagues recount the horrors of that day. Let me  be clear: I, too, was in this Chamber as the events unfolded, and what  happened on January 6, 2021, was in fact horrible, brutal, frightening,  violent, and in some terrible cases lethal.

To all members of law enforcement who responded that day and to their  families--but especially to the Capitol Police--thank you. We are  grateful to you. We cannot repay what we owe you, but you are in our  hearts today.             250th Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence

Mr. President, I come to the floor today because I find myself not  only thinking about January 6 but thinking about another anniversary  that we marked this week--250 years since the start of 1776, the year  of American independence.

It was 250 years ago yesterday that New Hampshire adopted its State  constitution after declaring its independence at a meeting in Exeter, a  town where my husband and I raised our two children.

This year, there will be no shortage of celebrations of the  anniversary of our independence, but it will be up to us--today's  citizens of the United States--to decide as a country if these  celebrations will represent an empty pageant or a renewal of principle.  Because in this moment, a moment when our country is led by a  government high on lawlessness and extremism, ambivalent toward  freedom, inclined toward authoritarianism, the principles that our  Nation was founded on in 1776 feel far more distant than even 250  years.

While the attack on the Capitol may have happened 5 years ago,  President Trump's current, constant lawlessness makes every day feel  like January 6. So today, it is worth asking: What does January 6 mean  for the spirit of 1776? What does it mean for a nation built on self- evident truths that we have a President who continues to tell the lie-- the fantasy--that the 2020 election was stolen? What does it mean to be  a country where just powers are derived from the consent of the  governed when we have a President who has sought to overturn the voices  and votes of the people in a bid to stay in power?

Now, our Founders maintained that we are endowed with certain  inalienable rights, but we have a President who routinely attacks the  right to due process and freedom of speech, who has sought to use the  heavy hand of government to banish critics from the airwaves.

We declared independence, in the words of Jefferson, because we  didn't wish to be ruled by a King who ``cut off our trade'' and imposed  ``taxes on us without our consent.''

But today we have a President unilaterally declaring costly trade  wars on our allies and imposing hefty taxes on his citizens, a  President who withholds the people's tax money already appropriated by  Congress based on his latest whim. The power of the purse is now the  power of the President because the majority in this body refuses to  stand up to him.

Our Founders didn't draft a Constitution in order to build a more  perfect Union only to one day have a President who rejects his  responsibility and sworn oath to uphold it, and our Founders didn't  create two other branches of government--a legislature and a  judiciary--merely for a wayward Executive to ignore them.

Our Founders wanted the legislative and judicial branches to be  checks on the Presidency, but this President seems to think that the  clear rules set out in the Constitution are merely a suggestion box.

Surely, as patriots risked their lives, treasure, and sacred honor to  establish a breathtaking experiment in self-government, they didn't  intend to allow a President to use the long and hallowed arm of justice  to target political foes, to ignore laws passed by the people's  representatives, or to pardon violent criminals who tried to overthrow  our democracy in his name.

There is nothing remotely patriotic, remotely decent about pardoning  violent criminals who stormed our Capitol and assaulted police  officers.

Can anyone in the administration look the families of the officers in  their eyes and explain why such a pardon could possibly be justified?

Of course not.

But then again, this administration doesn't think it should have to.  And make no mistake: The pardons may have voided the criminal  convictions, but the wounds to the officers remain, as does the attack  on our democracy.

When we talk about democracy, it is easy for it to feel merely like  an abstract principle. But my dad, a World War II veteran, stressed to  me, even as a kid, that freedom and democracy made a real difference in  people's lives. Democracy is, in short, the best way to solve problems  without violence, with the votes of citizens instead of the voices of a  violent mob.

Look no further back than over the course of this last year, and you  will see why democracy matters. Despite promising to bring down costs,  the President has instead made life less affordable. He has taken away  people's healthcare, launched costly trade wars on our allies abroad  while making everything more expensive at home, and has spent his days  flattering himself, putting his name on buildings and constructing  monuments in his own honor.

Are we really surprised that a man who tried to overturn the will of  the people in a free and fair election does not care about solving the  problems that his constituents--the American people--face? If the  President didn't think he was accountable to the people's will when he  lost the election in 2020, why should we expect him to care about the  priorities they want him to address after an election?

Democracy, of course, is about holding leaders accountable when they  fail to make people's lives better, and this President disdains  democracy because he simply can't deliver.

We are blessed to live in a great country, and we can't forget how  unlikely our independence was. In 1776, we subsisted on gasps of hope,  our plan little better than a prayer for recurring miracles--not just  in Philadelphia but, later, on the icy currents of the Delaware, in the  snows of Valley Forge, by the sea in Yorktown.

Mr. President, 1776 was a time when, in the words of Thomas Paine,  ``nothing but hope and virtue could survive.''

Surely we didn't survive the hardships of our birth to, only 250  years  later, allow the way of the despot and the way of the mob to become the  way of the future. Surely we did not build a new nation conceived in  liberty only for its Capitol to one day be stormed by a mob at the  behest of a President because he refused to acknowledge the basic right  of every American to vote him out of office, to be free to disagree  with him and reject him.

When the Declaration of Independence was signed, John Adams wrote in  a letter that, hundreds of years from now, people will celebrate the  day with what he called ``pomp and parade,'' but he also added that it  will ``cost us to maintain this declaration.''

So we have a choice to make as a country. On this 250th anniversary  of the year of our independence, we have to decide whether we wish to  be governed by the spirit of January 6 or the spirit of 1776.

What is this spirit of 1776? It is the belief in government of, by,  and for the people, not of, by, and for any one leader.

Here, no leader is above the law, nor are they above the people whom  they serve. Look around this city. Our great monuments here were built  by grateful citizens to honor others. They weren't built by greedy  leaders to honor themselves.

The spirit of 1776 knows that lawlessness and extremism don't melt  away on their own and must be rejected, even when it means standing up  to a President or to one's own party. Political courage can be hard;  regaining a freedom lost even harder.

And above all else, here in the United States of America, we know  that we are not subjects to be ruled; we are citizens to be heard. This  is America. This is where freedom rings. And perhaps these sound like  lofty principles. Well, I am from the ``Live Free Or Die'' State.

In New Hampshire, we know that principles like freedom matter. We  know that they matter because people gave their lives for these  principles, and they died for these principles in the hope that the  rest of us might live by them. So that is why on this January 6, I am  choosing to embrace this spirit of 1776, and I hope that freedom-loving  Americans of all political stripes do too.