Establishing the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2025 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2026 Through 2034


Ms. HASSAN. Madam President, I want to thank my colleague from  Wisconsin, Senator Baldwin, for such excellent, poignant, moving  descriptions of the real cost of this budget plan that we are on the  floor to consider tonight.

I rise today to join my colleagues and the people of New Hampshire in  standing up against the attempt by the Trump administration and some of  my Republican colleagues to effectively end Medicaid as we know it and  add $37 trillion over the next 30 years to our national debt, all in  order to pay for more tax giveaways for corporate special interests and  billionaires.

Americans of every political stripe are alarmed because this bid to  end Medicaid as we know it will lead to more families, more children  becoming sick and unable to get care, and because ending Medicaid as we  know it will devastate our economy, weaken our workforce, and, most of  all, make our people less free.

Medicaid is a pillar of America's healthcare system. Tens of millions  of Americans, including working Americans, pregnant women, and millions  of children depend on Medicaid every day for routine care, for  treatment for chronic illnesses, for lifesaving care from serious  illnesses, for treatment for addiction, and for much more.

No legislation has done more to allow more Americans to live longer  and healthier lives than the bills that established Medicaid and  Medicare and the efforts that followed to strengthen both of these  landmark laws.

So before we proceed, let's take a step back for a moment and  remember that Congress created Medicaid for two simple reasons. Prior  to Medicaid's creation, a great swath of our country--tens of millions  of Americans--were  forced to try and get by without healthcare. For many working people  and their families, the kind of routine and preventive care that many  today take for granted, were luxuries. Serious illnesses were often  left untreated, becoming virtual death sentences.

We established and later expanded Medicaid because we understood  that, in a country as great as ours, we don't turn our backs on our  neighbors. But we also created Medicaid because we know that it is in  all of our economic interests to have more healthy people. When more  people are healthy and able to work, they can get ahead and stay ahead,  provide a better life for their family, join the workforce, and, in so  doing, make our economy stronger.

There is, of course, much more work to do to make healthcare more  affordable for all of our people. But Medicaid saves lives. Over the  course of the program's history, Medicaid has allowed hundreds of  millions of Americans who otherwise would be uninsured to live  healthier lives and to build a future.

But now the Trump administration and some of my Republican colleagues  are poised to end Medicaid as we know it in order to pay for tax breaks  for corporate special interests and billionaires.

The Republican plan to eviscerate Medicaid would be devastating to  our country. The Republican plan is, unsurprisingly, short on details.  But they have put forward proposals that, if you do the math, mean  cutting a third of Federal Medicaid funding, all to give billionaires  and corporate special interests a tax break.

Now, let's look at what this decidedly unreasonable, outrageous, and  dangerous plan would do. Cutting Medicaid by a third means living in a  country where millions of children no longer have healthcare; a country  where more of our friends and neighbors get sick and can't afford to  see a doctor; a country where more of our friends and neighbors stay  out of the workforce because they can't afford treatments for chronic  conditions like lupus, making them too sick to work; a country where  families who have children with disabilities can't find adequate  coverage to provide the kind of complex care, both at home and in  school, that these children need. One issue, in particular, I want to  highlight is the way in which slashing Medicaid would weaken our fight  against addiction.

New Hampshire has been hit hard by the fentanyl crisis. These  Medicaid cuts could kick hundreds of thousands of people struggling  with addiction off of Medicaid, out of treatment, and off the road to  recovery. This will, among other things, make law enforcement's job  even harder, and it will make our children less safe.

So let's be clear about what the Republican plan to slash Medicaid  will do. It will make people less healthy. It will weaken our workforce  and hurt our economy. The fight against fentanyl will only get tougher,  and more people will die who otherwise could have lived.

In the administration's plan to eviscerate Medicaid, the cuts only  appear on the page as percentages and dollar signs, but their impact  will be felt by real people.

My office, as has Senator Baldwin's, Senator Kim's, and Senator  Durbin's, has been deluged with letters and calls from constituents who  are concerned about the administration's attack on Medicaid.

I could tell you hundreds of stories, but instead I will just give  you three.

There is Michelle from Manchester. She was diagnosed with a rare and  frequently fatal form of cancer that upended her career and her life.  To go through the long process of cancer treatment by paying out of  pocket would be daunting, perhaps even prohibitive for most anyone. But  Michelle was covered by Medicaid. She got the care that she needed. She  got healthy. She was able to go back to work. She is now cancer-free  because of her courage and strength and because she was covered by  Medicaid.

Then there is Noa from Merrimack. Now, Noa is 20 years old and  experiences disabilities and is blind. She has had to face challenges  that few of us can imagine. But thanks in part to the support that she  has received through Medicaid, she has been able to have many of the  opportunities that all parents want for their kids and that all kids  want for themselves.

She has a part-time job at a nearby bank. She does charity work  delivering flowers to seniors. She loves horseback riding and has  competed as a Special Olympian. She accomplished all this thanks to her  bravery, optimism, and generosity, but she may not have even gotten  that chance without Medicaid.

And then there is Cheri from Lebanon. Like other Granite Staters, she  has had struggles with addiction, as well as mental health challenges,  but Cheri was eligible for Medicaid. She got treatment and went into  recovery. She was able to go back to work. Today, Cheri is a perinatal  peer support educator and coordinator for Dartmouth Health. She helps  families every day. Because she got care when she needed it, she is now  working to provide care for others, touching untold and unknown numbers  of lives through her work. And she was my guest this year at the  President's joint address to Congress. But none of her recovery,  employment, and lifesaving work would have been possible or happened  without Medicaid.

So if the administration intends to eviscerate Medicaid, if they  intend to go through with their plan to cut Medicaid by a third to pay  for a tax break for billionaires, then before they do, they should at  least stop and explain to these three people--Michelle, Noa, Cheri--who  is the one that they want to kick off of Medicaid.

How would any of us be better off if any of these three people are  forced to go without healthcare?

Most Americans are proud of our capacity to come together and ensure  that our friends and neighbors can get healthcare and be able to work  and raise families. But this administration evidently considers the  provision of lifesaving healthcare to Americans from all walks of life  to be a problem.

Now, beyond the huge pricetag of this budget plan--a plan that  explodes the deficit by 37 trillion more dollars over 30 years--and  let's be clear: The Republican budget writers are going to use  accounting gimmicks to try to hide this cost. And let's be clear too  that the $37 trillion in additional debt won't be used to improve  healthcare. It is to pay for tax breaks for billionaires.

But there is another cost to the President's attacks on Medicaid,  because as important as it is that we protect the healthcare provided  by Medicare--and that is tremendously important--protecting Medicaid  healthcare marks neither the beginning nor the end of what we need to  do to improve healthcare in our country and make it more affordable.

We need to confront real challenges in our country's healthcare  system. Big Pharma keeps drug prices too high. We have the best doctors  in the world, but too few people can afford to see them. Too many  Americans live with chronic diseases.

Labor and delivery centers across our country are more and more  scarce, and rural hospitals are struggling. Americans need to summon  our best ideas and our best efforts to meet these challenges, but we  will not make progress so long as this administration continues to keep  us trapped in old debates and tries to unravel bipartisan support for  the progress that we have already made.

Of course, it doesn't have to be this way. When I was Governor of New  Hampshire, we managed to expand Medicaid and balance the budget at the  same time, and we did both on a bipartisan basis. We did it with the  support of many business leaders and law enforcement leaders who didn't  always vote the same way come November, but they did agree that we are  all better off when people are healthy.

President Trump and congressional Republicans are presenting us with  a false choice. We don't have to choose between keeping the status quo  on the one hand and blowing up our healthcare system on the other. We  don't have to buy the falsehood that, somehow, we have to close rural  hospitals and throw seniors out of our nursing homes to improve our  healthcare system. There are better ideas, and a whole lot of them are  bipartisan.

There are bipartisan bills right now to lower the costs for patients  when they go to the doctor by implementing something called site  neutrality. There are bipartisan bills that will lower drug  costs by bringing more generic drugs to market. But these ideas only  help if there is a functioning healthcare system to build on--a  functioning healthcare system, as challenged as it is, that includes  Medicaid.

As Americans, we don't shrink from challenges. We don't surrender to  cynicism and lies. We work together. We do hard things. We do what it  takes to build a better future for our country, and we do it in a way  that brings all of us along together, and that includes ensuring that  all of us have healthcare. That is the way we created Medicaid. That is  the way we expanded Medicaid. And it is through that same spirit of  hard work and optimism that we can overcome the healthcare challenges  of today if we can summon the political will to do it.

A will has been so sorely lacking since this President arrived on the  scene. The Senate should not pass a budget that rips healthcare away  from millions of Americans--60,000 of whom live in my State--just to  give tax cuts to billionaires, but that is what this budget will do. It  is un-American, and it is shameful.