-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692380/9999


Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I rise in support of the Hagerty- Gillibrand substitute amendment to the GENIUS Act, legislation to  regulate the cryptocurrency assets known as stablecoins.

Over the past several years, top U.S. financial regulators--both  Democrats and Republican administrations--have repeatedly called on  Congress to do their job: Regulate this new industry; do your work; do  the oversight; do the accountability; write legislation; and pass a  law.

They repeatedly called on Congress to regulate stablecoins,  recognizing their global role in the global economy. Both  administrations have recognized that for the United States to remain  the financial capital of the world, Congress needs to pass clear  regulatory rules that protect consumers and foster innovation here at  home.

I started working on this legislation 3 years ago with Cynthia  Lummis. This is not a bill written quickly for any reason but to  regulate an industry that needs rules of the road.

To date, Congress's failure to act has left the digital asset space  as a Wild West, where American consumers are vulnerable to scams, and  businesses are desperate for the regulatory clarity they need to  compete with foreign countries, foreign entities that do business in  our markets effectively.

Doing nothing and protecting the status quo is not only  irresponsible, it is unacceptable. Unlike the United States, our global  competitors have moved to regulate the space.

In 2023, the European Union passed comprehensive cryptocurrency  regulation, and numerous meaningful provisions went into effect last  year. China's central bank has been promoting the digital yuan, which  threatened the U.S. dollar's role as the global reserve currency.

Global commerce will soon be conducted using stablecoins. It is  imperative to keep the U.S. dollar as the global reserve currency of  the world and stablecoins to be pegged to the dollar, not the Chinese  yuan.

There is reason for both consumers and small retailers to be  supportive of this legislation. Stablecoins offer faster, more  affordable ways to settle transactions that will benefit everyone.

Earlier this year, Senators Hagerty, Alsobrooks, Scott, Lummis, and I  introduced the bipartisan GENIUS Act, which is the strongest effort to  date to regulate and create a clear regulatory framework for the  payment stablecoin industry.

It has a number of commonsense provisions relating to consumer  protections, reserve requirements, illicit finance, national security,  foreign issuers, separating of banking and commerce rules--just to name  a few.

It had an excellent markup in the Senate Banking Committee, where  Senators had many of their concerns addressed, bipartisan amendments  were accepted. The result was a true bipartisan product that passed  with strong bipartisan support, including votes from five Democrats.

Over time and through subsequent negotiations, this bill has only  become stronger with several additional improvements to strengthen  consumer protection, clarify disclosure rules for Members of Congress,  and implement other changes that close loopholes, prevent money  laundering, and establish stricter and more specific standards.

The latest version of this bill earned support from a bipartisan  majority of both Republican and Democratic members of the Senate  Banking Committee.

The strong bipartisan nature of this effort has been demonstrated by  the fact that the bill has continued to pick up new support with each  additional vote.

I am very grateful Senator Hagerty is here. Together, we had a very  strong bipartisan working relationship. If you could see a document  itemizing every change that has been made since the minute we  introduced this bill, it is volumes long.

It is extraordinary how open this process was; how many Senators were  able to give serious critical thinking to the bill to make it better to  bring bipartisan support behind this effort.

I can't thank Senator Hagerty enough for his leadership, his  patience, and his willingness to create a bipartisan regulatory  framework for an industry that desperately needs it.

I have been in the Senate now since 2009. I have never seen a more  generous bipartisan process than I saw on this legislation. I have  never seen a more serious group of Senators get together to try to  write legislation of first impression than I saw in this process.

I know the people who are averse to this bill have their own  political view. I think it is extremely unhelpful that we have a  President who is involved in this industry, and I would love to ban his  activity.

But that does not diminish the excellent work in this legislation. It  does not diminish the hard work the bipartisan group of Senators put  into this to make a difference and to write a law that can protect  consumers, that can protect our financial services industry, that can  protect the strength of the dollar, and that can protect people who  would like access to capital.

Thirty percent of Americans are unbanked or underbanked. Many of  those Americans have found access to the capital markets and access to  capital through cryptocurrency and blockchain technologies.

This stablecoin bill represents the first incident that we are trying  to make access to capital a reality for more Americans, to have our  safety and soundness rules, our know your customer rules, our illicit  finance rules, our protections of a one-to-one dollar banking.

None of that exists today. Because of the work of this legislation,  we actually have a regulatory framework that can protect consumers in  the future.

I just want to thank Senator Scott and Senator Hagerty for their  extremely honest and thoughtful approach in working on bipartisan  legislation, which I am very proud of the effort we have made.