Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693679/department-of-defense-appropriations-act-2026


Ms. TENNEY. Madam Chair, I rise today to offer and withdraw my  amendment No. 287 to provide $71 million for nonrecurring engineering  expenses associated with designing the new LC-130J as part of LC-130  recapitalization project.

LC-130s are polar ski planes that possess the unique capability of  being able to land on snow instead of solely on a paved runway. The LC- 130 is the only plane in the world with this capability and provides  the United States with a key competitive edge in the Arctic and  Antarctic domains.

The LC-130 fleet is wholly operated by the 109th Airlift Wing of the  New York Air National Guard at Stratton Air National Guard Base in  Scotia, New York.

Beyond its national security importance in supporting our Arctic  strategy, the LC-130 fleet is also critical in supporting our Nation's  scientific research efforts.

Each year, the current LC-130 fleet assists in critical missions in  both Greenland and Antarctica pursuant to President Ronald Reagan's  Presidential memorandum 6646.

However, our current LC-130H fleet is aging quickly, with some planes  over 50 years old. Despite the great work of the 109th Airlift Wing in  maintaining these planes, we must quickly recapitalize these planes to  ensure the U.S. does not lose the critical capabilities provided by the  LC-130 fleet.

Before I conclude, I want to thank Bob Epp and Dennis Feeney from the  New York National Guard's legislative team, General Steven Slosek from  the 109th Airlift Wing, General Michael Bank, the New York Air National  Guard Commander; and General Ray Shields, the New York Adjutant  General, for their tireless efforts in advocating alongside me for the  LC-130 recapitalization.

Last year, with the help of these individuals and Chairman Calvert,  we were able to secure $29 million in the FY25 CR spend plan for the  Department of Defense for these nonrecurring engineering expenses.

Rest assured, I will continue fighting to secure the additional  funding in the final FY26 Defense bill.

Before I withdraw this amendment, I ask Chairman Calvert to commit to  working with me on the continued LC-130 recapitalization project as you  have so graciously in the past.

Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman  from California (Mr. Calvert).

Ms. TENNEY. Madam Chair, that is a mission of our President, of  course.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time, and I withdraw my  amendment.