Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701794/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join my colleagues on tax  day to celebrate a generational victory for American workers, families,  and small businesses.

The working families tax cut signed into law last July Fourth was a  game-changing event for Americans and especially people in my district  in upstate New York, the highest tax State in the Nation, even higher  than Mr. Thompson's district now as the Democrats in these two States  continue to compete to raise our taxes.

This tax season, though, is really good news. I have heard from  countless constituents and their families about the money they have  saved already from President Trump's tax cuts. We doubled the standard  deduction, increased the child tax credit to $2,200 per child. These  are now permanent.

What does this mean in practice? A family of three welcoming a new  baby into their lives can expect a tax refund of over $4,000, plus a  $1,000 Trump Account deposit to jump start that child's financial  future.

That is real money for food, diapers, clothes, and a future nest egg  for that child. That is government working for families, not against  them.

For nearly 90 percent of Americans who claim the standard deduction,  this law delivers over $205 billion in new tax relief on top of what we  already did in the Trump tax cuts in 2017.

I spent many years of my life managing and operating our family's  small business. I know firsthand what it is like to struggle to make  payroll and the stress that small business owners face every single  day, especially in States like New York. This is why making the section  199A Qualified Business Deduction now permanent is a certainty for  millions of Main Street businesses, small businesses, including sole  proprietors, independent contractors, and tradesmen. It means these  entrepreneurs can invest in their workers, plan for their future, and  compete in a more dynamic marketplace.

Mr. Speaker, I thank President Trump, Speaker Johnson, and our great  Chairman Smith for spearheading this effort to build on the successes  of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and deliver the most significant tax  relief for American workers and families in a generation. This has been  a godsend for people in New York against the Democrats who are  continuing to raise our taxes in the State of New York. I thank them  for the relief.