Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


Ms. Tenney. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

It is about time that we support the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De- Escalate Act. This crucial legislation ensures that law enforcement  officers have access to the best, less-than-lethal technologies for de- escalation.

Under current law, certain new less-than-lethal technologies are  included under the National Firearms Act, NFA, a law designed to  regulate firearms. However, due to the definition of firearms under the  NFA, this includes less-than-lethal devices such as the new TASER 10.  This bill will modernize the NFA to include the less-than-lethal  category to ensure that devices like the TASER 10, that are not  designated to be lethal, are not included under the NFA's taxes and  regulations design for firearms for use by municipalities, not  individuals.

I am honored to be a cosponsor of this bill along with, I think, at  least 22 commonsense Democrats, and I strongly supported its passage  through the House Ways and Means committee.

However, I am disappointed that so many of my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle refuse to support this commonsense bill. Instead,  they want to politicize and talk about completely unrelated matters.

While some on the other side resort to fear-mongering, House  Republicans and, as I said 22, I believe, commonsense Democrats, are  committed to ensuring law enforcement has the tools and resources they  need to keep our communities safe.

Every major police organization is supporting the passage of this  legislation, including the Fraternal Order of Police, the Federal Law  Enforcement Officers Association, the Major County Sheriffs  Association, and the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement  Executives. This is a pro-police, pro-community, and lifesaving piece  of legislation.

I urge the Senate to vote on this bill expediently. I thank  Representative Fitzgerald, Speaker Johnson, Leader Scalise, and, of  course, Chairman Smith for bringing this bill to the floor.