Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial Post Office Building


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697617/officer-anthony-mazurkiewicz-memorial-post-office-building


Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Gill for yielding. I  rise in strong support of my bill today, H.R. 323, to rename the post  office in Avon, New York, as the Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz Memorial  Post Office Building.

It is appropriate to name this post office after Anthony  Mazurkiewicz. A grateful community should always find ways to honor  those who made the ultimate sacrifice in its service.

Officer Anthony Mazurkiewicz, also known as Tony, was born on  November 7, 1967, in Amsterdam, New York. Officer Mazurkiewicz was a  graduate of Avon High School and SUNY Brockport.

Officer Mazurkiewicz then began his law enforcement career in 1988 as  a jail deputy with the Monroe County Sheriff's Department in Rochester,  New York. In 1993, he joined the Rochester Police Department as a  patrol officer, serving both Clinton and Goodman sections until he  transferred to the tactical unit in 2002.

During his distinguished career as an officer with the Rochester  Police Department, Officer Mazurkiewicz was the recipient of the  Rochester Police Department Life Saving Award, Officer of the Month  Award, 17 Excellent Police Service Awards, 7 Unit Commendation Awards,  32 Chief's Letters of Commendation, and the Good Conduct Award for 29  years of service without a sustained complaint.

Beyond his duties as an officer with the Rochester Police Department,  Officer Mazurkiewicz was also an active member of the Rochester Police  Locust Club, a very distinguished club, for his entire 29-year career.  This included  serving as the tactical unit representative to the executive board for  over 20 years and as a member of the contract negotiations team, the  scholarship committee, and the house committee.

Officer Mazurkiewicz devoted 29 years to serving and protecting the  Rochester community and was looking forward to a well-earned retirement  to spend fishing, traveling, relaxing, and spending a lot of time with  his wife, Lynn, and their family.

On July 21, 2022, Officer Mazurkiewicz was tragically shot and killed  while on duty while conducting surveillance duty. As part of a murder  investigation, Officer Mazurkiewicz and another officer were in an  unmarked police vehicle when the subject walked up from behind and  fired 17 rounds.

Officer Mazurkiewicz is survived by his wife of 28 years, Lynn; four  children; three grandchildren; his parents, Francis and Rose  Mazurkiewicz; his brother, Frank; his sister, Lisa; many aunts, uncles,  nieces, nephews, cousins; Anthony's very large and extended law  enforcement family; and everyone in the community who knew him.

Officer Mazurkiewicz was an American hero who dedicated 35 years of  his life to upholding justice and the rule of law until he was  ruthlessly killed in the line of duty while serving our community.

Renaming the Avon post office in his honor will not fill the profound  hole left in our community and in the hearts of his beloved family, but  it will serve as a lasting tribute to his honorable service and very  distinguished legacy.

This tribute to Officer Mazurkiewicz will inspire future generations  and ensure that his courage, patriotism, and commitment to our  community are never forgotten.

I am grateful to my New York congressional colleagues for  cosponsoring this bill and am especially thankful to Congressman  Joe  Morelle for co-leading this bill with me. I also thank Chairman  Jim  Comer, the Ranking Member Emeritus Gerry Connolly, and Ranking Member   Robert Garcia for their support in the Oversight Committee. Finally, I  thank Speaker   Mike Johnson, Majority Leader   Steve Scalise, and  Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries for their help in getting this bill to  the floor.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill to honor the life  and service of Anthony Mazurkiewicz and show our enduring support for  all of our fallen law enforcement officers.