Recognizing April As National Autism Awareness Month


Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize April as  ``National Autism Awareness Month''.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disability that  generally appears before the age of 3, impacting social interaction,  communication skills, and cognitive function. Today, 1 in 36 children  in the United States are diagnosed with autism, and approximately 5.4  million Americans are living with autism spectrum disorder.

Autism prevalence has increased significantly over the past two  decades, underscoring the need to expand research and provide adequate  resources for individuals on the spectrum. By raising awareness, we can  better support individuals and families affected by autism, helping  them lead fulfilling lives.

Our schools and early childcare programs must be equipped with the  knowledge, resources, and training to assist those living with autism.  Early diagnosis and intervention are critical, as they can  significantly improve communication, social skills, and quality of life  for individuals with autism.

I would also like to take a moment to recognize my friend, Vincent  McLaughlin, a dedicated advocate and a true inspiration. Vincent has  shown unwavering commitment to his community through his decade-long  service on the Ulster County Planning Board representing the Village of  Saugerties, his 16 years of service as a volunteer firefighter, and his  continuous work to raise awareness and support for those living with  autism. In 2023, he was appointed to the New York State Council on  Developmental Disabilities because of his advocacy and dedication,  which embody the spirit of community involvement and empowerment.

Vincent's selfless efforts make a difference every day, and I am  grateful for his dedication and friendship.

As we observe Autism Awareness Month, let us commit to supporting all  Americans living with autism, ensuring they receive the necessary  resources, opportunities, and respect they deserve. Autism should never  be a barrier to success or happiness.