Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700012/veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-2025


Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, I want to first address a comment by the  ranking member, Mr. Morelle. We both hail from New York. He is a dear  friend, but I just want to point out something.

New York City Democrats actually put up a bill to allow noncitizens  to vote in their elections. Our far-left leaning--and I think you can  argue that very easily--Court of Appeals, New York's highest court,  actually turned that down and said: No, only citizens can vote in our  elections. That is New York State law, and that is our national law.

I just want to make sure that that was your response to Mr. Burchett  to make sure you understood that we have addressed this in New York,  and we have established that only citizens can vote. We want to make  sure we secure the ballot and know that citizenship in this country has  value.

There is nothing more profound or important for the preservation of  our constitutional Republic and to keep the power in ``we the people''  than the sacred right to vote.

Democrats have continuously undermined election integrity, sowing the  seeds of mistrust with mail-in ballots, failing to provide ID, not  proving that there is, indeed, one citizen, one vote.

This bill merely requires that you prove that you are a citizen and  that we secure the ballot by knowing that there is one citizen, one  vote.

As the cofounder and the chair of the Election Integrity Caucus, I  would love to see every legal citizen vote in every election. I know I  have as a proud American citizen.

Consider this situation: If you discovered that you had won the  lottery, only to find out that a cartel member had perfectly replicated  your winning lottery ticket and it was worth, let's just say, $200  million, maybe even $50 million, and you went to go turn in your  ticket, but somebody else without a valid ID stole your identity and  took your money, you would probably argue that we should have a valid  voter ID.

I only wish that Americans would value their right to vote, as simple  as it is, and to recognize that important act of voting as important to  preserving our country, our Republic, and keeping power, again, in ``we  the people.''

Ms. TENNEY. Mr. Speaker, a secure valid ID system is the only way to  ensure one citizen/one vote.

I urge all of my colleagues to join the Election Integrity Caucus and  stand for election integrity and make sure that every citizen eligible  to vote votes in every election.