2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702038/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Garcia and assistant  Democratic leader Neguse for holding this important conversation on  Trump's budget request for 2027.

We are here because Trump and Republicans led us to a cost-of-living  crisis that is making life more unaffordable for working families.  Trump's budget proposal will make this crisis worse. I have heard from  people across my district that life is too expensive, from food to gas  to rent.

Budgets are a reflection of our values, and Trump made his values  heard loud and clear: Leave working families behind.

Trump's budget cuts $73 billion in programs that support working  families. One of the programs that will be facing serious cuts is the  Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or LIHEAP. LIHEAP is a key  program that helps families with reducing the costs associated with  home energy bills, energy crises, weatherization, and minor energy- related home repairs. LIHEAP helps environmental justice communities  like mine deal with the effect of extreme heat and climate change, and  Trump wants to gut $4 billion in funding for LIHEAP.

Southern California is no stranger to heat, especially in the summer.  However, due to climate change, periods of extreme heat in southern  California, especially in the San Fernando Valley, are becoming more  common, more intense, and more harmful. Eliminating critical funding  for LIHEAP means my constituents will be less prepared to deal with  periods of extreme heat while also paying more to keep their homes  cool. Extreme levels of heat with no support or financial assistance to  keep homes cool will be dangerous and even deadly.

Additionally, Trump is proposing a 52 percent cut in EPA funding. EPA  has helped environmental justice communities like mine breathe cleaner  air and drink cleaner water. By cutting EPA funding by over one-half,  Trump will make our communities sicker.

Trump's budget proposal does not make life healthier or more  affordable for working families in my district and across the country.  In fact, prices will skyrocket. Since Trump's war in Iran started, gas  prices in Los Angeles County have shot up to an average of nearly $6  per gallon with some gas stations seeing prices as high as $8 per  gallon. Trump's budget request does not bring gas prices down for  working families in the San Fernando Valley or across the country.

Trump's budget will also harm pregnant women, mothers, and children.  WIC programs across my district help many of my constituents access the  resources that they need for a healthier life, including food vouchers,  nutrition education, and healthcare referrals. Trump's budget proposal  slashes funding for WIC programs and will force millions of Americans  to go hungry.

At a time when Americans are struggling to afford to put food on  their table, Trump and Republicans are offering no life raft for those  who need it the most. Trump wants to continue spending over $1 billion  per day to continue his war in Iran while working families in my  district and across the country continue to struggle with the rising  cost of gas.

As Donald Trump turns his back on working Americans, my Congressional  Progressive Caucus colleagues and I are fighting for them and the  resources they need to succeed.