Artificial Intelligence is Here


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696867/artificial-intelligence-is-here


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, we are at a unique moment in our history. A  technology straight out of science fiction is now becoming an  increasingly ubiquitous aspect of daily life.

Artificial intelligence is here, and it is reshaping nearly every  aspect of modern life: how we work, how we learn, and how we  communicate.

AI-generated content is becoming more prevalent in healthcare,  housing, education, entertainment, and even public service. If we do  not have a standardized plan to become proficient in AI literacy today,  we will not be ready to handle the challenges that AI can pose in the  future.

This is why I am introducing the AI for ALL Act. The AI for ALL Act  develops a national strategy for the Federal Government to improve AI  literacy in education. By understanding how AI has evolved and is  expected to evolve, we can be better prepared to embrace the  opportunities AI presents and address the challenges that can and will  arise in the future.

As lawmakers, we have a duty to ensure emerging technologies like AI  are used responsibly, safely, and effectively so it does not harm  public safety or infringe on our rights. The AI for ALL Act allows us  to fulfill those duties and ensure that the United States will continue  to be a global leader in AI.

With strong AI literacy and education guidelines, we can lead with  clarity, govern with integrity, and ensure the innovative breakthroughs  AI brings can continue serving the public good.                    Benjamin Guerrero-Cruz Detained by ICE

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, 3 months ago, I shared the story of Benjamin  Guerrero-Cruz, a senior at Reseda High School, who was detained by ICE  while walking his dog.

Benjamin is an older brother, a loving son, and a valued member of  the community. He is a child. For the past 3 months, Benjamin has been  in ICE detention at the Adelanto Detention Facility. ICE has been  forcing his family to live a nightmare. Benjamin was transferred  between two States and three detention facilities in 24 hours without  his family knowing. If that was happening to Benjamin, imagine who else  it is happening to.

That is why I introduced the INFORM Act. My bill holds ICE  accountable for the nightmare they are forcing families like Benjamin's  to live through.

Many immigrant families in my district do not know the whereabouts of  their loved ones after they are detained by ICE. I have been urging ICE  leadership to answer for their chaotic, inconsistent, and cruel  decisionmaking policies that have torn apart families across the  country. My bill respects the dignity of immigrant families and  promotes government transparency.

I will continue showing up to detention facilities and working with  my colleagues to hold ICE accountable, promote government transparency,  and respect the dignity of immigrant families.