Fighting Dhs Immigration Raids


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697460/fighting-dhs-immigration-raids


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,  the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and Congresswoman Ramirez for  organizing today's important conversation on the Trump administration's  cruel and inhumane treatment of immigrant communities.

This is an important discussion to have in front of the American  people because, as they have seen, ICE is out of control. All summer,  ICE has been terrorizing communities across Los Angeles, sowing fear in  our families, and rounding up our most vulnerable.

I have been sharing the story of Benjamin Guerrero-Cruz, a senior at  Reseda High School who was detained by ICE while walking his dog. He is  an older brother, a loving son, and a valued member of the community.

He is a high school student, just a kid. Benjamin should be in a  classroom, not a courtroom.

Benjamin was detained by ICE, separated from his family and friends.  He was originally transferred from the Adelanto Detention Facility in  California to a detention center in Arizona. Less than 24 hours later,  he was on a plane ready to be sent to Louisiana, but instead, he was  sent back to California. This all occurred without his family even  knowing.

I keep sharing this story because the American people deserve to see  how cruelly ICE is treating children, elderly women, and others, even a  U.S. Senator.

ICE is incapable of treating our most vulnerable with the respect  that they deserve. If this was happening to Benjamin, imagine who else  it is happening to.

I have been urging ICE leadership to answer for their chaotic,  inconsistent, and cruel decisionmaking processes that have torn apart  families across the country.

This is why I introduced the INFORM Act. My bill holds ICE  accountable for the nightmare they are forcing families like Benjamin's  to live through. Many immigrant families in my district do not know the  whereabouts of their loved ones after they are detained  by ICE. My bill respects the dignity of immigrant families and promotes  government transparency.

With my Hispanic Caucus and Progressive Caucus colleagues, I will  continue showing up to detention facilities and working with my  colleagues to hold ICE accountable, promote government transparency,  and respect the dignity of immigrant families.