Funding for Los Angeles


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to deliver over $2 million in  Federal funding to the city of Los Angeles' Crisis and Incident  Response through Community-Led Engagement program, or CIRCLE.

CIRCLE is a 24/7 unarmed response program that sends a team of mental  health professionals and individuals to address nonurgent LAPD calls  relating to the homeless population.

Through the use of this Federal funding, CIRCLE will now expand to  more communities in my district, including North Hollywood and Sun  Valley.

By meeting people where they are, CIRCLE helps prevent crises from  escalating and connects individuals with the service and long-term  support that they need.

The safety and prosperity of communities in the San Fernando Valley  are among my most critical priorities. I am working with stakeholders  and leaders across my district to ensure that all people feel safe and  welcome in my district.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to bring these resources that will improve  mental health and address substance abuse within the homeless  population.              Funding for Autodesk Technology Engagement Center

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to secure over $1 million in  Federal funding for the CSUN's Autodesk Technology Engagement Center.

This center will be a tech hub where students and our community will  be able to explore their curiosities in STEM through hands-on learning  opportunities.

These funds will allow the center to purchase cutting-edge tools and  equipment for their discovery lab, Student Success Center, and other  state-of-the-art technology.

As challenges continue to plague our country, including climate  disasters and health-related threats, it is important that we  understand how STEM can be used to solve these issues. As an engineer  and former STEM educator, I have seen firsthand what can be done when  we provide accessible STEM education resources to communities with  diverse backgrounds.

For over 65 years, CSUN has provided students across the San Fernando  Valley with the educational opportunities that they need to succeed in  our world.

With the funding I was able to help secure for the Autodesk  Technology Engagement Center, CSUN will be able to continue preparing  students for the workforce.

I am confident that with this support, students will feel encouraged  to pursue careers in STEM and create innovative solutions to solve the  demands of our ever-changing world.

Funding for Los Angeles Valley College Cybersecurity Center

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to deliver $1 million in Federal  funding to Los Angeles Valley College for a new cybersecurity center.

This funding will provide the latest software and training for our  current and future cybersecurity professionals to engage with.

Cybersecurity is one of the fastest growing career fields in  California and across the country. In fact, California has promoted a  statewide initiative to train 50,000 entry-level cybersecurity  professionals by 2030. The expansion of STEM education in my district  will help close equity gaps and barriers that traditionally exist.

Meeting the demand for careers in cybersecurity not only boosts our  workforce but also ensures that the United States remains a global  leader.

Cybersecurity education needs to be accessible, and this center will  foster those opportunities for students from diverse backgrounds to  gain experience from those who are in the cybersecurity field. It also  ensures that our workforce is better equipped to prevent cybersecurity  threats to our key infrastructure.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with LA Valley College to  continue paving pathways for students to access high-paying, in-demand  careers.