Making Life More Affordable


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700915/making-life-more-affordable


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am here today because we have yet to see a  bill offered on the floor during my time in Congress that would make  life more affordable for working families.

In fact, since the last time my freshmen colleagues and I were on  this floor talking about the Republicans' affordability crisis, Donald  Trump unconstitutionally started a war with Iran. So far there has been  no meaningful plan or strategy to ensure that America's national  security interests or our servicemembers are protected.

We mourn for the families and loved ones of the 13 servicemembers who  have already lost their lives in this war, and we hope that another  life is not lost.

After just over 2 weeks, Donald Trump's war in Iran has cost the  American people $11 billion. Donald Trump would rather pour billions of  dollars to start a war with another country than address the  affordability crisis that he and Republicans have created.

I recently conducted a survey of nearly 70,000 constituents in my  district and asked them a simple yes-or-no question: Instead of the war  in Iran, should Trump focus on making the cost of living more  affordable? Over 90 percent of those who responded said ``yes.'' This  sentiment is reflected across the Nation.

Donald Trump's war in Iran has the worst-ever support for a war at  its start. Trump's reckless and illegal war with Iran is yet another  example of how this administration has been out of touch with the  priorities of American families since he has been back in office.

The American people do not want our country to get sucked into  another forever war. The American people want the Epstein files  released. The American people want ICE to be reined in. The American  people want to pay less at the grocery store, at the gas station, and  at the doctor's office.

Since the war in Iran started, prices for gas, food, and other  essentials have spiked. Gas prices shot up 50 cents in just one week,  and oil prices hit $100 a barrel.

Experts believe that Trump's war in Iran could push the average cost  of gas to above $4 a gallon within weeks. Gas stations in Los Angeles  have hit over $8 per gallon.

But Trump says he doesn't have any concern about skyrocketing gas  prices. He even called anyone who is worried about the rising cost of  gas a fool.

When asked whether Americans should feel scared about retaliatory  attacks on U.S. soil, Trump replied: ``When you go to war, some people  will die.''

It is not enough to say that Donald Trump is completely out of touch  with the needs of the American people. He does not care about everyday  Americans. He is more concerned about lining the pockets of his  billionaire donors and starting wars to deflect from the issues people  actually care about.

My House Democratic Caucus freshmen colleagues and I refuse to let  Trump's distractions deter us from fighting for our constituents. We  remain focused on lowering costs for our constituents and holding Trump  accountable.

We all voted against Trump's war in Iran, to stop him from abusing  his power. It is clear that the American public and Congress do not  influence Trump's decisions, and he would rather be influenced by his  impulses and emotion.

Our constituents sent us to Washington to make life more affordable  for them, not to rubberstamp Trump and Republicans' agenda that  actively makes their lives worse for them.

Tonight, we will hear from some of the freshmen Democratic Caucus  members and the work that they are doing to make life more affordable  for their constituents.

I will start with the Congresswoman from Texas.

Johnson), my  colleague and friend.

Ms. RIVAS. I draw your attention, Mr. Speaker, to the poster behind  me. This is a real photo that my staff took of a gas station in Los  Angeles. It is a real photo. It is not AI, and it is not photoshopped.  Your eyes are not deceiving you, Mr. Speaker. You are seeing a real gas  station showing $8.71 a gallon for regular gas. In the span of 1 week,  gas prices shot up 50 cents--in just 1 week--and oil prices hit $100 a  barrel.

Gas prices are nearly $3.50 per gallon on average across the country,  but experts believe Trump's war in Iran could push the average cost of  gas to above $4 a gallon within weeks. Analysts say that Americans will  spend nearly $1 billion more on gas next week. Diesel prices are up 86  cents to $4.60 per gallon, and jet fuel prices have skyrocketed, hiking  prices for shipping and airfare.

Trump has not shown concern for how the rising cost of gas could hurt  Americans' wallets saying: ``If they rise, they rise.''

The United States produces more oil than any country on Earth, and  even that supply could not stop gas prices from surging 50 percent in  10 days. Drilling more will not help Americans at the gas pump when oil  companies are shipping oil barrels overseas, and it certainly will not  help when a strategic waterway, the Strait of Hormuz, is shut down.

Trump's only response is to call us fools and gaslight the American  people into thinking he is doing a good job. That is an out-of-touch  response from an out-of-touch person. Working families in Los Angeles  and across the country cannot afford Trump's war.

Across the country, families are sitting around the kitchen table and  are seeing their monthly costs rise with no help in sight. It is adding  up quickly, but then they turn on the TV and see that Trump has  unconstitutionally started a war in Iran without strategy or  justification.

Housing costs are skyrocketing. Grocery costs haven't gone down.  Healthcare is being placed out of reach for millions of Americans.  Republicans estimate that Trump's war is costing taxpayers upwards of  $2 billion a day, and yet they cannot find a dime to lower the cost of  living in this country.

Already, the cost of this war could have likely paid for extending  the Affordable Care Act tax credits this year. Instead, families across  the country are seeing their healthcare costs double and triple. In my  district, 31,000 families have seen their healthcare costs rise because  of Republican inaction. Additionally, nearly 11,000 people in  California's 29th District will lose access to health coverage because  of Republicans' refusal to extend the Affordable Care Act tax credits.

The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that annual out-of-pocket  premium payments for ACA marketplace enrollees will increase from $888  in 2025 to over $1,900 in 2026.

Constituents in my district have made their voices heard: They would  rather Trump and Republicans focus on making healthcare more  affordable, not getting involved in another foreign conflict.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, before I close, I want to once again take a  moment to mourn the lives that have already been lost to this conflict.

My heart goes out to the families and loved ones of the 13  servicemembers who have been killed in this war. My heart also goes out  to the innocent lives that have been taken as a result of this war,  including the over 170 people, mostly young girls, who were killed in a  school.

As we have seen, Donald Trump does not have a strategy to keep  innocent lives or our servicemembers safe. He started a war because he  once again refuses to address the issues Americans actually care about:  releasing the Epstein files, reining in ICE, and addressing the  affordability crisis he and Republicans started.

My House Democratic colleagues and I know that working Americans are  not interested in another forever war. They want to be able to afford  their rent, pay for their groceries, see their doctor, and fill their  tank without fear of going into debt.

I am proud to work with my colleagues to drive down the high cost of  living, fix our broken healthcare system, and make sure that  immigration enforcement in this country is fair, just, and humane.  House Democrats stand with working Americans and will always work on  solutions to alleviate their fears and keep their dreams within reach.