Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698671/protecting-healthcare-for-millions-of-americans


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, as a Member from California, I yield to my  colleague from the great State of Utah, Congressman Blake Moore, so  they can continue honoring Congressman Doug LaMalfa.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I just want to say Doug was  a kind and gentle giant. He was firm and fair. He was wise, and he was  funny.

I remember one day in the Agriculture Committee when he spoke for 5  minutes. He spoke so long that he finally remembered that he forgot to  leave people any time to answer his questions. It was a pretty funny  moment for the committee. He laughed about it, and he didn't make that  mistake again.

Mr. Speaker, I will say this about him. He was 100 percent American.  When the local sheriff's department asked for help with people who knew  how to operate diesel equipment, Doug showed up. Doug is the one. He is  the Member of Congress that we saw on camera, getting on a bulldozer,  saying: I love the smell of diesel power in the afternoon. It smells  like victory.

Mr. Speaker, Doug LaMalfa and only Doug LaMalfa.

Ms. RIVAS.  RIVAS.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, my condolences to the family of former  Congressman Doug LaMalfa.

Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be here on the floor today to lead this  important discussion with my Congressional Progressive Caucus  colleagues about protecting healthcare for millions of Americans.

Earlier today, the House voted to pass Democratic Leader Hakeem  Jeffries' bill to extend the Affordable Care Act's enhanced premium tax  credits for 3 more years. I thank Leader Jeffries for his relentless  leadership to make today's vote a reality.

House Democrats have been fighting for months to save these critical  tax credits and for years to protect the Affordable Care Act from  Republicans' constant attacks.

The ACA tax credits are the reason that record numbers of Americans  have health insurance today. The ACA tax credits lower monthly premiums  and make coverage realistic for working families, small business  owners, seniors not yet eligible for Medicare, and people who fall  through the cracks of employer-based insurance.

Because of these tax credits, people can go to the doctor before a  problem becomes an emergency. They can manage chronic conditions. They  can live with dignity instead of fear of bankruptcy.

Democrats did not give up on the American people, unlike many  Republicans, who chose to let these tax credits expire 1 week ago. That  is right. When the ball dropped in Times Square on New Year's Eve,  millions of Americans saw their healthcare premiums rise. That is a  direct result of the healthcare crisis that Republicans created through  their inaction on Americans' most pressing concerns.

Over the past year, instead of working on meaningful solutions to  lower the cost of groceries, lower the cost of housing, or protect  healthcare, Republicans chose to rename the Gulf of Mexico, redefine  what a showerhead is, rename The Kennedy Center, look into annexing  Greenland, and regulate fridges and gas stoves.

Yet, in all seriousness, there are real problems that our country is  facing. ICE is terrorizing communities across the country, and  yesterday, masked agents murdered Renee Nicole Good in broad daylight  in Minnesota. Trump is entertaining entering another war with  Venezuela. Vaccines are being rolled back, which will make students and  communities sicker. Americans are struggling to afford basic goods.

Speaking of affordability, we are in the middle of an affordability  crisis that Republicans refused to address. Republicans chose to shut  down the government instead of extending the ACA tax credits to help  Americans afford healthcare.

During the longest shutdown in government history, my colleagues and  I heard from our constituents about how Republicans' inaction to extend  the ACA tax credits would impact them. I hand-delivered several of  these stories from my freshman colleagues to Speaker Johnson so that he  could see how his shutdown was creating hardship for Americans from  California to New Hampshire, Washington, and everywhere in between.

In my district, the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles, nearly 31,000  people would have seen their healthcare costs rise if the ACA tax  credits expired, and nearly 11,000 people would have lost access to  healthcare entirely.

Additionally, a 60-year-old couple in my district earning nearly  $83,000 per year would have seen their annual premiums rise by nearly  $14,000, and a family of four earning nearly $130,000 a year would have  seen their annual premiums rise by over $6,000. This is just in my  district.

Republicans were willing to let this happen to Americans across the  country, regardless of political affiliation.

I am proud to have voted with my colleagues to pass Leader Jeffries'  bill to extend the ACA tax credits and protect healthcare, but our work  is not done. The Senate needs to take up this bill immediately so that  Americans don't have to worry about their premiums skyrocketing. In the  richest country on Earth, no one should have to worry about choosing  between paying for groceries, making rent, or having healthcare.

Randall), my cohost for tonight's Special Order hour and my friend and  fellow freshman classmate from the beautiful State of Washington.

Ms. RIVAS.  Hoyle).

Ms. RIVAS.  Ansari).

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from  California and Representative Randall for hosting this Special Order.

Seven days ago, the Affordable Care Act's enhanced premium tax  credits expired. For years, these credits allowed millions of Americans  to afford health insurance that they would otherwise not be able to  get. For tens of millions of others, these tax credits drastically  lowered premiums--for some families, by as much as thousands of  dollars. They gave working families essential relief amidst an ongoing  cost-of-living crisis that Donald Trump has only made worse.

Without these tax credits, an estimated 5 million Americans will lose  their insurance as a result of higher premium costs.

Today, House Democrats successfully forced this body to vote to  extend those tax credits so that those 5 million Americans can hold on  to their health insurance with a 3-year extension of these premium tax  credits, and it passed this body.

Now, this bill goes to the Senate, which must pass it in order to  save health insurance for millions of Americans.

In my State of New York alone, more than 140,000 people relied on the  tax credits. These credits also supported an additional 1.7 million New  Yorkers who would probably otherwise not be able to afford health  insurance.

One constituent of mine who lives in public housing and holds a good  job told me that without these tax credits, her monthly premiums have  gone from $450 to more than $1,000, which she simply cannot afford. She  is in her sixties and will be left with no health insurance.

It is not just those eligible for the tax credits who will suffer.  That is because when people lose coverage, they don't stop getting  sick. They delay preventative care. They skip prescriptions. They end  up in emergency rooms. Emergency rooms become overrun, and care gets  worse and more delayed. Costs rise for everyone, and all outcomes  suffer.

Because of months of inaction by Donald Trump and congressional  Republicans, those tax credits have expired and will be gone without  this legislation that we passed today. This is nothing short of a  crisis, and it is a crisis created entirely by the President of the  United States and his Republican Party.

Let me say this clearly to the American people. If you cannot afford  health insurance anymore, you have one person and one party to blame:  Donald Trump and the Republican Party. It is the same party that cut  taxes for billionaires and cut Medicaid for working-class Americans.

Mr. Speaker, you can count on one thing at all times with this  Republican Party: They will always choose billionaires over babies.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, may I ask how much time I have remaining.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues who participated in  this Special Order hour on the ACA tax credits. The Affordable Care Act  tax credits are why our country has a record-high number of insured  people.

Like many of my colleagues who today shared stories of their  constituents and how this will impact them and their daily lives, I  also have heard many stories from my own constituents. This includes  Angel from San Fernando. Angel's husband is self-employed, and she  works part time. Because of the ACA, they can have reliable healthcare  that covers her husband's preexisting conditions. Angel is dreading the  update that will make healthcare more costly. They will have to make it  work, but it will come at an extreme hardship. Angel and her husband  are two of the over 31,000 people in my district who will see their  healthcare costs rise if the ACA tax credits are not extended.

Another constituent from North Hollywood said that their costs will  more than double. They write: ``My husband and I are already scraping  by, living paycheck to paycheck each month. Rent and groceries are both  harder to pay for. I also have two kids who are on Medi-Cal.'' Families  of four like this woman's will be forced to pay over $6,000 more this  year if the ACA tax credits are not extended.

Mr. Speaker, I am sure Congresswoman Randall has heard hundreds of  stories from her constituents, too, and would like to share some with  us.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Randall for sharing  those stories. We are hearing these stories from all over the country,  not just blue States, but also red States, everywhere.

The Affordable Care Act tax credits keep healthcare affordable for  all Americans. If the Senate does not act immediately, constituents  like Stephen from Van Nuys will bear that burden. Stephen and his wife  are both independent contractors who pay for their own health  insurance. In 2026, they are facing a monthly increase of over $1,000 a  month each. This is absolutely unacceptable in the United States.

Before I close, I thank Congresswoman Randall for joining me for  tonight's discussion and would like to yield to her for any closing  remarks she may have.

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Randall and thanks  again to my other colleagues who spoke tonight.

Today's vote will help keep healthcare affordable for millions of  Americans, but our work isn't done. The Senate needs to pass this bill  immediately, and then we need to get back to work on progressive and  equitable solutions that leave no family behind.

Families are still facing high costs for housing, childcare,  groceries, and other everyday necessities. House Democrats and the  Congressional Progressive Caucus will continue to stand with the  American people to protect their healthcare against Republicans'  attacks and keep the American Dream attainable for all.