Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698314/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-do-no-harm-in-medicaid-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protect-childrens-innocence-act-and-relating-to-consideration-of-hr-standardizing-permitting-and-expediting-economic-development-act


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding to  me.

Republicans have been in the majority and in control for this whole  year, yet they have not put forward a bill that helps working families  with the rising cost of living or to prevent hardworking Americans'  healthcare premiums from skyrocketing in price.

Republicans drove the country into a healthcare crisis, and they  continue to have no pathway to get us out of it.

With healthcare premiums set to skyrocket at the end of December,  Republicans' solution is an unserious proposal that kicks millions of  Americans off their coverage, puts healthcare out of reach, and takes  away women's freedom to make their own healthcare decisions.

Under Republicans' concept of a healthcare plan, working Americans  will be forced to make tough decisions, such as if they should take  their child to the doctor or buy groceries for the week. Republicans'  concept of a healthcare plan means bankruptcy will be one medical  emergency away for millions of Americans.

If Republicans were serious about helping their constituents and  addressing the healthcare crisis that they manufactured with the big,  ugly bill, they would join Democrats and vote to extend the ACA tax  credits for 3 years. We only need one more Republican to sign, one more  to help American families afford healthcare.

I will vote ``no'' on this rule and the underlying bill to protect my  over 31,000 constituents who rely on these ACA tax credits to make  their healthcare affordable. I encourage my colleagues to do the same.