Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690477/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I am here today to speak against H.J. Res.  87, which will illegally stop California's efforts to work toward a  greener and cleaner future through zero-emission trucks.

Strong vehicle standards protect Americans from expensive and  volatile fossil fuels and accelerate the adoption of cleaner vehicle  technologies to help us compete globally.

According to the American Lung Association, the L.A. metro area has  the most polluted ozone in the country. This is due to the high  concentration of freeways and heavy trucking industry and communities  such as those in the San Fernando Valley like Pacoima and Sun Valley.  Stopping these efforts will worsen our air quality and the public  health of our communities that are already plagued with the effects of  air pollution and vehicles.

Mr. Speaker, I am against this resolution and its goal of stripping  California's ability to regulate air pollution  and improve public health. Not only are Republicans taking away  healthcare from over 370,000 of my constituents who rely on Medicaid,  they are actively worsening the health problems many of them face. This  is insult to injury. I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''