Recognizing Sister Mary Jesus Ochoa on Her Centennial Birthday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698644/recognizing-sister-mary-jesus-ochoa-on-her-centennial-birthday


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Sister Mary Jesus Ochoa  of the Order of St. Francis in San Fernando. This week, she celebrated  her 100th birthday.

Sister Mary Jesus is a member of the Franciscan Sisters of the  Immaculate Conception, who entered religious life in the 1940s. She has  spent decades supporting our most vulnerable across the San Fernando  Valley and in Mexico.

During her service, she worked with children and families in need,  emphasizing care, stability, and long-term support.

Sister Mary Jesus played a key leadership role at the Poverello of  Assisi Retreat House in San Fernando. There, she helped provide retreat  services, community support, and housing for young women and children.

When earthquakes caused major damage to the retreat house and the  surrounding buildings, Sister Mary Jesus led the rebuilding efforts to  make sure that services were not interrupted for those who need it the  most.

Sister Mary Jesus' work reflects steady leadership, resilience in  times of crisis, and a clear commitment to serving others with dignity  and purpose.

I wish Sister Mary Jesus a happy 100th birthday. The San Fernando  Valley is grateful for her dedication to helping our community.                      Funding to Rebuild After Wildfires

Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, here we are in the first voting week of 2026,  and Republicans are bringing up bills on showerheads. They are not  doing anything to address the affordability crisis, ICE terrorizing our  communities, Trump's illegal and unconstitutional actions in Venezuela,  or other states of emergency. They have not done so during this  Congress, even during the Los Angeles wildfires, which broke out 1 year  ago today.

These fires destroyed 16,000 structures, displaced over 200,000  residents, and took 31 lives. The bravery of firefighters from across  the country, who worked tirelessly to put out the fires and minimize  damage, will not be forgotten.

While the fires caused great destruction and devastation, the  strength and resilience of our neighbors coming together for our  communities were on full display.

Mr. Speaker, 1 year later, communities across Los Angeles County are  continuing to work toward rebuilding their lives and livelihoods. As  communities work toward a return to normal times, we need to minimize  the long-term health consequences that wildfire debris may have on  communities, especially in communities like mine in the San Fernando  Valley.

My district is housing several disposal sites for wildfire debris. As  debris is being transported and stored throughout the valley, I have  been adamant about making sure that my constituents are not subjected  to the long-term health effects that they have traditionally been  forced to bear.

Recovery from these wildfires asks us to look ahead to make sure that  when natural disasters strike, everyone can be prepared to recover  equally. This is a core tenet of environmental justice. We must invest  in resources that allow communities and families to recover and rebuild  their lives after disasters. This includes advocating for solutions  that are informed by the voices of those who are most affected by  climate disasters.

Los Angeles has made progress in recovery, but we still have a long  way to go. This is why my California Democratic Caucus colleagues and I  are urging the Trump administration to deliver nearly $34 billion in  disaster funding to help Californians recover. This includes funding  that supports rebuilding homes and schools, restoring critical road and  water systems, reopening small businesses, and helping communities  achieve lasting wildfire resilience.

Mr. Speaker, I will continue to push to make sure that residents in  my district and across Los Angeles County have every Federal resource  available to them to rebuild their lives. Let us continue to rebuild  with equity, care, and courage so that our communities are safer,  healthier, and more resilient for everyone.