Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701782/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone for yielding  to me and for his continued leadership on the Energy and Commerce  Committee, especially on environmental justice.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose the Republicans' RED Tape Act because it guts  the Clean Air Act and strips the EPA's ability to inform the public of  potential health concerns that they will face because of Federal  projects.

The Clean Air Act makes sure that the EPA considers the health and  environmental impacts of communities before a project begins. It has  helped communities like mine in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles  breathe cleaner air.

My district has some of the highest asthma rates in the country  because of generations of poor land-use decisions. These decisions have  placed freeways, landfills, and warehouses next to homes, schools, and  parks.

I know that my community is not alone. Over 100 million Americans  live in counties with unhealthy levels of pollution. In particular,  children, the elderly, low-income communities, and communities of color  are disproportionately at risk for serious health conditions.

Air pollution is already associated with over 100,000 premature  deaths in our country every year. Trump and Republicans will make this  problem worse by ignoring the needs of environmental justice  communities across the country. Trump and Republicans are prioritizing  the profits of their billionaire and corporate interest friends over  the health of our communities.

The RED Tape Act allows polluters to contaminate the air that we  breathe without regard for the lives or livelihoods of communities that  would be impacted the most.

There is a reason that all Democrats on the Energy and Commerce  Committee voted against the RED Tape Act, and that is because it is a  harmful bill for everyone, except for Donald Trump and Republicans'  billionaire friends.

This bill will increase levels of air pollution and send more people  to the hospital at a time when Republicans have already gutted working  families' healthcare. This bill does not make life safer or more  affordable for working families in my district.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the RED Tape Act  and to stand up for environmental justice communities.