San Fernando Valley Mourns the Loss of Belinda Barragan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701994/san-fernando-valley-mourns-the-loss-of-belinda-barragan


Ms. RIVAS. Mr. Speaker, the San Fernando Valley mourns the loss of  Belinda Barragan.

Belinda was a proud, lifelong resident of the San Fernando Valley,  graduating from St. Genevieve High School in Panorama City. For over 30  years, she was at the forefront of public service, advocating for  working families and Latinos, ensuring that they had all the  opportunities and support to thrive.

Belinda uplifted thousands of women and community members with her  uniquely warm, funny, and love-centered leadership. Her career in  public service has often been behind the scenes, and she has taught us  the definition of steadfast leadership.

Through her work with HOPE Leadership Institute, Belinda empowered  hundreds of Latina professionals and created opportunities for these  women to strengthen their confidence and grow as leaders.

Her integrity and compassionate leadership helped build the careers  of grassroots community leaders as well as those in the public and  private sectors. She supported many Latino elected officials when they  first started in politics, including former Congressman Tony Cardenas  and Senator Alex Padilla.

Congressman Cardenas said that Belinda always helped everyone around  her to be their best. Her intensity was infectious. Belinda's caring  and loving personality matched her tough, ``let's get the job done''  attitude. He called her a force for good and positive change.

Senator Padilla called Belinda Barragan the nicest person you would  ever meet and that she had a special ability to keep you on task and on  deadline when there was work to be done.

Senator Padilla asked Belinda to be his campaign manager when he  first ran for city council. He said that seeing Belinda at HOPE events  over the years always brought him back to his early days in politics.  Belinda will be remembered for her unwavering integrity, empathetic  leadership, and her lifelong residency in the San Fernando Valley.

Her memory will live on in the hearts of all who knew and loved her.

Mr. Speaker, I ask for a moment of silence in honor of Belinda.