Finding Solutions to Bridge Strikes


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss my new bill to  tackle the issue of bridge strikes.

Throughout the country, highways and local roads with low-clearance  bridges are vulnerable to strikes by large trucks. In my home State of  New York, there were 350 bridge strikes in 2024 alone, including many  in Westchester and the Bronx. However, these strikes are preventable,  and I am committed to reducing incidents.

As Westchester County Executive, I worked with State and local  leaders to find creative solutions to this problem, but Federal action  is necessary.

My bill, the Bridges Not Bumpers Act of 2025, would direct the  Secretary of Transportation to establish a Bridge Strike Working Group  whose work will provide recommendations to prevent future strikes. It  will also create a national clearinghouse to serve as a central  location for data collection and circulation of best practices to  prevent strikes.

I thank Congressman Bresnahan for his partnership in developing this  commonsense, bipartisan solution. We have both Republican and  Democratic cosponsors to this bill. I look forward to moving this  proposal forward with my colleagues.                            Honoring Jill Axelrod

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the public service  contributions of Jill Axelrod, who has completed two terms and 8 years  as the Town of Rye's councilwoman. A resident of Rye Brook with her  husband Brett and two daughters, she is a lawyer by profession and has  been a member of the executive team of the Westchester County Board of  Legislators.

Elected in 2017 to the town council and reelected in 2021, Jill led  the town board's important legislation and law committees, playing an  integral role in all facets of local laws from development to passage.  Her intergovernmental roles in county and town government have helped  provide wise counsel to the Town of Rye as part of an effective team.

Her public service continues. We recognize her current and past  achievements and await the next chapter of her service.                      Exchange Club of Yonkers Honorees

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I salute the honorees recognized at the  recent Awards Gala of the Exchange Club of Yonkers.

These individuals have given exemplary service to the people of  Yonkers as recognized by one of the most outstanding organizations in  the city:

Dr. Jim Bostic, senior pastor and author recognized with the Literary  Achievement Award;

Dr. Rosalba Corrado DelVecchio and Carol McEwen Daly, designated  Women of Distinction Awards;

Alan R. Gray, Jr., Esquire, Exchangeite of the Year;

Yosef Unger from the San Souci Rehabilitation and Nursing Center  received the Distinguished Service Award;

Ann Muro, the longtime president of the Exchange Club of Yonkers,  Outstanding Leadership and Community Service Award.

All of these individuals deserve our respect and our congratulations.  We wish them all the very best as they are honorees this year.