Letter to Secretary Noem and Secretary Rubio


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I recently wrote a letter to Secretary Noem  and Secretary Rubio, which I will share with my colleagues.

``I write today to express my grave concern over the administration's  apparent misuse of obscure provisions in our Nation's immigration laws  to deport or detain indefinitely individuals without due process.  Independent of whether a noncitizen is guilty of what they are being  accused, I fear these actions are setting a bad precedent that  undermine the American justice system, runs contrary to the letter and  the spirit of the U.S. law, and pose a risk to American citizens at  home and abroad.

``The Fifth Amendment provides that all persons in the United States  are entitled to due process of law, including, at minimum, notice, an  opportunity to be heard, and a decision by a neutral decisionmaker.  Contrary to this constitutional protection, the administration has  decided to leverage exceptions in the law, such as invoking the foreign  policy bar of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) and/or the  Enemies Alien Act of 1798 as its reasoning for detaining or deporting  individuals without due process.

``The foreign policy bar of the INA states that if the Secretary of  State has reasonable grounds to believe an alien's entry, proposed  activities, presence, or activities in the United States would have  `potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United  States, that person can be excluded or deported from the United  States.'

``Similarly, the Alien Enemies Act of 1798 permits summary  deportations during times of war and was last invoked during World War  II. These provisions now have novelly been used during peacetime as  grounds to send Department of Homeland Security agents to the homes of  individuals with varied alien status, including permanent residents and  asylum seekers, arrest them, and either detain them indefinitely or  forcibly deport them. Lawyers representing the subjects have been  denied access to their clients as well as access to the warrants and  other official documents. Judicial orders have been blatantly ignored  and courts denied access to potentially evidentiary information.

``I am concerned these actions by the administration are simply a  trial balloon to expand Presidential authority without judicial or  legislative oversight in order to detain individuals at their will or  discretion. The constitutional checks and balances and our Bill of  Rights have been the envy of the free world and a warning to dictators  everywhere that a nation can be strong and secure and at the same time  show forbearance in the administration of justice. Seeing the erosion  of these concepts in our own Nation is disheartening, to say the least,  and a dangerous precedent to entertain for any free people.

``It is my responsibility to speak out, not because I agree with the  affected individuals or sanction acts for which they are accused, but  because if we wish to live in a democratic society, we  must defend the lawful rights of all, including those whose actions  make them subject to the American justice system. The actions taken by  the administration to arrest, detain, or deport without lawful due  process sets a dangerous precedent for us all, even those who one day  may count themselves among former holders of high office. Americans  also now risk being subject to retaliatory treatment in other  countries. Given the centuries-old protections granted by our  Constitution, I urge the administration to rethink its actions in order  to preserve the letter and the spirit of our American laws.''