Recognizing Bethesda Baptist Church and Pastor Horace Sanders, Jr.


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize and salute the dynamic  faith community of Bethesda Baptist Church in New Rochelle as they  welcome their new pastor, Reverend Horace Sanders, Jr., and his wife,  Lady Katrina Sanders, to the pulpit. Bethesda Baptist will be  celebrating this month over installation weekend, highlighted by a  congregational celebration gala on Friday night, January 16.

The faithful of Bethesda have given God the glory for over 138 years,  since 1888, with weekly Sunday services, Friday morning prayer line,  Wednesday Bible study, programs for seniors on Tuesdays and Thursdays,  a food pantry for the needy and hungry, and programs targeted to the  youth of the community.

Pastor-elect Sanders served for over a decade at Mount Olivet  Missionary Baptist Church in Schenectady and previously in Peekskill.  His energetic leadership was on display last week when Bethesda hosted  Watch Night services, joined by two other New Rochelle congregations.  Reverend Sanders' sermon ``Leave the Baggage Behind'' was a perfect  theme to start the new year and his new responsibilities at Bethesda.

Mr. Speaker, I welcome him and Lady Katrina to New Rochelle from the  floor of the House of Representatives, and I look forward to his many  contributions in the days to come.                  Honoring the Birthday of C. Nathan Edwers

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Archbishop C. Nathan  Edwers, spiritual leader and senior pastor at Friendship Worship Center  in Mount Vernon as he celebrates his 65th birthday this month. His  congregates, friends, and admirers will gather that weekend for a  festive event in his honor, and we join in that recognition for a man  of God who has been a leader in the community inside and outside of his  church.

Bishop Edwers holds a number of academic degrees, including a  doctorate from the United Theological Seminary in Dayton, Ohio. He  began his ministry in 1983 and came from Brooklyn to Mount Vernon in  1989 to lead the Friendship Worship community. He has grown the church  dynamically with outreach to embrace a large presence in the Mount  Veteran community with the religious vision for worship, prayer, Bible  study, and a community vision for services to the youth, seniors, and  those in need with food delivery, after-school and summer programs, a  warming center for the homeless, foster family services, and more.

Bishop Edwers has held numerous positions in the church organization,  also in the Masons, Omega Psi Phi fraternity, and as a founder and  leader of the United Black Clergy of Westchester County. He has done  all of this with his wife, Aro Denise Edwers, as his life partner, and  all of this was done in a mere 65 years.

Mr. Speaker, I wish a happy birthday to Bishop Edwers from the floor  of the House of Representatives.                        Recognizing Shoreline Publishing

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, in a world where local newspapers and radio  stations are disappearing, it is valuable to recognize and salute those  organizations that are continuing to provide information about our  local communities' life and times.

In Westchester County we owe a public debt of gratitude to Shoreline  Publishing, which serves the people of southern Westchester with five  community newspapers; a countywide Jewish monthly newspaper; and a  full-color quarterly magazine, Westchester Women.

Under the leadership of president and publisher Edward Shapiro,  Shoreline provides an information lifeline across our towns with the  Pelham Post, the Bronxville Bulletin, the Harrison Herald, the  Larchmont Ledger--as you can see, alliteration still has its appeal-- and the New Rochelle Review.

Editors Cynthia Pena and Joyce Farrell ensure timely local news  reaches the readers in each community, as well as the readers of  Westchester Jewish Life, which is always available in the local  synagogues and temples. Other key Shoreline executives round out the  local team, including Lauren Levine and Mary DeYoung.

I thank Shoreline Publishing from the floor of the House of  Representatives for continuing to keep local news at the forefront of  our hometowns.