Recognizing the Service of Dr. Stephen A. Ferrara


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, it is with great appreciation that I rise  to recognize Dr. Stephen A. Ferrara, DNP, FNP-BC, FAANP, FAAN of White  Plains, New York for his outstanding leadership and contributions as  President of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners (AANP).

Dr. Ferrara is a dedicated health care leader with over two decades  of experience, including extensive work as a practicing nurse  practitioner, health policy advocate, and academic leader. In addition  to his role as President of AANP, he also currently serves as Associate  Dean of Artificial Intelligence and Professor at the Columbia  University School of Nursing where he has focused on health information  technology and the implementation of evidence-based practice. Dr.  Ferrara previously served as the Executive Director of the Nurse  Practitioner Association New York State, where he played a key role in  removing state barriers to NP practice. Dr. Ferrara has been recognized  for his leadership as a Fellow of AANP, the American Academy of  Nursing, the National Academies of Practice and the New York Academy of  Medicine.

The American Association of Nurse Practitioner is the largest  professional membership organization for nurse practitioners,  representing the interest of the over 431,000 licensed nurse  practitioners in the United States who are delivering care in nearly 1  billion patient visits per year. As President of AANP, Dr. Ferrara has  played a pivotal role in amplifying the voice of nurse practitioners at  the national level. He has worked to ensure that policymakers recognize  the essential contributions of NPs in improving access to  comprehensive, patient-centered care across all health care settings.

I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring Dr. Stephen Ferrara for  his distinguished term as President of the American Association of  Nurse Practitioners and in expressing our gratitude for his exceptional  service to patients, students and the nurse practitioner profession.