Saluting Scarsdale


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, in the ever-changing landscape of community  media, I am pleased to salute the 17th anniversary of the launch of  Scarsdale10583, the online source for local news and information in the  village of Scarsdale and in the neighborhoods of Hartsdale and Edgemont  in the town of Greenburgh.

Joanne Wallenstein, an advertising and marketing professional with a  background in magazines and internet experience, is the driving force  for the team that includes Wendy MacMillan and Stacie Waldman. All  three are committed Scarsdale volunteers for organizations like the  local PTAs, the League of Women Voters, and numerous other community  groups. This gives them the grassroots contacts and feel for what is  happening every day that they report on regularly. They report on what  is happening by being there in person at event after event.

The publication is truly local: high school sports stories, local  meetings, recreational activities, and neighborhood associations and  their activities.

We recognize the hard work of Joanne and her colleagues, and from the  floor of the House of Representatives, we salute this terrific effort  to bring the whole of the community together.                      Recognizing Village of Dobbs Ferry

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I want to recognize the outstanding  programs provided by the village of Dobbs Ferry that benefit the senior  citizens of that community.

Under the able leadership of Abby Connett, in a new center designed  for their use, Dobbs Ferry Seniors serves hundreds of seniors annually  with a daily nutrition program at lunchtime 5 days a week and  activities and programs to engage seniors of all ages.

There are fitness classes daily, from tai chi and dance to chair yoga  and mental fitness programs; my favorite, sports trivia; and a variety  of board games, mah-jongg, bridge, Rummikub, along with the classic  senior staple, bingo.

Abby and her talented crew host annual events, as well, such as an  art show in May and the recent 20th annual Seniors Week in October with  multiple activities. There are trips planned to shopping locales and  tourist sites, as well.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we salute the work of  the Dobbs Ferry Seniors and the active and energetic members who show  that age is more than just a state of mind.                     Recognizing Bronx Community Board 10

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  work of the residents of the Bronx who labor tirelessly on behalf of  their neighborhood, active in Bronx Community Board 10. Most of the  area is represented by my colleague, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio- Cortez, places like Throggs Neck, Pelham Bay, Westchester Square, and  the like. However, Community Board 10 also includes the major complex  of Co-op City in my 16th Congressional District.

Co-op City benefits from the leadership of Joseph Russo, chairman of  the community board, and the excellent district manager, Matt Cruz. Co- op City residents on Community Board 10 include Board Secretary Nancy  Rosario; Stephanie Woods, who chairs the Youth and Education Committee;  and board members Janine Thomas, Stefani Hazell, and Maritza Fludd.

The board has vibrant citizen committees engaged in every aspect of  neighborhood life: economic development, housing and zoning, municipal  services, parks and recreation, planning and budget, youth services,  education, health and human services, and veterans services, with board  members and community volunteers engaged together in dialogue and  action to serve the overall region.

I am pleased that Co-op City is a major contributor to the work of  this board.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we salute Bronx  Community Board 10 and its crew from Co-op City, serving the Boogie  Down Bronx.