Recognizing the Recipients of the 2025 Artsfairfax Arts Awards


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize ArtsFairfax and the  recipients of the  2025 ArtsFairfax Awards. These awards recognize the extraordinary  contributions of artists, arts organizations, individuals, and  businesses in Fairfax County, the City of Fairfax, and the City of  Falls Church that support the arts in our community.

Founded in 1964, the formally named Arts Council of Fairfax County is  a non-profit organization designated as Fairfax County's local arts  agency. Today, ArtsFairfax operates programs and initiatives that  include grant opportunities, arts advocacy, education, and professional  development opportunities for arts and culture organizations.

ArtsFairfax envisions a thriving arts and culture community  accessible to all of Fairfax County. To support this vision,  ArtsFairfax awarded a total of $799,026 in 82 Awards to over 65 local  arts organizations across its three grant programs for FY2026. Among  those awardees, 82 percent are led by women, 30 percent are led by  people of color, and 23 percent are led by veterans. These figures  reflect ArtsFairfax's commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, and  accessibility when it comes to the arts.

The Arts Awards honors supporters of the arts in four categories: the  Jinx Hazel Arts Award, the Philanthropy Award, the Impact Award, and  the Education Award. It is my honor to include in the Record the  following names of the 2025 Arts Awards Recipients:

The 2025 Jinx Hazel Award will be presented to General       (retired) Lester L. Lyles.

The 2025 Philanthropy Award will be presented to Tim Rizer.

The 2025 Impact Award will be presented to IACC--Pars       Place.

The 2025 Education Award will be presented to Marco Rando.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the  recipients of the 2025 Arts Awards and recognizing the visionaries,  leaders, and supporters who help to make our Northern Virginia  communities rich with cultural opportunities.