Recognizing the Korean American Association of the Washington Metropolitan Area and the 2025 Korus Festival Volunteers


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Korean  American Association of the Washington Metropolitan Area (KAAW) and its  President, Steve Lee, on the occasion of the 22nd KORUS Festival.

As one of the largest festivals of its kind, the KORUS festival  brings together Koreans, Korean Americans, and others from our rich  multicultural community to celebrate our dynamic and harmonious  relationship. The festival provides not only the opportunity for us to  experience the customs of the Korean culture, but also to recognize the  shared history and partnership between our two nations. As a member of  Congress, I look forward to continuing my friendship with KAAW and the  Korean American community as we continue to build on the success of our  alliance and work together toward the achievement of our common goals.  I will continue to do all that I can to ensure that the U.S.-Korea  alliance remains strong and enduring.

It would not be possible to hold an event of this magnitude without  the support and commitment of volunteers from the community. It is my  great honor to recognize the efforts and include in the Record the name  of the following individuals:

Steve S. Lee, Victoria Lee, Taesung Lee, Brian Kim, Mi       Kyung An, Jae Byun, Jae Lee, Kwang Hyung Park, Wan J. Chae,       Chun J. Park, Elwin Maldonado, Mi Ja Kim, Jenny Hwang, Eric       Shin, William Hwang, Bethel Lee, Ella Jung, Naomi Mercy Han,       Zephaniah Kim, Sena Kajiyama, Sophia Moon, Jeffrey Kim, Roi       Lee, Sophia Patton, Enoch Hayul Lee, Ellie Harin Lee, Iriel       Kang, Kaylee Kim, Luke Lee, Leonard Kim, Aria Kwon, Kevin       Kim, Irene Kang, Han June Lee, Veronica Patton, Luke An, and       Genevieve An.

I would also like to give special recognition to Ms. Anna Ko, whose  tireless work as KORUS coordinator and Master of Ceremonies helped make  this amazing event possible.

Mr. Speaker, festivals like KORUS are a wonderful example of the  tremendous diversity we enjoy in Northern Virginia. Such a variety of  cultures enriches the lives of our citizens and fosters greater  tolerance and understanding. I commend KAAW and the volunteers listed  above for helping to bring such wonderful events to fruition and ask my  colleagues to join me in wishing them great success in their future  endeavors.