Recognizing National Disability Employment Awareness Month


Mr. WALKINSHAW. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of National  Disability Employment Awareness Month, observed each October to honor  the invaluable contributions of people with disabilities to the  workforce and to reaffirm our commitment to expand their participation  in the future.

In 1945, the Nation first designated a national week to recognize the  contributions of people with physical disabilities. Designated by  Congress as NDEAM in 1988, commemoration evolved to acknowledge the  importance of increasing the number of people with disabilities in the  workforce. In 2001, the Department of Labor's Office of Disability  Employment Policy (ODEP) was created and was given responsibility for  NDEAM and for selecting and helping promote its annual theme.

This year's theme is ``Celebrating Value and Talent'', which reminds  us that Americans with disabilities bring innovation, resilience, and  unique perspectives to our communities and all sectors of our economy.

As we celebrate NDEAM and disability employment, I want to recognize  the success of the AbilityOne Program, one of the largest and most  impactful sources of employment for people who are blind or have  significant disabilities in the United States.

Since Congress first established the program over 80 years ago,  AbilityOne has empowered individuals with disabilities by providing  meaningful work opportunities through Federal contracts. Today, nearly  40,000 Americans, including thousands of veterans, are employed on  these contracts providing essential products and services for Federal  agencies with excellence, reliability, and pride.

ServiceSource, based in my Congressional district, is one of 400  AbilityOne Federal contractors doing this work across the country,  contributing to workforce development and strengthening communities. I  commend their efforts and other employers who are actively hiring  people of all abilities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in recognizing National  Disability Employment Awareness Month and in advancing policies that  empower every American to secure a job and thrive. During the month of  October, we should all reaffirm our commitment to a workforce that  recognizes and welcomes everyone's contributions.