Recognizing the Life and Memory of James ``jim'' Neil Crain


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696936/recognizing-the-life-and-memory-of-james-jim-neil-crain


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart to  commemorate the life of James ``Jim'' Neil Crain and recognize him for  the excellent work and impact he had on the Grandview community.  Introduced to public service at an early age as an Eagle Scout, Jim  dedicated the rest of his life to serving the City of Grandview and  caring for anyone he crossed paths with. Jim showed endless love for  his community, and the impact he had will be remembered forever.

Born on October 3, 1945, in Kansas City, Missouri, Jim spent his  early years studying in the Grandview school system before moving onto  William Jewell College where he graduated with his bachelors in 1967.  To further his studies, obtained a master's degree in business  administration from the University of Missouri-Kansas City. In addition  to his education endeavors, Jim served during the Vietnam War in the  U.S. army as First Lieutenant and was later honorably discharged in  1971.

As an Operations Manager at Hallmark Cards, Jim had a 34-year  successful career before retiring in 2004. Being a Grandview native,  Jim decided to seek ways to get involved with his hometown and  committed himself to improving and growing the City of Grandview.  Leading with kindness, service, and compassion, Jim served as a  Grandview Alderman for 40 years and remained active on the Parks and  Recreation Commission during his tenure. Jim's dedication to the  constituents of Grandview is evident through the various groups he was  involved in, including serving as Board Director for the Grandview  Assistance Program, and as a founding member of the Grandview Youth  Court where he acted as treasurer and board member.

Beyond his professional life, Jim led a life of faith, empathy and  wisdom. Jim could often be found spending time with his family,  watching a Kansas City Chiefs game or NASCAR race. He spent his life  uplifting and empowering the residents of Grandview through his  leadership and commitment to being a voice for the community. Though  Jim has passed, his legacy and impact on his community will remain long  past our mortal lifetimes. I am reminded of Mark 10:45--``For even the  Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his  life as a ransom for many.'' Jim's life was one dedicated to serving  others in need, improving the lives of countless people throughout.  Jim's legacy will live on through his loving family, friends, and the  current and future generations of Grandview. As we celebrate and fondly  appreciate the decades of devoted service from Jim, let us be inspired  by him to uplift our community.