Recognizing Nathaniel ``rex'' Purefoy, the ``Hollywood Cowboy''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700334/recognizing-nathaniel-rex-purefoy-the-hollywood-cowboy


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate and honor Kansas  City's very own ``Hollywood Cowboy,'' Nathaniel ``Rex'' Purefoy, who  has dedicated his life to preserving the legacy and culture of African  American cowboys through performances and storytelling. Let us take a  moment to recognize this extraordinary individual in Missouri's 5th  Congressional District who has captivated the public with his unique  horsemanship and roping techniques for over 50 years.

African American cowboys were an essential part of American history  in the various territories and into statehood for many states. They  worked on ranches and in cattle drives on trails coming through mid- western states such as Missouri and Kansas before the Civil War and  through the early 1900s. They also performed in rodeos when not on the  trail.

In Kansas City, native Rex Purefoy further contributed to ensuring  that generations upon generations did not forget about African American  cowboy culture but rather embrace its heritage and celebrate it. Along  with his loyal partner, his horse Ringo, Rex brought his famous  ``Hollywood Cowboy Show,'' a performance full of rope twirling, music,  and Western fashion across the United States. As an avid trick-roper  and horseman, Rex traveled across state lines performing in rodeos,  shows, parades, and even performed with the Barnum and Bailey Circus  and The UniverSoul Circus for many years.

In addition to his own shows and live performances, Rex was a special  guest star in  the 1970s ``The Flip Wilson Show'' and had cameo roles in movies and  local Kansas City area television programs. As a testament to his  talents, Rex appeared in a critically acclaimed movie with boxing  legend Muhammad Ali entitled ``The Black Rodeo,'' in 1972. Rex's  commitment to create not only an entertaining performance but one that  would leave the audience with a lasting memory of African American  culture led to him being recognized nationally, becoming an inductee of  the National Cowboys of Color Museum and the Hall of Fame.

Beyond his work as a performer, Rex has found other ways to further  protect the legacy of African American cowboys. Working as a  photographer, Rex has documented other African American cowboys and the  Black community, submitting the works to noted Black publications to  preserve their history. He has contributed to numerous photographs to  African American publications, such as Jet Magazine, Ebony Magazine,  The Kansas City Call newspaper, The Kansas City GLOBE newspaper, The  Next Page KC newspaper, The Carolina Times, and the New Jersey Gazette.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues today to join me in celebrating the  contributions that Nathaniel ``Rex'' Purefoy has provided to the  African American community and the United States overall. We thank Rex  for sharing a piece of history with our community and feel more at ease  knowing that the legacy of African American cowboys has been preserved  for years to come.