Recognizing Mr. Gerard J. Grimaldi on His Retirement and Expressing Appreciation for A Lifetime of Dedicated Service to Our Community


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688302/recognizing-mr-gerard-j-grimaldi-on-his-retirement-and-expressing-appreciation-for-a-lifetime-of-dedicated-service-to-our-community


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a deep sense of gratitude  for the opportunity to recognize a great Missourian, Mr. Gerard Joseph  Grimaldi, for his exemplary personal and professional accomplishments  as he begins his next chapter of life, enjoying retirement. An  experienced leader, dedicated professional, and tireless advocate,  Gerard serves as a prime example of a true public servant, and most  importantly, a kind, caring, and genuine human being.

A Kansas City, Missouri, native, Gerald was born on September 16,  1959, to loving parents, Mary Jane and Frank Grimaldi. Along with his  five brothers and sisters, Gerard grew up in the Crestwood neighborhood  and their family was active at St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, just  off Troost Avenue. His parents, with strong Catholic roots, instilled a  deep sense of faith, public service, and commitment to others,  particularly the underserved, in all of their children.

Gerard would continue his Jesuit education at Rockhurst High School,  before attending the University of Missouri-Columbia, where he would  graduate with honors in 1980 with a bachelor's degree in journalism.  Following graduation, Gerard briefly enjoyed working as a reporter for  the Kansas City Labor Beacon, before joining the staff of U.S. Senator  Thomas F. Eagleton. As the Senator's staff assistant, Gerard handled  constituent services, health care access, and economic development for  the Western region of Missouri.

Known for his dedication, responsiveness, and affable personality,  Gerard was hired in 1985 to serve as the District Director for U.S.  Representative Alan Wheat, one of my predecessors. In that role, Gerard  led the District-based team, while working closely with the Washington,  D.C. legislative staff and leading the office's media strategy. Gerard  worked on several successful efforts, including a new U.S. Courthouse,  Bruce Watkins Drive, and establishment of the Harry S. Truman National  historic site. He would serve in that role for a decade, working on  behalf of the people of Missouri's Fifth Congressional District.

Following Representative Wheat's unsuccessful bid for the United  States Senate in 1994, Gerard continued working for the newly elected  U.S. Representative Karen McCarthy, to share his knowledge of the Fifth  District and ensure a smooth transition, before joining Kaiser  Permanente, a nonprofit health plan in 1995. During his six-year tenure  at Kaiser, Gerard would ultimately be elevated to Vice President for  Human Resources and Public Affairs. Through this experience, Gerald's  knowledge of the local health care system continued to expand, and he  was asked to serve on numerous civic organizations, including the  Jackson County Mental Health Levy Board of Trustees, where he would  serve as Board Chair for several years. Additionally, as I was serving  as Mayor of Kansas City during this time, I had the pleasure of asking  Gerard to serve on the Mayor's Race Relations Task Force and on the  Board of Directors of the Mayor's Corps of Progress.

For the past nearly 24 years, Gerard has worked at Truman Medical  Centers (now called University Health), our area's safety net provider,  helping to advance issues of health care access and health equity He  has served as the Chief Health Policy and Government Relations Officer,  where he serves in a leadership role to help educate and advocate for  the hospital system, to ensure adequate local, state, and federal  resources are available to meet their mission. While Gerard considers  himself a lifelong learner, he has been instrumental in helping to  educate others on the health care needs in our region, particularly for  some of our most vulnerable populations.

A comprehensive list of Gerard's accomplishments would be too  lengthy, but just a few examples of his impact, include: securing post- 9/11 funding to modernize the hospital for bioterrorism and mass  casualty incidents; leading multiple public election campaigns for  property tax levy approval; securing approval of multiple bond issues  for capital improvements on two hospital campuses; supporting the  Hospital Hill property acquisition efforts and urban renewal  attainment; securing numerous Affordable Care Act grants; securing the  hospital's selection with MO HealthNet; working alongside dozens of  stakeholders to secure Missouri Medicaid expansion; advocating for  vital hospital support during the COVID-19 global pandemic; providing  community leadership by ensuring outreach and vaccinations were  available during the pandemic; securing multiple sources of public  funding for a Center for Recovery and Wellness, a substance use  disorder outpatient center that  opened in October 2024; and numerous additional legislative  accomplishments.

In addition to some of the civic engagements already mentioned,  Gerard has served on numerous other professional and civic boards and  committees, including with the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce,  Downtown Council, National Association of Public Hospitals, Labor  Management Council, Missouri Hospital Association, American Hospital  Association, Bannister Federal Complex Community Advisory Panel, Saint  Thomas More Parish, and more recently, Gerard was honored for his  service by being presented with the 2025 Mel and Jean Carnahan Public  Service Award, which recognizes individuals who have dedicated their  lives to serving the public. Former members of this esteemed body,  including Representative Russ Carnahan and Representative Alan Wheat  were among the many who attended the ceremony.

Beyond his extraordinary career achievements, Gerard has always been  a dedicated family man. He and his lovely wife, Julie, are celebrating  nearly 32 years of marriage, and enjoy the company of their four  children and respective families, Mary Kate Rohlfs (Brock), Caroline  Riese (Ian), Matthew Grimaldi, and Gabrielle Grimaldi, as well as their  grandchild, Penelope Rohlfs.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to please join me and the people of  Missouri's Fifth Congressional District, in congratulating Mr. Gerard  J. Grimaldi as he retires from a successful and impactful career,  having served as a champion and ally for our underserved communities at  the local, state, and national levels. Gerard's friendship, positivity,  and his infectious and distinctive laugh will forever be cherished. His  legacy will continue to impact residents and communities across  Missouri and in our beloved Kansas City region, for generations to  come. On behalf of my colleagues and a grateful Nation, we wish him a  relaxing and enjoyable retirement, and thank him for his dedication and  commitment to our community.