Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, it is pretty clear to me, while it may not  always come across your television, radio, or cell phone, I believe  that the overwhelming majority of Members of Congress are good and  decent people. Whether we agree on everything is not factored in on  what I just said.

Unfortunately, as polls continue to indicate, the American people  don't believe that that is the way it is. Congress right now is about  as popular as a soiled baby's diaper, and we are pushing it down  further by failing to hold ourselves accountable.

It is absolutely ridiculous that Members of Congress can sit in a  committee hearing room or get some information by just moving around  this city and then come in here and vote on something that would enrich  them.

This is wrong, and one of the reasons that you are not going to find  anybody else coming in here taking an opposite position is because they  are ashamed. If they are ashamed that means they know they are wrong.  If they know they are wrong, they ought to support this legislation or  tell the public I believe in enriching myself and I am not going to  support it.

Now, I represent a place that sometimes is referred to as ``Chiefs  Kingdom.'' I know some of you are probably offended because we win all  the time, but in the recent years, we are accustomed to seeing Andy  Reid, Patrick Mahomes, and Chris Jones lead one of the greatest teams  in history. They won three championships overall, two in the last 3  years. They can pass. They can run. They can kick. They can play  defense, and they are not too shabby at their kicking game.

But there is one thing they cannot do, one thing that they cannot do  even as a Super Bowl champ: They cannot bet on football. They cannot  play football and then bet on who is going to win. They can, but then  they will get kicked out of the league.

That makes no sense. They could fall down. They could miss a pass on  purpose. There are all kinds of things they could do that are wrong.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate very much the opportunity to be just a tiny  voice in what is going on because this is right and not doing it is  wrong.