Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution  530, I call up the resolution (H. Res. 516) condemning the violent June  2025 riots in Los Angeles, California, and ask for its immediate  consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

Mr. KILEY of California.  Res. 516.

Mr. Speaker, a couple weeks ago, the entire world witnessed  horrifying scenes out of Los Angeles: Molotov cocktails and bricks  being thrown at officers, Waymo cars being lit on fire, American flags  being burned, and roadways being blocked.

Today, we will stand as a House to condemn these acts of violence and  to condemn the irresponsible politicians who refused to adequately  address them.

I think it is important to understand from the beginning the events  leading to these horrific scenes.

We should first recognize that ICE was undertaking operations in Los  Angeles that have been very standard across administrations, Democrat  or Republican.

President Obama, after all, carried out millions of deportations, and  the priority has always been to focus on those who have a criminal  record and who pose a risk to the public. That is precisely what ICE  was doing in Los Angeles. Among those targeted were murderers,  pedophiles, and drug traffickers.

It should also be recognized that one of the reasons that some of  these people had to be sought out in the community is that the city of  Los Angeles and the State of California have chosen to enact sanctuary  policies that explicitly forbid ICE from taking custody of these  dangerous individuals in the safest and least disruptive setting, in a  custodial setting, that is, in jails. That is the explicit purpose of  our sanctuary laws.

Despite these facts, as these operations were being carried out in a  standard and targeted way in Los Angeles, you had certain politicians  who engaged in inflammatory rhetoric, who then had individuals gather  to disrupt the activities of ICE and our Federal officers, and then you  saw these extreme and horrifying acts of violence.

I will be very clear: I will defend in any way that I can the right  to assemble and protest regardless of the content of what the  protesters are advocating. This is foundational. It is fundamental to  the American system of government, but violence is another matter  entirely.

This is not just a matter of protests crossing a line. Violence is  the antithesis of protests. It seeks to shut down the process of  deliberation, argument, and debate. It seeks to exalt force over  reason. It is an abandonment of the American experiment of self- government.

By the way, this is especially true when the very purpose of the  violence is to impede the policies of a duly elected President from  being carried out. It is to say that a violent agitator should be able  to overthrow through force the will of a democratic majority that has  been established through a democratic, free, and fair election.

That is what we bore witness to in Los Angeles. Yet, instead of doing  everything possible to restore order, to protect the citizens of Los  Angeles, to protect our law enforcement officers, and our Federal  officers, you saw certain irresponsible vainglorious politicians in  California decide that this was their star-making moment, where they  would egg on the violent agitators, where they would try to pick a  fight in every way they could with the President, even going so far as  to file a frivolous lawsuit that was thrown out unanimously by the  Ninth Circuit.

Worst of all, these politicians decided to place the blame for the  violence on our incredible National Guard members, somehow saying it  was their presence there that caused it. This is deeply offensive, and  our National Guard members are owed an apology.

Today, I hope we can stand together, Republicans and Democrats, in  making it very clear that protests and assembly are fundamental rights  in this country and that acts of violence are a grave threat to those  rights.

Specifically, this resolution recognizes the right to assemble and  protest peacefully, condemns unequivocally the violence perpetrated  against Federal, State, and local law enforcement, calls on local and  State-elected leadership to work with the Federal Government to end the  violent riots and restore peace, and expresses gratitude to law  enforcement officers, including the Los Angeles Police Department, Los  Angeles County Sheriff's Department, California Highway Patrol, Orange  County Sheriff's Department, and other local, State, and Federal law  enforcement agencies, including the United States Immigration and  Customs Enforcement for keeping our communities safe in the face of  danger.

Mr. Speaker, let's make sure that we are dealing with the facts as  they actually occurred. The assertion the LAPD had the situation under  control; we all saw otherwise on our television sets. The LAPD chief  himself said that every person in Los Angeles should be disgusted by  what occurred.

The Governor has, himself, in the past, recognized the virtue of  using the National Guard when you had situations that required  reinforcement.

This notion that somehow the President was taking over the State's  law enforcement authority, the Ninth Circuit said otherwise  unanimously. Even a Biden-appointed judge said: The President was  exercising his authority to prevent the disruption of the enforcement  of Federal law.

As to this notion that the violence was largely confined to downtown  L.A., I can't agree with the assertion that it is somehow less  objectionable to have violence occur within a concentrated area than on  a more diffused basis.

Finally, this disparagement of our ICE officers for wearing masks. I  think that this is outrageous. We have seen threats against our ICE  officers absolutely skyrocket. It is very ironic for folks that had no  problem forcing 2 year olds to wear masks all day, in defiance of even  the World Health Organization's guidelines, that are now somehow  objecting to Federal officers who feel the need to do this in order to  protect themselves and their family.

As to the comments of my colleague from California, he set forth his  view as to what the priority and the limitations ought to be when it  comes to deportation policy. He is, of course, acting appropriately in  doing so. That is his right, and that is his prerogative as a Member of  Congress, as it is for any citizen.

This resolution does not have anything to do with the merits of his  view. This resolution simply states that one should not use violence in  order to advance that view. I would hope that this should be a  principle we should be able to agree on on a bipartisan basis.

As to my colleague from Maryland's claim that this resolution is  somehow set up in a partisan way, nothing could be further from the  truth. The resolution simply condemns acts of violence. We are opposed  to sanctuary policies. We are opposed to putting a target on the back  of our Federal officers, and, frankly, to defunding the police.

It is not our fault that those who have allowed this violence, who  have promoted sanctuary policies, who have put a target on the back of  our officers, and who have called for defunding the police all happen  to belong to one party.

Mr. Speaker, this notion that the President manufactured a crisis is  simply asking us not to believe our eyes. You actually had Members of  Congress from California who said that there was no violence, even  though we all saw on television cars being lit on fire, Molotov  cocktails, and bricks being thrown at officers. Among many other acts  of violence, we had several officers who were injured during the  process.

What did the President do? He asked our dedicated National Guard  members to come in to protect Federal property and Federal officers.

To say that this somehow was what caused the crisis is not only  completely at odds with the facts as we all witnessed them but is  incredibly offensive to our dedicated National Guard members who went  there and have successfully managed to keep the peace.

As to my colleague from Maryland who has now accused us of defamation  with this cause, whereas California's leadership has prioritized  protecting illegal immigrants and violent individuals over United  States citizens, that is simply the very purpose of a sanctuary law, be  it California's sanctuary State law or Los Angeles' sanctuary city law.

The entire purpose of these laws, their explicit effect, is to  provide special protection for those who have not only come into the  country illegally but have committed crimes.

I will give you an example of how sanctuary policies work in  practice. We had a case not far from Sacramento where there was an  individual who was in police custody for assaulting a peace officer. He  had been arrested and was in custody. This is during the Biden  administration, by the way.

ICE saw that he was in custody and asked to take custody of him from  the sheriff's office so that he could be deported. The sheriff's office  had to say, no, sorry, we are not allowed to do that under the  sanctuary State law.

The next week, that man murdered his own three daughters as well as  their chaperone, a horrific crime that never would have happened if not  for California's sanctuary policies.

In a similar vein, many of the operations which ICE conducted in a  targeted and standard way in L.A. would have been unnecessary if it  were not for a sanctuary policy that forbade them from taking custody  of these individuals within a custodial setting.

I would simply ask my colleague from Maryland: Are we to take it from  his remarks that he would support reversing the sanctuary policies that  have caused so much harm in California and Los Angeles?

Mr. Speaker, this is an odd notion that we have heard repeatedly,  that the violence was only concentrated in part of L.A. and that we  need to zoom out and look at the city as a whole.

For the folks who had to deal with this chaos in downtown L.A., it is  little comfort to them that things might have been more serene in  Beverly Hills.

My colleague from California uses the term ``hellscape'' for L.A. I  am not sure I would use that term.

I can say that L.A. has had a lot of problems, so much so that the  sheriff's department even had to come out and tell folks not to wear  their jewelry when they go outside, to just put it on after they get to  their destination.

As to the assertion that somehow this is a made-for-TV spectacle  created by the President, I ask what made for more sensational TV  images, the Waymos being set on fire and the Molotov cocktails being  thrown at officers, which is to say that the things that happened  before the National Guard got there, or our dedicated National Guard  members standing outside Federal buildings, making sure that no further  damage to property and life occurred?

Mr. Speaker, the assertion has been made repeatedly that the  President's deployment of the Guard escalated tensions. We have seen  zero evidence for that. We all saw the images of the horrifying  violence that occurred before the Guard came in.

For my colleagues who continue to assert that there was something  untoward about the President deploying the Guard, I would also remind  them that the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled otherwise.

In a unanimous decision, the court analyzed the relevant statute  which provides that the President has the authority to make use of the  Guard in order to stop the execution of Federal law from being  disrupted.

The judges looked at the facts on the ground and said when Molotov  cocktails are thrown at officers, when a commercial dumpster is used as  a battering ram in order to break into a Federal office building's  parking lot, when roadways are shut down, this looks a lot like there  is a disruption of the ability to carry out Federal law.

Again, it is not me saying this. This is a unanimous panel of Trump- appointed and Biden-appointed judges who came to that determination.

I will happily answer the question of my friend from Maryland (Mr.  Raskin) about what is the question when it comes to agriculture. Here  is what the law says. The law says that coming into this country  without authorization is categorically illegal.

Then it is within the discretion of the executive branch how to  prioritize deportations. Across party lines, there has always been a  strong focus on prioritizing those with criminal records. Beyond that,  different Presidents have chosen to exercise that discretion in  different ways.

For example, President Obama chose to deport millions of people  during his time in office. It is ultimately a matter of how the  President chooses to carry out that policy.

Here is the important point for purposes of today's debate. Whatever  a person's views are on that matter, whether they favor deporting  everyone in the country illegally or whether they favor deporting no  one in the country illegally, we should not, cannot, and absolutely  must not use violence in order to advance that point of view.

That is the principle at stake in today's debate. To vote against  this resolution is to countenance what happened with the horrifying  events we saw in my State.

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, if it is true that law  enforcement is somehow never allowed to be in something other than  their uniform, I think there are a lot of people who have gotten  tickets for running a stop sign, when there was an unmarked car there,  who would be happy to hear that. They now have a new basis to challenge  that.

I think we are all aware that there are circumstances, like when  someone is undercover or when they are doing a stakeout, in which it  doesn't make sense for the official to identify himself as an officer.

Of course, that is neither here nor there because in these very  targeted operations, we have seen that these folks are very clearly  identified. To the extent that some have chosen to not have their faces  revealed, it is because we have seen the threats against ICE absolutely  skyrocket over the last several months.

It is, again, quite ironic when there were folks on that side of the  aisle who were all about masks in the most absurd of settings during  the COVID years. We had people playing singles tennis or out on the  ocean paddleboarding required to wear a mask. There were 2-year-olds  wearing a mask all day when no other country did this.

Yet when Federal officers, undertaking dangerous activity, trying to  do their jobs, yet facing threats, being doxed and feeling like they  and their family are at risk, choose to take this protective measure,  now my colleague has a problem with it?

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, what happened in L.A. put on  stark display years of reckless and failed policies, starting with the  millions of people who came across the border illegally during the  Biden years and then the sanctuary policies that California has  enacted, not to mention the countless people who have been released  from prison early thanks to reckless crime policies.

Today's resolution is not about any of that. Today's resolution is  about something much simpler, a notion that I would hope would be  unobjectionable: that in this country we settle our differences through  reasoned arguments and debate and not through force and violence, that  we make political decisions through elections and not through riots.

I hope that this resolution will receive strong bipartisan support on  the floor today, and I yield back the balance of my time.