Highlighting the State of California


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, this last month, Nevada County,  indeed the entire State of California, lost one of its finest, its  truly great citizens.

Eduardo Agullo Garcia was born in Barcelona, Spain, during the  Spanish Civil War. He was the second child and only son of Jose and  Esperanza. His favorite memory as a child was playing marbles in the  streets, although he frequently returned home with an empty bag.

His life was forever changed when he applied and was accepted into  the American Field Service program and became an exchange student in  1955. He sailed across the Atlantic with fellow students. They spent  the time discussing American customs and culture.

It was on this ship that he was advised to avoid asking out girls who  wore a pin because the pin indicated that they had been pinned by a boy  and were not available to date. He traveled across the United States on  his way to Millbrae, California, where he was hosted for the school  year by the mayor of Millbrae, Webb Witmer.

When he arrived at the San Francisco airport, he was greeted by  American AFS students including Nancy Campbell. While he was intrigued  by Nancy,  he would not ask her out because he saw a pin. He didn't realize until  the end of the school year at Capuchino High School in San Bruno that  she wore a pin because she was a member of Job's Daughters, an  international organization. It was not the type of pin that he thought.

When he discovered that she was not actually seeing someone, he  immediately asked her out. After Eddie graduated from Capuchino High  School, he returned to Spain to complete his compulsory military  service. After the military, he went to work for a chemical company in  Spain. He and Nancy continued their relationship via letters and  visits.

As Nancy neared completion of her degree at University of California,  Berkeley, he asked her to marry him. They were married in California in  1961 and moved to Barcelona for several years. Their daughter was born  in 1963, and 8 months later they moved back to northern California.

Eddie was importing and selling sporting rifles and ammunition but  turned to wholesale decorative accessories. He started his company,  Garcia Imports, out of the garage of their house in Millbrae. It soon  grew to a small warehouse in San Bruno and then a bigger warehouse in  San Mateo and then in Redwood City and finally in Hayward.

He traveled extensively for business, both overseas and the United  States. He achieved one of his greatest goals by becoming a citizen of  the United States in 1973.

After over 40 years in the home furnishings industry, working side by  side with both his wife, Nancy, and his daughter, Barbara, he and Nancy  retired in 2008.

In 2009, they moved to Grass Valley. They were not entirely sure what  they wanted to do in retirement, but they met some wonderful friends  and soon became very involved with the Tea Party, the State of  Jefferson, and the Nevada County Republican Party. It was a full-time  passion for both Nancy and Eddie.

Eddie joined the Nevada County Fairgrounds Foundation in 2011 as a  director. In 2015, Eddie and Nancy, as well as their daughter, Barbara,  and son-in-law, Larry McDonald, were named the Family of the Year by  the Nevada County Fair's board of directors. The board chose the  Garcia-McDonald family for their volunteer efforts, their vision for  the foundation's station, and their ongoing support of the Nevada  County Fairgrounds.

After nearly 60 years of marriage, Nancy passed in 2020, which was,  of course, such a great loss for Eddie. However, he stayed busy in the  last several years supporting political campaigns, keeping an eye on  local politics, and working to improve his adopted country.

He was very passionate about the candidates he supported and has  traveled with friends to support those candidates wherever he could. He  continued to pursue his passions right up until he passed peacefully  and quickly on October 9, 2025.

Eddie, we miss you, my friend, but your legacy will be felt by our  community forever.                          End the Redistricting War

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to, again, call  for an end to the terrible redistricting war that is cascading across  the country with the domino effect going from one State to the next.  States are throwing out their entire congressional map and upending  representation in their State. It is something that is deeply unpopular  with Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and it is deeply  unpopular with the American people.

Gerrymandering is bad enough, but throwing out the maps specifically  to gerrymander in the middle of the decade is even worse. At this point  in time, we have seen Texas and California both adopt gerrymandered  maps, although both States now find their new maps being challenged in  Federal Court, which adds yet another element of uncertainty for  Representatives and constituents alike.

However, it has gone far beyond California and Texas. We are now  seeing States either already or in the process of starting to adopt new  maps in States like Missouri and potentially Indiana, Kansas, and  Florida, perhaps, as well as Virginia, Illinois, or Maryland, and  several others. It seems that hardly any State will be spared. Many  have said they wanted to but simply don't have time this year, so they  are waiting to do it until the next cycle.

It has gotten completely out of hand. It has gotten to the point  where we could get into this world of rolling redistricting where  district lines are never settled for more than a couple of years and  where the connection between voters and Representatives is continually  being severed.

I have called time and again for an end to this redistricting war or  an armistice. The fact of the matter is that there is still an  opportunity to do that, but it is a very narrow window of opportunity  that exists.

My bill, H.R. 4889, would bar mid-decade redistricting in every State  in the country. This makes sense as an act of Congress under our  Article I Elections Clause authority. But it makes sense, in  particular, because redistricting itself is a creature, it is a  creation of the Constitution, of the Federal Government, which says  that it has to be done every 10 years. It is only a new phenomenon, a  fairly recent phenomenon, where States are deciding to do it more  frequently than that.

So we can, as a House, pass this measure. I believe if it were  brought to the floor it would pass overwhelmingly to stop this madness  in every State in the country.

The reason I say it is a narrow window is because the filing deadline  in Texas is coming up on December 8, and, realistically, nothing that  we do here would affect the map in that State after that point in time.  So that is really, effectively, a deadline for a national solution to  this problem. Even if, by the way, that deadline were to pass and Texas  or California would not be affected, I still think we should move  forward to spare these other States from having to deal with the  adverse consequences.

I begin today calling on the Speaker of the House to bring this bill  to the floor for a vote so we could end this madness. We could stop  mid-decade gerrymandering, we could go back to the way it is supposed  to be where we redraw our district lines once every 10 years, and we  could focus all of the time, energy, and resources being put into this  fight--which, by the way, it seems is not going to help one party or  the other to any significant degree, it is probably going to be more or  less a wash, but we can get back to focusing on the issues that  actually matter to the American people.                      California's Culture of Corruption

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, last week, Governor Gavin  Newsom's chief of staff was indicted for 23 felony counts in a Federal  corruption investigation. This is his former chief of staff. She left  the office at the end of last year.

The charges include conspiracy to commit bank and wire fraud, bank  fraud, wire fraud, conspiracy to defraud the United States and obstruct  justice, subscribing to false tax returns, and making false statements  to the FBI. The main conduct being alleged involves theft of campaign  funds totaling $225,000, tax fraud, as well as fraud surrounding a PPE  loan.

The indictment lists a number of co-conspirators, including the  former chief of staff for California's attorney general, including a  high-powered lobbyist, including another well-known consultant, as well  as a number of other un-named co-conspirators. In other words, these  are the people running our State government in California. These are  the people who control our politics in California.

Now, I have spoken about a culture of corruption that exists in  Sacramento, and this latest series of events has cast that culture of  corruption in stark relief. Indeed, the former chief of staff or  communications director for both Jerry Brown and, I think, Dianne  Feinstein used those very words in the aftermath of this indictment to  describe the area that he had worked for many, many years, a culture of  corruption. He referred to Governor Newsom's chief of staff who has now  been indicted as a ``Mafia boss.''

So I think it is important for people to take note of what has  transpired because it does cast a light on the corruption that is  endemic to politics in Sacramento.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that this is really the core issue when you  look at  why California has declined as a State, why our quality of life has  declined as a State, why we pay the highest gas taxes yet drive over  the deepest potholes, why we spend tens of billions of dollars on a  high-speed train and yet absolutely nothing gets built, and why we  spend more and more and more money on education every year yet we have  the highest illiteracy rate in the State.

The fundamental issue is not Democrat versus Republican even. It is  the people of our State versus this entrenched and corrupt political  class.

So I do believe that in order to get our State back on track, we need  to reform the way politics and government are done in California. I  believe we are actually on our way to starting to do that, not only  with examples of people being held accountable as of this indictment,  but also with The Coalition for Common Sense that you see forming  across California, Mr. Speaker. This is the same coalition, for  example, that came together last year to defeat our political  establishment and pass Proposition 36 to make crime illegal again in  California by an overwhelming margin, 68 percent of the vote, in that  election.

So I do believe that there is a coalition of people who care about  California, who want to reform our State, and who want to restore  sanity and good government and common sense. Hopefully, this latest  truly troubling and horrifying example will help to speed that process  along in a very healthy way.                       Expanding Refineries in California

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, today, I voted for and the  House passed the REFINER Act.

This is an important piece of legislation that is designed to  identify obstacles to expanding refining capacity in the United States,  and it is designed to promote energy independence.

Before we go through exactly what the bill does, I wanted to make  clear why this is so important for those of us in California.  California is seeing the closure of two of its refineries, Phillips 66  and Valero, which represent a significant chunk of our State's overall  refining capacity.

Now, we already pay the highest gas prices of any State in the  country. We also have electricity prices that have gone up by 34  percent over the last several years, The New York Times just reported,  far more than any other State. We pay the highest gas prices out of all  50 States, substantially more than the national average, higher even  than Hawaii, which is an island State.

The causes of that are well understood, and it is those very causes  that are now causing these refineries to close in a way that is going  to make the problem even worse by further constraining supply.

The reason, of course, the cause, is the taxes, the regulations, the  particular fuel blend that is required, and the continually changing  environmental mandates that cause the cost of doing business to  continually grow and that require these refineries to continually  update their equipment in a way that makes doing business just no  longer viable.

All of these things together led researchers at USC to determine  that, by the end of next year, Californians could be paying an average  of $8 a gallon for gasoline.

The bill we passed today here in Congress, in the House of  Representatives, will help with this because, in addition to the data  collection that it requires and the aspects of it that seek to support  an agenda designed to promote energy independence through getting rid  of needless regulations, it also is looking at State actions that are  contributing to our decline in refining capacity.

California, I am sure, will be the State where the most such actions  are identified. I am looking forward to the results of this and then  being able to act to use whatever leverage we have here at the Federal  level to try to spare Californians from the continually rising cost of  gasoline and to restore a little dose of common sense to our State's  energy policy.                        State of California's Economy

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, California's  nonpartisan Legislative Analyst's Office revealed that the State has an  $18 billion deficit--an $18 billion deficit. The nonpartisan  Legislative Analyst's Office noted that this is the fourth straight  year that the State has had budget problems, even though revenue has  been increasing.

The LAO, the Legislative Analyst's Office, also noted in their report  on the State budget that the State's economy is not in good shape.  Indeed, job growth this year has amounted to zero, nothing. There has  literally been no job growth in the State of California.

In addition, consumers in California are increasingly pessimistic  about our State's economy, so these problems have all been building and  building and have, in particular, accelerated during the governorship  of Gavin Newsom.

In his first year as Governor, our State budget was $208 billion.  Now, the budget is $322 billion. It has increased by more than 50  percent. Can Californians say they are getting 50 percent more for  their tax dollars? Of course not.

The problems in our State have continued to grow. We continue to lead  the Nation in homelessness, unemployment, taxes, regulations, and  poverty.

I would hope that this latest report from the Legislative Analyst's  Office will be a wake-up call for the politicians in Sacramento that we  need to start doing things differently. We need to have less of a tax  and regulatory burden. We need to support small businesses and workers.  We need to get the budget under control, so we don't continue to spend  more and more as we get less and less.                                Proposition 50

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, this is the first opportunity I  have had to address the House since the passage of Prop 50 in  California to re-gerrymander our State and to return us to the era of  political gerrymandering.

Of course, I was against the proposition because I am against  gerrymandering everywhere. I am against it in California. I am against  it in Texas. I am against it in every State, Republican or Democrat.

My district, the currently drawn Third Congressional District, did  indeed vote against Prop 50, and if it had its way, it would remain one  contiguous district.

Unfortunately, this was not decided on a district-by-district basis,  so it must be acknowledged that the people of California have spoken.  Even though there is an ongoing Federal challenge to the new map, I am  proceeding under the assumption that the new map will govern the  elections in 2026.

I did want to point to one particular provision in Prop 50 that I  actually support. Indeed, I think a good part of the reason why it  passed is because they actually put this provision, this sentence,  right there in the description that people saw on the ballot when they  voted, which is the proposition that established a State policy of  supporting independent redistricting nationwide. While it, on the one  hand, brings back gerrymandering in California, on the other hand, it  calls upon Congress to establish independent redistricting commissions  in every State in the country.

I am going to answer that call to action from the voters of our  State. I am currently working on legislation to do precisely what the  initiative calls for, to establish independent redistricting in every  State in the country. It will be modeled on the independent  redistricting commission that Prop 50 just pushed aside in California.

If we can get this passed here in Congress and signed into law, then  by the time of the next Census in 2030, when States are actually  supposed to be redrawing district lines, the horrible scourge of  gerrymandering, this scourge on our democracy, will finally be put to  an end in the United States of America.