Protecting Representative Form of Government


Mr. KILEY of California. Madam Speaker, I rise today because  democracy is under assault in my home State. California politicians,  led by the Governor, are throwing a grenade at our Constitution in  order to strip power from voters and seize it for themselves. This  fraud on our electorate compels action by Congress to protect the  representative form of government that citizens of every State are due.

That is why today I am calling for a prompt vote on H. Res. 4889.

On three separate occasions, California voters have deliberately  chosen to remove politicians from the process of drawing the lines for  legislative districts. Voters have empowered an independent citizens  redistricting commission to set the boundaries of representation so  that free and fair elections, not political manipulation, are the  motive force in our democracy.

This principle is so important and so vital to safeguarding democracy  that the citizens commission is enshrined in our State constitution  along with a number of principles to guide redistricting:

Redistricting occurs once per decade after the Census.

The legislature is barred from participating.

The members of the citizens commission may not run for public office.

Districts are to be drawn in an open process based on extensive  public input.

Boundaries are to be set based on neutral criteria like keeping  communities together.

District lines cannot be influenced by partisan considerations or  drawn to favor or disfavor any incumbent or candidate.

In one fell swoop, Gavin Newsom is blowing up all of these  constitutional principles. His unprecedented mid-decade gerrymander  tears up the map created by our citizens commission, replacing it with  one drawn behind closed doors and adopted by politicians. It is one  designed with explicitly partisan  goals and zero public input. It is one that tears communities apart  while doing special favors to Sacramento insiders.

Do the voters want this? Do Californians want to overturn everything  they had previously voted for? Emphatically they do not.

Polling shows that two-thirds of voters, an overwhelming majority of  Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, favor keeping the commission.  This would seem to be a problem for Governor Newsom, as his plan to  push the commission aside requires voter approval.

To overcome this problem, to produce an artifact of voter approval  for a proposition our voters strongly oppose, the Governor has resorted  to two strategies: disenfranchising voters and defrauding them.

First, the Governor has called a sudden, impromptu, off-year, low- turnout special election, asking a partial electorate to overturn the  will of our full electorate. To further suppress voter participation,  he has thrown election rules out the window in a hyper-accelerated  timeline unlike anything our State has ever seen, meaning fewer polling  places, fewer notifications to voters, and at least at first a digital- only voter guide.

Second, the Governor is committing outright fraud on the ballot  itself, describing the proposition in terms designed to fool voters  into thinking ``yes'' is ``no'' and ``no'' is ``yes.''

To justify all of this, to clothe naked political self-interest in  some kind of principle, the Governor and his enablers have treated us  to one absurd paradox after another. We are told that another State is  doing something so bad and so sinister that we should do it too. We are  told that banishing an independent redistricting commission somehow  supports independent redistricting. We are told that we should fight  fire with fire, even if that means the whole world burns.

This perversion of Federal elections simply cannot be tolerated by  the United States Congress. We have a duty to protect the rights of  voters in selecting their Representatives in this body, and we have the  authority to do so under the Elections Clause of the U.S. Constitution.

Pursuant to that authority, I have introduced H. Res. 4889 to protect  the congressional map drawn by California's citizens commission and to  preserve the map of every State until the next Census.

This measure has bipartisan support. It will prevent a chaotic  redistricting war from breaking out across America. It will allow us to  focus on the real issues facing our country.

Today, I am calling on Speaker   Mike Johnson to bring this measure  to a vote on the House floor.

Gerrymandering is a plague on our democracy wherever it occurs. That  is why I have also called for a bipartisan commission to end the  practice once and for all.

While almost everyone agrees political division has become a serious  problem in this country, it is especially harmful when we can't agree  on the basic rules of the road. We need to find common ground when it  comes to the basic parameters for our politics. We can then disagree  vigorously within those parameters on matters of policy and our vision  for the country. That is what democracy is about.