The California Redistricting War


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the redistricting war in this  country is starting to escalate to an absurd degree. Among the States  now looking at redistricting, or are currently in the process of it, we  have Texas, California, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Ohio, Kentucky,  Missouri, Utah, Florida, Maryland, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin,  Kansas, Virginia, and New York.

This is insanity. Where does it end?

It certainly won't end this election cycle. There is no reason that  in every election cycle now, Mr. Speaker, you won't have States  redrawing district lines if they sense any sort of advantage can be  gained in the process.

However, just in this round of what will apparently be a new  precedent of ongoing, rolling redistricting, you are going to see  millions of Americans across all of these States, Mr. Speaker, lose the  right to vote for their current Representative.

My own district, for example, under a newly proposed map, would be  cut into six different pieces. Hence, at least five-sixths of the  current constituents whom I have would lose the right to be able to  choose me as their Representative.

What is more, this is going to consume an inordinate amount of time  of State legislatures across the country, not to mention resources. It  is going to consume an inordinate amount of time for Representatives of  this body who are going to have to learn and get to know new  communities that they are going to be representing that they have never  represented before. They are going to lose communities that they may  have represented for some time.

No one wants this, not Democrats in the House and not Republicans in  the House. I have people coming up to me constantly agreeing that what  is going on is a terrible thing for the country. It is going to  stratify and polarize representation like never before. You are going  to have more and more State delegations, Mr. Speaker, that are  extremely asymmetrical. Some will have no Representatives of one party  or the other. That can only mean fewer perspectives in this body and  fewer Americans feeling like they are represented in our representative  government. It can only mean more of the gridlock and division that  Americans are so frustrated with.

This all raises the question: Where is the Speaker of the House in  all of this?

Why is he, at the very least, going along with a redistricting war  that the Members who elected him overwhelmingly oppose?

Why is the leader of this institution simply watching as the  institution crumbles?

By the way, where is the minority leader, as well, want-to-be  Speaker, would-be Speaker, Minority Leader Jeffries?

He is all too happy to just treat this as another form of partisan  warfare and has adopted this horrible fight-fire-with-fire slogan. He  is apparently willing to burn everything down if it means he can be the  next Speaker of the House.

What our leadership seems to have forgotten is that the House is a  coequal, independent branch of our government. There are supposed to be  tensions between the branches. That is the design of our system.

Even if the leaders of the other branches are carbon copies of  yourself, Mr. Speaker, there should, from time to time, be some tension  because of the difference in perspectives and institutional roles and  responsibilities. When the system works well, that can be a  constructive tension that is resolved in a way that carries out our  shared vision for the country and is in everyone's interest. However,  that requires real leadership, and right now that leadership is sorely  lacking.

I believe that gerrymandering wherever it occurs is a plague on our  democracy whichever party does it. Both parties have been amply guilty.  That is why I proposed H. Res. 4889. H. Res. 4889 will bring this  redistricting war to an end by preserving the district maps that were  used in our last election until the next Census when redistricting is  supposed to be done.

Ultimately, by the time of the next Census, we need to come up with a  solution to eradicate this plague of gerrymandering from our democracy.  That is why I have called on the Speaker to set up a bipartisan  commission to end gerrymandering in this country once and for all.

By the way, I think that should go hand in hand with a requirement  for voter ID in elections across the country so that we can finally  have fair elections in the United States.

The reality is that Americans of all party affiliations are tired of  the political division that only seems to get worse and worse every  single year.

Mr. Speaker, you can ask the folks I represent in California. I will  fight harder than anyone for the policies that I think are best for my  district and State and for the country. I have fought harder than  anyone against the corruption of the ruling class in Sacramento. Often  my critique is that that corruption undermines the foundations that we  ought to share when it comes to politics in this country.

We truly need to find common ground, at the very least, when it comes  to the basic parameters of our politics. That is what is so pernicious  about this redistricting war.

We are supposed to disagree about policies and about our visions for  the country vigorously. That is what the political process is about.  That is what democracy is about. However, we need to have some shared  foundation upon which those differences can be debated. When you have  this rolling redistricting, Mr. Speaker, this redistricting war that we  are seeing right now, it erodes that foundation, and it makes it much  more difficult for us to actually govern in the interests of the  country and to fulfill the promise of representative government.

I am hopeful that the legislation I have offered can be a first step  in saying we need to find more common ground. We need to get back to  the issues that actually matter to the American people.

Mr. Speaker, one of the worst consequences of this redistricting war  we see breaking out across the country is that it has provided a  pretext for the Governor of California to do what he has always wanted  to do, which is to undermine the fairness of our elections in  California by abolishing the Independent Citizens Redistricting  Commission.

The Governor and his enablers insist they are only doing this because  of what is happening in other States. However, the redistricting  commission itself was opposed by Nancy Pelosi, for example, who led the  opposition to its creation and was opposed by the California Democratic  Party.

Nothing could justify what is happening in California right now.  However, they have grabbed on to whatever pretext they can in order to  move forward with returning us and moving us backwards as a State to  the era of partisan gerrymandering.

The problem for Newsom is that the voters of California are  overwhelmingly opposed to this plan.

How do we know that? California voters have voted three times to  support the independent redistricting commission. A poll just recently  came out from Politico asking voters: Do you want the commission to  draw district lines, or do you want the politicians to get that power  back?

By a 2-1 margin, over 60 percent of Democrats, over 60 percent of  Republicans, and over 70 percent of Independents said: We want the  commission drawing district lines. We don't think politicians should  draw their own district lines.

To solve this problem, that is to say, the public overwhelmingly  opposing his plan which does require voter approval, the Governor has  come up with a two-pronged strategy which is to disenfranchise voters  and to defraud them.

First, while the previous votes to establish the independent  commission and to affirm it were done by our full electorate, he is now  just summoning a partial electorate in a low-turnout, off-year special  election to try to overturn that decision.

What is more, he has thrown out all of our election rules in order to  accelerate and condense the election timeline unlike anything we have  ever seen so that the county registrars are  unable to notify voters, as they usually would that there is an  election going on, so that the voter guide, at least at first, is only  going to be available online and such that there will be fewer polling  places and vote centers for people to actually vote in.

It is voter suppression through and through in an attempt to reverse  the clearly articulated and repeatedly expressed view of the California  electorate.

That is not all. For those voters who do turn out, the Governor needs  to make sure that they are unable to express their true will or at  least have difficulty doing so. That is where he has made use of yet  another tool that is available to the one-party rule that we have in  California, which is to commit fraud on the ballot itself.

Now, that might sound like strong language. ``Fraud'' might seem a  little strong, but it is not an exaggeration. The definition of  ``fraud'' is lying to people in order to get them to act in a way that  they don't want to act and that goes against their own interests. That  is precisely what has happened here.

We now have the actual language that will appear on the ballot for  California voters. If this were an honest description, it would simply  say that we are tearing up the map drawn by California's independent  redistricting commission and replacing it with a map drawn by  politicians in order to maximize partisan advantage. That is literally  what is happening, no more, no less.

Instead, we get this. Let's just walk through some of the language:  ``Authorizes Temporary Changes to Congressional District Maps.'' First  of all, the changes are not temporary. They will last through the rest  of this decade, when the existing map would have expired anyway. They  are permanent changes, and they are not changes. ``Changes'' implies  you are making a little tweak here, a little tweak there. No, they have  drawn a completely new map that is going to affect districts all across  California and cause voters all across California to lose their  representation.

This is where it gets really good: ``Authorizes Temporary Changes to  Congressional District Maps in Response to Texas' Partisan  Redistricting.'' First, it is blatantly untrue. The initial version of  this said that it would only take effect if Texas moved forward. That  language was deleted. This is taking effect, if it is passed,  regardless of anything that has happened in Texas or any other State.  At this point, it is completely inaccurate and is an attempt to simply  smuggle some sort of argument or justification into a summary of the  actual language.

What is more, there is no mention anywhere of the fact that this is  overriding the map created by California's independent commission. If  you just read it, at first glance, it is almost designed to read as if  Texas has somehow come in and messed with California's maps, so we need  to restore them to proper order. That is the impression that this is  designed to give. In fact, the independent commission is only mentioned  in the next sentence, where it says that it directs the independent  citizens commission to start drawing maps after 2030.

If you are reading this casually, you might say that this is the side  that supports independent redistricting. After all, they are telling  the independent commission to draw maps. The independent commission  does not need to be directed to draw maps after the next Census. That  is what they are already required to do. The only effect of this  initiative is to throw out the map that the independent commission has  drawn for this decade.

Then, to make things even more farcical, it goes on to say that it is  establishing a policy of the State to support independent  redistricting. No, this doesn't. It doesn't establish any policy  supporting independent redistricting. The only thing that this  initiative does, as it pertains to independent redistricting, is to  shove aside California's independent redistricting commission.

A few other little inaccuracies: It says that this only lasts through  2030. In fact, the partisan map that was drawn behind closed doors by  the California legislature and the DCCC will last through 2033. It says  it will only cost a few million dollars. That is outrageous. The  special election itself is going to cost between $200 million and $250  million.

Finally, what it doesn't mention at all is that this is overriding,  literally, the entire rest of California's State Constitution. That is  the language that is actually in this constitutional amendment. It says  that everything else in our Constitution does not apply. Partisan  gerrymandering will be the supreme law of the land.

All the protections in our Constitution right now that are manifested  in the existing congressional map will be thrown out, which means the  protections where we had extensive public input in drawing the maps.  Instead, this map was drawn behind closed doors in a matter of days.

It throws out the protections that say those who draw the maps are  not allowed to run for public office. This map was drawn by people who  are in public office and hope to run in the very districts that they  are drawing.

The protections that say that the district lines need to follow  neutral criteria, like keeping communities together, and cannot be  drawn in the interest of partisanship or to favor or disfavor any  politician, are all thrown out.

This map tears communities apart. My district is torn into six  different pieces. The county where I live is torn into three or four  different pieces. It is being designed for the explicit purpose of  partisanship.

Gavin Newsom has said the entire point of this map is to make  California a whole lot bluer and to pick up five seats. By the way, it  says Texas' redistricting is partisan redistricting, but says nothing  about that in California, when the very people who drew the maps have  said that is literally the entire point of the exercise.

That is what is happening in California. There is this farce of  democracy, this fraud that the Governor is perpetrating on the  electorate. There is a systematic attempt to suppress voters in order  to return our State to the era of partisan gerrymandering.

Indeed, we even now have reports that the leaders of the legislature  itself who pushed this measure through at Newsom's behest have  specifically gotten special districts drawn for themselves in order to  run for Congress. This is precisely why voters have said we do not want  politicians drawing district lines, because they do so in the interests  of themselves rather than the interests of the people that they are  supposed to serve.

That is the ultimate evil of gerrymandering. It shifts power from the  people to the politicians. That is why it undermines democracy and  proper representation.

Why is this happening, by the way? It is really about one thing. The  Governor of California is desperate for some issue to run for President  on. He has been trying throughout his tenure as our Governor to find  something, anything, to get himself national attention. I have watched  as he has failed time and time again.

I remember in his first term, at the beginning, he decided to create  an animated Mario Kart-style video of himself racing Donald Trump,  thinking this was going to get him a lot of attention. I saw during the  COVID shutdowns how he would come up with one crazy scheme after  another because he was jealous that Andrew Cuomo was getting all the  attention. That didn't really work for him either. This is literally  the first time anything he has ever done has gotten him the attention  that he so craves.

Indeed, while his poll numbers are still abysmal in California, it  actually seems to be working when it comes to the far left that tends  to participate in primaries, which is another testament to just how  badly our leadership here has failed, that they have managed to play  into the hands of Gavin Newsom, who is not a very smart person and who  is not a very crafty politician. Yet, this redistricting war has played  right into his hands.

Despite all of this, I do believe that we can defeat Newsom's effort  to defraud and disenfranchise California voters. The reason I believe  that is because we just did so last year.

What happened with Prop 36, which is the initiative to make crime  illegal  again in California, is a perfect case study into how the Governor of  California has tried to undermine democracy in order to get his way.  Yet, with respect to Prop 36, he failed miserably.

Indeed, in an attempt to stop this initiative, which he led the  opposition to, he came up with three different schemes to undermine the  will of California voters.

The initiative, Prop 36, gathered something like a million  signatures, and so qualified for the ballot. It was an initiative to  restore basic consequences for criminal activity, like retail theft,  and to get treatment for folks who have repeated drug offenses. The  Governor opposed this effort to make crime illegal again in California.

The Governor's first attempt to undermine this voter-qualified  citizen initiative was what was called a poison pill. The scheme went  like this: Newsom had the legislature pass a number of supposedly pro- public safety bills. They didn't really do much, but they were  supposedly part of a public safety package.

Then, he inserted into those bills a poison pill. This is completely  novel, from what I understand, in the history of legislative government  in this country. He inserted a poison pill saying that, if California  voters were so bold as to go out and vote for Prop 36, our initiative,  then all of these other bills would automatically be reversed as a  punishment, if you will.

I will say that again. The bills themselves said that, if voters go  out and approve this initiative to make crime illegal again in  California, then all of these other supposedly pro-public safety bills  will automatically be repealed as a consequence.

What was the point of this?

Mr. Speaker, you might say that it was to punish the voters, maybe,  but the real point was fraud. What the Governor hoped to do was to get  these measures passed.

Remember how he was committing fraud on the ballot for the  redistricting sham? What he wanted to do for the ballot on Prop 36 was  to say that this is a measure that will repeal all of these other pro- public safety bills so that he could trick people into thinking that it  was actually an anti-public safety measure when the whole point was to  promote public safety.

Mr. Speaker, that didn't work. For various reasons, even this proved  too corrupt for the California Legislature.

Newsom moved on to his next plan, which was known as ``the imposter  initiative.'' He came up at the last second with his own very much  weaker, supposedly pro-public safety initiative to put on the ballot  alongside Prop 36.

The goal was to confuse voters and to get them to prefer his  initiative. Indeed, he even changed the rules for how propositions are  numbered in order to put his first.

Mr. Speaker, you might say that that is not too much of a problem and  that voters will just pass both, but he thought of that. He actually  wrote language into his initiative saying that, if it got more votes  than our initiative, Prop 36, then Prop 36 would not take effect, even  if it got more than 50 percent of the vote. The literal effect of his  initiative would have been to overturn the results of a democratic  election.

Fortunately, this plan failed, too, because the Governor, in his  absolute disregard for any decency whatsoever, had used the name  ``Alexandra's Law'' for a part of the initiative dealing with fentanyl.

This was genuinely part of our own initiative. It was a way to hold  fentanyl dealers accountable. It was named after a young lady who,  tragically, lost her life to fentanyl poisoning.

The Governor went ahead and misappropriated that name and used it for  his much weaker version of this provision. The family of this young  woman spoke out against it, and it was only then that he was forced to  remove this imposter initiative from the ballot.

The third scheme that the Governor came up with targeted me  specifically. One of his cronies, a woman named Ann Ravel, filed a  completely made-up, frivolous complaint against me with the FEC. It  alleged that I had transferred $50,000 to the campaign account  supporting this initiative. It was completely untrue. I never did  anything of the sort. I didn't transfer any money to it. Even if I had,  it wouldn't have been a violation of the law.

Yet, Ms. Ravel had a brief stint as chair of the FEC herself, and she  has since turned this into sort of a gig where she can make partisan  claims and give them a sort of aura of legitimacy, as coming from the  former FEC chair. Fellow Democrats have called her out on this time and  time again that this is what she is doing. Even in her own failed  campaign for State senate, this is what she did.

She files this complaint. Before I even see it, she hands it off to  the L.A. Times. The L.A. Times dutifully publishes a headline referring  to the complaint by the former FEC chair related to Prop 36. Then, they  went and showed that article to anyone who was considering supporting  the initiative in order to try to deter them from doing it.

Mr. Speaker, the FEC rejected Ms. Ravel's complaints since it was  completely made up. This was the very body that she was once the  supposed chair of. It was a completely disgraceful thing that she did.  Yet, that attempt also, of course, failed.

All three of these attempts to undermine the opportunity for voters  to even vote on this fairly failed. It went to the ballot box. Newsom  led the campaign against it at the ballot box. At the end of the day,  Prop 36 passed overwhelmingly with nearly 70 percent of the vote in the  State of California.

It passed in each and every one of California's 58 counties, even  Gavin Newsom's San Francisco. It received more votes than any other  measure on the ballot last year.

Mr. Speaker, the Governor is using every corrupt means at his  disposal in order to undermine our democracy, to overturn the will of  our voters, and to deprive our people of fair representation. Yet,  this example shows that we still have the power to fight back and to  win.       California Governor Opposes Use of National Guard Against Crime

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the Governor of California is  outraged at the prospect that National Guard troops might be used in  cities like San Francisco in order to protect public safety.

There is one problem with this outrage, and that is that Newsom  himself sent the National Guard to San Francisco just 2 years ago  saying: ``. . . we cannot let rampant crime continue.''

Of course, he did let rampant crime continue, and it was really just  a token measure. Yet, even now, just a few days ago, while saying that  there is no problem with crime in California, the Governor has  announced that crime suppression teams will be sent into our major  cities. Which is it?

Mr. Speaker, the Governor has also claimed that there has been a  modest reduction in crime across California this year. To the extent  that that is true, it is because of successes that we have had in  stopping some of Newsom's worst policies.

Namely, we passed Prop 36 to make crime illegal again. We won a  victory at the Supreme Court, over what Newsom wanted, to allow  homeless encampments to be removed from our streets. By the way, we no  longer have a completely open border. To the extent that there has been  improvement, it is because Newsom's own policies have been reversed.

This includes in L.A., as well, where the rogue district attorney,  George Gascon, who Newsom himself initially appointed, was  overwhelmingly voted out by voters last year.

There has been a modest improvement in public safety in California,  thanks to the fact that Newsom's policies are being overturned by the  people of California. Yet, there still remains significant problems in  our cities. Even in Los Angeles, the police chief there says that you  shouldn't go outside while wearing jewelry.

Mr. Speaker, what is even more outrageous is that Newsom, after  opposing Prop 36 to make crime illegal again in every way that he can,  is refusing now to properly fund the initiative. It needs funding for  various reasons, one of the most important of which is to get help to  people who have drug issues and need treatment.

That was a big part of the initiative, is that people who have repeat  arrests for abusing drugs can be offered treatment as an alternative to  incarceration.

The Governor is refusing to fund the treatment programs that are  needed.  He is all too willing to continue to let people wither away on our  streets and die from overdoses because he is not properly funding this.

The mayor of San Jose, who is a Democrat, has said that the  Governor's refusal to fund Prop 36 is ``a joke.'' This is coming from a  fellow Democrat mayor in California. Newsom's refusal to fund the  initiative that Californians passed is a joke.

He doesn't have the money for it, I guess, even though he does have  $200 to $250 million to call an off-year special election in order to  return us to the era of partisan gerrymandering.

I am calling on the Governor and the leaders of the California  legislature to properly fund Prop 36. If we do that, then we will  continue to see not just modest but significant improvements in public  safety and the quality of life throughout California.                 Recent Unemployment Numbers for the Country

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, we recently received the latest  unemployment numbers for the month of July for States across the  country and there was only one State, one State alone, that saw an  increase in unemployment: California.

Even before this, California already had the highest unemployment  rate in the country, number one out of 50 States. This is not what you  want to be leading the Nation in, which is why it was particularly  farcical when the Governor this Labor Day claimed that California is  the number one State in the country for workers. It is absolutely  false.

California has the number one unemployment and the number one  poverty. We have been among the worst States in the country when it  comes to increase in the wages of workers. We are, of course, by far  the worst when it comes to restricting job opportunities for workers  through AB5, a law so bad that no other State has adopted anything like  it.

Unfortunately, Californians continue to pay the price for the failed  corrupt policies that have led to these outcomes, for the policies that  restrict opportunity while raising the cost of living in California. If  we really wanted to solve the problems in our State in a way that would  benefit the people of California, then the Governor wouldn't be calling  a sham special election. He wouldn't be focusing all of his time on  appearing on podcasts and writing all caps tweets designed to mimic the  President. He would instead be focusing on the quality of life  challenges faced by the people of California that, unfortunately, are  causing more and more people to leave our State.

Not only are we number one in unemployment and homelessness and wage  stagnation, but we are also number one in poverty and in illiteracy. In  the achievement gaps at our schools, we are among the very worse. We  are number one in gas prices. We are number one, or near it, in the  cost of electricity and the cost of water.

These things don't happen just randomly or by accident. They are the  result of failed policy choices. If this redistricting sham moves  forward, then the eyes of the Nation will be on California. I think it  will be important to make the point, as well, that while our  politicians are playing political games, our citizens continue to pay  the price for their failed policies.                           No Tax Dollars for Riots

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, a few weeks ago, I introduced  the No Tax Dollars for Riots Act in response to the horrifying events  in Los Angeles in recent months, where you had rioters attacking  officers, using commercial dumpsters as battering rams, and threatening  public safety in a variety of ways.

What we learned is that this violence was fueled and organized by a  so-called nonprofit called CHIRLA that actually was blasting out on a  Signal chat the real-time locations of ICE officers so that the rioters  could then go find them and obstruct their activities and, in some  cases, attack them with rocks and Molotov cocktails and other weapons.

What makes this all the worse is that this group, CHIRLA, is  essentially a subsidiary of the State of California and received some  $32 million in funding from the State of California just in 1 year, as  well as receiving Federal funding and receiving generous subsidies from  the city of Los Angeles.

I introduced the No Tax Dollars for Riots Act to assure that this  does not happen again. As if to underscore the need for this  legislation, this same group, CHIRLA, that helped organize the L.A.  riots, has now announced that they will be leading the grassroots  organizing for Gavin Newsom's redistricting sham. The same group that  has benefited so generously from his largesse that has received funding  from California taxpayers in order to help organize and instigate the  actions of rioters is now leading the grassroots organizing for this  attempt to overturn the will of California voters.

It is all the more reason why this type of funding should not be  allowed, so I am calling for the prompt passage of my bill, the No Tax  Dollars for Riots Act.               Good News on the Assault on the First Amendment

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, we have some good news.  Governor Gavin Newsom has lost in court again in an assault on the  First Amendment designed to make parody and satire illegal in the State  of California.

Last year, the Governor saw a parody video of Kamala Harris that he  didn't like, so he comes out in authoritarian style and announces this  speech should be banned. Not only did he announce it, the legislature  did his bidding, passed a bill, and he signed it into law to ban the  sort of parody video that was seen by many people during the election.

Now, of course, I made it very clear at the time that this was a  violation, a blatant violation, of the First Amendment. It didn't stop  Newsom from signing the bill. He has had many bills before that  violated the First Amendment and they were thrown out by the courts.  Just a couple weeks ago, that is what happened with this bill, as well.  The court has thrown out Gavin Newsom's attempt to ban satire and  parody in the State of California.

Mr. Speaker, to make things even more absurd, this farcical account  on X that the Governor's team is using, the Governor Newsom press  office, has been putting out content designed to mock the President  that would have actually violated the very terms of this bill that  Newsom himself signed into law.

Fortunately, the courts, in this case, protected the rights of the  people in California. I am glad to announce that the First Amendment is  still operative in our State, that parody and satire, which throughout  history have been the way that we can humble those in power and can be  powerful instruments of political expression, are still very much  allowable in our State.                  End Insider Trading by Members of Congress

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, today, I am announcing that I  will be coauthoring H.R. 5106, the Restore Trust in Congress Act, which  is designed to end insider trading by Members of Congress.  Specifically, this bill prohibits all Members of Congress, along with  spouses, dependent children, and trustees from owning, buying, or  selling individual stocks, securities, commodities, or futures.

Upon enactment, covered individuals are prohibited from purchasing  covered assets and must divest from all covered assets at fair market  value within 180 days for current Members and 90 days for incoming  Members.

Individuals who acquire covered assets through inheritance during the  course of their service will be required to divest those assets within  90 days of receipt.

Violators of this statute--or bill if it becomes law--will have to  pay an amount equal to 10 percent of the value of covered assets plus  the sale of profits, and it must be paid with personal funds, not  office or campaign funds.

This is a commonsense measure that the overwhelming majority of  Americans support. The notion that someone should be able to profit  from their government service or even the appearance of that undermines  trust in government, which is so essential to the representative form  of democracy that we have here in the United States.

I am hopeful that this legislation will be brought to the floor by  House leaders expeditiously, and we can get it passed and signed into  law in a bipartisan way in order to help restore trust in Congress, as  the name suggests.                       Beautifying Federal Architecture

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I am very excited to announce  that  this coming week, I will be introducing the Beautifying Federal Civic  Architecture Act, which will build on an executive order that has been  signed and issued by the President to change the General Services  Administration's policies to prefer classical and traditional  architecture in Federal public buildings.

I think every American can imagine what we are talking about here.  When you look at the Capitol, our national monuments, the White House,  many courthouses, the classical style very much evokes the values that  we have in this country, the values of representative government, the  values of citizen participation.

However, in recent decades, there has been a move away from this  architectural style, and it has produced some Federal buildings that  don't evoke such feelings at all and that are, frankly, a bit of an  eyesore as opposed to the beautiful buildings that mark many of our  monuments and historic places here in Washington, D.C.

I am very happy to be authoring this bill in the House to make it the  policy of the United States that Federal buildings should uplift and  beautify public spaces, inspire the human spirit, ennoble the United  States, and command respect from the general public.

It declares that these buildings should be visually identifiable as  civic buildings and respect the regional architectural heritage. That  is important, as well. While the policy gives preference toward  traditional and classical architecture, other styles are permissible if  they clearly convey the dignity, enterprise, vigor, and stability of  America's system of self-government.

Of course, the bill also makes it the policy that Federal buildings  should be selected with substantial input from local communities.

I have long argued that we need, in many ways, to return to the  classical understanding of representative government, of self- government that was the vision of our Founders, and define ways in  order to revive that spirit. The look of a building is a small way, but  I think that it is a reform that, going hand in hand with other ways to  enable greater participation, such as restoring proper civics in our  schools and many other related measures, can be an important part of  restoring that spirit, that civic spirit that guided our Nation's  founding.

I look forward to introducing this bill. I look forward to it  receiving, hopefully, bipartisan support in the House, and being signed  into law in order to complement the President's executive order, and  make this the policy of our country going forward.    El Dorado County Title 25 Program Supports Community of Grizzly Flats

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a  significant milestone in the community of Grizzly Flats: the  groundbreaking of the first home under the new El Dorado County title  25 program created to support the victims of the Caldor fire.

In August of 2021, the Caldor fire burned more than 220,000 acres and  destroyed more than 1,000 structures, including hundreds of homes in  Grizzly Flats.

On May 23 of this year, U.S. Navy veteran ``Mac'' MacNeil and Cathie  Adams were joined by their neighbors and community leaders as they  broke ground on what will soon be their newly constructed home, the  first home rebuilt by a nonprofit charitable organization in Grizzly  Flats after the Caldor fire. This new home will provide Mac and Cathie  with a safe, comfortable, and dignified living space after their home  and many others were tragically destroyed 4 years ago.

The construction of this new home is being supported by an  organization called Non-profit Construction, which is leading the  rebuild, and El Dorado County's title 25 program, which streamlines the  rebuilding process for homes damaged or destroyed by the Caldor fire.

This groundbreaking and upcoming construction of this new home  represents not just shelter but also the community's unwavering  strength, resilience, and its determined step forward on the path to  recovery. I am confident that innovative housing solutions like this  one will not only uplift the Grizzly Flats community but will also  serve as a powerful blueprint for resilience and recovery across  California and the Nation.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am honored to join the people of El Dorado County and Grizzly Flats in  congratulating Mr. ``Mac'' MacNeil and Ms. Cathie Adams on the  groundbreaking of their new home.                      Congratulating ECO-CLEAN Solutions

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate JB  Harris and JT Chevallier, and the entire team at ECO-CLEAN Solutions  for reaching a record-breaking milestone, 1 million square feet of Lake  Tahoe shoreline cleaned up by the team's beach-cleaning robot, BEBOT.  Congratulations to JB Harris and JT Chevallier for this amazing  accomplishment.

JB and JT, two longtime friends from Las Vegas, were drawn to the  Sierra Nevada by the beauty and lifestyle of the mountains. As their  connection to the area and the great outdoors deepened, JB and JT  witnessed the toll of increased tourism on their natural surroundings.  With the motivation to give back to the home that had given them so  much, ECO-CLEAN was created to respond to the need for environmental  responsibility and sustainability.

With the annual number of visitors to Lake Tahoe growing to 15  million people, Tahoe's beaches experienced a surge in waste,  particularly during peak travel seasons. JB and JT recognized the  problem and set out to find innovative and low-impact solutions to this  growing concern. In their search, the team discovered BEBOT, the first  battery- and solar-powered beach-cleaning robot on the West Coast.  Through funding provided by the North Tahoe Community Alliance, the  team was able to successfully deploy BEBOT to the shores of Lake Tahoe,  maximizing beach cleanup efforts through advanced technology and in  partnership with local volunteers.

Through this innovative solution, ECO-CLEAN and their beach cleaning  BEBOT have cleaned 1 million square miles of Lake Tahoe's shoreline,  picking up more than 30,000 pieces of litter in 2024 alone. They also  partner and collaborate with several local organizations, one of which  includes the Desert Research Institute, which analyzes the litter taken  from the lake to better understand pollutants and proactively address  their source.

It is an honor to represent exemplary organizations like ECO-CLEAN  Solutions in the United States House of Representatives. This  organization exemplifies how American innovation can serve as a  solution to the issues that are facing our communities and the Nation  at large.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am honored to recognize JB, JT, and ECO-CLEAN Solutions for reaching  this significant milestone and for their ongoing dedication to  protecting the beauty of Lake Tahoe's shorelines for generations to  come.                  Bringing Attention to Alzheimer's Disease

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, with more than 7 million  Americans living with Alzheimer's disease, including over 700,000  Californians age 65 and older, I rise today to bring continued  attention to this growing public health challenge.

Alzheimer's, the most common form of dementia, impairs memory,  thinking, and behavior, with symptoms that eventually interfere with  daily life. The effects of this disease are not limited to the  individuals diagnosed but, of course, extend to their families,  friends, caregivers, and communities.

While there is no known cure, research and treatment are advancing in  very promising ways. That is why I was proud to cosponsor H.R. 7218,  the BOLD Act, last year, which supports programs advancing research and  resources related to Alzheimer's disease and other dementias.

I have seen the impact of this disease firsthand, through people I  know personally and through my work with the Alzheimer's Association  Northern California and Northern Nevada Chapter. I have met with  dedicated volunteers, heard their moving stories, and supported  community events to help raise awareness. Their advocacy and compassion  make a profound difference, bringing hope to millions.

Recently, the Alzheimer's Association visited Washington, D.C., and  our U.S. Capitol. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the  volunteers and constituents from my district in particular, who  traveled here to share their stories and to fight for progress.

On behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I commend  their tireless efforts to supporting those affected by Alzheimer's and  other dementias and to fighting this devastating illness.