Tragic Loss of Charlie Kirk


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise at a moment when the  Nation is still in shock over the sudden and senseless death, the  brutal, barbaric murder, and the cold-blooded assassination of a man  beloved by millions.

The depth of this tragedy is hard to process: a life cut short at age  31, a wife left without a husband and two young children without a  father.

The tributes that have poured in these last 24 hours from people from  all walks of life and all corners of the political universe, the raw  grief, and the remarkable eulogies bear testament to a life of  generational importance, a life cruelly limited in years but  immeasurable in impact.

I offer my own heartfelt prayers along with hundreds of millions of  others in this country and around the world. As we pray for Charlie and  his loved ones, so too do I pray for our country.

We are in a perilous moment. We don't yet have all the facts about  yesterday's horrifying events, and the killer remains at large. What we  do know is that political division has continued to deepen in this  country and that political violence is on the rise.

With a loss this profound, with evil this glaring, and with so much  pain, suffering, anger, and fear, this cycle could escalate. A new,  more severe round of accusations and recriminations, of demonization  and dehumanization, could bring our politics and society to a darker  place.

That isn't where things have to go. This can also be an occasion for  soul-searching as a country. As all decent people condemn this  horrifying act of political violence, we can be reminded of the broader  swath of common ground that we share. It is a belief that political  differences should be resolved through dialogue, debate, and elections,  not force. It is a commitment to the founding ideals of our country,  however differently we might conceive of them at any given moment, that  all men and women are created equal and are endowed by their creator  with inalienable rights.

More basically, we all want to see our economy thrive, our  communities safe, and our families happy and healthy.

The last time we truly came together around our shared ideals and  aspirations in a sustained way and stood solidly together on the common  ground of our body politic was 24 years ago today. The tragedy of  September 11 crystallized America's transcendent values in a way that  made every degree of difference seem trifling.

We were all Americans then, and still today, we are all Americans. I  don't believe that the generation that has passed since 9/11 has  depleted our ability to come together as a country, and I don't believe  that an attack on the homeland is the only thing that can rekindle it.  At this moment, working to rediscover that capacity for unity is a  matter of the highest urgency to our Nation's future.

A simple thing we can all do: If you have a friend or family member  whom you have stopped talking to because of political differences, this  might be a good time to reach out and to say that  we are still friends and still family. Politics isn't everything, and  politics itself, when properly conducted, can foster friendship and  build community even among ideological opponents.

That is what Charlie Kirk devoted his life to. He brought people of  all perspectives together to talk to one another, to have a vigorous  exchange of ideas, to discuss how best we can fulfill America's  promise, and to participate in democracy.

Charlie Kirk's example shows that when you are willing to have  conversations, Mr. Speaker, you often learn things. You may not be  persuaded by your opponents, but you can appreciate their perspective,  see where they are coming from, see them as people, discover surprising  points of agreement, and gain a more nuanced understanding of your own  position by understanding theirs.

That is something we can all try to do better, especially those of us  in elected office.

I ask every Member of this House, myself included, to think hard  about how we can approach our work here with a greater spirit of  collegiality and conciliation. In this terrible moment, that has to be  the path forward for our country.