Focused Assistance and Skills Training for Veterans' Employment and Transition Success Act


Ms. DEXTER. Madam Speaker, I thank my colleagues for their words of  support today for the FAST VETS Act.

Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak in strong support of the FAST  VETS Act, Focused Assistance and Skills Training for Veterans'  Employment and Transition Success, or FAST VETS Act.

I am grateful to Representatives Messmer, McGarvey, and Van Orden for  joining me in this bipartisan effort to better serve our Nation's  veterans.

Like many physicians, I trained at the VA where the sign on the door  said: The price of freedom is visible here. Our veterans gave  everything for this country. Our promise in return is that they will  not just get by in civilian life, they will thrive.

Congress must ensure employment readiness programs truly work for  veterans, and that is exactly what the  FAST VETS Act does. I am heartened that my first bill to come to the  floor of the House advances our commitment to those who served.

The FAST VETS Act is about delivering on our promise to those who  have served. Veterans who live with service-connected disabilities  deserve every opportunity to succeed in civilian life. That includes  access to the Veterans Readiness and Employment, VR&E, program, which  provides job training, education, employment accommodations, and the  resources to build a meaningful career. However, too often, that  support comes too late. In Portland, it currently takes more than 65  days for a veteran to be connected with a vocational rehabilitation  counselor. That is at least 2 months of missed income, missed classes,  and missed opportunity. That is unacceptable.

The FAST VETS Act is a critical first step to addressing the backlog.  It establishes clearer standards and prioritizes outcome-focused  planning to support more veterans successfully and efficiently moving  through the program and into the workforce.

Ensuring every veteran gets the support they deserve helps prevent  housing instability, reduces food insecurity, and strengthens mental  health. We owe it to them to act with urgency and purpose.

I am committed to continuing this work until every veteran has a  clear, supported path to meaningful and gainful employment. The FAST  VETS Act moves us closer to that goal, and I am proud to have led this  effort.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this  bill.