Genocide in Gaza


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, this past weekend, I visited the United  States Holocaust Memorial Museum with my daughter. I had been before,  but the timing of this visit was very intentional. I went to reflect on  the horrific history of dehumanization and ethnic cleansing that  ultimately led the world to create a new term to describe such an  unfathomable evil. That word is ``genocide.''

During the Holocaust, 6 million Jewish people, 60 percent of those  present in Europe, were brutally targeted, dehumanized, and  systematically murdered. It is a crime that people, communities, and  nations were aware of yet did little to nothing to stop the atrocities  until it was far too late.

After the Holocaust, the international community made a commitment  that such evil can never happen again to any people anywhere. ``Never  again,'' they said.

That is why I recently signed on to a resolution recognizing Israel's  actions in Gaza led by the Netanyahu government as a genocide. I joined  this resolution with a heavy heart. I understand the pain and the  history of the word, and I signed on with the utmost respect for the  Jewish people, especially those in my community who may feel abandoned  or deeply harmed by my action.

I will also be crystal clear that my criticizing the policies and  actions of the Netanyahu government does not detract from my steadfast  opposition to anti-Semitism and my persistent support for our Jewish  neighbors.

Many in this body have been reticent to call out the mass suffering,  ethnic cleansing, and war crimes taking place in Gaza. I will not  willingly continue to be part of that complicity.

As a United States Representative, my job is to stand up against the  power and our resources of this country being used in such ways.

I am a physician. I am a mother. I believe in the sanctity, the  universal worth, of human life. That belief does not change based on  who you are or where you live.

Each of our lives has innate, incalculable value. Our shared humanity  must be recognized and preserved, or we run the risk of rationalizing  and accepting acts of cruelty.

This principle, that we share an accountability to stand up against  dehumanization, cruelty, and marginalization across our communities,  should be universal, but it is not.

It is my duty as an elected leader in the most powerful country on  Earth to stand up for those most marginalized if I stand for anything  at all.

It is foundational to how I chose to represent my community and how I  will continue to represent my community in Congress.

History has and will continue to judge this body, not just for what  it did but for what it failed to do.

Our children are watching. As parents, we know this to be true. As  elected leaders, we cannot look away as they look on. We have an  implicit accountability to the children of this Nation, to show them  with our actions that we hold ourselves to a standard worthy of their  respect.

I want my children to live in a country where our leaders can be  relied upon to lead with courage, empathy, and moral clarity.

I urge every Oregonian watching to hold me accountable in a shared,  unshakable belief in the sanctity of human life. We are our brother's  keeper. I will do all I can to protect and defend each person's right  to freedom, safety, and self-determination.