Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.J.  Res. 61.

As the government hurtles toward a shutdown and millions of  Oregonians fear being stripped of their healthcare, House Republicans  are wasting time on ridiculous resolutions that do nothing to lower  costs for working families and, instead, threaten our public health.

Before coming to Congress, I spent over two decades as a pulmonary  and critical care physician. Every day, I saw firsthand how climate  change impacts people and how poor air quality leads to people's  morbidity and, yes, mortality. It is undeniable, the air we breathe is  making us sick, and we cannot afford to ignore this any longer.

As Democrats fight tooth and nail to protect public health and center  our families, Republicans are pushing harmful resolutions that threaten  the well-being of our constituents and the future of our planet. If it  weren't so cruel, it would be laughable.

H.J. Res. 61, the one before us today, would cripple the EPA's  ability to protect our communities from hazardous air pollutants, the  worst cancer-causing air toxins, at a time when Republicans are also on  the cusp of taking away healthcare from millions of Americans.

This resolution is part of a larger, more dangerous trend to gut our  public health agencies, silence our scientists, and roll back critical  environmental protections. It proves just how out of touch they are  with the American people.

Mr. Speaker, my message to the Oregonians watching is simple: I will  stand on this floor time and again to raise their voices and make sure  they are heard because, as a doctor, when my patient's health is  threatened, I do what it takes to protect them.

Clean air is not a luxury. It is a right, and I will not stop  fighting for it. I encourage my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this  reckless and irresponsible policy.