Electric Supply Chain Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697894/electric-supply-chain-act


Mr. McGUIRE. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my amendment, H.R. 3638,  which adds essential language to address the threat posed by foreign  entities of concern seeking to disrupt supply chains and undermine  United States leadership in artificial intelligence development.

The United States is in a race with the Chinese Communist Party to be  the  global leader in the development and deployment of artificial  intelligence. Maintaining that leadership requires vigilance against  supply chain vulnerabilities that foreign adversaries can exploit. Our  Nation has already faced significant challenges in scaling artificial  intelligence infrastructure. We cannot allow foreign manipulation or  interference to add to these challenges.

Disruptions to the artificial intelligence supply chain will not just  weaken our country in our race against China but will have a  significant, negative impact on our economy, our ability to defend  ourselves, and our capacity to innovate.

This amendment recognizes that protecting the artificial intelligence  supply chain is both a defensive measure and a strategic investment in  our infrastructure. Establishing periodic assessments of  vulnerabilities in the artificial intelligence supply chain that  foreign entities of concern could exploit helps ensure our country  maintains stable access to necessary components, boosting domestic  manufacturing and innovation.

To remain at the forefront of the next generation of technology, we  must thoroughly assess and protect our supply chain. Any disruption  threatens not only our progress but also our national security, our  economic strength, and our global position in the artificial  intelligence race.

This amendment strengthens our ability to safeguard America's  advancements in artificial intelligence by ensuring we identify,  monitor, and address vulnerabilities that foreign adversaries could  exploit to the detriment of our national interests. It reinforces our  commitment to securing the technologies that will define the next  century and ensures the United States remains the world leader in  artificial intelligence. This is a commonsense idea, and I encourage my  colleagues to support the amendment.

Mr. McGUIRE. Mr. Chair, talking about DOGE is a thinly veiled attempt  to score political points by changing the topic of the conversation  from this amendment, which protects our national security from foreign  entities of concern, and turning it into something political.

The previous actions of DOGE do not bear any weight or relevance to  this amendment. The Department of Energy is adequately staffed by very  bright and talented individuals who have the capacity to monitor  vulnerabilities in our supply chain that the Chinese Communist Party or  other foreign adversaries could exploit to halt our progress in the  artificial intelligence sphere.

This amendment is not political. It is common sense. Disruptions by  foreign entities of concern to our supply chain threaten our national  security, which is a cause of concern for all Americans, regardless of  their political affiliation.

Mr. McGUIRE. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. McGUIRE. Mr. Chairman, in closing, this is a commonsense  amendment. The United States is in a race with the Chinese Communist  Party to be the global leader in the development and deployment of  artificial intelligence and other capabilities such as quantum  computers. Any vulnerabilities in our supply chain that our adversaries  can exploit not only threaten our global standing in the artificial  intelligence space, but it also threatens our national security.

This amendment protects all Americans from a significant and growing  threat. I, again, encourage adoption of this amendment.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.