Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


Mr. McGUIRE. I thank my friend, the gentleman from Texas, for  yielding me the time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the three bills it  provides consideration for.

Since 2020 respect for law enforcement around our country has been on  the decline, and we have seen the effects this has had in our  communities.

We all know the best way to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy  with a gun. In Chicago, criminals do not care about gun laws. They have  the strictest gun laws and the most gun violence by criminals who don't  care about gun laws. We need more good guys with guns on the street,  mostly because Biden's open-border policy brought more illegal  criminals into our country who are robbing, raping, and killing the  American people.

In November the American people responded to this lack of respect in  the polls. They elected the Republican majority in the House, the  Senate, and the President in the White House who truly believes in law  and order.

The three bills that the rule provides consideration for are  commonsense bills. If we entrust law enforcement officers to uphold the  laws of our Nation and risk their lives daily, then we should be able  to entrust them to carry their weapons unrestricted off duty and to  purchase their former service weapons.

Like many of my colleagues, I agree that we would not have a nation  without those we entrust in uniform, whether they serve in the  military, as first responders, or as law enforcement officers.

Mr. Speaker, these men and women aren't honorable because of the  badge they wear. They make the badge honorable because of the lives  they live.

Every time I return to my district, I meet with the sheriffs of the  24 counties, cities, and towns I represent and hear directly from them  about the troubles they face in the line of duty.

If we want to see safer streets and communities in our country, then  we must ensure that we give law enforcement every tool possible so that  they can make it through the day and return home safely.

Again, Mr. Speaker, I express my strong support for the rule and the  underlying bills that it allows consideration for.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H. Con. Res. 33.

This measure will ensure that the plaque honoring the brave police  officers who defended us on January 6 is hung in the Capitol as  required by law.

Mr. Speaker, you know it is Police Week, but Republicans for some  reason refuse to put up the plaque honoring the heroic efforts by U.S.  Capitol Police and other local and Federal law officers who defended us  and our democracy on January 6.

It is not a scary thing. The plaque looks like this.

Don't you agree, Mr. Speaker?

It is lovely. It recognizes their heroic efforts, and it is the law.  It was signed into law by the President that this plaque goes up.

What are they afraid of?

Why don't they want to honor the Capitol Police and other law  enforcement officers who were beaten and battered?

Why is their support for police conditional?