Wintergreen Emergency Egress Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700384/wintergreen-emergency-egress-act


Mr. McGUIRE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R.  6365, the Wintergreen Emergency Egress Act.

Wintergreen, Virginia, is a popular tourist destination located in my  district. Wintergreen is one of the largest planned communities in  Virginia, with over 3,000 properties situated on 11,000 acres. The risk  of wildfires was not top of mind when this mountaintop community was  designed in the 1970s.

The original developers did not reserve an emergency egress corridor  before conveying a few thousand acres of unneeded land to the  Appalachian Trail commission. Because of this, Wintergreen only has one  entrance and one exit route.

As awareness of wildfire risk grew, the community of Wintergreen was  placed on the Virginia Department of Forestry's radar as a wildland- urban interface community with a high risk of a devastating fire. Since  becoming aware of the increased risk of wildfire, the community has  worked steadily to mitigate that risk. However, an emergency egress is  still needed.

For over 25 years, and working with five other Members of Congress,  the Wintergreen community has fought to complete an emergency  evacuation route. The town of Wintergreen has already constructed all  portions of the road that are not on Federal land. Unfortunately, the  only thing that has stood in their way all these years is a small  section of land controlled by the National Park Service, approximately  400 feet, that separates the unfinished road from being connected to  the Blue Ridge Parkway.

The recent wildfires in California and Maui highlight the danger  posed by limited evacuation routes. People lost their lives in those  fires because they were trapped in their vehicles with no way to  escape.

My bill is a proactive response to the very real threat to public  safety that the town of Wintergreen currently faces if it needed to  evacuate due to a natural disaster. We cannot wait until a tragedy  occurs to make a change. Public safety and lives are at risk.

The Wintergreen community, including Chief Curtis Sheets of  Wintergreen Fire and Rescue, has spent over 25 years fighting for the  completion of this emergency evacuation route. I am proud to assist the  entire Wintergreen community in continuing and finishing this fight.

I am proud to have bipartisan support of seven of my colleagues in  the Virginia delegation. This bill is not political. It is a  commonsense solution that is vital to preventing a tragedy in my  district.

I thank Chairman Westerman for his friendship and leadership in  helping me address this important issue for my district, and I urge all  of my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R. 6365.