Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702072/expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities


Mr. FULLER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

First off, to my Democratic colleagues, I want to express my  condolences for the passing of Representative   David Scott. He was a  great man and an example of what a statesman should be in this body. I  am sending my condolences to his family, your party, and the Georgia  delegation, as well.

I rise to explain this resolution to not only this body but my  Democratic colleagues. In 2013, when I was 31 years old, I was  stationed here at Andrews Air Force base in Washington, D.C., and I was  diagnosed with cancer. I went through a 13-hour surgery and 2 weeks in  an ICU room.

I am a kid who grew up in Appalachia, and I said a prayer to God with  my wife, Kate, that if God gave me more time to be on this planet, I  was going to leave Active Duty, return home to the Appalachian  communities I grew up in, and fight for them each and every day. That  was a promise that I made in 2013, and, Mr. Speaker, this resolution is  a fulfillment of that promise that I made in an ICU room so many years  ago.

I have dedicated my career to fighting for these communities.

Now, I have heard from our Democratic colleagues and in the previous  statement they kind of joked about this resolution. I stand before you  because I want to celebrate these communities. The Democratic Party,  who was founded by Thomas Jefferson, now has forgotten this part of  America. What we have seen under President Trump's leadership and  Speaker Johnson's leadership is that this forgotten America, rural  America, Appalachia America is forgotten no more with this leadership,  and that is exactly what this resolution does to celebrate those  communities that have been long forgotten by their party.

I rise today to celebrate everything that the Republican leadership  has done in this body to lift up those communities that have been long  forgotten. I want to make sure that those communities that sent me here  to represent them--that was a promise I made to Georgia-14. That is the  promise I made to Appalachia as a whole. That is the promise that I  made to rural communities, that I will be a  warrior for them in this body. Anytime there is a chance for me to  celebrate the positive work that we are doing in this body, and if  there is a chance for me to celebrate those communities, I am going to  take that opportunity.

I appreciate Republican leadership for allowing me to bring forth  this resolution basically in less than a week of me being here. It is  an incredible honor for me to, hopefully, pass legislation in this body  celebrating those communities that their party has forgotten.

I rise today to fulfill not only a promise that I made so many years  ago in an ICU room at Walter Reed to fight against rural poverty, to  fight for Appalachian communities and rural communities, but I also  want to raise awareness of the great work that the Republican  leadership here has done under Speaker Johnson's leadership and  President Trump's leadership.

One of the main things that I want to highlight is President Trump  using those tariffs that were just mentioned, making sure that he is  bringing manufacturing back to communities that have been hollowed out  by 30 to 40 years of policies that had been put in place by the  Democrats. Finally, good manufacturing jobs are coming back to  districts just like mine.

This is the fulfillment of a promise that I made to God in a hospital  room, and I celebrate these communities. Rural and Appalachian  communities need to know that they will always have a warrior in Clay  Fuller here in this body.