Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, Pursuant to House Resolution 977, I call up  the bill (H.R. 6938) making consolidated appropriations for the fiscal  year ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, and ask for its  immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6938, a three-bill  package covering the Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water  Development; and Interior and Environment appropriations measures for  fiscal year 2026.

These bills are the product of bipartisan, bicameral consensus and  are grounded in a Member-driven process.

As I stand here today, I think of the genius of our Founding Fathers.  They designed Congress to be an engine of thoughtful and deliberative  policymaking. It wasn't meant to be easy. In fact, difficulty is what  separates serious legislating from political performance.

In her 250 years, America has never shied away from hard work, nor  does the Appropriations Committee in carrying out our constitutional  responsibilities for fiscal year 2026. Even after the longest  government shutdown in history, political obstruction, and tough  deadlines, we remained resolute and took responsible steps forward to  restore regular order.

I am proud to say we have ended the cycle of pork-filled omnibuses  decided at the last minute. Just as importantly, we have been turning  America First priorities into action. President Trump set a critical  foundation by signing three appropriations bills into law in November,  and we are carrying that momentum forward today. The measure before us  keeps us on track to complete all 12 appropriations bills for fiscal  year 2026.

With passage of these three bills, we will provide full-year funding  for many of our most critical programs.

We prioritize public safety by supporting law enforcement and  stopping the flow of fentanyl into our communities. We advance American  strength by unleashing energy dominance, securing critical minerals,  and investing in nuclear power. We uphold stewardship by protecting  public lands, supporting wildland firefighters, ensuring responsible  resource management, and fulfilling our obligations to our Tribal  nations.

All of this is achieved while cutting waste and keeping total fiscal  year `26 spending below the current continuing resolution.

These results are not accidental. They are by design, and they are  the result of the hard work of our subcommittee chairmen, Hal Rogers,   Mike Simpson, and Chuck Fleischmann. Thanks to their leadership, good  will, attention to detail, and strong relationships with their  negotiating partners, the power of the purse is, once again, being  exercised by lawmakers through the committee process, as Article I  intended.

To their accompanying ranking members, Grace Meng, Chellie Pingree,  and Marcy Kaptur, I thank them for their partnership and collaboration,  which was instrumental to this effort.

As I look ahead to today's action, Republicans are strongest when  they are focused; Democrats are more effective when they negotiate in  good faith; and the country is better off when Republicans and  Democrats work together.

In its Statement of Administrative Policy on this package, the White  House said, in part: ``The administration urges every Member of  Congress to support this fiscally responsible bill, which is a win for  the American taxpayer.'' Not surprisingly, I completely agree. I look  forward to enacting these full-year appropriations and taking every  action to complete our work.

Mr. COLE.

Mr. SCOTT FRANKLIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong  support of H.R. 6938, which includes the FY26 Energy and Water  Appropriations bill.

This bill makes critical investments in our national defense by  increasing Department of Energy defense program funding by $912  million. This includes $25.4 billion for the National Nuclear Security  Administration, an increase of $1.3 billion. These funds ensure we can  maintain today's nuclear stockpile, prepare for future needs, and  modernize aging infrastructure that underpins our nuclear deterrent.

Our bill also delivers a nearly 10 percent increase for naval  reactors, advancing Columbia-class submarine reactor development, and  supporting the safe handling of naval spent fuel.

This package is not just about national defense. It reins in the  Biden administration's climate agenda that dismantled our energy  independence and hurt American consumers. Instead, it refocuses the  Federal Government on affordable and reliable energy that will drive  down costs.

For Florida, this bill continues funding for critical infrastructure  projects that protect our waterways, help our rural communities, and  grow our economy.

Mr. SCOTT FRANKLIN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is a huge win for  our national security and for all Americans, and I urge my colleagues  to support it.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I will begin by recognizing the hard work of my  distinguished ranking member and my very good friend, Ms. DeLauro from  Connecticut. We have had the opportunity to work together for a long  time in a variety of capacities, and I particularly appreciate the  cooperation, the bipartisanship, and the professionalism that she and  her whole staff always show when we sit down. To paraphrase my friend,  if they would just leave us alone, we will get this job done. I could  not have a better working partner than my good friend from Connecticut.

I am very proud that this bill is, as my friend said, bipartisan.  This has been in negotiation at every level, and the ranking member and  I have worked hard to push the decisionmaking down to the subcommittee  levels as much as we possibly can. I know we have both told our  respective chairmen and ranking members: ``Hey, if you don't send us  anything up, you are making us happy. We want you to make the  decisions.'' The members of the subcommittees know the subject matter  better than anybody else. They have done the hearings. They have done  the work. They work well. The higher up the food chain it goes,  frankly, the more political the decisions become and the less informed.  Let the people who have actually done the work write the bills. In this  case, in these three and the three preceding bills, that is exactly  what happened, and I couldn't be more pleased with that result.

I would be remiss not to build on a remark my friend, Ms. McCollum,  made in her speech. I am very proud of  this bill on Native-American issues, which have been a bipartisan  priority over the years. I am proud of all of my cardinals and all of  my ranking members, but particularly the relationship between Mr.  Simpson and Ms. Pingree, which we have seen on this committee before,  and my friend, Ms. McCollum, who also has chaired this subcommittee  earlier in her career. As a matter of fact, we worked together on the  matter that she mentioned in terms of forward-funding for Indian  healthcare. It has just been a pleasure in these areas where we have so  much in common and a common commitment to fulfill our trust  obligations.

I, for one, am very proud of the community projects in this bill. It  allows the Members, not just on our committee, but across the entire  Congress, to do things that they think are important for their  constituents. They are the best people to make that judgment because  they represent them in the House.

My friend, again, Ms. DeLauro, has worked over the years to build a  system that will make sure that these things are used appropriately,  honestly, and openly. We continue to work together on that matter.  Again, I am very proud of her.

Mr. Speaker, I want to join every other speaker today, which is  unusual in a very partisan-polarized era, to urge the passage of this  bill. We have worked together. We have worked in good faith. We have  worked effectively. We have actually cut spending in these bills  collectively. I think we have a common commitment to get the most out  of our tax dollars.

I think this is a three-bill package, as the previous three-bill  package was, that Members of this body can be proud of, should point  to, and should celebrate. When we have bipartisan, bicameral  cooperation and work together, we can get the job done and do a great  job for the American people. I share my good friend Ms. DeLauro's  opinion in this case, that is exactly what we did.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the bill and urge its passage. I urge  my colleagues to support this, and I yield back the balance of my time.