Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699575/consolidated-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1032, I call up  the bill (H.R. 7148) making further consolidated appropriations for the  fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, with the  Senate amendments thereto.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time that I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the House has done a tremendous job these last few  months as we have finalized true bipartisan, bicameral bills to fully  fund our government in a Member-driven, district-focused way.

Six of those bills have been signed into law by President Trump,  fully funding those departments and agencies through the end of the  fiscal year.

While the remaining six bills have all passed the House, we are  dealing with a partial government shutdown that could have and should  have been avoided.

Funding the government is not an optional exercise. It is the most  basic duty we have in Congress. Two weeks ago, the House and the Senate  struck a bipartisan and bicameral deal to move forward on these  remaining appropriations bills for fiscal year 2026.

The House acted expeditiously to pass these bills, marking historic  progress for our appropriations process and the return to regular order  that every Member of this Chamber wants to see.

I share the frustrations of many that the Senate altered our deal at  the last minute. However, our obligation is not to these emotions. It  is to the American people.

While we all worked hard, especially our cardinals, to ensure that  all 12 bills would be signed into law before the January 30 deadline,  the Senate has put us on a different path. The best choice before us is  to pass these five bills and the short-term stopgap for the Department  of Homeland Security.

This approach delivers full-year funding to more than 95 percent of  the government and avoids the consequence of inaction. To continue the  government shutdown would be to repeat all the same mistakes my friends  across the aisle made in October of last year, throwing Federal  employees into chaos and confusion while they are forced to work  without pay, wreaking havoc on our airports while TSA and FAA are  unfunded, putting undue stress on our military families, and causing  further instability to the United States economy.

Shutdowns are never the answer. They don't work. They only hurt the  American people.

Today, lawmakers in this Chamber have an opportunity to avoid  repeating past mistakes. I encourage everyone on both sides of the  aisle to do the right thing and close out five of our remaining six  appropriations bills for FY 2026 while enacting funding for core  priorities, including: strengthening America's defense and providing a  well-earned pay raise to our troops; advancing lifesaving biomedical  research and critical education programs; enhancing the safety and  reliability of our skies and infrastructure; supporting small  businesses and strengthening cybersecurity; restoring American  deterrence on the world stage and reinforcing economic and community  strength across the country.

The package also includes a 2-week continuing resolution for our  sixth and final bill, the Department of Homeland Security, which will  give the White House additional time for negotiations.

President Trump is leading by example and engaging directly with  Democrats in good-faith conversations on that front. He also has been  explicitly clear that holding the government hostage is wrong. I  wholeheartedly agree with him.

As he stated just yesterday: We need to get the government open, and  I hope all Republicans and Democrats will join me in supporting this  bill, and send it to my desk without delay.

I say to this Chamber: Let's get it done. The American people deserve  stability, and they expect results. These bills deliver both.

For anyone consulting their conscience, these measures have already  passed the House with strong bipartisan support. The work has been  carried out, and the responsibility now is to get it across the finish  line. This vote is about governing responsibly and doing our jobs.

I look forward to us nearing the completion of our FY26 duties. I  urge all Members to support this bipartisan package.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Arkansas (Mr. Womack), the distinguished chairman of the  Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies  Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, and my very good friend.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the  gentleman from Arkansas.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Alabama (Mr. Aderholt), my very good friend and the distinguished  chairman of the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and  Related Agencies Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Calvert), my very good friend and distinguished  chairman of the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on  Appropriations.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Florida (Mr. Diaz-Balart), my very good friend, my classmate, the co- chairman of the full committee, and the chairman of the Subcommittee on  National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs.

Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Guam  (Mr. Moylan), my very good friend.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, when you reach a point like this, there are a lot of  people to thank. I will begin by thanking the President of the United  States. He supported each and every one of these tranches of bills that  have been brought to the floor during this critical month where we  completed the appropriations process. We would not be here today  without him. We would probably not be voting on this bill without him.  He has been working today tirelessly to make sure we followed our own  procedures and brought this bill to the floor. I personally thank  President Trump for his contribution to funding the government.

People forget around here that he has to sign the bills. If he  doesn't sign them, believe me, he can sustain any veto he cares to  cast. He has used his influence and his power constructively to bring  us together across partisan lines and to pass what are bipartisan,  bicameral bills. I am eternally grateful for that.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my own leadership. I don't know where Speaker  Johnson got his patience from, but it must be God-given, because his  support throughout this process working with us, never giving up,  trying to restore regular order, has been incredible and I think  unparalleled in the history of the speakership, in my view.

I thank the other members of our leadership: Leader Scalise, Whip  Emmer, and Conference Chair McClain. They all worked really hard to  make sure that we could come together and work across the lines. They  gave us the freedom and flexibility that we needed, but they also  provided the persuasion that is necessary both within our own ranks and  across the aisle.

I thank especially the cardinals and the ranking members of the  subcommittees. The ranking member and I agree, and we have tried to  force decisionmaking down because we trust our cardinals and ranking  members. They know their subjects. They know one another. They work  together. Without them--and they solved most of the issues that were  before us--we wouldn't be here. That model worked well because the  people that we relied on, our chairmen and our ranking members, are  people that we know and trust and that, frankly, know one another and  trust one another and work well together. I am extraordinarily proud of  this committee for what it did.

I also particularly thank my friend, the ranking member across the  aisle. Now, we don't always agree. As a matter of fact, once our mutual  friend and former colleague Ambassador Rahm Emanuel called us the odd  couple. That may be true. We don't usually start in the same place, but  we are here today able to fund the government, 76 percent of the  Government of the United States, because of the ranking member and  because of her leadership and her hard work to find common ground. I  admire her tremendously as a person, and I appreciate her as a working  partner.

We also have working partners in the United States Senate. If we  didn't have Chairwoman Collins and if we didn't have Ranking Member  Patty Murray, we wouldn't be here either.

Again, this is not just a bipartisan or a House agreement. This is a  bicameral agreement. Those institutional lines are sometimes more  difficult than the partisan lines to negotiate, but we managed to do  that. I am proud of each and every one of my ranking members but  particularly the ranking member of my committee, the Appropriations  Committee, in the House.

We have had a lot of folks who have worked hard. We may have some  disagreements in the coming days. We probably will. I would be  surprised if we don't. But I know if we work hard, we can work through  them and get to a successful conclusion.

My friend, for instance, mentioned body cameras. I couldn't agree  more. It is something we added in the bill but something she advocated  for and championed. We agree on the need for additional training. There  is lots we can find in common as we try to work through this, and I  hope we are able to do that.

The important thing today, Mr. Speaker, is to finish the task, to  take these bills, which represent the vast majority of things where we  have found common ground and agreement in a process of give and take  and good faith efforts and compromise and debate, and make sure that  they pass and reach the President's desk so we do not put American  Federal workers and American soldiers and American public servants out  of work. We let them do their job on behalf of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle  to support what is genuinely a bicameral and bipartisan product and one  that the President will sign and has urged us to pass.

Mr. Speaker, again, I urge passage of this legislation, and I yield  back the balance of my time.