Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699354/department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1014, I call up  the bill (H.R. 7147) making further consolidated appropriations for the  fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, and ask  for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 7147, the Department of  Homeland Security Appropriations Act.

This bill marks the final measure of our FY26 agenda. Our work here  is about one of the most important duties, which is keeping the  American people and our homeland safe.

This legislation delivers just that and upholds the America First  agenda through supporting border patrol enforcement agents, detention  and deportation efforts, cutting-edge technology to detect illicit  activity, and Coast Guard investments to counter Communist China's  aggression in the maritime sphere.

We enhance resources to combat fentanyl and other deadly drugs, while  safeguarding children through expanded investigation into human  trafficking and forced labor.

From our borders and ports to aviation and cyberspace, this  legislation delivers the personnel, training, and technology needed to  reinforce our defenses and confront those who wish us harm.

It also prioritizes strong and resilient communities by bolstering  disaster preparedness, response, and recovery efforts. Subcommittee  Chairman Mark Amodei prioritized safety at every level. Even in the  face of political challenge, he and the ranking member, Mr. Cuellar of  Texas, worked together to produce a serious and responsible bill.

H.R. 7147 is focused on outcomes, not partisan rhetoric. It equips  frontline personnel, strengthens enforcement, and provides the  certainty DHS needs to carry out its mission effectively.

I thank our Members and staff for their work, and I urge support for  this bipartisan legislation.

Mr. COLE.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

I want to begin by thanking two outstanding appropriators: Mr.  Amodei, the chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of  Appropriations, and his working partner and colleague, the ranking  member, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Cuellar). They have done an  extraordinary job on this bill.

We have heard a lot of rhetoric today. Not much of it has anything to  do with what is in the bill. The bill itself is a good, strong bill. It  is a bill for, frankly, the two Members who worked well together. It is  not a perfect bill, as my friend Mr. Cuellar said, certainly not from  his perspective, but it is a solid bill. There are no poison pills in  this bill.

It focuses on making the American people more secure. It does so  economically and efficiently, and it does so in a way that, honestly,  should make every member of the committee proud.

This is a difficult bill to bring forward, no doubt about that. Each  side has struggled with it over the years. I am very proud that the  ranking member and the chairman worked together to bring a bill to the  floor. That has not happened in a long, long time. Usually, it just  sort of gets muddled in. It says a great deal about their  professionalism and their cooperation.

If you listened to the debate, you would think we have law  enforcement in chaos and that somehow our country is not secure. Quite  the opposite is true. Quite frankly, President Trump  should be commended for what he and his administration have  accomplished in a matter of weeks and months that most of us thought  would take years.

Our borders are secure. They are more secure now than they have ever  been. It wasn't that long ago that I was on this floor talking about  15,000 a day, 10,000 a day coming in illegally. That has stopped.

As a consequence of that, crime has gone down, not up. That is a  great success for the American people. Drug trafficking is down, not  up. That is a great success for the American people. The scourge of  human trafficking, the exploitation of usually young women and young  men, has been dramatically lowered. That is thanks to President Trump,  the people who he has put in charge of our border security and our  internal security, and the hard work of our Coast Guard.

There is a lot in this bill that has nothing to do with ICE. We fund  the Border Patrol here. Are we supposed to not pay those men and women  who have kept us secure? We fund the Coast Guard, which, as my friends  point out and the distinguished chair of this committee pointed out,  has been refocused on some of the maritime security issues,  particularly relating to foreign adversaries as far away as China.

This bill deals with FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  If you are voting against this bill, you are voting against funding the  people who will help you in a hurricane and a tornado or a disaster of  some sort. Why in the world should they be penalized?

I think we should look at the bill in its totality. We should look at  the difficulty of the task that we asked the chairman and the ranking  member to do. We should thank them for the hard work and wisdom that  they both exhibited in bringing this product to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I do worry about the rhetoric around this bill. I  personally believe it is not intentional, but it is reckless  encouraging people to believe that we have masses of bad actors in a  particular agency. Some of the rhetoric--mostly not on this floor, let  me say that--that I have heard in the country about comparing law  enforcement officers to the gestapo or the Nazis, that is terrible.  That is not true. That is not who they are. That is not what they do.  That kind of rhetoric, when we hear it and wherever we hear it from, is  dangerous and reckless and wrong.

We have had a good debate here today on a variety of bills, and I  will end on a little more positive note.

Mr. Speaker, I, again, thank my friend, the ranking member, for her  work. We don't always agree on everything. This bill is probably an  example of that, but we work together well and professionally. One of  the reasons we can consider this bill separately is my friend made that  request and made it very convincingly to me. I know she is a person of  good faith, and I will work with her wherever I can.

Again, I thank her for her friendship and leadership. We will not  agree on this matter today, on this particular item, but there is much,  much more that we agree on than we disagree on. We would not have  gotten to this point without working together.

Having said that, I do think this is pretty clear, Mr. Speaker. The  right thing to do here is to fund the people that protect America, that  defend our borders, that help us in times of disaster, and, yes, who  find criminals who have come into the country illegally, committed  crimes, and make sure they are expelled. That makes America safer and  better and more secure.

I thank the President and his administration for doing that. I think  we should rally around them and show our support for what they have  done by passing this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.