-9999


Mr. CORNYN. I would like to talk about a topic that may seem  irrelevant to the average person at first glance, but it actually  affects all of us a great deal more than we might imagine. A tiny but  vicious parasite known as the New World screwworm is infecting cattle  across Mexico, and it is getting closer and closer to the United States  by the minute. Of course, many know that Texas ranks first in the  Nation for cattle production. We proudly represent nearly 15 percent of  total cattle production in the United States, generating more than $11  billion in cash receipts, so the Texas cattle industry is obviously  very concerned about the spread of the New World screwworm.

This parasite lays its eggs in the wounds of warmblooded animals,  particularly livestock. The larvae burrows into the openings creating  infections that, left untreated, can cause animals to die within 1  week. We do not have vaccinations, unfortunately, to prevent screwworm  infections. So outbreaks in cattle herds require labor-intensive daily  inspections of livestock to make sure they have not been infested.

Now, some may be wondering: That sounds pretty horrific, but what  does it have to do with me? Well, the truth is, this little pest, this  vicious pest, touches all of our lives one way or the other. If the New  World screwworm spreads to Texas infecting cattle and killing  livestock, the already high price of beef will continue to increase.  And, of course, as we are all focused on kitchen table issues and  affordability, that is the last thing we need. That means that anyone  who enjoys a steak or a hamburger will be staring at higher prices in  their local restaurant or at the drive-through at their favorite fast- food chain or at the grocery store. Anyone planning a nice Valentine's  Day dinner in a few weeks should listen up and perhaps budget  accordingly.

Unfortunately, the New World screwworm is quickly spreading. Since  2023, there have been outbreaks of this  deadly insect in Panama, Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala, Belize, El  Salvador, and Costa Rica. Costa Rica declared the New World screwworm a  national emergency in 2024. That same year, the fly made its way to  Mexico which, of course, given our proximity to Mexico, has raised  concerns among Texas cattle ranchers that it may soon make its way  across the border and lead to an outbreak in our State and not stop  there.

At the end of last year, a case of New World screwworm was reported  less than 400 miles south of the U.S.-Mexico border. Fortunately,  President Trump and U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Brooke  Rollins have made defeating the New World screwworm a priority. Our  Federal Government's response to this threat spans multiple avenues,  including emergency response plans, sterile fly production and  dispersal levels, as well as targeted initiatives in surveillance and  research. I have been working closely with the USDA and other  stakeholders to promote these efforts, and I have introduced  legislation to authorize funding to deal with these measures.

First of all, the USDA is partnering with State and local governments  to ensure that the United States is prepared for a potential outbreak.  This means working across Federal, State, local, Tribal, and  territorial agencies to update emergency response plans, ensuring that  responders are trained and ready.

They are also supporting hands-on training and simulations at all  levels of government to practice rapid, coordinated responses in the  event of an outbreak. They are ensuring that we have effective  treatments available for both animals and humans so that veterinarians  and healthcare professionals can act quickly, if necessary. This  parasite doesn't just affect cattle. It affects human beings, too, and  it is a horrific, horrific thing.

Secondly, USDA is investing significantly in the renovation and  construction of new sterile fly facilities in both the United States  and Mexico to stop the screwworm. We know that the use of sterile flies  was effective during the last outbreak of the New World screwworm in  North America, which happened in the 1960s.

The sterile male fly mates with female flies who mate only once  during their lifetime, so by releasing large numbers of sterile male  flies, the population can be stopped in its tracks. This approach  worked to eradicate these deadly infestations in the '60s, and I am  hopeful it will work again. I am confident it will, once implemented,  now in the 2020s.

The USDA is investing $21 million to help renovate and convert an  existing fruit fly facility in Metapa, Mexico. Once complete, this  facility is expected to produce an additional 60 to 100 million sterile  flies per week. With continued support from technical experts at USDA,  Mexico expects production to begin as early as the summer of 2026.

Last November, the USDA opened a sterile fly dispersal facility in  Tampico, Mexico. This facility allows USDA to disperse sterile flies  aerially across northeastern Mexico, including Nuevo Leon.

In addition to revamping and developing facilities in Mexico, the  USDA is also working to ensure that we have a sterile fly facility here  in the United States. Planning is currently underway with the U.S. Army  Corps of Engineers to construct a domestic sterile fly production  facility in south Texas. This facility has a projected capacity of 300  million sterile flies per week. It will be the only U.S.-based sterile  fly production facility and will work in tandem with facilities in  Panama and Mexico to help eradicate this pest and protect American  agriculture.

But Secretary Rollins' efforts haven't stopped there. USDA is also  investing in surveillance capabilities to try to monitor the spread, as  well as research to identify new solutions. The USDA has deployed over  100 traps and lures across high-risk areas in the border States and is  leveraging thousands of insect traps all along the southern border.  Tens of thousands of flies from traps in all locations have been  submitted to our National Veterinary Services Laboratories for  identification, thankfully with zero New World screwworm detections so  far.

In Texas, the USDA examines all wildlife for signs of an infection.  To date, more than 6,600 wild animals across 28 species have been  examined--here again, thankfully, with no evidence of New World  screwworm found.

Finally, the USDA has announced a New World Screwworm Grand  Challenge, which will prevent the pest's northward spread and safeguard  America's food supply by investing in projects that enhance sterile fly  production, develop new traps and lures, and develop increased  understanding of potential treatments that could be stockpiled and used  here in the United States, if necessary.

So while the New World screwworm poses a direct threat to cattle  ranchers, for all of us who enjoy a good hamburger or steak, I think  this should be encouraging news. So the fly has yet to land here in the  United States, but it is close, and we are taking active steps to  prevent its continued northward spread.

I am confident that under Secretary Rollins' and President Trump's  leadership, we will be prepared to meet this nasty parasite if it  arrives in the United States. Texas cattle ranchers and beef lovers  alike can rest assured knowing that Secretary Rollins and President  Trump and the U.S. Congress are on the job.