Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, we all remember the tragic murder of SPC  Sarah Beckstrom on the eve of Thanksgiving. She was, as we all will  recall,  one of the National Guard servicemembers working here in the District  of Columbia. We are continuing to pray for the recovery of Staff Sgt.  Andrew Wolfe, who was injured in the shooting. But, of course,  Specialist Beckstrom lost her life.

The news cycle moves very quickly, and it seems like while something  happens today, tomorrow, it is something new. But it is important that  we not allow the mistakes that were made by the Biden administration  when it came to vetting Afghan nationals to be forgotten. We cannot  ignore the reality that Sarah Beckstrom was another victim--an  unnecessary victim--of President Biden's careless immigration policies.

The man who committed this heinous act was an Afghan national whom  President Biden allowed to enter the country after our disastrous  withdrawal from Afghanistan. Unfortunately, it is too late to bring  Sarah's life back, but her death should not be meaningless, relegated  to headlines with no action. It is not too late to look back on the  flawed decisions that allowed her killer to enter the United States in  order to correct these mistakes and to prevent future harm.

Furthermore, this crime at the hands of an Afghan national parolee  was not a one-off occurrence. The following week, another parolee--and  I will define that further, but this is not pursuant to any law  actually passed by Congress, like the Special Immigrant Visa Program.  This was done outside of that program, with even fewer protections and  less vetting.

But the following week after Thanksgiving, another parolee nearly  committed a terrorist attack in Fort Worth, TX. Thanks to the Federal  and local law enforcement, they were able to apprehend him and prevent  him from carrying out that attack.

I am grateful to the Department of Justice, including the FBI, and  our State and local law enforcement officials who prevented this attack  from happening. But the fact that the perpetrator is here in the United  States in the first place underscores yet again the failure to vet the  individuals who came into this country via the Biden administration's  parole.

The repeated incidents--and there are many more--committed or  attempted by Afghan nationals demonstrate that something has gone  terribly wrong with the way government has been vetting or failing to  vet aliens who have entered the country, and I believe that these  questions deserve answers.

For that reason, I am chairing a Judiciary Committee subcommittee  this afternoon, alongside our colleague Senator Hawley from Missouri,  entitled ``Biden's Afghan Parole Program--A Trojan Horse with Flawed  Vetting and Deadly Consequences.''

At this hearing, we will carefully examine the policies implemented  or those failed to be implemented by the Biden administration that led  to these tragic events, particularly the flaws in President Biden's  mass immigration and parole programs that were not just limited to  Afghan nationals. As I have said, ``parole'' is a unique term under  immigration law. But it is worth revisiting exactly how this happened,  because, again, this happened not because of any program passed by the  Congress but unilaterally by President Biden.

Under U.S. immigration law, ``parole'' in laymen's terms is kind of  like an E-ZPass, like speeding through a toll booth. U.S. immigration  service defines ``parole'' as ``the discretionary decision that allows  inadmissible aliens . . . [who] are not admitted to the United States .  . . to be physically present in the United States.'' It is sort of like  a permission slip.

Parole is an authority that allows the Department of Homeland  Security Secretary to waive people into the country who otherwise would  not be allowed in.

Under Operation Allies Welcome, President Biden extended this  immigration E-ZPass to hundreds of thousands of aliens who weren't  eligible to come to the United States. This discretionary authority was  only supposed to be used on a case-by-case basis. It is an authority  that President Biden repeatedly abused not only in this program but at  the southern border as well to admit hundreds of thousands, even  millions of individuals into the country during the Biden years and  their open border policies.

But even though this authority is supposed to be used only on a case- by-case basis, the Biden administration turned this exception into the  rule. Now we also know that when it came to the Afghan parole program,  Operation Allies Welcome, the Biden administration allowed in many  aliens who had not been fully vetted, including the man who drove  across the country to murder this young National Guardsman and the man  who threatened to carry out the suicide bombing in Fort Worth, TX, who  were not eligible to enter the United States but for this discretionary  E-ZPass issued by the Biden administration without adequate protections  for the American people.

As we will learn at the hearing, in most, if not all, cases, the  Biden administration did not know exactly who these people were. Many  of them could not say when they were born or even their own last name.

I think we sort of fail to recognize that the population we are  dealing with, the individuals in Afghanistan--many of them are  functionally illiterate. And, of course, many of them are coming from  this country that was war-torn and literally run by the Taliban, which  is an international terrorist organization. Consequently, many of these  aliens have likely committed acts of terror or have ties to terror  groups.

In some cases, the U.S. Government was asking the Taliban to verify  information on these individuals. Now, that strikes me as rather  bizarre. The Taliban, a terrorist organization that would kill many of  the Afghans who cooperated with the U.S. military--we are actually  asking them to verify the identity and eligibility of these individuals  to enter the United States. In any event, the Taliban is hardly a  reliable source of information.

The lack of information on these parolees also raises the possibility  of a preliminary background check coming back clean because there  simply wasn't enough information available to determine whether this  person was safe or not.

Essentially, the policy of the Biden administration was--the default  was, come on into the country, in the absence of derogatory  information. But the fact of the matter is, in war-torn Afghanistan,  now run by a terrorist organization, where you have literally  functionally illiterate individuals, the absence of derogatory  information is not any proof that these individuals could safely be  allowed into the United States. So the default was, let them in, even  in the absence of any information whatsoever.

At today's hearing, we will learn more about this and other problems  with the Biden administration's mass parole of Afghan nationals into  the United States.

Once again, let me just reiterate that tens of thousands, hundreds of  thousands, even millions of individuals were admitted into the United  States due to President Biden's open border policies, using this same  claimed discretionary authority, which should be used only on a case- by-case basis. But the Biden administration opened its arms and allowed  hundreds of thousands of individuals--indeed, more likely, a million or  more individuals--to come in on the parole program.

So the Afghan parole program was simply a subset of the larger policy  of the Biden administration to welcome foreign nationals with open arms  into our country without our knowing enough about them to know whether  they would be a threat to public safety.

We will hear from two panels of experts who will help shine a light  on the missteps of the Biden administration. Our first panel will  include Mr. Craig Adelman, deputy inspector general at the Department  of Homeland Security; Michael Roark, deputy inspector general with the  Department of Defense, and Mr. Arne Baker from the Office of Inspector  General at the Department of State. We have a second panel where we  will hear from researchers and policy experts who will speak to the  nuances of the vetting--or the lack of vetting--that the Afghan  parolees underwent.

While it is important to treat our friends and allies with proper  consideration, assuming that they are not a threat to the American  people, if we want the cooperation of other foreign nationals in the  future in some of our  conflicts, the bottom line is the nonnegotiable demand has to be the  American people being able to sleep safe at night knowing they are safe  from criminal aliens and terrorist sympathizers. That is the  nonnegotiable bottom line.

They deserve to know--we all deserve to know what actions the Biden  administration took or did not take that risked their safety. At this  afternoon's hearing, we will give the American people the answers or at  least begin to give them the answers that they and we deserve.