Government Funding


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, as the Presiding Officer will recall, it  was 2:30 in the morning on Saturday--just a few short hours ago, it  seems like--that the Senate voted to pass a budget resolution amending  the House budget resolution, the next important step to passing  President Trump's ``America First'' agenda.

The budget will go back--and has gone back--to the House, and then it  will be time for the committees to do really the hard work. This was  the easy part, passing the framework, but now we have to write the  bills to implement not only the continuation of the current tax  provisions but also the spending cuts that are so important and to help  the President keep his other promises that he made on the campaign  trail. And we are on our way to what President Trump likes to call  ``one, big, beautiful bill.''

Well, a lot of important conversations have been taking place, on  both sides of the Capitol, about what the result will be. But while  these questions and some differences are natural, the critical matter  at hand in this budget resolution is to make sure that we don't impose  a multitrillion-dollar tax increase on the American people.

Now, there have been a lot of crazy allegations made about what the  budget actually did or did not do, while some of our colleagues have  said that the American people don't want to see their tax cuts  extended, which is false, and I don't know who they are talking to. And  then they claim that the extension would benefit the wealthy few at the  expense of the middle class. That is also another false statement.

As I said, if the President's tax cuts are not extended, we will see  a multitrillion-dollar tax hike, the largest in history, and 62 percent  of American taxpayers will see a tax increase in 2026. Working parents  will see the child tax credit cut in half, and the average family of  four that earns $80,000 a year will face a $1,700 tax increase. Back  home in Texas, my constituents would see their taxes increase by $3,000  on average next year.

Now, imagine this. If we failed to follow through on President  Trump's campaign promises and on our campaign promises, if we agreed  with the Democrats who were demagoguing this issue, can you imagine  what that would do to the standard of living of hard-working American  families? And that would be on top of 4-year high inflation--actually  the highest in 40 years. So that would be, to me, insult added to  injury, to add a huge tax increase on top of all of the inflation that  Americans experienced during the last 4 years--roughly, on average,  about a 21-percent increase in the cost of living.

But not just families would be affected. Small businesses would see  their Federal tax rates increase by almost 50 percent. One recent  survey found that 61 percent of small business owners said they would  have to increase prices as a result of the tax increase on them. Can  you imagine what that would do to already high prices as a result of  inflation?

Nearly half of these small businesses reported that they would have  to postpone or cancel capital investments; in other words, they  couldn't grow their business, hire more employees, or improve their  equipment.

Now, these are not massive corporations, as we hear from folks on  that side of the aisle. They talk about businesses as if they were all  Fortune 500 companies. Most businesses in America are small businesses,  the owners of which pay business income on an individual tax return-- so-called passthrough entities. And these are the folks--these local  entrepreneurs are the ones--that create jobs and help employ hard- working Americans who are pursuing their American dream.

Republicans, it is good to announce or report or reassure that we are  united against these defenseless claims coming from the other side.  That doesn't mean they will stop. They are depending on low-information  voters, people who just read the headlines or read certain propaganda  to carry the day on their false allegations about this just helping the  rich people. Or one of my favorite is they were arguing during the  budget vote-arama, as it was called, that this was going to affect  Social Security.

They know and we know that the law prevents Social Security from  being even included in these discussions. So how could it possibly be  true? It can't be true.

So we have to get this bill over the finish line by sometime this  summer. In addition to preventing the biggest tax increase in history,  this bill will provide an opportunity for us to take important steps in  controlling spending and addressing our national debt.

Now, I noticed the chairman of the Armed Services Committee just came  into the Chamber, and he knows, like I know, as the Presiding Officer  knows, that we are now paying more for interest on the national debt  than we are on defense, in a very dangerous world--perhaps the most  dangerous since World War II.

So we have to begin the process of controlling our spending, and the  only way we do that is by looking at everything that the Federal  Government spends.

The Federal Government spends about, I think, roughly $6.7 trillion a  year, but it is crazy to acknowledge that we only typically look at  about 28 percent of what the Federal Government spends--so-called  discretionary spending. So we have to find a way to reduce our  spending, not only on the discretionary side but on the mandatory side,  so we can fund our Nation's priorities.

And our top priority as the Federal Government has to be to defend  and protect the American people and our way of life. But we can do this  without tampering with essential programs like Social Security, as I  said, and programs like Medicare that our seniors rely on.

Now, one of the ways we can do this, which I hope we will embrace  wholeheartedly, is to look at means-tested Federal programs. So what  does it mean to have a means test?

Well, it depends on your income. Wealthy people don't qualify. People  of modest and lower income brackets can qualify for these means-tested  programs. But they need to have work requirements for able-bodied  adults because there are a lot of able-bodied adults that are simply  living off of the American taxpayer, costing billions and billions of  dollars for the taxpayer, running up our national debt, when they  should be contributing to our economy and contributing to their  families and their communities by doing meaningful work.

For a long time, there was a bipartisan consensus around work  requirements. In 1996, for example, President Clinton and Newt  Gingrich, when he was Speaker of the House, came together to pass  monumental reforms on the way our welfare system works in America, and  one of the key components of that was that welfare assistance depended  on work for able-bodied adults.

We are not talking about children. We are not talking about the  elderly. We are not talking about the disabled. We are talking about  able-bodied adults.

The Welfare Reform Act of 1996 replaced AFDC, as it was called, with  TANF, or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, which imposes a 5- year limit on cash assistance and required recipients to either work or  participate in some type of job training. The bipartisan goal of this  policy was to promote self-sufficiency rather than dependency,  something the Federal Government ought to encourage and incentivize as  much as we possibly can.

And here is the good news: It actually worked. It worked.

It is not just a theory. Within 5 years of passing the law, welfare's  caseloads declined close to 50 percent--the first significant decline  since World War II. Employment and earnings increased among low-income  individuals, with employment among single mothers increasing from 50 to  100 percent 7 years after President Clinton signed it into law. During  the same time period, child poverty declined by 2.9 million people.

But despite the success of this bipartisan policy, the Obama  administration began to roll back these requirements by issuing TANF  work requirement waivers. In other words, they said to the various  States: You don't need to impose this work requirement on able-bodied  adults in order to collect temporary assistance for needy families.

The Trump administration built on previous successful work  requirement policies by issuing a rule that would condition SNAP, or  food stamps as they are sometimes called, on similar work requirements.  After all, why should somebody be able to qualify for food stamps if  they are able to work and simply refuse to do so--and, in fact, when it  is good for them to actually go back to work and provide the dignity  that goes along with that, to self-sufficiency supporting themselves  and their families and their communities.

The U.S. Government spends about a trillion dollars on means-tested  assistance programs, and work requirements are a commonsense step  forward for reform.

But setting aside the budgetary impact of work, there is a moral  reason for these work requirements. Gainful employment has dignity.  People feel better about themselves. They are more productive. They are  happier. They are able to contribute not just to their own well-being  but to that of their community and their family.

So it is more than just a paycheck. It can help address the  loneliness epidemic that we saw, particularly post-COVID, and it is  proven to improve mental health outcomes across the board.

So I would encourage my Republican colleagues to join me in  strengthening work requirements across means-tested programs when the  time comes to identify these savings within our committees.

The American people voted overwhelmingly for President Trump, and now  it is our turn to deliver the ``America First'' agenda that our  constituents voted for and take this opportunity to address our  national debt and encourage more Americans to pursue gainful employment  instead of solely relying on government benefits.

The Senate has completed our next step by passing President Trump's  budget, and it is time for the House to do the same.