Nominations


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, after Mayor Mamdani was elected in New  York City, the word ``affordability'' became all the buzz among the  political classes and among the media as if this were something new.  Obviously, affordability is not something new. It has, actually, always  been the most important issue that voters and my constituents in Texas  and Americans, generally, have felt was important because, of course,  it deals with their quality of life and their standard of living. It  has always been an important issue.

But, a year ago in November, the American people delivered a clear  message that the Biden administration, which presided over 40-year high  inflation, was taking the country in the wrong direction. President  Trump received the electoral vote and the popular vote, and he won  every swing State. Republicans secured majorities in both the House and  the Senate.

This year, it has been up to the Republicans to course-correct. One  of the most significant factors that has guided us is the need to  address the burden of rising costs on everything: inputs into farming  and ranching and the cost of commodities--food on the kitchen table.  All of these are very real and important and urgent issues that we have  tried to address, and there is more we can and should do.

But, under President Biden, the country experienced, as I said,  historic levels of inflation not seen since Jimmy Carter was President  of the United States. The cumulative inflation from the time President  Biden took office until he left was 20.6 percent. Stated another way,  everything cost more than 20 percent more from the time President Biden  took office to the time he left. That is a huge cut in the standard of  living and a huge increase in the cost of living for all Americans.

By the time he left the White House, a typical family in Texas, for  example, would have to pay an additional $12,427 every year just to  maintain the same standard of living that they had enjoyed when  President Biden first took office. So that is like getting a $12,427  pay cut each year for the average Texas family.

Last November, when President Trump was reelected, 58 percent of  Americans said they thought the country was on the wrong track. So it  is no surprise that they voted for a new direction. Actually, I think  two things helped President Trump the most. One was his pledge to  secure the border, which he has done. Secondly, it was his pledge to  deal with this issue of rising inflation and the increasing cost of  living.

President Biden's policy, no doubt, contributed to the pain that  families were and still are feeling in their paychecks.

Of course, it is one thing to identify a problem, but it is harder  still to do something about it. There is, obviously, no silver bullet  that can magically make inflation disappear. The Federal Reserve  continues to struggle with this issue when they deal with the monetary  policy, with what the interest rates are. The good news is the rate of  inflation has gone down, but we still have the higher baseline sticking  around from the Biden era. In other words, prices are rising more  slowly, but they are still high.

The good news is that Republicans have taken important steps that  will help ease the affordability crunch for all Americans, particularly  when it comes time to file their taxes next year. The Working Families  Tax Cuts Act was signed into law by President Trump on July 4. This is  one of the most significant pieces of legislation that we have seen in  a long, long time, and one of the challenges we have had in trying to  explain it is there is so much in there that it is really hard to break  it down into digestible pieces that folks can understand.

The truth is, this legislation will help Americans keep more of what  they earn by lowering taxes across the board, and not a single Senate  Democrat voted for it. Essentially, by voting against it, they voted  for a $3,000 tax increase on most families back in Texas.

The Working Families Tax Cuts Act permanently increased the standard  deduction to $15,750, including an annual adjustment for inflation.  Without our legislation, the standard deduction would have dropped to  $8,300 next year. This means that the 12 million Texas families who  claim the standard deduction each year would have had to pay an  additional $7,450 in taxes next spring without that legislation having  passed. The lower rates from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act from 2017 were  set to expire at the end of this year, but the Working Families Tax  Cuts bill made these lower rates permanent.

In addition to the increased standard deduction and lower rates  across all income brackets, our legislation delivered targeted relief  to those who were feeling squeezed the most. One of these groups is  families with children. Those with small kids often have to choose  between living on one income or incurring the increasingly high cost of  childcare. If we hadn't passed the Working Families Tax Cuts bill,  these families would have been slapped with a tax increase, with the  child tax credit scheduled to decrease from $2,000 to $1,000. Our  legislation prevented this from happening. We raised the child tax  credit up to $2,200 and indexed it to inflation so that it will  continue to go up year after year.

We also permanently strengthened the employer-provided childcare  credit. This tax credit will incentivize businesses to provide  childcare for their employees.

Of course, for some families, these credits seem like a drop in the  bucket compared to the cost of raising a family, but I hope these small  steps are a step in the right direction toward making family life more  affordable, which we must do.

Another area my colleagues and I have been discussing on both sides  of the aisle, which is a real issue for most Texans, is the rising cost  of healthcare.

Now, if you have only been listening to our Democratic colleagues,  you would be forgiven for thinking Republicans have done nothing to  address the cost of healthcare in this country. But that is not true.

In the working families tax cuts, we expanded access to health  savings accounts, also known as HSAs. These savings accounts allow  individuals to save pretax dollars and then use those funds to cover  eligible medical expenses. These accounts are particularly useful in  the case of a medical emergency when an unexpected bill arrives.

We expanded eligibility for these health savings accounts to  individual bronze market and catastrophic plans starting in 2026. We  also ensured that high-deductible health plans cover telehealth and  other remote access or virtual healthcare services before the  deductible kicks in, while remaining HSA-eligible.

I know we are all concerned about access to healthcare, and actually  one of  the biggest, most important things that came out of the COVID pandemic  and the way we responded, in addition to Operation Warp Speed, was the  broader application of telehealth.

Most places around the country are being served by broadband. Many  people have access to the internet. Now we have provided the incentives  and the reimbursement for more people to get access to healthcare  through the internet using telehealth. Not every medical condition  requires people to show up at a hospital or emergency room or a  doctor's office. Many people can more conveniently, more inexpensively  be served by accessing telehealth, and we made that more available.

Of course, there is a lot more work that needs to be done, and I look  forward to working with all of our colleagues next year to continue to  develop policy solutions that will lower costs for patients and  families. But one of the things we should not and we must not and we  will not do is expand the fraud-riddled ObamaCare enhanced subsidies  that were provided during the Biden administration.

The Biden administration and Democrats at the time took the cap off  of the subsidies for healthcare for people making well in excess of  half a million dollars a year. That is crazy. We ought to be focused on  the vulnerable, the people who need access to care, and not people who  can afford to buy healthcare on their own.

In addition to medical bills, many families struggle to deal with  their car payments. You have to have a way to get around. Not everybody  has access to mass transportation.

Interest rates have remained high because of the historic levels of  inflation during the Biden administration and the efforts by the  Federal Reserve to combat that inflation through keeping interest rates  high. But these interest rates mean that the monthly loan payments for  cars have been higher and that buying a new car for most families is  more expensive.

For those making less than $100,000 a year, the working families tax  cuts introduced a new deduction that will ease this burden when it  comes time to buy a new car. These individuals--those who make less  than $100,000 a year--can now deduct up to $10,000 for interest paid on  a new vehicle if that vehicle was made here in the United States.

This was a much needed course correction from President Biden's so- called Inflation Reduction Act--which did nothing to reduce inflation,  by the way--which offered tax credits for electric vehicles that are  produced with reliance on Chinese supply chains and, perversely, taxed  low-income and working-class families in order to provide the subsidies  for rich people who could buy electric vehicles. Just bizarre.

Instead of incentivizing the purchase of these exotic vehicles that  undermine American manufacturing, Republicans are rightly delivering  tax relief to the working middle class who are struggling just to make  ends meet and, in this case, to afford a new car.

But that is not all. This legislation also delivered a historic win  for the working class with no tax on tips and no tax on overtime. Many  folks--me included--at some point in their adult lives end up working  waiting tables or in some sort of service industry. So the idea now is  that more folks working their way up the economic ladder can now enjoy  no tax on tips and no tax on overtime, which will actually incentivize  people to work more, which we need, without seeing their tax bill go  up.

Employees and self-employed individuals can now deduct up to $25,000  in qualified tip income through 2028.

Next time you go to a restaurant or a bar, why don't you ask the  waitstaff what they think about President Trump's no tax on tips and no  tax on overtime. I have done that, and it is no surprise that they  welcomed that with open arms.

Single filers can now deduct up to $12,500 on qualified overtime  income. A lot of our law enforcement personnel and first responders  work more than one job. They may work a side job in security or  something like that. Now, if they choose to work overtime, they can now  deduct up to $12,500 in qualified overtime income.

Now seniors can deduct an additional $6,000 on their Social Security  benefits.

All of these enhanced deductions will ensure that those who are  experiencing the brunt of the affordability burden will have a little  more breathing room when tax day comes around next year.

The Biden administration created long-lasting harm with its  profligate spending habits. It is wasteful Washington spending which  drove inflation and prices high and inputs for everybody who makes  anything in America or grows anything, for that matter.

So while we tackle the 40-year high inflation rate--and it is coming  down, thankfully--these steps we have taken in the Working Families Tax  Cut Act I think will help us nudge the economy where it matters most-- which is at the kitchen table--in the right direction and make life  more affordable and the standard of living better for our constituents.

The working families tax cuts may seem abstract right now, but when  it comes to next year, I think folks back home in Texas, Pennsylvania,  California, and all around the country are going to welcome the good  work that we did, together with President Trump, to pass the Working  Families Tax Cuts Act because it will improve their standard of living  and make life more affordable for them.

There is still more work to be done, but I believe Republicans have  delivered an important first step toward making life more affordable  for the people we represent.

Recognition of the Minority Leader