Texas


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, on another matter, we have just arrived  back in the Nation's Capital following a couple weeks back home, and I  am glad to report that I was able to put that time to good use.

It is no secret that Texas is one of the best places in the country  to do business, and that was certainly confirmed by my visit back home  these last couple of weeks. I had the opportunity to visit with some of  our most impressive businesses, from major manufacturing facilities to  local, family-owned small businesses.

One such visit was to Daikin Texas Technology Park in Waller County,  a suburb of Houston. There, I had the opportunity to tour their  facility and attend a townhall with many of their employees. It is a  truly impressive facility, employing more than 10,000 workers in our  State and leading the world in the engineering and manufacturing of  heating and air-conditioning products.

I also visited Alliance, TX, which is actually in Tarrant County or  Fort Worth, which is now a massive, master-planned, mixed-use  development in North Texas. Alliance is home to a number of important  businesses, residential neighborhoods, and a thriving island inland  port that boosts our country's supply chains. Located along an  interstate with rail and air access, at 27,000 acres, Alliance is  nearly double the size of Manhattan. From its inception in 1990 until  today, Alliance has had an incredible $130 billion economic impact on  our State.

Now, as you might imagine, one of the major themes of my discussion  back home was the importance of our major task at hand here in the  Senate, which is extending the expiring provisions of the Tax Cuts and  Jobs Act. While we made an important first step by passing the budget  resolution in the House and the Senate, now the various committees of  jurisdiction have their work cut out for them to pencil in the details  of the precise policies that will then require the President's  signature.

I spent a great deal of time back home hearing about the importance  of these tax cuts and how they have benefited not just Texas families  but small businesses throughout the State.

I know most of the time when we think about job creators, we think  about Fortune 500 companies, but the fact is, in Texas and across the  Nation, it is our small businesses that are the primary engine of job  creation.

In the Dallas area, I met with Andy Ellard, the owner and general  manager of Manda Machine Company, a third-generation, family-owned  company in Dallas. Andy's grandparents founded the company in 1950,  operating the business out of a back room in their house. Eventually,  when the time came for them to retire, they sold the business to their  daughter and her husband, who in turn sold it to their children. Now  more than seven decades later, Andy and his siblings are the third- generation owners of Manda Machine Company. Now, if that is not the  American dream, I don't know what is.

Andy told me how beneficial the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was for his  family business. He said that over the last 3 years, he has been able  to invest $80,000 in improving his business as a result of that  legislation. So if the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is not extended at the end  of this year, Andy and his employees in this small business will lose  out on these benefits that have helped his business grow and thrive and  provide employment for other families.

I visited another place in the Rio Grande Valley, this one called 5x5  Brewing Company. This is a veteran-owned, as it sounds, brewery which  is dedicated to brotherhood, tradition, and, yes, you guessed it, great  beer. This tradition is reflected on their menu as many of their  signature beverages have names of military significance.

There at 5x5, we had a panel discussion of small business owners,  including Luis Espindola, who is one of the coowners of 5x5 and a  Marine Corps veteran. I met with other business  owners at that panel, like Sarah Hammond, who owns Atlas Electrical Air  Conditioning, Refrigeration & Plumbing Services. Sarah is known as a  pillar of her community, serving as chair of the Rio Grande Valley  Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and helping to oversee the management of  Hummingbird Trailer Park. On top of this, she is involved with an  organization dedicated to helping develop and empower other women  business owners.

Then there was Jessica Delgado, who, having worked in the restaurant  industry since age 16, now owns multiple restaurants, and she serves on  the board of the Texas Restaurant Association and is a former  chairwoman of the Texas Restaurant Foundation.

Another impressive woman small business owner was Hortencia Camargo,  the owner of C4 Transport and Hacienda La Hortencia and a licensed  Realtor in McAllen, TX, and she is also the founder of GRASP, which  advocates for safe gun storage practices around children.

I also had the chance on this same panel to visit with  representatives of the agricultural sector, including Dante Galeazzi--I  am going to butcher Dante's name--Galeazzi, who is president and CEO of  Texas International Produce Association, who emphasized to me how  beneficial the Trump tax cuts were for Texas farmers and ranchers.

The message I heard from all of these impressive Texas entrepreneurs,  job creators, and pillars of the community was simple: The Trump tax  cuts helped their businesses grow and flourish, providing benefits not  only to themselves and their families but to their employees and their  broader communities.

Stories I heard from my fellow Texans like Andy, Luis, Sarah,  Hortencia, Jessica, and others show how patently false the accusation  is of our Democratic colleagues who somehow claim that this is just to  benefit rich people. The fact of the matter is, the Tax Cuts and Jobs  Act is not about helping the wealthy few at the expense of ordinary  Americans, contrary to the Democratic talking points.

You know, I have been here working in Washington--or what I like to  call the forward operating base in hostile territory--for some time  now, and the truth is, you get these prevailing narratives that get  repeated over and over and over again and written about by the press  that simply have no basis in fact or reality.

The truth is, if we fail to extend the expiring provisions of the Tax  Cuts and Jobs Act, 62 percent of American taxpayers will see their  taxes go up. Obviously--on top of a 40-year high inflation, which has  raised input costs across the board by about 20 percent or more as a  result of the policies of the previous administration, that obviously  would have a tremendously negative impact on our economy and the  standard of living, like the folks I mentioned back home.

This is really about lifting up hard-working men and women across the  country. The tax cuts are about helping every hard-working American  achieve their dreams. If President Trump's tax cuts are not extended,  as I say, virtually everybody or at least a significant supermajority  of American working families will see a tax increase. Texans  specifically will see taxes increase about $3,000 on average. I am sure  every single one of my constituents can think about somewhere better to  spend that $3,000 than to write a check to the IRS. Small business  owners like many of the folks that I met with these last 2 weeks would  see tax hikes of nearly 50 percent, and working families could see  their child tax credit cut in half, along with the standard deduction,  which was dramatically increased in 2017.

Despite these hard facts, our Democratic colleagues continue to  peddle the myth that President Trump's tax cuts are just for rich  folks. It couldn't be more clear that these claims are nothing more  than just that--myths.

So I urge my fellow Republican colleagues to never mind the naysayers  across the aisle. The American people, on November 5, gave us a job to  do. We took the important first step by passing the budget resolution  just before the Senate adjourned, and now that we are back in  Washington, it is time that we finish the job.