Americans in State of Desperation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698835/americans-in-state-of-desperation


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, Americans are in a state of total  desperation. For weeks, Floridians have been calling my office in  tears. They are looking at their budgets with panic while President  Trump rips away their healthcare, sends ICE to neighborhoods, deploys  soldiers to new global conflicts, and floods billionaire and  megacorporations with free money.

People cannot pay their bills, and Republicans here in Washington,  D.C., are totally unfocused, busy defending the latest cruelty done by  the administration.

Healthcare open enrollment ends next week. Enrollment is down.  Americans can no longer afford their coverage. We are in a healthcare  crisis.

Democrats don't control the House, the Senate, or the White House,  but we still managed to get this bill to the floor to extend the  Affordable Care Act tax subsidies. We are fighting with every tool,  with every option we have to save healthcare for our people.

I am voting ``yes'' to get this bill passed this week. I encourage  every single Member of Congress, whether they are a Democrat or  Republican to do the same. I say this as someone who represents a  community in the State of Florida, the largest Affordable Care Act  marketplace in the entire country. We have millions of people in the  State of Florida that will be impacted by this, and I encourage  everyone to vote ``yes.''                              Renee Nicole Good

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today deeply disturbed, distraught,  and angered by the shooting and the killing of Renee Nicole Good by an  ICE agent that happened just yesterday in Minneapolis.

This is a direct result of Trump's dangerous weaponization of our  immigration system and Federal law enforcement. This is the direct  result of an agency that is so emboldened by the President that they  truly feel like they can do anything with zero impunity and zero  accountability.

It shows up in small ways, like when I showed up to tour an ICE  facility in my own community and was asked by a Federal agent, in a  very condescending way, how old I was, to what we saw yesterday, which  was the killing and shooting of a U.S. citizen in her own damn  community.

Then yesterday, on the Oversight Committee, my Republican colleagues  voted ``no'' on a simple subpoena so we can get information, documents  relating to the murder of a U.S. citizen by a Federal agent. Then my  colleagues broke into this righteous debate: Let the process play out,  let DHS do their investigation, the agent gets due process.

Yes, all persons in the United States are entitled to due process.  Renee Nicole Good didn't get that due process because the agent was the  judge, jury, and executioner in the middle of a residential  neighborhood. There was no process or due process before the  administration that runs our Nation labeled her as a domestic terrorist  just minutes after this happened.

We won't allow this President to gaslight us, and we won't allow this  administration to lie to us about what we have seen before our very  eyes.

Not only am I going to vote ``no'' on any funding bills that gives  this agency more resources to do this type of thing and terrorize our  communities from the State of Florida to across this entire Nation, but  I am going to continue to show up physically at bases of operation,  field offices, detention centers, and the so-called Alligator Alcatraz  to conduct oversight and work with our communities to keep our people  safe.

Renee Nicole Good was the mother of three, had a daughter and a son  aged 15 and 12, and a 6-year-old with her husband who tragically died  in 2023. She was a devout Christian who participated in youth mission  trips to Northern Ireland when she was younger. According to multiple  reports, she was a poet, a writer, a wife, and a mother.

She had lived most of her life in Colorado and briefly moved to  Kansas to stay with her parents after her second husband, a military  veteran who suffered from PTSD, died in 2023.

We will honor her life with action, of course fighting to end gun  violence because what happened yesterday was gun violence, but also to  fight to end ICE's campaign of terror on our communities and our  people.