Haiti Tps Discharge Petition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701604/haiti-tps-discharge-petition


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the discharge  petition to extend temporary protected status for Haiti.

This petition, which I am very proud to be following the leadership  of Representative Ayanna Pressley in helping her co-lead this, has  secured the 218 signatures needed to force a vote.

Tomorrow's debate is a critical moment. This is about over 350,000  Haitian nationals, our neighbors, who have built their lives here and  contribute to our communities every single day.

Haiti is facing a humanitarian crisis. Forcing families to return  under these conditions would be dangerous and unjust.

We are seeing bipartisan support emerge in real time as Members from  both parties recognize what is at stake. Tomorrow, it is important that  we do the right thing, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''

Next, we must move forward and pass the discharge petition to extend  temporary protected status for Venezuelan nationals, as well.                   Women's History Month District Honorees

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize extraordinary women  from central Florida for their work and impact on the community that I  proudly represent.

Last month, our office celebrated these women at an in-district  event, and I will continue that celebration here today. They are  mothers, public leaders, entrepreneurs, changemakers, educators,  caregivers, and innovators. They are advocates and champions for  communities that are often forgotten. They fight hard, and we see them.

The first is Ericka Gomez-Tejeda, a community organizer for over 33  years in the central Florida area and a fighter for immigrant rights.

Shirley Richardson Bradley is a retired educator of 38 years, a  community trailblazer, and a historian.

Roniece Weaver and Fabiola Gaines are the cofounders of Hebni  Nutrition and authors of several cookbooks that have revolutionized  healthy eating in our underserved communities.

Michelle Sperzel is the CBO of Harbor House of Central Florida, and  her work really helps local survivors of domestic violence.

Jamilyn Salonga Bailey is the owner of Kaya and a recipient of  Florida's first-ever Michelin Green Star, located in Orlando's Mills 50  district.

Ossyris Bury is a first-generation Panamanian American majoring in  aerospace engineering at the University of Central Florida and a  researcher and aspiring astronaut who has already  made a lasting impact on her campus today.

Today and every day, we celebrate their achievements and honor these  empowered women who uplift and inspire others.