Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700035/law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I rise to strongly oppose the Law-Enforcement  Innovate to De-Escalate Act, a very disingenuous title for a bill that  doesn't mention law enforcement through the text of the bill.

This bill does weaken gun laws in this country. This bill will lead  to more ghost guns across this country. I promise you that within weeks  of this being passed, files will be online for people to be able to 3D  print just the few parts that will be needed to transform a taser that  uses gun powder to a gun that is going to be able to shoot bullets.  Then, within months, people would be able to purchase the same parts  online or in their local gun store.

The sponsor of this bill says that it makes it possible for law  enforcement to obtain tasers. They don't need this bill to do that. In  fact, this bill isn't even tailored specifically to law enforcement. It  changes gun laws in this country.

Law enforcement uses tasers in all 50 States. Gun violence is already  the leading cause of death for children in our country. This Congress  does not need to be in the business of weakening the laws that we do  have, but we do need to be in the business of doing what we need to do  to end gun violence in this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, when I first heard about this bill, I thought  it was very interesting that my Republican colleagues had this newfound  conviction in helping to prevent law enforcement doing bad things to  people and working to de-escalate law enforcement.

I am someone who has been a victim of the abuse of law enforcement,  and I just haven't heard my colleagues ever talk about it. I came at  this bill skeptically when I looked at it. It turns out the bill itself  was pretty much written by a corporation, Axon, that wants to sell a  new type of taser.

Let's be clear with everyone. Anyone can buy a taser right now. I  would ask everyone watching to go online and look at the fact that  anyone can buy it. It can be purchased on Amazon. Anyone can buy a  taser right now.

This has to do with new technology that uses gunpowder. This is the  reason the ATF decided to regulate this years ago. This doesn't have to  do with de-escalating law enforcement, which has tasers in all 50  States. This has to do with selling more weapons and firearms, and I  encourage my colleagues to vote ``no.''