Notice of Intention to Offer Motion to Discharge Committee on Rules From Further Consideration of House Resolution 965


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701751/notice-of-intention-to-offer-motion-to-discharge-committee-on-rules-from-further-consideration-of-house-resolution-965


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of extending  temporary protective status for Haitian nationals living in the United  States.

I am proud to represent Orlando, Florida, where one of the largest  populations of Haitians live in the country. They are facing a  humanitarian disaster and crisis, and we are facing a clear  humanitarian and policy problem.

Haiti remains in the midst of a severe crisis, unlike anything we can  find in the entire world. While hundreds of thousands of Haitian  nationals live in the United States, Haiti remains in severe crisis and  a horrible humanitarian situation. Hundreds of thousands of Haitian  nationals in the United States are living and working under temporary  protective status, and now that is at risk.

Conditions in Haiti are not safe to return. Armed groups control  parts of the country. Access to food, medical care, and basic security  remains deeply unstable. Deporting or forcing families to return under  these conditions would be dangerous and unjust.

At the same time, Haitian TPS holders are fully integrated into our  communities and societies. They are working, raising families, and  contributing to our economy and neighborhoods every day.

The question before us is whether we allow this uncertainty and  instability to continue or whether we will act. That is where this  discharge petition comes in. The normal legislative process has failed  to move this important issue forward, but this discharge petition has  succeeded in forcing the House to finally consider legislation to  extend TPS for more than 350,000 Haitian nationals. It is important we  keep that in mind.

If we fail to move this forward, we are talking about expelling  350,000 of our neighbors to a country that is deeply unstable and  dangerous.

By signing this petition, my colleagues have already recognized the  urgency of the issue. Now it is time to follow through with action. A  vote in favor of this measure provides stability for families,  communities, and for critical parts of our workforce.

Mr. FROST. A vote in favor of this measure provides stability to  families for communities and critical parts of our workforce. A vote  against it sends people into conditions that we know are unsafe.

This work does not end here. We hope that in the future we can do the  same thing for Venezuelan nationals. I am proud to be a part of this  fight right now following the leadership of Representative Ayanna  Pressley.