Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699906/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I oppose the rule because it contains H.R.  2189, the Law-Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act. This is a  terrible bill and a billion-dollar giveaway to gun manufacturers  wrapped in a deceiving title.

The corporate lobbyists pushing this bill claim it is an effort to  prevent police violence, but, in reality, it would make everyone less  safe. In fact, the words ``law enforcement'' aren't even found anywhere  in the bill.

Even Gun Owners of America is not being shy about what the bill  really does. They posted the summary online. Just today they posted it  as a bill exempting certain weapons from all firearms regulation under  the Gun Control Act and the National Firearms Act. There will be no  background checks and no questions asked.

Nowhere in the bill text does it mention law enforcement because law  enforcement already has and uses the power to purchase tasers. What the  bill actually does is create a new loophole that will flood our  communities with more weapons and new ghost guns.

Axon and other companies that make and sell weapons will benefit from  this bill, but none of us will benefit from it. Our communities will be  less safe.

Every time the government creates a new opening, the gun industry  will take advantage of it. I promise you, Mr. Speaker, within weeks  there will be files online to 3D print the parts you need to make this  weapon you got without a background check into a gun that can shoot  bullets, and within months you will be able to purchase those same  parts online legally.

When gun violence remains the leading cause of death in the Nation  for our kids, Congress must not hand unregulated weapons over to the  public. We must not make Axon, a multibillion-dollar company, even  richer. I am someone who has witnessed both police violence and gun  violence, and I want Congress to consider real reform like the George  Floyd Justice in Policing Act.

This bill was rushed to the floor. We tried to make changes, but our  edits were rejected.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to vote ``no'' on this rule, and I urge my  colleagues to do the same. Folks should know that voting ``yes'' on  this is voting ``yes'' on more guns in our communities.