Questions About the Epstein Files


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700565/questions-about-the-epstein-files


Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to talk about the investigation  and horrific crimes of Jeffrey Epstein.

Last Friday, I attended President Clinton's deposition in New York.  This deposition raised even more questions about President Trump's  relationship with Jeffrey Epstein.

Let me explain why. First off, of course, President Clinton said that  President Trump flew on the plane; but not just that, President Clinton  also recounted a conversation he had with President Trump about Jeffrey  Epstein on a golf course in New York in the early 2000s. He said that  President Trump had told him that the reason him and Jeffrey Epstein  had a falling out had to do with a real estate land dispute.

This directly contradicts information that President Trump has stated  in the past. He has claimed that their falling out was over spa workers  at Mar-a-Lago.

We also know his own Secretary of Commerce, Howard Lutnick, is in the  files, as well. Despite this, the President contends that he doesn't  know anything about Jeffrey Epstein's crimes. The question is: If you  don't know anything about the crimes, how do you know that Howard  Lutnick is innocent, as the President has stated multiple times.

I also have unanswered questions about President Trump's Mar-a-Lago  club. President Trump himself said that Jeffrey Epstein stole many of  the women who worked at the spa in Mar-a-Lago.

I made a motion in the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  to subpoena documents related to Jeffrey Epstein and Mar-a-Lago. No  Republican on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  supported my motion.

Republicans on the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  wanted to spend our time talking to Secretary Hillary Clinton. If we  are calling spouses before the Committee on Oversight and Government  Reform, why haven't we talked to Melania Trump about what she knows?

There are still many questions that need to be answered. I am proud  that yesterday the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform issued  a subpoena to Pam Bondi. We will hold her accountable for what is  obviously a coverup in her withholding of many of the Epstein files.                            DOJ Visits and Reddit

Mr. FROST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to chat about what I have been  doing at the Department of Justice. Many Members have been going to the  Department of Justice to view the Epstein files unredacted. Many of the  files I have looked at were still redacted, even ones without victims'  names in it. Some of the files I went to look for are no longer  accessible and actually have been removed from the website. We know  these files existed, but they have been scrubbed by the DOJ.

Americans are tired of the corruption. They are tired of a tiered  justice system where depending on how big your bank account is and how  connected you are will directly impact the outcome of your case. They  want transparency.

I went online to Reddit and different websites to ask folks what I  should look at and what they wanted transparency on as far as the  Epstein files were concerned. Here today, I wanted to come to the floor  to share some of the files that people online have asked me to look  into.

The first one was this file that talked about a torture video. This  right here is an email. The email belongs to Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem,  and that is who this was sent to.

The next one has to do with an email that says: ``Did you know  somewhere  in the hills outside Zorro, two foreign girls were buried on orders of  Jeffrey and Madam G. Both died by strangulation during rough fetish  sex.'' This is from a fake email right here, [email protected].  Then at the bottom down here, they are arranging for a Bitcoin to be  sent to a wallet address. I am actually going to read that address out  loud: 3Cr9TpVeBegey 4zGRPEdzMC94HzUUScBHN.

One of the other files people asked for some transparency on had to  do with the Federal Bureau of Investigation CHS reporting document.  This is still redacted. Even when I went into the DOJ and clicked a  button to unredact it, it was still redacted. I was told they received  it this way.

The next one has to do with a diary of drawings and collages,  something that could definitely give us some more information that  could be useful. This is also still redacted. There are many pages from  the diary, all redacted. Of course, we need to keep the victims' names  from being made public, but Congress has a right to investigate this  important information.

One of the files that folks asked me to look into is about Donald  Trump. Jeffrey Epstein forwarded an email to Ghislaine Maxwell. This  email was from Jack Goldberger.