Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695142/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. FROST. Mr. Chair, today, I rise in opposition to this amendment,  which will put American lives at risk.

The gentleman from the other side of the aisle made a point to talk  about the Civilian Marksmanship Program and what it was intended to do  and what it is intended to do.

This amendment would make our country more dangerous by adding  another responsibility and priority to the program, to not just train  people but to essentially become an arms dealer, putting more weapons  on the streets of this country. It will increase the number of military  firearms that will be put into circulation by the Civilian Marksmanship  Program. It will increase the types of firearms that can be put into  circulation by the CMP. It will transform an entity that has existed  for a century intended to focus on gun safety and education into an  arms dealer.

Since 1996, purchasing a firearm from the Civilian Marksmanship  Program has required a person to certify that they are purchasing a gun  only for their personal use. Just like purchasing a gun from any  federally licensed gun dealer, it is illegal to buy a handgun intending  to sell it to somebody else.

This amendment would change that. It would allow military guns to be  bought and then immediately resold. We aren't just talking about World  War II rifles or pistols, as the CMP has sold for about 100 years and  like it currently is. This amendment will allow modern military and  government shotguns and some rifles to be sold.

To save lives, Democrats have now twice passed the bill that would  expand background checks on every gun sale, and here my Republican  colleagues are wanting to make it even easier to dodge the rules that  we do have.

Mr. Chair, recirculating retired service weapons already has inherent  risk. More than 52,000 retired law enforcement firearms have been  resold to the public and have been found at crime scenes between 2006  and 2022. That is 52,000 resold guns. They now want to make the number  even more.

We have more guns than people in this country. We have a gun violence  problem in this country. The solution is not the Federal Government  putting more guns on the streets of this country.

Mr. FROST. Mr. Chair, the interesting thing is the sponsor of this  amendment, Mr. Pfluger, in his home State of Texas, there were 22 mass  shootings in just the first 4 months of this year.

Mr. Chair, I am confused on where this amendment is coming from. Why  do we need to task the CMP with selling more guns with less  restrictions in a country where we have a gun violence problem?

It is interesting. It was one thing when the guns in questions were  relics of World War II and World War I. This amendment takes it several  steps further. It increases the potential number of weapons being  transferred. It expands the type of weapons to include modern .45- caliber pistols and shotguns. It adds sources to every Federal  department and agency so they can off-load their firearms to the  secondary market, including folks like the FBI or ICE.

We have to dig deeper here because the CMP is a nonprofit. This new  rule for the CMP, where they would sell massive amounts of firearms, is  actually going to help gun manufacturers make mountain loads of money  by putting more guns into circulation.

It is interesting. I looked it up. On a list of the 22 major sponsors  of the CMP, 6 are gun manufacturers. They are companies like Colt,  Glock, and Springfield. Mr. Chair, seven make gun accessories, and they  produce ammunition.

That means that the gun manufacturers funding the CMP stand to  benefit from the CMP selling even more weapons and having less  restrictions. It is the same old-same old on every issue. They are  finding loopholes for corporations to make more money when we have kids  dying on the streets due to gun violence.

The research shows that more guns lead to more violence. Most  Republicans, most Democrats, and--my favorite one--most NRA members are  for commonsense gun reform like universal background checks.

Instead of wasting time on figuring out ways to make quasi-Federal  agencies sell more guns on the streets, why don't we partner on this?

I oppose this amendment and urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Mr. FROST. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. FROST. Mr. Chair, I will take the 1 minute to say this: This is  one of many amendments I have come to debate this Congress where it  seems like it was just written by the gun industry and the gun  manufacturers.

It is disappointing. When gun violence happens, it doesn't matter if  you are a Democrat or a Republican. Bullets don't care who you voted  for. It impacts every single one of us in all of our districts.

I am member of Gen Z, but I call my generation the mass shooting  generation. When I visit the schools in my district, they tell me they  go through more school shooter drills than fire drills.

In fact, we just had a shooting at the Florida State University where  a student used a retired service weapon to go into the school and kill  people. This is not what we need to be doing at this time. We can argue  on the merits of the CMP and the work they do on gun safety.

Adding another priority where they can sell more guns with less  restrictions in our country, where we have this problem where we lose  over 100 lives a day due to gun violence, is disgraceful. My hope is  everyone will vote ``no'' on this amendment.

Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.