Airspace Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701681/airspace-location-and-enhanced-risk-transparency-act-of-2026


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the ALERT  Act, and I thank Chairman Graves, Ranking Member Larsen, Air Line  Pilots Association, International, the Association of Flight  Attendants, Jennifer Homendy and the NTSB staff, T&I members, and  mostly the families who put such passion and advocacy into getting this  bill right.

It was not easy, but it is so very important that we made progress to  align the bill with the NTSB's recommendation. Again, I just  acknowledge that without the family members advocating on behalf of the  loved ones they lost on January 29, we wouldn't be here today.

They should not have to keep coming back into this room. They should  not have to listen to Member after Member say what everyone knows, that  this was preventable.

The NTSB found that the ADS-B In system could have provided up to 59  seconds of warning. That is what makes it so hard to hear that the  Board has been ambiguous about this. It has been recommending this kind  of requirement for years, 17 times since 2006.

The requirements here should be clear: ensure all aircraft equipped  with ADS-B Out carry ADS-B In with cockpit display of traffic  information, and ensure that happens on a firm, enforceable timeline  without any carve-outs. We should write that into law and not leave it  to some later process, delay, or direction.

Members on both sides of the aisle recognize we have a duty to all  Americans to put aside our differences and keep them safe. That means  the House and Senate need to work together to enact the strongest  possible safety requirements. This bill is an important step, and I  want to acknowledge how hard everyone worked to get here. Again, it  wasn't easy, and everyone worked to get us to where we are.

Madam Speaker, we owe it to every victim, every family, and the  American people to finish that work so these families don't have to  keep coming back.