America's National Churchill Museum National Historic Landmark Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700377/americas-national-churchill-museum-national-historic-landmark-act


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1945 will designate America's National Churchill  Museum as a national historic landmark. It would also direct the  Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study to  determine whether the museum is eligible for inclusion in the National  Park System.

This museum is located on the campus of Westminster College in  Fulton, Missouri, where former Prime Minister Winston Churchill  delivered his famous ``Iron Curtain'' speech at the outbreak of the  Cold War. It contains exhibits about Churchill, his life, and his  impact, all of which play a role in our story here and in London.

The museum exhibits include a continuous section of the Berlin Wall,  the gymnasium where Churchill delivered the ``Iron Curtain'' speech,  and the Church of St. Mary the Virgin, a historic building which  survived the air raids in London during World War II and was moved to  Fulton in the 1960s.

These are wonderful exhibits and a truly significant historical  location that is worthy of national recognition. I am proud to support  the designation of this museum as a historic landmark.

However, I also want to mention my deep concern about how this  administration is working to rewrite and whitewash history throughout  the National Park System. We must provide the Park Service with the  resources and autonomy it needs to preserve, protect, and share our  Nation's stories, warts and all.

Winston Churchill himself once famously told the House of Commons,  ``Those that fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it.''

We cannot learn from history if we erase history. We cannot see how  far we have come if we erase the things that don't fit into the current  idea of the way things should be. We can't sit idly by as this  administration selectively edits our country's past.

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.