Apex Area Technical Corrections Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691120/apex-area-technical-corrections-act


I rise today in strong support of H.R. 618, the Apex Area Technical  Corrections Act, a forward-looking bill by my colleague Representative  Horsford that will strengthen economic opportunity and improve land  management in southern Nevada.

This bill would update the Apex Project, Nevada Land Transfer and  Authorization Act of 1989 to provide the city of North Las Vegas and  the Apex Industrial Park Owners Association with improved access and  management authority in the Apex Industrial Park.

The Apex Industrial Park is a critical driver of job creation,  logistics, and advanced manufacturing in southern Nevada and the  critical update provided by this bill would open the door to more  efficient growth, infrastructure investment, and regional coordination.

This bill reflects how modern public-private partnerships should  work, by empowering local governments and stakeholders to align Federal  resources with local needs.

The bill would maintain full compliance with Federal environmental  standards, including NEPA and FLPMA, ensuring that responsible growth  and environmental stewardship go hand in hand.

Finally, the bill would simplify mineral sales during land grading,  cutting delays when competition is not feasible while protecting  Federal interests and upholding transparency.

This is exactly how Congress should tap into the potential of  utilizing Federal lands and resources to support local communities.  There has been a transparent process with multiple hearings and  significant stakeholder engagement.

This is the way the legislative process should work, and I thank  Representative Horsford and Representative Lee for leading the effort,  along with the support of Representative Titus. I know their  constituents back home in Nevada appreciate all the hard work and  effort that has gone into this bill.

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.