Critical Mineral Consistency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700399/critical-mineral-consistency-act-of-2025


Congress codified the critical minerals list in the Energy Act of  2020 to identify which minerals are most important to our economic and  national security and at risk of supply chain disruption.

The United States Geological Survey was required to create and update  that list, following a transparent, science-based process.

At the same time, Congress directed the Department of Energy to  create its own list focusing on critical minerals and materials for  energy needs.

Both lists provide crucial strategic direction for Federal  decisionmakers to secure our most critical and vulnerable supply  chains.

H.R. 755 provides administrative clarity by creating a unified  critical minerals and materials list, which incorporates the lists from  both USGS and DOE, while allowing the agencies to maintain the  scientific integrity of their individual processes.

I thank the bill's sponsors and my colleagues across the aisle for  working with committee Democrats to incorporate changes to the original  bill to better coordinate agency analyses without fully losing the  individual purposes of the two lists.

Unfortunately, a lot of careful policymaking and scientific work to  identify critical minerals and materials is actively being undone.

First, these lists are only useful if they are unbiased, and the  current administration has blatantly violated the law by including  metallurgical coal and uranium in the 2025 USGS critical minerals list,  despite the Energy Act of 2020 explicitly prohibiting the inclusion of  fuel minerals on the list.

They provide no public data or analysis to justify these inclusions  or prove whether they meet the Energy Act of 2020's criteria for  critical minerals.

Political interference in the critical minerals list undermines the  United States' economic and national security. We should target Federal  investments and interventions toward the most important at-risk  minerals and materials and supply chains.

Additionally, designating minerals and materials as critical only  matters if we can actually use these lists and designations.

Much of the latest critical minerals legislation that has passed on a  partisan basis this Congress actually makes no distinction at all about  prioritizing critical minerals. These bills have often provided  deregulation across the board to every industry, from gold to coal.