Enhancing Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700391/enhancing-administrative-reviews-for-broadband-deployment-act


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 5419 directs the Department of the Interior and the  U.S. Forest Service to evaluate policies, rules, and regulations  related to the siting and permitting of broadband infrastructure on  public lands. This bill is a commonsense step to help update and  modernize our broadband infrastructure.

Public lands host a lot of communications infrastructure that  Americans rely on every day to connect our smartphones, laptops, and  televisions. Broadband isn't just for entertainment. It is what people  use to do their jobs, access healthcare, and file their taxes.

Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Oregon recently received  Federal approval to move forward with the largest broadband  infrastructure investment in our State's history. This will connect  over 100,000 unserved and underserved Oregonian households and  businesses to affordable, high-speed, and reliable internet services.

However, in States like Oregon and in districts like the one I have  the honor to represent with large amounts of Federal land, broadband  infrastructure projects often require additional levels of permitting  and coordination across local, State, and Federal Government.

H.R. 5419 will help us look for opportunities to address any  broadband permitting barriers and update the rules in a measured and  responsible way.

This bill will help balance two critical obligations: building out  the infrastructure we need for vital technology and upholding our  commitment to the health and stewardship of our public lands. We can  and must meet both obligations.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from New Jersey (Mr. Kean) for  introducing this bill. I urge my colleagues to vote in support of H.R.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.