Law Enforcement Officer and Firefighter Recreation Pass Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693929/law-enforcement-officer-and-firefighter-recreation-pass-act


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Madam Speaker, H.R. 183 would amend the Federal  Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to provide free America the Beautiful  passes to law enforcement officers and firefighters.

Expanding outdoor recreation and ensuring Americans can access and  enjoy our public lands is a shared bipartisan priority on the Natural  Resources Committee. Currently, the National Park Service offers free  national park and Federal recreation land passes to certain groups,  including U.S. military members and veterans. This legislation builds  on this framework by waiving entrance, standard amenity, and day-use  fees at over 2,000 Federal recreation sites for law enforcement  officers and firefighters.

These hardworking Americans put their lives on the line to protect  and serve our communities every day. An America the Beautiful pass is a  small but hopefully meaningful token of appreciation for their public  service.

Furthermore, let me say that I am glad to see my Republican  colleagues acknowledging the importance of our public servants, and I  hope they will join us, in the spirit of this legislation, to do more  to support and protect all of our Federal first responders.

These public servants dedicate their lives to serving the American  people. The administration has created chaos and confusion that adds to  the difficulty of their jobs through Federal hiring freezes, which have  left them short-staffed.

In addition to showing our appreciation for these critical public  servants and first responders, I hope my colleagues will work with us  to make sure that our Federal workers have the tools that they need to  do their jobs, to keep us safe, and to also keep our public lands open  and operating and in the hands of we the people.

For too many of our public lands and parks, after Federal employees  have been fired, let go, or pushed toward retirement, private entities  are managing these parks, so the America the Beautiful pass is not able  to allow free access to these public servants and people who have put  their lives on the line to protect and serve our country.

Madam Speaker, I would love to work with everyone on that, as well. I  urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. Speaker, I agree with my colleagues that we should defend the  police and firefighters. I come from a family of police and  firefighters who put their lives on the line every day when they went  to work. I will happily work with my Republican colleagues to defend  police and firefighters and make sure not to defund them by protecting  their public pensions, collective bargaining rights, cancer prevention,  training grants, and grants to our local police departments that are  now being frozen, putting us in limbo.

This is a very real issue that I know I can work with my Republican  colleagues on to make sure that our public lands are not being operated  by private entities that refuse to recognize the benefits provided for  in this law. This is happening across the country, and in my district,  I know specifically, where they refuse to grant free entry for veterans  and military personnel. They say that they don't have to because they  are a private entity.

I would love to make sure that whoever is operating our public parks  is keeping them public and that these people who earned our trust and  earned this benefit and every benefit that we can give them are  actually able to get that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.