Memorandum of Understanding to Address Potential Impacts of A Certain Record of Decision on the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691058/memorandum-of-understanding-to-address-potential-impacts-of-a-certain-record-of-decision-on-the-upper-colorado-river-basin-fund


Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1001 would direct the Department of Energy and the  Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies to  evaluate the potential impacts of the 2024 supplement to the 2016 Glen  Canyon Dam Long-Term Experimental and Management Plan Record of  Decision on the Upper Colorado River Basin Fund.

The Colorado River is an essential water resource, supplying water  for municipal and agricultural uses, energy production, and fish and  wildlife habitat. However, persistent drought, over-allocation of water  resources, and the escalating impacts of climate change have placed  unprecedented strain on the basin.

The record of decision was an important step in addressing species'  needs below the Glen Canyon Dam, and preliminary data showed promising  results in protecting native fish species.

As drought conditions worsen and water demand continues to increase,  it is more critical than ever to ensure water management appropriately  balances agricultural, municipal, industrial, and environmental needs.

This legislation will direct Bureau of Reclamation and the Western  Area Power Administration to analyze how the record of decision may  impact the fund's resources, hydropower generation at the Glen Canyon  Dam, and endangered species.

I hope to work with my colleagues across the aisle on advancing  meaningful legislation to safeguard environmental and cultural  resources while addressing the long-term challenges of drought and  climate change.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance  of my time.

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.