Protecting Healthcare for Millions of Americans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698665/protecting-healthcare-for-millions-of-americans


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for  yielding. This has been a week. We invaded Venezuela; threatened to  invade Greenland; put Cuba, Mexico, and Colombia on notice that they  could be next; had the administration and many of my  colleagues, who know better because they were here, try and rewrite the  history of what happened on January 6; and an ICE agent shot and killed  a woman in Minnesota, and DHS immediately blamed the victim with no  pretense of wanting to find out what the facts were. An hour ago we  just had two more people shot by an ICE agent in Portland, Oregon.

These are dark times, and it is really easy to get bogged down in the  negative, but today, something really good happened. Mr. Speaker,  today, 17 Republicans joined Democrats to override the Speaker's  attempt to stifle the will of this body to vote to extend subsidies for  the Affordable Care Act for 3 years.

My district is just over 17,000 square miles. It is mostly rural with  rural hospitals hanging on by a thread. Some of them have just 15  percent commercial payer mix. Without the Affordable Care Act  subsidies, we will have more uninsured people, and these hospitals  could go under.

Prior to being in Congress, I worked at the United Way before the  Affordable Care Act working on healthcare access, and my county had a  21 percent uninsured rate. We have a lot of farmers, small business  people. We have people that couldn't afford insurance. Now our  uninsured rate is just under 8 percent. That is because of the  subsidies.

I have had people call me. One woman called and said she was paying  $87 a month. She now will have to pay over $1,000 a month, and she  can't afford her medication or the treatment that keeps her alive. I  have people, small business people in my district, that are calling to  say this is the first time they have ever had to go without insurance.

The fact of the matter is this is the right policy.

Now, if people want to talk about how to deliver quality, affordable,  appropriate healthcare with less money going to hedge fund-owned  medical practices or to insurance companies, I would love to work with  my colleagues on that. We have a Medicare for All bill that anybody can  get on. That is what we should be moving toward.

The bottom line is this: I remember when my mother, who was working  as a contractor because her job got shipped offshore, didn't have  insurance and she badly broke her leg, lost her home, went bankrupt,  lost everything, and had to start over.

Many people in this country will lose everything. This is the right  thing to do for right now, and then we should work together and be  responsible as Congress to lower the cost of healthcare, take out the  middleman, decrease the price of pharmaceuticals, and make sure that  people have access to healthcare wherever they are in this country.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to do that, and I encourage the Senate to take up  this bill and get it done so that we can actually do what we got sent  here to do, which is the work of the people.