Providing for Consideration of H.R. 2550 to Nullify the Executive Order Relating to Exclusions From Federal Labor-Management Relations Programs, and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697868/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-2550-to-nullify-the-executive-order-relating-to-exclusions-from-federal-labor-management-relations-programs-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, on March 27, President Trump issued  an executive order that took away the collective bargaining rights of  more than a million Federal workers at over 30 agencies under the guise  of protecting our national security. This includes VA employees, food  and safety inspection service workers, health and human service  employees, including those at the CDC and the FDA.

These workers now have had their voices silenced and have no  whistleblower protection if they report about working conditions or  safety or even illegal actions taken by their agency. They have lost  their voice to demand fair treatment or due process, and they have lost  the protection for their job.

This is coming from an administration who has been clear that they  have no respect for the Federal workforce or even in some cases for the  rule of law, who has said that they want to put the Federal workforce  in trauma to force them to leave.

The Protect America's Workforce Act nullifies this order and restores  all collective bargaining agreements that were in effect before March  26, 2025.

These collective bargaining agreements were bargained in good faith  and are a contract between the Federal Government and the people that  work for us.

Anyone who says that they are looking out for American workers should  support restoring and protecting the collective bargaining rights to  allow everyday people, our Federal workforce, to achieve economic  security and dignity by speaking with one powerful, unified voice. A  union helps workers use their power by standing together to level the  playing field.

It is disappointing that this bill couldn't come to the floor through  the regular process as there is enough bipartisan support to pass this  good and critical legislation, but that didn't happen.

I am grateful to my colleague, Jared Golden, for filing this  discharge petition. I am proud to speak in favor of it. This is a good  bill. I encourage my colleagues to vote ``aye.''