Redesignation of Paterson Great Falls Nhp Facilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691126/redesignation-of-paterson-great-falls-nhp-facilities


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R.  249, a bill that would ensure that the name of Congressman Bill  Pascrell, Jr., will forever be etched into the landscape of the city  that he so passionately served.

This legislation would rename two beloved landmarks within Paterson  Great Falls National Historical Park, the Scenic Overlook Trail Bridge  and Overlook Park, as the Bill Pascrell, Jr. Scenic Overlook Trail  Bridge and the Bill Pascrell, Jr. Overlook Park.

These places offer sweeping views of the Great Falls, a symbol of  American ingenuity, labor, and power.

There could be no more fitting a tribute to a man whose career  reflected those same qualities. For decades, Bill Pascrell fought for  the people of Paterson and the State of New Jersey. Anyone who visited  Paterson, as I have on many occasions, knew that he lived, ate, and  breathed Paterson. That man loved Paterson and was Paterson.

Mr. Speaker, it is also fitting that, on the week that we honor  police officers, who put their lives on the line to protect and serve  us, this is the time that we will pass this bill honoring Bill  Pascrell. He never backed down from standing up for working people and  for first responders. From the halls of city hall to Congress, he was a  tireless advocate for working families, veterans, public health, and  local infrastructure. Yet, what defined him was his unshakable belief  in the potential of his hometown, a city that helped build America and  the city that he never stopped believing in.

By renaming these park features in his honor, we are not just  commemorating his public service. We are linking his legacy to a  history of American industry, immigration, and a resilience that Great  Falls represents.

Bill Pascrell deserves this legacy. He was a legacy. He had a great  sense of humor, and when he walked in, everyone knew he was in the  room. We miss him dearly here, and his name belongs in this place not  only in the official record, but in the very landscape of the community  that he loved.

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon.  Pou).

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.