Reversionary Interest Conveyance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691118/reversionary-interest-conveyance-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Reversionary Interest  Conveyance Act, introduced by my colleague from California,  Representative Matsui.

This legislation would authorize the conveyance of certain  reversionary interests in approximately 8.43 acres administered by the  Bureau of Land Management in Sacramento.

Development at this site is currently hindered by reversionary  interest that dates back to the 19th century. The original conveyance  of this land from the Federal Government stipulated that it must be  used for specific stated purposes or ownership would revert back to the  United States.

Lands with reversionary interests like these have what is called a  clouded title, which limits allowable uses and development. In this  case, the reversionary interests originate from the initial conveyance  that provided public land for railroad purposes in the 19th century.

Making matters worse, the land changed hands over the years  eventually without the knowledge of this requirement.

This bill would finally clear up the landownership by resolving the  Federal Government's ownership claims in  these parcels. Under the sale authorized by this bill, the current  landowners would be given an opportunity to purchase the reversionary  interests from the Federal Government so the landowners may pursue  development or future conveyances of the land.

The bill will allow the city of Sacramento and Sacramento State  University to move forward with the development of an innovative and  dynamic research park.

This bill includes standard conveyance language, including the  requirement to sell the reversionary interests at fair market value.  The conveyance is supported by the Department of the Interior.

This transparent and targeted land conveyance would be a win-win for  the Federal Government and the community in Sacramento.

I thank Representative Matsui for her leadership. She has been  working on this bill for several years. I know her constituents  appreciate the hard work and perseverance.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.