Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Air Plan Approval; South Dakota;


Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I come down to the floor in support of the  resolution, but I am hoping to use my few minutes to step back from the  dizzying torrent of news that we have been delivered, often  contradicting sources of news from the President and his advisers, and  just ask some basic questions about the wisdom of this extraordinary  military endeavor and the administration's future plans in Venezuela.

I think the basic question that people are asking in my State--and, I  imagine, the same is true all over the country--is, Why did we invade  Venezuela? Why is our entire national conversation today seized by this  question of Venezuela? Why does Senator Kaine have to come to the floor  and offer a very simple resolution to clarify that the President  doesn't have the authority, unilaterally, to take military action  overseas without the consent of the people? Because for people in  Connecticut, they haven't been spending a lot of time, over the last 12  months, thinking or talking about Venezuela. Venezuela isn't terribly  relevant for the people I represent, who are worried about an economy  that seems to be stagnant; healthcare premiums that are doubling,  tripling for many people in my State; prices that are going up on all  the stuff that you need to afford to live. And, all of a sudden, the  President is talking only about Venezuela.

So why did we invade Venezuela? Why are we still talking about  Venezuela?

Well, let's rule out the reasons we know don't hold water. It is not  because Venezuela presents a security threat to the United States.

There was a reason we went into Afghanistan. However badly that  occupation ended, there was a reason we went into Afghanistan. They  were harboring a terrorist group that had attacked the United States.

Venezuela is not harboring any nonstate actors that have plans to  attack the United States. The Venezuelan Government is not a security  threat to the United States of America. So you can cross off that  reason. It is not because Venezuela is a security threat to the United  States, and everybody basically understands and knows that.

Now, the administration spent a lot of time talking about drugs.  Their initial forays with respect to military intervention in and  around Venezuela were targeting these boats that they  claimed were carrying drugs. And, you know, that makes a little bit  more sense to the American people because there are thousands of  Americans that are dying every year due to overdose.

But those overdoses, as people know, are mainly from a drug called  fentanyl. Well, Venezuela doesn't produce any fentanyl. What Venezuela  produces and ships is cocaine.

Now, cocaine can kill you. But that cocaine isn't even coming to the  United States. Reports are that 90 percent of that cocaine is going to  Europe.

So to the extent we were targeting drug boats off the coast of  Venezuela, to the extent that any of the rationale for the action  against Maduro had to do with the drug trade, that drug trade doesn't  really have anything to do with the American epidemic of overdoses.  That will continue unabated, no matter what we are doing in Venezuela.

And, then, it doesn't have anything to do, apparently, with the  restoration of democracy in Venezuela or the best interests of the  people of Venezuela, because immediately after the action was taken  against Maduro, the Trump administration lined up behind Maduro's  second in command, who is, as we speak, ramping up the repression of  political speech and political activities in Venezuela. All the bad  actors in the Maduro regime, with the exception of Maduro and his wife,  are still there, running a kleptocracy, stealing from the Venezuelan  people, shipping drugs out of the country, while continuing to destroy  the Venezuelan people's ability to protest.

So this doesn't have to do with a security threat to the United  States. It doesn't have to do with the flow of drugs to the United  States. It doesn't have to do with restoring democracy inside  Venezuela.

And so, in those moments and days after the invasion of Venezuela, we  were left to wonder: What is it all about?

And Donald Trump basically told you. I mean, he did tell you. He said  it was about oil. He said that he wants access to Venezuela's oil. He  wants the companies that are close to him to have access to Venezuelan  oil.

Remember, there was this meeting in Florida in which the oil  companies came down to see him during the 2024 campaign, and they told  him--this is a report. This is not an allegation. This is a mainstream  media report. The oil companies said they would give him a billion  dollars for his campaign in exchange for favorable treatment when he  became President.

Now, he has already given them a lot of favorable treatment, but,  boy, this would be a coup--the oil industry having full access to the  world's largest petroleum reserves.

But, today, this morning, in our briefing, we did learn that there is  another objective.

Yes, Trump wants control of the oil for his friends. But today in our  briefing--and also in public remarks so there is no issue with me  sharing this with you--the administration made clear that there is  another purpose for seizing the oil, and that is nation building.

This is the business we thought we were getting out of. Donald Trump  promised the country that he wasn't going to repeat the mistakes that  we made in the past in which we tried to impose our will on a foreign  country through military intervention or the threat of military  intervention. But what they are proposing to do is exactly that.

It comes in a slightly different form than what we did in Afghanistan  and Iraq, but it is from the same playbook. Here is their plan: They  are going to seize control of Venezuelan oil under the threat of  gunpoint, and then they are going to use that oil as leverage to  micromanage the Government and economy of Venezuela. Let me say it  again: We are going to seize Venezuelan oil by gunpoint. We are going  to use control of that oil to micromanage the country.

That is nation building. That is nation building.

And as much as it should worry you that there is not a good national  security justification and the only justification for this invasion is  to get control of their oil, it should worry you more that now the plan  is not just to seize the oil for the purposes of enriching Wall Street  and the oil industry, the purpose is to seize the oil so the United  States can manage and run the country of Venezuela.

Why should regular Americans care about that?

Well, first, it is this perpetuation of the same Bush-Cheney fantasy  that America can impose its will on a foreign nation through the power  of American military force.

Now, for now, this looks and feels different than Iraq or Afghanistan  because there aren't hundreds of thousands of troops inside Venezuela,  but let's make it clear. This is just a different kind of military  force because the only way that we get the oil is through a military  blockade--that is absolutely an act of war--and the threat of another  invasion if the leader--whomever it turns out to be; today it is Delcy  Rodriguez, who knows who it will be tomorrow--doesn't comply with our  wishes. So we are essentially encircling Venezuela with the American  military and telling them that if they don't to do what we want, we are  going to stop and board their ships. We are going to attack their  country again.

And, again, this is not speculation. Donald Trump has said this is  the plan; that if they don't do what we want, we will be right back  inside Venezuela.

This doesn't work. It has never worked in the past. It is the essence  of the quagmire that we got ourselves in, in Iraq and Afghanistan; the  belief, this myopic belief that neocons, that hawks have, that  warmongers have, that the United States can use its military to impose  our will on a foreign country.

And let me tell you, every country is unique and difficult to  micromanage from afar, but Venezuela is a complicated country. We are  talking about 30 million people. We are talking about active, armed  insurgency groups. What happens when you try this Iraq-Afghanistan  strategy is that, in the short term, it breeds resentment and  extremism. That is what we saw with the growth of ISIS and the regrowth  and reconstitution of the Taliban.

And in the long run, the country essentially just decides to wait you  out. They knew in Afghanistan we were going to tire at some point and  leave. So will the kleptocrats in Venezuela. They will play ball with  us, but at some point the warships are going to leave. At some point,  America can't devote one-third of its Navy to the waters around  Venezuela. And as soon as we leave, the kleptocrats and the corrupt  leaders will be right back in charge. If they don't want to change  their country from within, if there isn't a viable mechanism to do that  domestically, it is almost impossible to impose that from the outside.

The second reason that Americans should care is that it is illegal,  and that is the subject of the resolution. It is illegal. An embargo is  an act of war. Repeated military strikes followed on by invasion is an  act of war.

And this engagement is not just a hostile act against Venezuela, it  will inevitably draw increased frictions with Russia and China. Now, we  shouldn't be afraid of friction with Russia and China as a principle.  They are our adversaries.

But the reason that the Constitution says the people should be in  charge of the decision as to whether to enter into military activity in  a far-off nation--no matter whether it is a big nation or a small  nation--is because there are often spillover impacts and affects. And  if we are going to run a long-term naval blockade of Venezuela, if we  are going to be running the economy of Venezuela from the White House,  the American people have to have a say in that. The Founders, in fact,  required that.

And lastly, the reason that the American people should care about  this new plan, the nation building of Venezuela through the threat of  military force, is because it is an enormous distraction from what  actually matters to the people of this country, and so I will just end  where I began. Nobody in the State of Connecticut was asking me for an  invasion of Venezuela prior to the Christmas break. Everybody in my  State knows that this has nothing to do with their interests.

Lives are going to be lost in this country when millions of people  lose their insurance in the coming weeks. There are kids who are going  hungry, who are being fed lunch and dinner but not breakfast or just  dinner and not  lunch and breakfast because of the nutrition cuts that have been  imposed by Republicans.

The problems that Americans are facing require a White House that is  intent on running the United States of America. But this White House,  under the plan that they have revealed today, is going to be running  the country of Venezuela. And it is just true that when we were  involved in the quagmires in Iraq and Afghanistan, it occupied an  enormous amount of time at that White House. The amount of time that  the President and his team spent worrying about Baghdad and worrying  about Kabul--it was a distraction from the job of running the United  States. And so maybe more than any of the other reasons that people  should care about this plan to nation-build in Venezuela is that it is  just even more reason to doubt that this President is sincere at all  about doing what he said he was going to do, which is lower costs for  people.

Costs are going up. Healthcare insurance is disappearing. And the  President is telling you that, for the foreseeable future, he is going  to be spending just as much time thinking about running Venezuela as he  is about running the United States.

Finally, I will just say, if the Energy Department bill does make it  to the floor of the Senate--it is being debated this week in the  House--I will offer an amendment to that bill to prohibit the  requisition of Venezuelan oil for the purposes of nation building.

That will, of course, be an endeavor that the Energy Department will  be involved in. They will likely have to spend millions of dollars,  enormous amounts of resources, to take control of that oil to sell it  on the open market. That is a disastrous plan, as I have outlined, for  America and the world. And so I will just tell you that we will have a  chance to debate this plan if that appropriations measure reaches the  Senate, and I would commend my colleagues to take a look at it and  support it.