Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Within or Against Venezuela That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--


Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, next week marks the anniversary of my  Alive Day. That is the anniversary of the last day I ever woke up,  laced up my boots, and climbed into my Black Hawk helicopter; the day  when an RPG shot my helicopter out of the Iraqi sky; the day that I  could have died; the day that I probably should have died but didn't,  thanks to the courage of my buddies who risked their lives to save my  own.

So I come here this afternoon, battle wounds and all, not because I  am scared of war--I am not; been there, done that; got the t-shirt.  Titanium legs don't buckle, by the way. What I am scared of, however,  is that the United States is stumbling into an armed conflict because  of a five-time draft dodger who is using our military to pretend to be  a tough guy on the world stage.

What I am troubled by is that a man who was never brave enough to  serve in uniform himself seems to care more about thumping his chest  than keeping our troops out of danger. What I am worried about is that  Donald Trump's obsession with making America great again is making  Americans less safe again.

Two months ago, without even seeking congressional approval, the  Trump administration began carrying out airstrikes against boats in  international waters near Venezuela, claiming he was targeting fentanyl  traffickers and drug cartels. Since then, without due process, dozens  of people have been killed in these strikes.

What he is doing is un-American, unconstitutional, and downright  dangerous--dangerous for our servicemembers whom he is placing at  greater risk of retaliation, dangerous for Americans who should be  afraid that Trump is using military might to kill people without due  process or proper evidence, and dangerous for our democracy if we keep  speeding down this path.

Bringing the force of the U.S. military down on drug traffickers is  both ineffective and unwise, as drug trafficking is fundamentally a law  enforcement matter, not a military one.

This is yet another instance of Donald Trump wildly abusing our  military, trying to blur the lines between our servicemembers and law  enforcement. We saw it when he sent the National Guard to intimidate  peaceful protesters in Los Angeles or when he similarly threatened  Chicago and Portland before he was stopped by the courts. We have even  seen it in this Capital City, where I am speaking today, when  he forced troops to carry rifles around the quiet streets of our  Nation's Capital.

Now we are witnessing it stretch from DC to the Caribbean Sea as  Trump is, once again, unilaterally--and unconstitutionally--using our  troops however he sees fit, rule of law be damned.

To put what he has done another way, the President has ordered  repeated military strikes against civilians without congressional  oversight, and he has claimed that such military action is justified  because he himself, in his ultimate wisdom, has deemed these civilians  to be criminals, which leaves us to ask: What is to stop him from  arguing that anyone he dislikes deserves the same treatment? What is to  stop him from naming any of his enemies as a terrorist, then  unilaterally deciding to use the military to hunt them down without  congressional consent?

To be clear, I will never ever support trafficking illegal drugs into  this country. I believe we should use the might of law enforcement to  track down drug traffickers, but that is not why we are here today.

Why I am here is to sound the alarm on the incredibly slippery slope  that Donald Trump has set us careening down. Even if the administration  can actually give us proof that those killed on board were all  criminals, well, then they should have been apprehended by law  enforcement and tried in the judicial system. That is how ``law and  order'' works.

But Trump doesn't seem to care. In his world, he is a judge, jury,  and executioner. In his mind, the justice system can be discarded at  will. The military is his plaything, with fewer and fewer guardrails to  keep the rest of us safe. He believes there are no checks on his  power--no checks at all--other than the ones going into his own  pockets, signed by his rich friends.

The United States exists today because a few brave patriots saw a  tyrant who cared more about the gold in his coffers than the people in  his colonies, and then our Founders decided to form a more perfect  Union where enforceable guardrails would check executive greed. They  pushed those chests of tea into Boston Harbor; they fought a  revolution; they did the hard, messy work of forging a democracy  because they knew that a man who believes he wields all the power but  fears no consequences is a danger to those who fall under his rule.

While Donald Trump may be a wannabe King rather than a Monarch by  blood or title, what was true then is true now: He doesn't seem to care  that his strikes are clearly escalatory actions that will only harden  our enemies, put our troops in greater danger, and our families at  greater risk of retaliation.

He does not care that this campaign is draining military resources,  hurting its readiness, and wasting untold sums of taxpayer money.

He probably isn't aware of the second- and third-order security  consequences of his decisions. He probably doesn't even know that  already, because of his decisions, a Marine Expeditionary Unit has been  forced to relocate to SOUTHCOM, leaving our troops in Europe and the  Middle East without the emergency support they rely on in worst case  scenario moments, leaving our troops there hanging.

He just wants to look strong, and he doesn't care that, in the  process, he is making our Nation weaker.

Look, I first ran for Congress so that when the drums of war started  beating, I would be in a position to make sure that our Nation's  leaders fully consider the true cost of war, not just in dollars and  cents but in the sacrifices of our heroes and their families. Now, with  those drums beginning to echo once more, I am here today to, once  again, keep my promise because, sadly, worryingly, infuriatingly, Trump  has already started a conflict and now seems intent on expanding it.

He has already threatened land strikes against Venezuela, with  seemingly no concern over the fact that only Congress--this body, not  the President--has the authority to declare war.

We are the ones tasked with deciding when and how we send our troops  into combat. We are the ones the Constitution charged with that most  solemn duty. And, today, we are the ones who must be the adults in the  room because Trump is, yet again, acting like a toddler throwing a  tantrum on a playground, acting as if obeying the law is optional,  acting as if the Constitution is nothing more than a yellowing piece of  paper that he can rip up at will.

Those are just some of the many, many reasons why, today, I am voting  yes on the resolution to block the administration from continuing to  illegally use military force within or against Venezuela.

This should not be a partisan issue. No matter if you are a factory  worker pulling double shifts or the President of the United States, no  one is above the law. No matter if you are struggling to pay rent or  your name is plastered in fake gold on the front of a building on Fifth  Avenue, no one can overrule the Constitution.

Listen, if the Trump administration actually believes there is an  ongoing credible threat of armed conflict, then they must bring their  case to Congress and give the American people a say through their  elected representatives. They must respect our servicemembers enough to  prove why war is worth turning more moms and dads into Gold Star  parents. And they must testify about what the end state of these  military operations would actually look like.

Then, when their case has been made, when Congress's debate is done,  we should vote. After all, it is our duty. It is the least we owe to  the warriors who deserve to know why we are putting them in harm's way.

On Veterans Day, I am sure we will see Donald Trump wrap himself in  the flag in the morning, but you can be sure that he will have found a  way to abandon our troops again by the afternoon because Trump has made  a habit of giving our troops the middle finger.

Well, I am sure as hell not going to let him get away with that. So  as many times as is necessary, I am going to keep coming back to this  Chamber. I am going to keep raising my voice and keep demanding what is  actually in our Nation's best interest because I don't make decisions  of war and peace based on how tough I want to look on Truth Social.

As I celebrate my Alive Day next week, I am going to do my damnedest  to make sure other troops get to come home to their families too. It is  just one small way I can honor those buddies who saved my life, every  other veteran, and all those still in the uniform of our great Nation  today.

If only this five-time draft dodger hadn't cried ``bone spurs'' when  his Nation needed him the most, then maybe he would understand the  first thing about what it means to actually honor those who serve.