100th Anniversary Passage of the Federal Probation Act of 1925


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688628/100th-anniversary-passage-of-the-federal-probation-act-of-1925


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today we honor the 100th anniversary of  the Federal Probation Act of 1925, the pivotal law that established our  Federal probation system, thereby helping to reduce unnecessary  detention and crime. This is a prime example of criminal justice reform  designed to make our communities safer and allow offenders a second  chance to reintegrate into society.

Probation, like many other criminal justice reforms, did not happen  overnight. Some Federal judges were in favor of a probationary system,  seeing it as an alternative to the sometimes-harsh penalties they felt  constrained to impose. Other Federal judges were against probation,  believing it too lenient. Congress could not reach agreement on a  national plan. While the first Federal probation bills were introduced  in Congress in 1909, it was not until 1925--after more than 30 bills  had been introduced--that the Federal Probation Act came to fruition.

Since passage, we have seen the life-changing effects of probation as  an alternative to prison. This is especially true for past offenders  suffering from substance abuse and mental health challenges. Our  probation system provides these individuals with structured supervision  and access to treatment programs that offer the tools they need to lead  productive lives.

In the United States alone, approximately 90,700 dedicated probation  officers and correctional treatment specialists work every day to  reduce recidivism and promote public safety. I want to thank them for  their hard work and dedicated service.

Last December, on the sixth anniversary of the First Step Act,  another landmark piece of criminal justice reform legislation, I  highlighted that most people who are incarcerated will ultimately be  released, so we must prepare them for a successful reentry. The First  Step Act is bipartisan criminal justice reform legislation designed to  make our justice system fairer and our  communities safer by changing sentencing laws and providing  opportunities for incarcerated people to prepare to reenter society  successfully.

I was proud to champion this landmark legislation alongside Senators  Grassley, Booker, and Lee. It took months of bipartisan negotiation and  compromise. But the result was a historic victory that significantly  improved our justice system.

I can safely say that the Federal Probation Act laid the groundwork  100 years ago for legislation like the First Step Act.

Today, we are all responsible for advancing this work through the  passage of fair and effective criminal justice reforms. And I would  like to thank the Administrative Office for the Courts' Office of  Probation and Pretrial Services and the Federal Probation and Pretrial  Services Officers Association for their continued partnership in  leading this work. It is an honor to celebrate 100 years of this  pivotal law.