Arms Sales Notification


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701443/arms-sales-notification


rsat 26-28       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act, as           amended

(i) (U) Prospective Purchaser: Government of Japan.

(ii) (U) Total Estimated Value:

Major Defense Equipment* $0.

Other $340 million.

Total $340 million.

(iii) (U) Description and Quantity or Quantities of       Articles or Services under Consideration for Purchase:

Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.

Non-Major Defense Equipment: The following non-MDE items       will be included in support of its indigenous upgraded Hyper       Velocity Gliding Projectiles (HVGP) capability: test       preparation, test support, and transportation support, to       include range support; test utility support (water, gas,       electricity); range surveillance; range safety including       flight termination system reviews; radio frequency       assignments; test plan generation; test data; environmental       and site approvals; office facilities, administrative       services; transport of test equipment; procurement of       measuring equipment; coordination meetings in the United       States and Japan; and other related elements of logistics and       program support.

(iv) (U) Military Department: Navy (JA-P-QSC).

(v) (U) Prior Related Cases, if any: JA-P-QOG, JA-P-QRB.

(vi) (U) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Offered, or       Agreed to be Paid: None known at this time.

(vii) (U) Sensitivity of Technology Contained in the       Defense Article or Defense Services Proposed to be Sold: See       Attached Annex.

(viii) (U) Date Report Delivered to Congress: March 24,       2026.

* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms Export       Control Act.                                  POLICY JUSTIFICATION       (U) Japan--Upgraded Hyper Velocity Gliding Projectiles Support

(U) The Government of Japan has requested to buy equipment       and services in support of its indigenous upgraded Hyper       Velocity Gliding Projectiles (HVGP) capability, including       test preparation, test support, and transportation support,       to include range support; test utility support (water, gas,       electricity); range surveillance; range safety including       flight termination system reviews; radio frequency       assignments; test plan generation; test data; environmental       and site approvals; office facilities; administrative       service; transport of test equipment; procurement of       measuring equipment; coordination meetings in the United       States and Japan; and other related elements of logistics and       program support. The estimated total cost is $340 million.

(U) This proposed sale will support the foreign policy       goals and national security objectives of the United States       by improving the security of a major ally that is a force for       political stability and economic progress in the Indo-      Pacific.

(U) The proposed sale will improve Japan's capability to       meet current and future threats by providing defense for       remote islands. Japan will have no difficulty absorbing these       articles and services into its armed forces.

(U) The proposed sale of this equipment and support will       not alter the basic military balance in the region.

(U) Equipment and services will be provided by the U.S.       Government. At this time, the U.S. Government is not aware of       any offset agreement proposed in connection with this       potential sale. Any offset agreement will be defined in       negotiations between the purchaser and the contractor.

(U) Implementation of this proposed sale will not require       the assignment of any additional U.S. government or       contractor representatives to Japan.

(U) There will be no adverse impact on U.S. defense       readiness as a result of this proposed sale.                            Transmittal No. 26-28       Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of Offer Pursuant to           Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act                             Annex Item No. vii

(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:

1. (U) The upgraded Hyper Velocity Gliding Projectile       (HVGP) is an indigenous weapon and standoff missile. The       weapon uses a solid-propellant rocket booster, with the       projectile separating at a high altitude and then gliding at       hypersonic speeds until impact. The upgraded version will       increase performance of the original HVGP.

2. (U) The highest level of classification of defense       articles, components, and services included in this potential       sale is SECRET.

3. (U) if a technologically advanced adversary were to       obtain knowledge of the specific hardware and software       elements, the information could be used to develop       countermeasures that might reduce system effectiveness or be       used in the development of a system with similar or advanced       capabilities.

4. (U) A determination has been made that Japan can provide       substantially the same degree of protection for the sensitive       technology being released as the U.S. Government. This       proposed sale is necessary in furtherance of the U.S. foreign       policy and national security objectives outlined in the       Policy Justification.

5. (U) All defense articles and services listed in this       transmittal have been authorized for release and export to       the Government of Japan.