By Mr. Padilla:


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695777/by-mr-padilla


2889

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Student Athletes       from Concussions Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. MINIMUM STATE REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Minimum Requirements.--Each State that receives funds       under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) and does not meet the requirements       described in this section, as of the date of enactment of       this Act, shall, not later than the last day of the fifth       full fiscal year after the date of enactment of this Act       (referred to in this Act as the ``compliance deadline''),       enact legislation or issue regulations establishing the       following minimum requirements:

(1) Local educational agency concussion safety and       management plan.--Each local educational agency in the State,       in consultation with members of the community in which such       agency is located, shall develop and implement a standard       plan for concussion safety and management that--

(A) educates students, parents, and school personnel about       concussions, through activities such as--

(i) training school personnel, including coaches, teachers,       athletic trainers, related services personnel, and school       nurses, on concussion safety and management, including       training on the prevention, recognition, and academic       consequences of concussions and response to concussions; and

(ii) using, maintaining, and disseminating to students and       parents--

(I) release forms and other appropriate forms for reporting       and record keeping;

(II) treatment plans; and

(III) prevention and post-injury observation and monitoring       fact sheets about concussion;

(B) encourages supports, where feasible, for a student       recovering from a concussion (regardless of whether or not       the concussion occurred during school-sponsored activities,       during school hours, on school property, or during an       athletic activity), such as--

(i) guiding the student in resuming participation in       athletic activity and academic activities with the help of a       multi-disciplinary concussion management team, which may       include--

(I) a health care professional, the parents of such       student, a school nurse, relevant related services personnel,       and other relevant school personnel; and

(II) an individual who is assigned by a public school to       oversee and manage the recovery of such student;

(ii) providing appropriate academic accommodations aimed at       progressively reintroducing cognitive demands on the student;       and

(iii) if the student's symptoms of concussion persist for a       substantial period of time--

(I) evaluating the student in accordance with section 614       of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C.       1414) to determine whether the student is eligible for       services under part B of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.);       or

(II) evaluating whether the student is eligible for       services under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973       (29 U.S.C. 794); and

(C) encourages the use of best practices designed to       ensure, with respect to concussions, the uniformity of safety       standards, treatment, and management, such as--

(i) disseminating information on concussion safety and       management to the public; and

(ii) applying uniform best practice standards for       concussion safety and management to all students enrolled in       public schools.

(2) Posting of information on concussions.--Each public       elementary school and       each public secondary school shall post on school grounds, in       a manner that is visible to students and school personnel,       and make publicly available on the school website,       information on concussions that--

(A) is based on peer-reviewed scientific evidence (such as       information made available by the Centers for Disease Control       and Prevention);

(B) shall include information on--

(i) the risks posed by sustaining a concussion;

(ii) the actions a student should take in response to       sustaining a concussion, including the notification of school       personnel; and

(iii) the signs and symptoms of a concussion; and

(C) may include information on--

(i) the definition of a concussion;

(ii) the means available to the student to reduce the       incidence or recurrence of a concussion; and

(iii) the effects of a concussion on academic learning and       performance.

(3) Response to concussion.--If an individual designated       from among school personnel for purposes of this Act, one of       whom must be in attendance at every school-sponsored       activity, suspects that a student has sustained a concussion       (regardless of whether or not the concussion occurred during       school-sponsored activities, during school hours, on school       property, or during an athletic activity)--

(A) the student shall be--

(i) immediately removed from participation in a school-      sponsored athletic activity; and

(ii) prohibited from resuming participation in school-      sponsored athletic activities--

(I) on the day the student sustained the concussion; and

(II) until the day the student is capable of resuming such       participation, according to the student's written release, as       described in paragraph (4); and

(B) the designated individual shall report to the parent or       guardian of such student--

(i) any information that the designated school employee is       aware of regarding the date, time, and type of the injury       suffered by such student (regardless of where, when, or how a       concussion may have occurred); and

(ii) any actions taken to treat such student.

(4) Return to athletics.--If a student has sustained a       concussion (regardless of whether or not the concussion       occurred during school-sponsored activities, during school       hours, on school property, or during an athletic activity),       before such student resumes participation in school-sponsored       athletic activities, the school shall receive a written       release from a health care professional, that--

(A) states that the student is capable of resuming       participation in such activities; and

(B) may require the student to follow a plan designed to       aid the student in recovering and resuming participation in       such activities in a manner that--

(i) is coordinated, as appropriate, with periods of       cognitive and physical rest while symptoms of a concussion       persist; and

(ii) reintroduces cognitive and physical demands on such       student on a progressive basis only as such increases in       exertion do not cause the reemergence or worsening of       symptoms of a concussion.

(5) Return to academics.--If a student enrolled in a public       school in the State has sustained a concussion, the       concussion management team (as described under paragraph       (1)(B)(i)) of the school shall consult with and make       recommendations to relevant school personnel and the student       to ensure that the student is receiving the appropriate       academic supports, including--

(A) providing for periods of cognitive rest over the course       of the school day;

(B) providing modified academic assignments;

(C) allowing for gradual reintroduction to cognitive       demands; and

(D) other appropriate academic accommodations or       adjustments.

(b) Noncompliance.--

(1) First year.--If a State described in subsection (a)       fails to comply with subsection (a) by the compliance       deadline, the Secretary of Education shall reduce by 5       percent the amount of funds the State receives under the       Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       6301 et seq.) for the first fiscal year following the       compliance deadline.

(2) Succeeding years.--If the State fails to so comply by       the last day of any fiscal year following the compliance       deadline, the Secretary of Education shall reduce by 10       percent the amount of funds the State receives under that Act       for the following fiscal year.

(3) Notification of noncompliance.--Prior to reducing any       funds that a State receives under the Elementary and       Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) in       accordance with this subsection, the Secretary of Education       shall provide a written notification of the intended       reduction of funds to the State and to the appropriate       committees of Congress.       SEC. 3. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect civil or       criminal liability under Federal or State law.       SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Concussion.--The term ``concussion'' means a type of       mild traumatic brain injury that--

(A) is caused by a blow, jolt, or motion to the head or       body that causes the brain to move rapidly in the skull;

(B) disrupts normal brain functioning and alters the mental       state of the individual, causing the individual to       experience--

(i) any period of observed or self-reported--

(I) transient confusion, disorientation, or impaired       consciousness;

(II) dysfunction of memory around the time of injury; or

(III) loss of consciousness lasting less than 30 minutes;       or

(ii) any 1 of 4 types of symptoms, including--

(I) physical symptoms, such as headache, fatigue, or       dizziness;

(II) cognitive symptoms, such as memory disturbance or       slowed thinking;

(III) emotional symptoms, such as irritability or sadness;       or

(IV) difficulty sleeping; and

(C) can occur--

(i) with or without the loss of consciousness; and

(ii) during participation in any organized sport or       recreational activity.

(2) Health care professional.--The term ``health care       professional'' means an individual--

(A) who has been trained in diagnosis and management of       concussion in a pediatric population;

(B) who is registered, licensed, certified, or otherwise       statutorily recognized by the State to provide such diagnosis       and management; and

(C) whose scope of practice and experience includes the       diagnosis and management of traumatic brain injury among a       pediatric population.

(3) Local educational agency; state.--The terms ``local       educational agency'' and ``State'' have the meanings given       such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary       Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).

(4) Related services personnel.--The term ``related       services personnel'' means individuals who provide related       services, as defined under section 602 of the Individuals       with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401).

(5) School-sponsored athletic activity.--The term ``school-      sponsored athletic activity'' means--

(A) any physical education class or program of a school;

(B) any athletic activity authorized during the school day       on school grounds that is not an instructional activity;

(C) any extra-curricular sports team, club, or league       organized by a school on or off school grounds; and

(D) any recess activity.