Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699112/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, my friend and colleague from Wyoming  mentioned many things about the Republican tax bill, but he failed to  mention the most important part of it: It ended up giving tax breaks to  the wealthiest people in America. It ended up cutting $1 trillion from  the Medicaid Program. Wait until that cut works its way through the  economy to your local hospital and clinic, and watch what happens.

They have already warned us: Unless something is done, there is going  to be a lot of closures and a lot of reductions of services in these  hospitals in rural areas, in small towns, and the inner city. That is a  fact.

If you want to give tax breaks to the wealthiest people and you don't  care about the impact on the regular families of America, that is  exactly what happened with the Republican tax bill, and that is the  reason why Democrats  did not support it. We believe that tax cuts should be geared toward  working families who are struggling with affordability.

President Trump gave a speech yesterday in Michigan and choked on the  word ``affordability.'' He hates it. It is a Democratic word. It is a  hoax. It is a fake.

It is reality. It is reality.

I don't know how often the President of the United States--and I am  sure he never has a chance--gets to go shopping at the local grocery  store. I do so almost every weekend I am home. I see what has happened  to prices. My wife reminds me; other families remind me. The cost of  living has gone up, and you give tax breaks here and there and the  other place and primarily to wealthy people. It is not going to provide  the kind of relief that working families desperately need. That is one  of the issues that will be decided by the voters in the next election.                                 Immigration

Mr. President, the year was 1939, and there was a ship that sailed  from Germany destined for Cuba. It was bringing Jewish refugees from  Europe, which was falling into Nazi control, to a free place to live in  Cuba.

Unfortunately, as that ship, the St. Louis, approached Havana, Cuba,  it was turned away. They wouldn't allow those Jewish passengers to find  freedom in Cuba at the time. They then appealed to the United States,  to President Roosevelt and his administration, and they too turned them  away. The ship got so close, according to press reports, that they  could actually hear the bands playing in the nightclubs in Miami. But  they couldn't land the ship.

And so they took the St. Louis back to Europe with a thousand Jewish  refugees. Many of them became victims of the Holocaust. It was a bitter  lesson learned, particularly in time of war and strife, that there is a  need for countries, where there is peaceful situation, to step up and  do their part to try to help refugees, those seeking asylum.

After World War II, the United States decided that the St. Louis was  a valuable lesson. We started leading the nations of the world in  accepting refugees. It was an act of mercy, a humanitarian response to  the reality that these people were facing. And we were proudly leading  that effort for decades, until very recently.

Under this President, the whole situation and policy have changed.  This administration, unfortunately, is highlighting a policy that turns  away refugees. The Trump administration has diverted resources from law  enforcement and national security efforts to focus on arresting  immigrants who pose no threat to public safety. We have seen it in  Chicago. We have seen it in Minneapolis and in other cities. This  administration is targeting legal immigrants who followed every rule  and regulation.

Over the past few months, the Trump administration has issued a  flurry of new policies effectively ending lawful--lawful--immigration  for individuals from 39 countries. It harkens back to the bitter  experience of the St. Louis.

In November last year, President Trump used the tragic shooting of  two National Guard members to justify a freeze on all new visas of  Afghan nationals. Many of these visa applicants fought against the  Taliban, alongside American forces, and now must flee Afghanistan to  avoid punishment or death for the crime of working for us. President  Trump has abandoned them--so much for loyalty.

These men and women in Afghanistan decided they would risk their  lives to stand by our soldiers during that conflict. They survived, and  now they are asking us to protect them from the Taliban's excesses. The  President has decided: No, thanks.

He slammed the door on Afghan nationals who risked their lives to  save the lives of American soldiers, and he didn't stop there. In  addition to suspending these applications for Afghan nationals, the  Trump administration paused all asylum refugee decisions.

The Trump administration has extended broad immigration bans to  anyone from 39 different countries, including individuals from those  countries who are already in the United States. Going through an asylee  claim, a refugee claim, playing by the book, takes months and sometimes  years in refugee camps. People go through extensive background checks  before they are even considered to come to the United States.

In this situation, those who have successfully made that journey are  once again in jeopardy with the new Trump policy.

The administration is reviewing again all legal immigration cases  already approved for individuals from the banned nations. To be clear,  this expansion is not limited to nationals of countries on the list. It  also includes anyone who has been born in any one of those countries,  even if they lived the majority of their life somewhere else.

My office has received reports that Canadians--Canadians--born in  Iran have been impacted by this new Trump ban. There have even been  reports of the ban to stop parents who have completed every step of the  adoption process from bringing their new babies to the United States.

The administration has claimed this is about vetting immigrants to  protect public safety. But tell me: Does it make sense to deny entry  for a baby for vetting reasons?

What the President has done to bring down the hammer on those who are  legally immigrating from what he calls ``s-hole countries''--remember  that phrase, when the President, in his first term, referred to those  from Africa and Haiti in profane and racist terms in the Oval Office?  At the time, the White House denied having said that. But I was there,  physically present, when the President made those statements, not once  but twice. I was in that meeting, and I confirm that he used those  vulgar terms referring to people from other countries.

Two Republican Senators publicly accused me of lying. Well, in a  rally in Pennsylvania, last month, President Trump bragged that he had  indeed used that slur that I referred to earlier.

And at a Cabinet meeting, last month, he publicly called Somali  immigrants ``garbage.'' The President of the United States referred to  people from Somalia as ``garbage.''

Just yesterday, the administration announced the termination of  Somalis' designation for temporary protected status. TPS allows  immigrants from a country that is unsafe to temporarily remain in the  United States.

Does the President really think Somalia is a safe or stable place for  these individuals to return? I think not. He just doesn't care.

These racist comments and policies have confirmed what we have known  all along. The President has deep-seated animus for immigrants who are  not White. Throughout this past year, he has harnessed tragedies to  justify his anti-immigrant crusade, first with the National Guard  shootings and now with many of his fraud allegations we heard here on  the floor of the Senate day after day.

Last Friday, in the midst of Federal immigration agents' assault on  Minneapolis, Department of Homeland Security began arresting recently  arrived refugees in Minnesota. These refugees have already gone through  intense vetting, sometimes for years, before they have been allowed to  come to the United States. They followed our laws, came here in the  ``right way.'' Now their lives will be turned upside down again to  serve the President's political agenda.

The fraud in Minnesota is serious and warrants continued  investigation, but punishing thousands of refugees because of crimes  they had nothing to do with is just plain wrong and inhumane.

The Trump administration has tried to politicize this fraud  investigation, but the first prosecutions for this fraud began in 2022  during the previous Biden administration.

The administration says their immigration policies are intended to  protect America. I am calling their bluff. What they have done instead  is to effectively halt legal immigration for a long list of countries,  all of which have majority non-White populations. This was their real  intention all along.

Already, the lives of people in our immigration system, particularly  people of color, have been unfairly upended. Immigrants are seeing  their long-scheduled green card interview canceled. Naturalization  candidates have been pulled from their scheduled citizenship  ceremonies.

I know this to be true because it happened to my constituents who  reached out to our office. They are rightfully upset that the  administration has  stopped them, these individuals, after already approving them for  citizenship. They can't take the oath of allegiance to our country, and  they don't know where this process is going to end.

My mother was a naturalized citizen to the United States. I keep her  certificate framed in my office in the U.S. Capitol. Those who are  willing to take the oath of allegiance to our country become some of  our most loyal citizens. My mom was one of them. We cannot abandon  them.

We must not allow America to turn its back on immigrants who followed  every rule and make America stronger. It would be an affront to the  Constitution and a retreat from our values and heritage as a nation of  immigrants.

This is an awful situation where helpless people are being exploited  for political reasons. It is time for both political parties to step  aside from the campaign for a moment and speak to the values that make  America a better country than most. I am proud to be part of this  country, but we are a nation of immigrants and should never forget it.

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Mark Kelly for  bringing us together on the floor to talk about Citizens United.

Senator Kelly has the honor of representing the State of Arizona.  When I was a Member of the House of Representatives, I served with a  Congressman from Arizona named Morris Udall. He was a great guy. He ran  for President. He was, I guess, the source of more jokes and comedy  than any politician of his day. He used to say: If you have politics in  your bloodstream, only embalming fluid will replace it.

I am living proof that he was right. In 1982, I decided to run for  the U.S. House of Representatives for the first time. This was after I  lost three straight elections. My wife said this is my last chance. So  I took on an incumbent in 1982 for the U.S. House of Representatives.  He had been in that seat for 22 years. But because of the quirky law in  Illinois, the Democrats got to draw the map, so I got a map against the  Republican incumbent which was 40 percent new territory. I had a  chance. And 1982 was a big year for Democrats. I remember it. I still  remember my fear: Would I raise enough money to be a viable candidate?  Nobody knew for sure.

The average cost of a congressional campaign in 1982 was $215,000,  for a campaign to run for the U.S. House. I raised and spent, as did my  opponent, $800,000. We set records--$800,000.

If you say that today--``Would you start off and wage a campaign for  the House with $800,000?''--they would say ``Well, that is just for the  announcement, right? You are going to need a few more dollars if you  are serious about a campaign.'' The number has grown dramatically and  now is in the millions for candidates for the House and for the Senate.

You are looking at the last open, public sponsor of public financing  of campaigns. Nobody else has tackled it since I stopped introducing  it. At the time I introduced it, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, a  Republican, was my cosponsor. We had a bipartisan bill. I still believe  it is the right way to go, but it doesn't have a chance.

Under the current system that has been described by my colleagues  here on the floor, there is so much entrenched money that they  virtually control the agenda and scare the living hell out of average  individuals who don't have a fortune to spend. That is the reality of  what we face.

Senator Booker is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. It is  an interesting world we live in. There is a group--I won't name their  names on the floor, but it would be easy to figure out who I am talking  about--that admonishes me regularly, as the chairman and ranking member  of the Senate Judiciary Committee, that I am just not progressive  enough; I am not doing enough.

This influence group here in Washington is a dark money operation. We  don't know where their money is coming from. They are the reformers,  this dark money operation.

We now have, currently, a debate going on on the floor about  cryptocurrency. Remember what happened in the last campaign on  cryptocurrency? The industry decided that they would pick out one or  two Democrats and make a point that they were in the wrong position  when it came to cryptocurrency. So they spent $40 million to defeat one  of our colleagues here in the Senate, and they succeeded. That is the  kind of thing that happens now: 40 million bucks. That is more than a  good day raising money for most candidates, but that is the reality of  what we face.

This decision that we face today--Citizens United--was mindless. To  say that a business has the same rights as individuals under the  Constitution is a mindless conclusion. And it is no surprise. If I am  not mistaken--I will double-check--if I am not mistaken, not a single  Supreme Court Justice who ruled in that case had ever stood for office,  ever had a fundraiser, ever had to go through it and understand what it  does to you.

I think ethical reform that is meaningful requires a scandal that is  earth-shattering. I am not sure what is left by way of scandal. What is  going on with corruption in this business has become almost routine.  And I am sorry to say that because so many people on both sides of the  aisle are good, honest people who are public servants trying to do  their best. But this Citizens United decision and where we are in  politics today have changed this business so much, I am not sure we can  ever reclaim the kind of idealism that we all aspire to as public  servants in this institution.

I thank the Senator for drawing us to the floor today. There is a lot  of work to be done, and I may not be around for some of it. But I will  still remember that $800,000 when I first ran was a record. Now it is  rather routine.

Let's make sure that if you have politics in your bloodstream, it  doesn't take embalming fluid to replace it. Let's replace it with the  ideals that we all aspire to.