Department of Homeland Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699485/department-of-homeland-security


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last month, America watched in horror as  Federal immigration officers shot and killed, in two separate  incidents, U.S. citizens as part of the Trump administration's  immigration enforcement operations in Minneapolis. Renee Good and Alex  Pretti should still be with us today.

Remember why we went there? The stated purpose, according to the  Trump administration, was very clear and understandable. We were going  after the rapists, murderers, terrorists, child predators, and  criminally insane who had come across the border illegally during the  Biden administration. They were to be found and removed and held  accountable for their conduct.

No matter where you are on the political spectrum, that mission  sounded sensible. Why would we ever allow those dangerous people in the  country either by accident or intention, and why wouldn't we do  everything we could to remove them?

The President promised he was going after ``the worst of the  worst''--``the worst of the worst.'' So two people in Minneapolis lost  their lives. Were they ``the worst of the worst''?

Renee Good, mother of three, and Alex Pretti, a nurse at the VA  hospital in Minneapolis, an extraordinary person, as we have come to  know--American citizens, both--neither one of them fit the categories  that the President railed against during his rallies and campaign.  Instead, these two innocent people were taken from their families and  their communities, far too soon, in instances of senseless violence at  the hands of the U.S. Government.

Donald Trump's immigration enforcement operations have not restored  the so-called law and order that he promised and have not targeted  ``the worst of the worst.'' They have done exactly the opposite. In  every place the Department of Homeland Security's roving squads have  descended--whether Chicago, Minneapolis, or any other city--they have  brought chaos, disorder, and fear. These operations have created a  public safety crisis, with families terrified to leave their homes.

I have seen it firsthand in Chicago. I go into the Hispanic areas of  that great city, and the people are living in fear. They are afraid to  leave their homes. Parents and school administrators are struggling to  explain ICE attacks to children, and Americans are desperately trying  to protect their neighbors.

The American people support orderly immigration enforcement that  removes violent criminals from our streets, but how we do it matters.  Indiscriminate violent roundup of American citizens, legal residents,  and people with no criminal record erodes civil liberties and threatens  the rule of law.

The American people have seen this play out with their own eyes, and  they have had enough. This is the time to rein in this lawlessness now.  Congress has 2 weeks to act. With the support of the American people,  Senate Democrats stood firm and made clear we would not provide the  votes to increase funding for the administration's illegal terror  campaign.

I am pleased to say that last Friday night, the Senate passed five  remaining bipartisan appropriations bills, and all the bills together  that we have passed fund 96 percent of the Federal Government. Over the  course of the next 2 weeks, we will continue to negotiate with the  White House and Republicans to deliver much needed reforms to the DHS  appropriations bill and to rein in the illegal excesses of ICE.

As part of those negotiations, Democrats stand strong for the  following commonsense measures. First, Federal immigration agents need  to remove their masks, turn on their body cameras, and wear visible,  clear identification. I have met with law enforcement officials--people  who have given their lives to it, career people--and asked them: Why do  you need to be masked? Why do you need to have secret police in the  United States of America?

They said: You don't.

Unfortunately, it undermines public confidence in law enforcement  across the board. To allow these masks and to not require carrying  video cameras is to invite the problems which we have already  witnessed.

ICE is not a secret police force. It wasn't meant to be, despite what  President Trump may wish.

Second, we need to end the roving patrols. ICE does not have free  will to do as they please. This is a nation of laws, guided by the  Constitution that everyone, including ICE, must abide by. This means  Federal immigration officials must stop racial profiling and random  arrests.

You have seen the videotapes, and I have as well. In a Home Depot  parking lot, a Latina--Hispanic woman--gets out of the car and starts  to walk into the store and is stopped by ICE agents who want her to  show proof of her citizenship. That kind of thing is not what we expect  in America but, rather, in authoritarian regimes, which have no respect  for individuals.

They cannot detain Americans for hours or use excessive force against  them just because they peacefully protested in support of neighbors and  friends.

ICE squads descending on homes, bursting through doors to conduct  arrests, isn't just violent and frightening, but it is  unconstitutional. Agents must obtain a judicial warrant signed by a  neutral judge, not an administrative warrant in-house, to enter private  property.

You have seen the videos--we have all seen them--where they are  trying to crash down doors by hitting them with axes. Those individuals  don't have the authority to do that.

What I am quoting--the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution--is  black-letter constitutional law.

Third, we need accountability. ICE and Border Patrol squads can't  indiscriminately smash in car windows, use tear gas on protesters, and  shoot at people without accountability. This is America. This is  unacceptable.

A uniformed code of conduct will rein in aggressive and excessive  immigration enforcement to bring about accountability and, hopefully,  begin the long process of restoring trust. When the immigration agents  fail to follow the code of conduct, the Department of Homeland Security  must coordinate with State and local officials to conduct a fair and  independent investigation.

In conclusion, as these negotiations continue to play out, I will  continue to do my part to hold the administration accountable. After I  asked Secretary Noem of the Department of Homeland Security to appear  before the Senate Judiciary Committee all of last year, she refused.  Now she says she just might be available in 4 weeks and find some time  in her schedule to finally appear before a congressional committee in a  public hearing and answer questions, under oath, about her  mismanagement--tragic mismanagement--of this Agency. She has a lot of  explaining to do. We should hold her to account, both Democrats and  Republicans.

My office will continue to document and report any and all instances  of excessive force and abuse at the hands of immigration agents in  Chicago and elsewhere.

As Federal District Court Judge Biery said in his order, this  weekend, requiring the release of Liam Ramos from ICE detention,  ``Observing human behavior confirms that for some among us, the  perfidious lust for unbridled power and the imposition of cruelty in  its quest know no bounds and are bereft of human decency. And the rule  of law be damned.''

What a condemnation of what is going on in Minneapolis and Chicago  and other States.

It might be hard to imagine, but, one day, the Trump Presidency will  end. The statute of limitations for these crimes, however, will extend  beyond that date. When the day comes that Donald Trump leaves the White  House and his successor moves in to finally bring some order to this  chaos, there will be accountability. The Department of Justice, free  from its weaponized quest of retribution against Trump's perceived  enemies, will have all the information it needs--video proof--to pursue  criminal charges against government officials who actually are  violating people's rights.

In the meantime, my colleagues and I will continue to shine a light  on these abuses, uphold the tenets of basic human decency, and defend  the rule of law.

I urge my Republican colleagues to swiftly agree to these Democratic  reforms in DHS funding so that we may actually put a check on the  excesses of this administration and this national terror campaign.