Disrupt Explicit Forged Images and Non-Consensual Edits Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698999/disrupt-explicit-forged-images-and-non-consensual-edits-act-of-2025


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it has been my good fortune and honor to  serve in this Chamber for many years and to represent my home State of  Illinois. I can reflect for a moment about the changes in the Senate  Chamber in the time that I have been here. I am afraid it would take me  too long to express my thoughts on that at the expense of the regular  business of this Chamber. But we have reached a point where there are  few and far between moments where we come together and agree on  something the American people think is important.

A year ago, I was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee--for 4  years. We considered many judicial nominees and many pieces of  legislation in that committee. We were evenly divided or closely  divided during the entire period of time. I think we achieved quite a  few things despite those divisions.

We approved more judicial nominees for Federal judgeships in that 4- year period of time than any 4-year period in the history of the U.S.  Senate. It took 80 percent of the votes to be bipartisan for that to  happen. So I tried as chairman to always find something we just might  agree on, Democrats and Republicans would agree. The issue which I am  going to address very briefly this morning is one of those issues.

There was a time when the Senate Judiciary Committee was so equally  and evenly divided that people thought we would accomplish nothing, but  there came an issue where there was a consensus among Democrats and  Republicans, and it is one that every parent and grandparent--I think  every individual--will understand.

Have you seen your kids or grandkids lately? Have you noticed what  they are doing? They are looking at this virtually all day long if you  let them.

It is a concern for many conscientious parents that what is being  broadcast on those cell phones could be life-altering and -changing for  young people, and that is one of the issues I will address this  morning.

You see, during the period of time when I chaired the Senate  Judiciary Committee, we considered the negative impact that these cell  phones and laptops have on children. It is frightening.

Parents came and testified before us that their kids--normal, happy,  productive, good students--in a short period of time were captivated by  laptops and cell phones into changes in attitude, changes in conduct.  Sadly, some of the children took their own lives because of their  exposure to what happened on these devices. It is heartbreaking.

I recall one in particular: a young, African-American, high school  student--a track star at his school--who got swept into some sort of  broadcast on social media and in the span of 19 hours became so  despondent and excited and emotional, he harmed himself and took his  own life. The parents couldn't understand it. They didn't see it  coming. And when they reflected on what was being done, it was an  outrage.

There is another thing going on which everyone should be aware of,  and if you look closely on television, you might just spot warnings. It  is this whole issue of deepfakes, AI, taking what looks to be real and  broadcasting it as reality when, in fact, it is not.

Last Congress, we considered a measure which I introduced and would  like to ask for passage today. There will be a unanimous consent  request made at the end of my statement. If that unanimous consent  request passes, and I hope it does with bipartisan support, it will go  to the House of Representatives for their consideration. It will be  miraculous. We just might pass a bill. We just might create a law. Stay  tuned.

Let me tell you what it is all about. I rise today to ask the Senate  to pass the DEFIANCE Act--bipartisan legislation that gives victims of  nonconsensual, sexually explicit deepfakes the tools to fight back  against those who would exploit them.

I want to thank the Senate sponsors of this legislation, including my  Republican colleague Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South  Carolina. I told you it was bipartisan; it is.

I have been proud to partner with a person I don't know well on a  personal basis, but I certainly have seen her work. Her name is  Representative Ocasio-Cortez. She represents the city of New York. She  introduced legislation in the House with seven Republicans and six  Democratic cosponsors. So her measure was bipartisan as it passed the  House of Representatives.

Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez herself is a publicly confessed and  admitted victim of explicit deepfakes. I commend her for working to  create tools for victims in the fight against this despicable crime.  She has been an innocent victim, and she has spoken out to spare others  what she has been through.

In 2025, the TAKE IT DOWN Act was signed into law. This bipartisan  legislation makes it a Federal crime to knowingly publish or threaten  to publish nonconsensual intimate images on social media. The DEFIANCE  Act, which provides victims with a civil remedy--a remedy in court-- builds on the progress of the TAKE IT DOWN Act.

The vast majority of American people support prohibiting  nonconsensual, sexually explicit, deepfake images, with one survey  finding that 85 percent of Republicans and Democrats support this  measure. That is why I am hopeful it will pass today and be considered  favorably by the House, and that is why, last Congress, the Senate  unanimously passed this measure. We didn't get it done then, and we are  returning to it now.

The Senate should pass this bill again, and the House should take it  up quickly as the problem of nonconsensual, sexually explicit, deepfake  images continues to spread. With the push of a button, generative AI  can swap someone's face onto another person's body, remove that  person's clothing so they appear nude, or undress someone to show them  in lingerie or other exposed positions.

Recent reporting details how users of X, the social media platform  formerly known as Twitter, can ask its AI chatbot Grok to undress women  and underage girls in photos. Grok will comply with requests to show  subjects in various states of undress with images which I won't repeat  for the record, but they are horrible.

Even after these reports, X still has not prevented Grok from  creating these exploitative images. Let me make sure you understand  what I just said. Even after these terrible, deepfake, harming images  are pointed out to Grok and to X, formerly Twitter, they do not  respond. They don't take the images off the internet. They don't come  to the rescue of people who are victims. That is why this legislation  is critical, because this legislation says that if they are guilty of  such reckless misconduct, they can be sued for it and held civilly  liable for the damages.

Imagine losing control of your own likeness and identity. Imagine  that happening to you when you are in high school. Imagine how  powerless victims feel when they cannot remove illicit conduct, cannot  prevent it from being reproduced repeatedly, and cannot prevent new  images from being created. The consequences can be profound.

Victims may endure threats to their employment, education, or  reputation or suffer additional criminal activity, such as extortion  and stalking. Many experience depression, anxiety, and fear of being in  public, and in the worst cases, victims have been driven to suicide.

Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez described her own reaction being depicted  this way without her consent. She said:

There's a shock to seeing images of yourself that someone       could think are real.

While prominent women are often the target for nonconsensual, sexual  deepfakes, sadly, the victims can be virtually anyone.

There are distressing reports of high school students struggling to  respond to this crisis. In March 2024, at least 22 students at a high  school in McHenry County, in my home State of Illinois, learned they  were depicted in deepfakes circulating online. One was a doctored  version of two female students taken at the school prom. I will not  describe in detail what that deepfake did, but it had to be crushing  for these young women and their families.

Sadly, we are seeing an explosion of these images. One researcher  found that the number of nonconsensual pornographic deepfake videos  available online has increased 900 percent--900 percent--since 2019.  Such videos have been viewed almost 4 billion times--4 billion.  According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children,  the number of AI-generated child sexual abuse images increased from  5,000 in 2023 to over 485,000 in the first 6 months of 2025.

Tragically, currently, victims have no civil legal remedy to pursue  justice. The DEFIANCE Act changes that and gives victims their day in  court. The bill would permit victims to bring civil cases against those  who produce, disclose, solicit, or possess with intent to disclose  sexually explicit deepfakes, while knowingly or recklessly disregarding  that the person depicted did not consent to the content.

I am proud to have collaborated with survivor advocates on this bill.  Their lived experience and leadership have shaped this legislation.  Congress needs to act. It is past time to give victims of  nonconsensual, sexually explicit deepfakes the tools they need to fight  back.

I am going to make a unanimous consent request on this bipartisan  legislation. Senator Graham could not join me on the floor today, but  he is a cosponsor and supporter of this bipartisan bill.

I make the following unanimous consent: Notwithstanding rule XXII, I  ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the Judiciary be discharged  from further consideration of S. 1837 and the Senate proceed to its  immediate consideration.

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it feels good. It feels good to see the  Senate actually passing legislation. It is rare. It doesn't happen a  lot. With a measure of this importance, it is critically important that  we come together, both political parties.

I want to thank Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez for her leadership on  this issue and her bravery on this issue throughout this debate.

Now, let's pass this in the House and make it the law of the land.  Give to the victims their day in court to hold those responsible and  continue to publish these images at their expense.

The Senate voted to unanimously pass this important legislation. The  victims of this horrible crime deserve their day in court and, today,  we are one step closer to making that a reality.