Donald Trump


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697820/donald-trump


Mr. DURBIN. The second thing I want to say, Mr. President, is to  really note something said yesterday by the President of the United  States Donald Trump.

The year was 2018, 6 years ago, and President Trump challenged me and  other Members of the Senate to come up with an immigration plan for the  United States that included his big beautiful wall, if you remember.  And so I went to work with several of my colleagues here and several on  the Republican side to help write an immigration bill.

I ended up calling the White House when I thought we came up with  such a bill, a bipartisan bill, and they said: Come in and see the  President this morning. Well, that kind of shocked me that I could get  in that quickly to see him. But I appealed to my Republican colleagues,  and we went down to the White House together to meet with the President  in the Oval Office.

The meeting was historic. It turned out that others had been  invited--Democratic and Republican Senators and Congressmen--to discuss  the issue, and they, frankly, didn't agree with the conclusions which  we brought to the President.

The President spoke at length on his views about immigration. The  conversation declined at some point to a level I had never expected to  witness in my life. The President started saying things about  immigrants in ways I thought had never been said before in the White  House. He used terminology, which I am not going to repeat on the  Senate floor, but it referred to a phrase of ``s-hole'' nations. You  can fill in the blank if you wish. But I was shocked to hear it, and I  heard him refer to several countries in this fashion. I thought to  myself, How did we reach a point that we discuss immigration in such  crude and vulgar terms?

After I left the White House, it leaked out what the President said,  and the White House denied it. They said it didn't happen. I said it  did. They said I am lying--to the point where two of my Republican  Senate colleagues went on television several days later and said that I  lied when I said the President made those statements.

Well, yesterday at his rally in Pennsylvania, President Trump  admitted that he had used the slur that I referred to earlier to  disparage Haiti and African nations during that 2018 meeting with  lawmakers, bragging about the comment that sparked global outrage  during his first term.

I want to put that in the Record because for 6 years I have lived  with the shadow of people saying that I misled the American people as  to what the President said. Yesterday, he admitted what he said. It is  not for my sake but for the sake of discussing this issue of  immigration because we have got to get beyond crudity and vulgarity and  what we have seen in the extreme in the last several months when it  comes to immigration.

I will make it clear where I stand. We need an orderly process at our  border, period. Second, we should never knowingly allow a dangerous  person to come into this country. Third, if a person is in this country  seeking legal status and commits a dangerous crime, they should be  gone, period. Fourth, we cannot accept all of the people in the world  who want to come to America and live in America at this point. I wish  we could, but we can't. Some are important, and I want to stand up for  them. We can't allow everyone. We need an orderly process to achieve  this goal.

We are a nation of immigrants, and I am proud of that fact. I hope  everyone is. Let us make sure we do immigration the right way.

The reference in 2018 was an embarrassment--an embarrassment to the  White House, to the Oval Office, and to the Presidency. I am glad that  the President has finally admitted what happened on that day.