Fisa


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701943/fisa


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Act, known as FISA, is a valuable, important national  security tool  for collecting foreign intelligence. The problem is that the government  is also using section 702 as a backdoor for warrantless spying on  Americans here at home.

FISA section 702 allows the intelligence community to collect the  communications of foreigners who are overseas without a warrant. The  justification for bypassing the Constitution's warrant requirement is  that foreigners overseas are not protected by the Fourth Amendment.  American citizens certainly are. But the government isn't just  collecting the communications of foreigners; they are also collecting  millions, if not billions, of communications of innocent Americans in  touch with those foreigners as well. Our government then searches those  private emails, phone calls, and text messages of Americans without a  warrant. Congress has repeatedly failed to fix this end run around the  Constitution's protection.

Unsurprisingly, without court approval for such searches, the  independent Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board and the FISA  Court have documented shocking abuses of section 702 by our government.  The intelligence community has used this authority to spy on American  businesses, American religious leaders, political parties, campaign  donors, journalists, and protesters across the political spectrum. And  this was all before we had an administration which was expressly intent  on targeting its political enemies.

In April 2024, Congress enacted the Reforming Intelligence and  Securing America Act, which reauthorized section 702 for 2 years with  reforms that were meant to rein in past abuses. However, these reforms  failed to prohibit warrantless searches of Americans' communications  collected under section 702. In fact, warrantless searches of Americans  increased in 2025, with the FBI alone conducting more than 7,000  warrantless searches on Americans last year.

Just as troubling is the increase in so-called sensitive queries by  the FBI under Kash Patel's leadership. These are warrantless searches  of section 702 data that target religious leaders or organizations,  politicians or political organizations, or journalists. In 2025, the  FBI conducted over three times as many sensitive queries as in 2024.

These statistics are troubling enough, but with the Trump  administration closing oversight offices, firing compliance staff,  dismantling the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, and  failing to testify, the full scope of their abuses remains unknown.

The administration is also keeping the latest FISA Court ruling on  section 702 secret from the American people. The administration  acknowledged that the court found ``deficiencies'' with how the  government is conducting 702 searches. Yet it hasn't released the  court's opinion or the details of these ``deficiencies'' to the  American people.

Meanwhile, POLITICO reports that Stephen Miller--the architect of  President Trump's immigration crackdown in Minneapolis, Chicago, and  beyond--is the White House's chief advocate for extending section 702.

Miller reportedly views section 702 as ``critical to a variety of  homeland security missions.'' Why does Stephen Miller view section  702--a statute designed to collect foreign surveillance and  intelligence--as critical to homeland security inside the United  States? Well, in 2024, Congress quietly expanded section 702 to allow  it to be used for immigration vetting.

How is the President exploiting this expansion of section 702 to  carry out his mass deportation campaign? We don't know because the  administration refuses to testify about the use of this authority.

Congress should not give Donald Trump, Stephen Miller, and Kash Patel  unchecked power to spy on Americans.

Last week, the House rightly rejected on a bipartisan basis attempts  to renew section 702 without safeguards. Congress instead enacted a 10- day extension so it could reach an agreement on reform needed to  protect our constitutional rights.

As in the past, some may argue that that is not enough time to enact  reform before section 702 expires, but section 702 surveillance  operates under yearlong certifications approved by the FISA Court. Even  if 702 were to expire today, the law makes it clear that surveillance  may continue under the current certification until March of 2027. There  is no emergency excusing Congress from getting this right.

Congress should reform section 702 to protect Americans'  constitutional rights and prevent further abuses. Senator Mike Lee of  Utah--a conservative Republican--and I have proposed the bipartisan  SAFE Act to do just that. Our bill includes a warrant requirement for  conducting searches of U.S. persons' communications collected under  section 702. This safeguard ensures that a judge, not the executive  branch of government, approves the search.

There are exceptions for emergencies and other legitimate security  needs to ensure that we can protect security and liberty at the same  time. If the government has a legitimate basis for the search, they can  make that case to the judge. If they do not, then they should not be  rifling through private communications of Americans.

For too long, Congress has renewed section 702 without this basic  protection from arbitrary government searches. Enough is enough.  Congress should reauthorize 702 with sensible reforms to protect  Americans from threats to their security and to their basic  constitutional rights.