Genius Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692590/genius-act


Mr. DURBIN. On another topic, over the weekend, President Trump  hosted a military parade to celebrate the 250th anniversary of the U.S.  Army and, coincidentally, his 79th birthday.

Spending up to $45 million of taxpayers' money on this kind of pomp  and circumstance, while at the same time proposing a budget to  eviscerate medical research for the military and to take health  insurance away from 16 million Americans is not a cause for national  celebration.

Meanwhile, the President's crypto business unfolds. Throughout his  first term, President Trump was officially skeptical of crypto  currency. In a social media post from July 11, 2019, the President  said:

I am not a fan of Bitcoin and other Cryptocurrencies, which       are not money, and whose value is highly volatile and based       on thin air. Unregulated Crypto Assets can facilitate       unlawful behavior, including drug trade and other illegal       activity.

That is a quote from the President in his first term. Once the  President figured out how to personally make this part of his  investment portfolio, his tune changed.

This is how President Trump is using the unregulated crypto industry  to enrich himself and his family. Three days before he took office,  President Trump launched his meme coin, a novelty item similar to  baseball cards or Beanie Babies. Yet they hold no intrinsic value.

Meme coins are risky and highly volatile. Despite the risk, many  investors purchased President Trump's meme coin, and in the first few  weeks after its launch, the President, in his second term, profited up  to $100 million in trading fees, while more than 200,000 investors lost  money. There has never been a precedent for anything like this in the  history of the Presidency.

Then President Trump auctioned off access to himself by hosting a  ``crypto gala'' dinner here in Washington. The President made a  whopping $148 million just off this dinner, from 220 investors willing  to pay for face time with the President. But nearly half of the  ``winners'' of this meme coin competition were still ``losers.'' About  95 attendees suffered a net $8.95 million loss by purchasing President  Trump's meme coin. In total, 764,000 investors lost money to President  Trump's meme coin scam.

But his corruption does not stop there. His family started its own  crypto firm now, World Liberty Financial, and, in March, they launched  their own stablecoin, right as the Senate was working on the GENIUS  Act, legislation to regulate--so-called regulate--the stablecoin  market.

Conveniently, this legislation allows the President and his family to  continue owning and issuing stablecoins. There has never been anything  like this in the history of the Presidency. Passing the GENIUS Act will  help the stablecoin market grow tenfold, over the next 3 years, to a $2  trillion market.

I am going to vote no on this legislation when it comes up this week.  We prohibit Members of Congress from activity in crypto currency. The  same should be true for the Presidency. Why are we having two different  standards? I think the answer is obvious.

That means, if the Senate passes this legislation tomorrow, it would  give Congress's blessing for President Trump and his family to further  enrich themselves, with very little protection for consumers.

President Trump's crypto dealings, reportedly, account for nearly 40  percent of his net worth. All of the years and decades of investment  notwithstanding, 40 percent of President Trump's net worth has been  generated in just a few months in the second term of his Presidency  with this cryptocurrency. In just a few months, the family--the Trump  family--has pulled in approximately $1 billion from crypto--$1 billion.

Tomorrow's vote on the GENIUS Act could bring us closer to enabling  President Trump's latest scam. This is shameful; it is corrupt-- especially since we could have stopped this from happening if we had  conducted an open amendment process, as Leader Thune promised. We could  have had amendments on the floor that would have brought real  regulation to this industry. Instead, we have phony regulation.

I filed an amendment to crack down on ATM operators who are scamming  seniors out of their life savings with crypto machines. My amendment  would have created guardrails to prevent crypto ATM fraud.  Approximately 13 States have done so, and we should do so on a national  basis.

But we won't have that opportunity. They have foreclosed all  amendments to this bill. We can't even debate it on the floor and ask  for a vote.

Instead, the GENIUS Act will allow the crypto scam to continue at the  expense of unsuspecting Americans and to the enrichment of the  President and his family.