Healthcare


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698601/healthcare


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this month, January 2026, marks a new era  for Medicare. After decades of empty promises about lowering the cost  of prescription drugs, the prices of the 10 most expensive drugs under  Medicare will finally fall.

Starting this year, 2026, seniors who rely on medications to treat  blood clots, diabetes, heart disease, and certain cancers will see  discounts of up to 79 percent for these essential drugs. There are 9  million American seniors who will save a total of $1.5 billion in  annual out-of-pocket costs, including nearly 300,000 seniors in  Illinois who take 1 of those 10 drugs.

Why did it take so darned long to lower these prices? Politicians  have been talking about it for years. For years, Medicare was blocked  from negotiating the price of drugs by the pharmaceutical companies.  They didn't want to cut into their profits. That changed when Democrats  passed the Inflation Reduction Act in 2022 under the Biden  administration. This law empowered Medicare to bargain for fair prices  for medications used by seniors.

Not one single Republican voted for this bill in 2022. Let me say  that again. Democrats overcame the objections of congressional  Republicans and Big Pharma, who were complaining about how negotiating  drug prices was socialism--socialism. Now seniors will be saving  hundreds of dollars a month because Democrats rolled up our sleeves to  deliver price cuts on prescription drugs.

What has President Trump done to make healthcare more affordable?  Nothing. Instead, he decided to slash Medicaid by $1 trillion with the  passage of the so-called big beautiful budget bill.

Because of this law, many hospitals across Illinois and across the  country, especially in rural areas, may not survive. Rural hospitals  are the backbone of communities in my State and in many others. They  are the anchors of the local economy. Several hospitals that are barely  squeaking by today have told me they will fall into the red because of  the Republican healthcare cuts in this law. Recently, I surveyed all of  the hospitals in Illinois, and 129 responded to my survey. They wrote  to me to say they will struggle greatly with these cuts from the big  beautiful budget bill of the Trump administration. These hospitals will  face longer emergency room wait times. They will be forced to cut  services, including behavioral health and maternity care. They will  have to lay off doctors and nurses, which is exactly the opposite of  what we need in rural America.

My Republican colleagues know exactly how devastating these Medicaid  cuts will be. That is why they attempted to remedy the situation by  including a $50 billion rural health transformation grant in their Big  Beautiful Bill. Let's do some math here. They are cutting $1 trillion  out of Medicaid, and they are trying to fill that gap with $50 billion.  I am a liberal arts major, but I think I can do basic math. What they  are talking about doing is restoring 5 percent of the $1 trillion they  are cutting from Medicaid--5 percent.

In addition to cutting $1 trillion from Medicaid, congressional  Republicans refused to extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium  tax credits under Trump's Big Beautiful Bill. Last year, 22 million  Americans relied on these credits to afford their healthcare, but now  they have expired. Despite pressure from patients, physicians, and  providers, congressional Republicans refused to extend them.

What is the impact of refusing to extend this program that makes  health insurance more affordable? I am afraid it is obvious. During the  2026 open enrollment period, millions of people decided to drop their  health insurance coverage. Others are being forced to make impossible  choices between food, car payments, and housing costs. If we fail to  immediately solve these problems, millions of people will become  uninsured in this country, and those who will retain coverage will pay  double or triple for their healthcare plans.

It is not too late to do something even though we are hopelessly  divided on most of the issues facing us. Let's hope that health  insurance will be the exception. Congress can extend the tax credits  and reopen the signup period before the worst impact is felt.

At least some of my Republican colleagues recognize the pain their  refusal to negotiate has caused. Last month, four Senate Republicans-- four--broke ranks to vote with Democrats to extend the enhanced premium  tax credits and help people pay for their health insurance--four  Republicans. In the House, four House Republicans signed a discharge  petition to force a vote later this week to extend the tax credits. We  must be ready to act when the bill arrives in the Senate.

Americans do not have time for Congress to litigate the entirety of  the U.S. healthcare system, but we do need to triage now. Let's do  something to help these people keep their health insurance. I have  spoken with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and have made it  clear we want to help Americans pay for these bills. I want to join  them. It should be done on a bipartisan basis, and we should waste no  time.