Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700666/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the sweeping surveillance powers  authorized under section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance  Act, known as FISA, expire in just 40 days.

Section 702 grew out of a secret, warrantless surveillance program  conducted by the Bush administration after 9/11. When this illegal  spying program was finally discovered, Congress enacted 702 as a  temporary measure--a temporary measure. Like so many expansive  government powers that are adopted during times of emergency,  this authority has now become a fixture of our surveillance  architecture.

When it comes to collecting intelligence on foreigners located  abroad, the value of this tool is not in serious dispute, but there is  a fatal flaw at the core of section 702. This authority is also used  for warrantless spying on innocent Americans. Americans' private  emails, phone calls, and text messages with friends, family,  colleagues, business, and any number of other contacts around the world  are swept up under section 702. The government then searches these  private communications--protected by the Fourth Amendment, I might  add--without a warrant or other court order.

Congress has repeatedly failed to fix this end run around the  Constitution. As a result, for years, the intelligence community has  abused section 702 to spy on business and religious leaders, political  parties, campaign donors, journalists, and protesters across the  political spectrum.

In passing the Reforming Intelligence and Securing America Act in  April 2024, Congress codified new reforms intended to rein in these  abuses. These measures have substantially reduced the number of  unlawful searches.

But Congress failed to require a warrant for searching American  communications--once again, leaving the fox guarding the henhouse.

At the same time, Congress greatly expanded 702 to include  counternarcotics and immigration vetting, and conscripted a shocking  array of American businesses into section 702 spying.

Congress has a responsibility to protect our national security and  the privacy and civil liberties of Americans. That is why Senator Lee,  Republican of Utah, and I have introduced the SAFE Act, a bipartisan  bill that would reauthorize 702 with commonsense reforms to protect our  privacy as individuals.

Our bill preserves the core values of 702 as a foreign intelligence  collection tool, while preventing the government from using it to  target the constitutionally protected communications of Americans,  unless they get court approval.

Our warrant requirement takes legitimate operational and security  needs into account so that it won't be unduly burdensome or impede any  action in an emergency. There is an exception for emergencies.

What it would do is stop the government from accessing the private  communications of Americans without a proper basis under the Fourth  Amendment to the Constitution. Such a simple requirement to comply with  the Constitution should have been included in section 702 from the  outset.

The SAFE Act would also prevent government Agencies--like ICE,  Customs and Border Protection, and the FBI and others--from skirting  the Fourth Amendment to obtain Americans' sensitive information and  other personal details from data brokers.

ICE is using this data to track U.S. citizens exercising their First  Amendment right to protest, which should concern Senators on both sides  of the aisle.

If the FBI wants to track someone's phone, obtain their location  information, or access their Google search history, the Agency should  be required to get a judicial warrant.

Instead, government Agencies are exploiting gaps in our outdated laws  to buy our sensitive information from data brokers. It is a loophole  that Congress must address. Our bill--my bill with Senator Lee--does  that.

Once again, however, those who want to avoid real reforms are urging  Congress to just reauthorize section 702 without addressing this issue.

When Congress extended 702 in 2024, the argument was that we needed  more time. So Congress reauthorized section 702 for just 2 years to see  how the existing compliance measures were working.

``Later,'' they said. ``We need more time. . . . Let's see how the  reforms are working.''

Now, here we are, 2 years later, and the opponents of real reform are  saying exactly the same thing: Just give us more time.

We have been hearing these same excuses for over 20 years. It is time  to stop avoiding the issue and to protect Americans' constitutional  rights once and for all--not later, not next time.

In 2024, the last time section 702 was up for reauthorization, I  chaired the Senate Judiciary Committee, which had jurisdiction over  FISA. I held a public hearing more than 6 months before the authority  expired so Members could ask the Biden administration how they were  using section 702.

Now, the Trump administration refuses to testify publicly about how  they are using this power.

Enough is enough. There is no excuse for ramming through an extension  of 702 at the last minute without regular order and without common  sense and in violation of the Constitution.

The American people deserve better from their representatives. They  can and they should protect the American people from threats to their  security and threats to their civil liberties.

H.R. 6644

Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, today, I am voting in favor of the  21st Century ROAD to Housing Act. Whether they are renting or buying,  too many Americans struggle with the cost of housing. This bill  includes crucial reforms to streamline and enhance housing programs, as  well as important incentives for communities to build high quality,  affordable housing for all. I am also proud that this legislation  includes my bipartisan VA Home Loan Awareness Act and VALID Act to help  more veterans and their families secure affordable home loans.

We have much more work to do to deliver affordable housing to the  American people, but this bipartisan legislation is a step forward. We  need to examine ways to increase investment in housing supply and  improve financing options, as well as expand vouchers to directly  assist families. There are also different perspectives on how this  legislation's treatment of ``build-to-rent'' housing could affect  housing supply and prices. Accordingly, we must closely monitor housing  markets to ensure those provisions support housing affordability  appropriately and make adjustments if circumstances warrant. I look  forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to increase the  production of affordable housing communities need.