Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701760/iran


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I will also tell you that when it comes to  the future involvement of the United States, we have a serious question  in the Middle East. I cannot tell you what the objective of the  President is when it comes to the war in Iran. If you take a look at  what happened today--we had a rollcall vote on my colleague Senator  Duckworth's motion that would have given Congress the authority to  declare war, as the Constitution states in article I, section 8. It was  defeated on a partisan vote once again. We have tried this two or three  other times.

This is an effort to make sure that we have a conversation about the  war in Iran. Do you know how many public hearings we have had in  Congress about the invasion of Iran? None. Not one. We are virtually in  a war that has gone on now for 70 days or so, and we have not debated  it.

What is the purpose of our invasion of Iran? The President has given  six, seven, eight different explanations, depending on the time of day.  One day, it is to close the Strait of Hormuz; the next day, it is to  open the Strait of Hormuz. One day, it is to get regime change in Iran;  the next day, it is to reject the regime that is governing in Iran. The  next day, we are going to eliminate missiles. And it goes on and on.  You can't keep up with it.

The problem, of course, is that there is an impact on families all  across the world but especially in the United States when it comes to  the cost of living. When you ask American families ``How are you  doing?'' they say ``Not so well, thank you.''

When we take a look at the cost of raising a family these days, we  see the cost of groceries hitting an alltime high; we see our utility  bills going up--in Illinois, they have gone up 15 percent this year  over last year; we see the cost of gasoline going through the roof. It  is over $4 a gallon in Illinois and in some parts of Chicago, over $5 a  gallon. That is a real hardship on working families.

Why are we in this mess with gasoline? Because of the invasion of  Iran and the disruption of the flow of oil through the Strait of Hormuz  into Europe and beyond. That is the reality of the President's  invasion.

Did anyone in the White House or the Department of Defense sit down  and measure the impact of what it would mean if we invaded Iran on the  global economy? This morning, I heard on the radio someone predicting  the possibility of a global recession.

Was that part of your calculation, Mr. President?

We don't know because we can't understand what the President's  motives are on a day-to-day basis when it comes to the future of Iran.

Do we want Iran to have a nuclear weapon? Of course not. What have we  done about it? Under the Obama administration, we negotiated  international inspectors to go into Iran to see whether or not they  were developing a nuclear bomb. I met with some of those inspectors on  a regular basis. They were getting doors opened and questions asked and  answered, photos being taken, and a reporting at the time.

What happened with President Trump in his first term? He eliminated  the agreement that created the inspectors. Then what did he replace it  with? Nothing. Nothing until he invaded Iran 2 months ago.

We need international inspectors in place to make sure that Iran does  not develop a nuclear weapon, and we certainly are not moving in that  direction with the President Trump invasion.

So we have the situation in which the President's chaos and cost-of- living increases and confusion have really created problems for  families across the United States. It is time for us to remember that  our goal is to make it better for those who are raising children and  trying to feed a family. This war in Iran is not the answer to that.