January 6 Pardons


Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, on January 6, 2021, a solemn  constitutional proceeding was disrupted when a mob of thugs, egged on  by President Trump, attacked and trashed the U.S. Capitol in an attempt  to overturn a free and fair election.

The grimmest results of the insurrection were the subsequent deaths  of five of our law enforcement officers and the injuries to  approximately 140 others, many of whom are still paying the price for  that day.

On the campaign trail, Donald Trump promised that he would pardon  January 6 insurrectionists--but it still came as a shock when, on the  first day of his second Presidential term, he issued a blanket pardon  and 14 commutations to all of those who had been charged or convicted  for their involvement in the attack on the Capitol.

And listen to what President Trump said about his pardons at a recent  press conference ``I pardoned people who were assaulted themselves.  They were assaulted by our government . . . They didn't assault. They  were assaulted, and what I did was a great thing for humanity.''

Trump's decision is highly unpopular, with 83 percent of Americans  opposed to these pardons. This includes 70 percent of those who lean  Republican.

And not only that, but these pardons also highlight the hypocrisy of  President Trump when it comes to his claimed crackdown on antisemitism.  Just days after pardoning these rioters, he signed an Executive order  outlining his administration's efforts to combat ``the explosion of  antisemitism'' in the U.S..

But, many of the rioters who Trump pardoned openly embrace violent  antisemitism. Take Robert Keith Parker, who wore a black hoodie  emblazoned with ``Camp Auschwitz'' on that horrific day.

Robert Keith Parker was pardoned by President Trump.

Or consider Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, whom prosecutors identified as a  ``white supremacist and Nazi sympathizer.'' He told his coworkers that  ``Hitler should have finished the job'' and frequently dresses up as  Adolf Hitler.

At Hale-Cusanelli's sentencing hearing, Judge Trevor McFadden, a  Trump appointee, said ``Statements and actions like yours make [Jewish  people] less safe and less confident they can participate as equal  members of our society.''

Timothy Hale-Cusanelli was pardoned by President Trump. And what is  more? After his release from prison, Mr. Hale-Cusanelli was welcomed as  a speaker at two events held by the President's supporters last year at  his Bedminster club.

At one of these events, he received an award from Ed Martin, now  serving as President Trump's interim U.S. Attorney for the District of  Columbia. Mr. Martin called Hale-Cusanelli an ``extraordinary man'' and  an ``extraordinary leader.''

Does that sound like the actions of an administration that cares  about protecting the Jewish community from antisemitism? Seems more  like lip service to me.

But the hypocrisy doesn't end there. President Donald Trump, in his  speech to the joint session of Congress last week, said he would, ``Get  police officers nationwide the support, protection, and respect they so  dearly deserve.'' He said those words in a chamber that was protected  by the very officers who were violently assaulted on January 6 by the  rioters who he egged on and later pardoned.

Trump talks a big game about ``backing the blue--but his pardons of  the very rioters who beat and brutalized hundreds of cops on January 6  show that he has no idea what ``support, protection, and respect'' for  the police means.

He continues to tout bringing back ``law and order'' while releasing  violent criminals onto the streets--the scope of his dangerous pardons  continues to grow.

Two weeks ago, a Justice Department prosecutor struggled in court to  explain the administration's view of the scope of Trump's mass pardons,  arguing that the relief should apply to separate criminal conduct  committed by Capitol rioter Dan Wilson, in Kentucky in 2023.

U.S. District Judge Dabney L. Friedrich, a Trump appointee,  questioned a Justice Department attorney about the government's  shifting position on the scope of Trump's January 6 pardons.

Judge Freidrich said, ``[p]ardons have to have a fixed meaning'' on  the day they are issued, and there has to be a ``clear definition of  the pardon that doesn't evolve or change.''

Unfortunately, these individuals continue to pose a dangerous threat  to our democracy--and law enforcement.

Just last month, dozens of former January 6 offenders joined forces  on social media to compile and publicize the identities of at least 124  individuals who had been involved in their cases--including  prosecutors, judges, and FBI agents.

The post, which has received at least tens of thousands of views,  includes names, photos, disparaging remarks, and demands for  accountability.

In January, another pardoned January 6 defendant who pleaded guilty  to assaulting police officers with pepper spray, Ryan Nichols, Sr.,  identified in a Twitter post ``officers in the D.C. Jail who need to be  investigated for corruption and abuse,'' adding the names and LinkedIn  profile photos of two DC Jail employees.

The men and women who bravely defended us on January 6 deserve better  than this--and we should honor them for their heroic efforts that day,  not excuse the thugs who attacked this body and the ideals it  represents.

Law enforcement officials should not fear for their safety or that of  their families just for simply doing their jobs.

I hope that all of us, regardless of our political persuasion, can  agree on two things: that violence has no place in a democracy, and  that our law enforcement officers are worthy of our respect and  support.