Judicial Nominations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693940/judicial-nominations


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on a separate issue, I want to say a word  about some nominations that are pending before the Senate this week.

As the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, I pay  closer attention than some when it comes to the nominees who are  suggested for Federal positions on the courts. These are positions that  are lifetime positions. You take a person and state: We trust you with  this responsibility and authority for as long as you live--for as long  as you live. So it isn't a question of 2 years or 4 years and replacing  someone if they aren't up to the job. We have got to look for people  whom we can trust for the long haul.

The Senate will soon vote on the confirmations of Joshua Divine to  serve as a judge for the Eastern and Western Districts of Missouri and  Judge Cristian Stevens to serve for the Eastern District. I am  concerned about these two nominees.

Mr. Divine is 34 years old. He received his law degree only 9 years  ago. In addition to a lack of experience, Mr. Divine has taken some  extreme positions on issues that are important to people across the  United States, such as reproductive rights and ballot access.

Mr. Divine--if you can believe this, in this day and age, 2025--has  argued in  favor of literacy tests at the ballot box. Let me say that again. He  has argued in favor of literacy tests at the ballot box.

He states:

Individuals who aren't informed about issues and platforms       . . . have no business voting.

The fact that we are even considering his nomination under the  circumstances is shocking.

Literacy tests have been tried in America. They are a racist relic  from the Jim Crow era that we used to prevent immigrants and minorities  from voting. It should not be controversial to say that no one who has  argued for reviving racist Jim Crow laws belongs on the Federal bench,  let alone for a lifetime.

Mr. Divine also referred to himself as a ``zealot'' for the anti- choice movement. Now, whether you are pro-choice or pro-life, you would  think that someone who is that blatant and open in declaring himself a  zealot on the issue would trouble you. This has been on full display in  his role as Missouri solicitor general.

Mr. Divine has challenged women's ability to access the abortion drug  mifepristone and has undermined the decision of Missouri voters to  codify abortion access in their State constitution.

Previously, Mr. Divine wrote:

Because we know a genetically unique human comes into       existence at fertilization, abortion should not be ethically       permitted.

I know that is the position of some voters whom I represent and even  of some members of my family. I disagree.

Taken at face value, this statement suggests that Mr. Divine opposes  access to in vitro fertilization, IVF. Well, I have some beautiful  grandkids who were the product of these IVF procedures. It was the only  way that they could come to this Earth, and thank God they did. To  think that this man who is seeking this lifetime appointment to the  bench would not even answer the question on IVF is troubling.

Joshua Divine is too inexperienced to serve as a district court  judge, and his radical views, I think, disqualify him.

I am also troubled by the nomination of Cristian Stevens. Following  his confirmation hearing, I asked Judge Stevens whether he denounced  the January 6 insurrection on the Capitol.

For those who don't remember, that was a time when a mob forced  Congress to shut down the procedure of counting the electoral votes in  the 2020 election. As a result of that decision, they stormed the  Capitol; came into this Chamber; videotaped themselves vaping while  sitting in the chair of the Presiding Officer, going through the desks  of Senators, tearing up the place, and, unfortunately, attacking a lot  of innocent people.

I asked Cristian Stevens about the January 6 insurrection. He said  the use of the word ``insurrection'' was a legal conclusion--a legal  conclusion--and that it would be inappropriate for him to comment on it  because it was a highly contested political issue.

Here is the cold, hard truth: The violent mob that ransacked the  Capitol Complex in an attempted insurrection to stop the counting of  the votes of that election led to the deaths of 5 police officers and  injuries to more than 140 others. It triggered the largest prosecution  in the history of the Department of Justice. Over 1,000 individuals  were convicted and prosecuted for their activity that day.

The fact that this nominee couldn't acknowledge what happened that  day and denounce the violence perpetrated against law enforcement is  troubling. If you can't stand up for the men and women who keep us safe  at this very moment in this building--who risk their lives for the  Members, their staffs, and the visitors in the Capitol--you have no  place in a lifetime position as a Federal judge.

I am also concerned about a law review article Judge Cristian Stevens  wrote in defending the infamous 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between  crack cocaine and powder cocaine.

I voted for it in the House of Representatives. Why? The idea was  that crack cocaine was such a deadly and threatening narcotic that we  were going to pass a sentencing provision that was really tough. Well,  this was tough. It said, if you were convicted of possessing powder  cocaine or an exact same amount of cocaine in crack form--in crystal  form--you would be receiving a sentence for the crack cocaine that  would be 100 times that of powder cocaine.

What happened as a result of it?

The result, I am sorry to say, didn't work. You would think, with  that kind of sentencing hanging over you, people would think twice. It  didn't work. As a result, more people were using crack cocaine after we  passed the law, and the price on the street was going down instead of  up. We filled the Federal prisons primarily with African Americans who  had lengthy sentences--some of them over 20 years--for the simple sale  of crack cocaine.

We decided that was wrong. I led the effort here on the Senate side.  I am proud that I did. I was joined by Chuck Grassley, a Republican of  Iowa, and Mike Lee, a Republican of Utah. We passed a bill called the  FIRST STEP Act, and it was sent to President Trump, who signed it into  law in his first term.

Now comes Cristian Stevens, Judge Stevens, wanting a seat on the  Federal bench. I am concerned about a law review article he wrote that  defended the 100-to-1 disparity between crack cocaine and powder  cocaine.

He wrote:

There may be evidence to suggest that these kinds of       sentencing provisions are beneficial to black communities       hardest hit by the crack epidemic.

I am disappointed that Judge Stevens continues to stand by an article  that defends crack-powder cocaine sentencing disparity--it was wrong  then; it is wrong now--and he is certainly doing no one a favor by  supporting that kind of penalty.

My Republican colleagues will likely vote for both of these nominees  I have described--Mr. Divine and Judge Stevens on the Federal bench-- without hesitation, but the American people deserve judges who will  protect their basic fundamental rights, demonstrate independence and  integrity, and remain faithful to the Constitution and the rule of law.  Neither of these nominees has proven that they embody these attributes.

I will vote against both of these nominees. I urge my colleagues to  do the same.