Kash Patel


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701908/kash-patel


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, when Kash Patel was confirmed as head of  the FBI, I said that he had neither the experience, the judgment, nor  the temperament for the job. Fourteen months later, Director Patel has  confirmed my worst fears about his integrity and competency.

Director Patel has spent his tenure at the FBI weaponizing the  world's preeminent investigative Agency to serve the political  interests of one person--Donald Trump. Patel has fired dozens of career  law enforcement agents simply because they were assigned to work on  investigations related to President Trump's and his allies' misconduct.  These firings have deprived the FBI of decades of experience at a time  when our Nation is facing growing threats not only at home but  overseas.

Director Patel has timed these politicized purges to shield himself  from allegations of misconduct. After his embarrassing actions at the  Olympics and whistleblower disclosures to my office describing how his  misuse of FBI aircraft has negatively impacted high-profile criminal  investigations, Director Patel tried to save face by firing even more  people at the FBI who worked on President Trump's mishandling of  classified documents.

Several of the fired agents at the FBI were part of a global  counterintelligence squad whose responsibilities included investigating  espionage and cyber threats from Iran. Just days before the war began,  Director Patel deliberately undermined the FBI's ability to counter  Iranian threats--all to distract from his own failings and  mismanagement as Director.

An article recently published in The Atlantic revealed that Director  Patel's behavior has been even more erratic and irresponsible than  previously reported. Current and former FBI officials are worried that  Director Patel has become a national security risk due to his chronic  absenteeism and his personal lifestyle. Those at FBI headquarters and  field offices often find the Director absent at critical moments,  delaying time-sensitive decisions on important investigations that  require his approval.

These accusations would be concerning for any government official,  but for one of the people principally responsible for keeping America  safe, they are downright disqualifying. Director Patel should be  replaced immediately. Our country's safety is too important to be left  in the hands of an unqualified and undependable individual who is loyal  only to the President and not to the people of this Nation.