Medicaid


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690984/medicaid


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last week, hospital leaders from every  corner of my State of Illinois came to Washington. What was the reason  for the trip? The debate in Washington about the future of Medicaid.

Each and every one of them, from the city of Chicago through the most  rural areas in the State, was concerned about the plans by the  Republicans in Congress to change the funding for Medicaid. From the  South Side of Chicago to Macomb in West Central Illinois, as well as  Rockford, 20 miles from the Wisconsin border, and Carbondale, all the  way downstate, they came to see me.

These are small, critical access hospitals in rural areas, the safety  net hospitals treating the poorest patients and the large teaching  hospitals in downtown Chicago. They are all focused on Medicaid.

All of them told me the Medicaid cuts that Republicans have put on  the table would be devastating to their hospitals in every corner of my  State--devastating to the doctors and nurses that they employ and  especially hurtful to the patients and their families.

One told me that it is the only hospital in a 60-mile radius  delivering babies. If Republican plans to cut Medicaid go through, this  life-or-death care could be out of reach for pregnant mothers.

Another safety net hospital told me they might have to close their  doors altogether if the Medicaid cuts happen.

Why? Why would Republicans in Congress even want to jeopardize  healthcare and ring alarm bells in hospitals across America? They are  trying to ``save $880 billion.''

Well, what is the critical need to save that? To perpetuate the tax  breaks of the Trump administration for the wealthiest people in  America. Yep, that is the game plan. That is right.

President Trump and his billionaire buddy Elon Musk, the richest man  in the world, have asked Republicans in Congress to provide a massive  giveaway to the wealthiest Americans, and they want to use Medicaid  cuts as the piggy bank.

Let's be clear: This is not a healthcare reform plan to improve our  healthcare system or lower costs for families and patients. Nope.  Republicans are looking to dismantle the basic Medicaid Program to help  the tax cuts for billionaires.

Don't take my word for it. It is not just another political speech.  Last week, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office issued a  bombshell report. I am sure the Republicans in charge of the House and  Senate didn't anticipate this. The Congressional Budget Office reviewed  the Republican plans to cut Medicaid and determined the only way  Republicans can ``save money'' is by removing millions of Americans  from this health insurance, slashing benefits, or cutting access to  doctors, nurses, and dentists.

For weeks, Republicans have been adamant that they are only focused  on addressing waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicaid. Then comes the CBO  report.

I want to agree with the basic premise that, if there is  inappropriate spending, fix it. But that is not what is happening here,  and I think the Republican majority knows it.

The Congressional Budget Office called their bluff and confirmed that  these Medicaid cuts proposed by the Republicans are not about waste or  efficiency. They are about restricting access to coverage to patients  all across the United States, including in my State of Illinois.

Under Republicans' watch, CBO stated that 13.7 million Americans will  have their health insurance coverage terminated. Almost 14 million  Americans will lose healthcare coverage if the Republicans go forward  with their plan. What is the acceptable number of constituents losing  health coverage for Republicans?

Nationwide, half of all rural hospitals are already in the red, and  more than 300 rural hospitals are facing immediate closure, including  26 in Kansas, 22 in Alabama, 21 in Texas, and 9 in Missouri. How many  rural hospitals closing in their States are Republicans willing to  accept to help perpetuate tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans?

Let me tell you, as a person from downstate Illinois, rural hospitals  are the backbone of the community. Not only are they critical places  for emergency medical care, but they are the anchors of the local  economy.

Speaking of the economy, one of the ways Republicans plan to cut  Medicaid is by imposing burdensome, redtape requirements.

Put paperwork in the path of an individual looking for medical care.  Pile it up. Make it hard. Pitched by the Republicans as just simply  ``work requirements,'' this policy withholds healthcare for eligible  patients until they meet overly complex paperwork requirements. It is a  failing strategy.

In the States that have tried the so-called work requirements, there  has been no increase in employment. The only impact is with patients  who are ruled ineligible and kicked off Medicaid because they were  drowning in paperwork. What a way to run a country.

Here is an example: A waitress with diabetes misses a paperwork  deadline because the forms were sent to her old address. She loses her  Medicaid coverage and can't access her medications and is forced to  miss work to deal with it.

One analysis determined that approximately 3 million manufacturing,  agricultural, and service sector workers could become uninsured under  the simply ``Make sure they are going to work'' plan. Who thinks that  is a good idea?

Yesterday, House Republicans spent Mother's Day scheming on how to  advance these Medicaid cuts, finally releasing a copy of their  legislation so we could see the detail. It is as catastrophic as we  feared. It is the largest cut in Medicaid in the Nation's health  history, ripping health insurance away from millions of Americans in  every single State.

But it is not too late for a few Republicans--and it only takes a  few: four in the House, four in the Senate--to step up and say they  don't want to be part of this, if they will stand up and say: No, we  will not risk the healthcare for millions of Americans as bargaining  chips for billionaire tax breaks.

Medicaid provides health insurance for 1 out of every 4 people in my  State of Illinois--3.4 million people, including 1.5 million children.  Medicaid pays to deliver half of all the babies in my State--half of  them. Two-thirds of the seniors in nursing homes depend on Medicaid. If  Medicaid is not helping to pay for that nursing home or care for  seniors, what is going to happen to grandma, grandfathers, those that  are affected by it? It is the largest funder of opioid addiction  treatment.

Remember the image of Elon Musk--the richest man in the world-- laughing gleefully as he danced around a stage with a chain saw in his  hand? The richest man in the world was laughing out loud about his  chain saw cuts to Medicaid. Well, these cuts are no laughing matter for  that rural hospital worried about having to close its mental health  services. They are no laughing matter for the pregnant woman forced to  drive more than an hour to deliver a baby because the local hospital  shuttered its obstetrics unit.

Wipe that smile off your face, Mr. Musk. We are talking about life- and-death healthcare for America's working families.