Nomination of Whitney D. Hermandorfer


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the Senate will soon vote on the  nomination of Whitney Hermandorfer, President Trump's nominee to serve  as judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

In May, the President announced Ms. Hermandorfer was the very first  judicial nominee of his second term. And now she is the President's  first judicial nominee to come to the floor of the Senate.

The President has been clear that his primary concern is not about  his judicial nominee's experience, competence, or integrity. This  President is not focused on temperament, independence, or respect for  the rule of law. He is focused on a nominee's perceived loyalty to him  and his agenda and a willingness to rule in favor of him and his  administration.

When we consider the President's priorities and Ms. Hermandorfer's  record, it is easy to understand why the President nominated her to  serve on the Sixth Circuit. At the Office of Tennessee Attorney  General, Ms. Hermandorfer leads the Strategic Litigation Unit. Why is  that significant? She is not just defending State laws in Tennessee.  She has turned the Attorney General's Office to an advocacy arm for the  Trump agenda.

She has argued in support of President Trump's unconstitutional  Executive order that purports to end birthright citizenship. This  Executive order has been blocked by every judge who has considered it.  One judge--appointed by President Ronald Reagan, I might add--said:

I've been on the bench for over four decades. I can't       remember another case where the question presented was as       clear as this one . . . This is a blatantly unconstitutional       order.

And yet Ms. Hermandorfer signed amicus briefs in support of the  President's unlawful efforts to fire inspectors general and heads of  independent Agencies.

Her record makes it clear that, if confirmed, she would continue to  enable, rather than check, an administration that has repeatedly  exceeded its authority.

Ms. Hermandorfer also refuses to acknowledge that President Trump  lost the 2020 election. Let me repeat that: This nominee who seeks a  lifetime appointment to the Federal bench, when asked the basic  question as to whether Donald Trump won or lost the 2020 election, gave  the stock answer. She refuses to acknowledge that Donald Trump lost. In  response to this simple question: Did President Trump lose the 2020  election? All she could say was:

President Biden was certified as the winner of the 2020       presidential election and served as the 46th President of the       United States.

This is the standard response from this administration's nominees  seeking positions on the Federal bench. It is an embarrassing  genuflection before the Big Lie. The question of who won the 2020  election is not a matter of political opinion; it is a matter of  historical fact. The overwhelming majority of my Republican colleagues  have correctly recognized that reality, and we have a right to expect  nominees to acknowledge such historic realities as well.

Both President Trump's nominees, including Ms. Hermandorfer, have  been afraid to admit he lost the 2020 election. Why are they afraid of  it? It is a fact. They are afraid because it will make him angry. He  may dump their nominations because of the answer to that question.

The fact that she is willing to condone President Trump's false  claims further demonstrates a level of partisanship and deference to  this President that is unacceptable for someone seeking a lifetime  position on the Federal bench.

And just in case her political leanings aren't clear enough for the  record, Ms. Hermandorfer has strong ties to a range of rightwing  organizations. They include the fabled Federalist Society and Teneo  Network. Teneo Network is a new conservative group funded by Leonard  Leo and his affiliated organizations. You may have heard the name  Leonard Leo recently when President Trump called Mr. Leo a  ``sleazebag.''

Membership in such organizations has been a litmus test for years for  Republican nominees. It is the secret handshake, my friends. If you  belong to the Federalist Society or now this Teneo Network, you are in.  It means a nominee will use the Republican playbook for deciding  important Federal cases. How does it work? You claim to be neutral,  but, in fact, you contort history and overturn precedents to reach the  Republicans' preferred outcome.

Ms. Hermandorfer followed this playbook to a tee in the Tennessee  Attorney General's Office. She opposed LGBTQ rights and reproductive  rights as well as environmental and anti-discrimination policies to  protect the most vulnerable in America.

I believe we need judges on the bench who follow the law and the  Constitution, not politicians in robes who rule in favor of the  President and wealthy special interests.

Finally, I would like to note that Ms. Hermandorfer's academic  record, although impressive, and legal record, although extreme, is  short. She graduated from law school in 2015--has fewer than 10 years  of legal experience. Outside of clerkships, she has only practiced law  for 6 years, and she is seeking a lifetime appointment to the circuit  court--one of the highest in the land. She has never served as sole or  chief counsel in any case--any case--tried to verdict, judgment, or  final decision.

That is a shocking lack of experience for someone nominated for a  lifetime position. She will be watching trials for the first time as a  judge. But, unfortunately, this kind of inexperience is common with  President Trump's judicial nominees.

Make no mistake, experience is still important. Robust litigation  experience ensures judicial nominees will be equipped to fulfill their  duties. As an appellate judge, she is going to be standing in judgment  of many trial courts. She has limited experience in that field.

Ms. Hermandorfer is the first judicial nominee we have considered  this Congress. She won't be the last. In every instance, we must  carefully examine the nominee's record as we consider them for a  lifetime appointment. After carefully reviewing her record, I have  serious concerns. I think my colleagues, if they look at her honestly,  will as well. I urge them to join me in opposing her nomination.

(Mrs. Britt assumed the Chair.)