One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693251/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this weekend, across the country, we  observed our Nation's 249th Independence Day, a day intended to  celebrate a government of, by, and for the people, in Lincoln's words.  But this Independence Day was anything but a celebration in one  respect, and that is because, this Fourth of July, the President and  congressional Republicans decided to sign their so-called Big Beautiful  Bill, and in so doing, they retreated from the values that our Founders  etched in the Declaration, ``that all Men are created equal,'' not just  the wealthy and well-connected.

Americans across this Nation overwhelmingly oppose this bill--and for  good reason. You see, this bill signed by the President on the Fourth  of July is the largest cut in healthcare and the largest cut in  nutrition assistance in history, slashing more than $1 trillion from  healthcare programs like Medicaid and $200 billion from the SNAP  program.

Seventeen million Americans will lose their health insurance. Health  insurance premiums will rise for another 20 million Americans. Three  million people will have food taken off the table, including kids,  seniors, and veterans.

I can't understand the celebration of the facts that I have just  read.

I have heard misstatements. One misstatement was: Don't worry. The  people we take off Medicaid will be the illegal immigrants.

They are not eligible for Medicaid, and they are certainly not in  that calculation of 17 million Americans.

Why do we do these things? Why would any government do these things  to so many innocent people?

In this case, very simply, it is to give tax breaks to the wealthiest  Americans and the biggest corporations. The richest Americans will be  seeing $400,000 more in tax cuts in their pockets every year because of  this legislation. I don't know how their lifestyle--if you are a  millionaire or something like that and you get a tax break of $400,000,  what does that money do to change your life?

Well, I can tell you this: One thing that will change your life  forever is to face a dramatic medical challenge in your family and not  have health insurance to cover you. I have been there, and I have lived  through that. It is something you never wish on anyone. And yet 17  million Americans, unfortunately, will lose their health insurance  under this bill, the Big Beautiful Bill, signed by President Trump.

Despite a last-ditch effort--there was a failing attempt at buying  votes and pretending to care about rural areas, like my area of  Downstate Illinois--more than 300 rural hospitals and 500 nursing homes  may be forced to close because of these cutbacks in Medicaid. That is  because this Big Beautiful Bill cripples the Medicaid Program that  keeps our rural hospitals and communities afloat. That includes HSHS  St. Francis Hospital in Litchfield, IL, where Medicaid pays for 53  percent of the hospitalization; St. Mary's Hospital in Centralia, IL,  where Medicaid pays for 42 percent of hospitalizations; and OSF St.  Clare Hospital in Princeton, IL, where Medicaid covers 45 percent of  the hospitalizations.

The administrators in these hospitals have warned us that this could  be the breaking point. Many of these hospitals barely survive, barely  keep their doors open. Now, all of these hospitals--already operating  on the margins--may face impossible decisions to scale back services.  For what? To pay for tax breaks for the wealthiest people in this  country.

Aside from hospitals, there is also going to be a major consequence  on American energy. I commend to my colleagues and those who are  following this debate, in today's New York Times, an article by Thomas  Friedman. He talks about the impact on energy from the decisions made  by the signing of this bill.

This bill kills solar, wind, and EV tax credits enjoyed by companies  and consumers alike, all but ceding the future of electricity to China  and risking billions of dollars of investments in renewable energy-- ironically, mostly in Republican States.

While working families grapple with the consequences of these cuts,  they are going to see the family home expenses increase by $1,000 a  year. Utility bills are going up because of this bill--this bill signed  by the President, the Big Beautiful Bill.

The Chicago Tribune recently shared a story of Isaiah Rogers, a 61- year-old man who lives in the West Pullman neighborhood in Chicago.  Several years ago, Isaiah was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. As a  result of this diagnosis, he has not been able to return to his job,  trimming trees, and has been working small side jobs. Medicaid pays for  Isaiah's doctor visits and his insulin.

A single father without a high school degree, Isaiah is concerned  that the bill's cuts and changes to Medicaid will result in his losing  his health coverage. And if Isaiah loses Medicaid, he will no longer be  able to afford his insulin and other medications. He may face a  diabetic complication or coma or even suffer a stroke. What will that  mean to his 12-year-old son?

It is unconscionable to think that the other party would pull the  plug on lifesaving health coverage and deny food to our most needy  children, but that is exactly what they voted for and celebrated on  July 4.

As Republicans moved this megabill through Congress, Democrats did  our best, in the minority, to push back. Over the course of 27 hours,  Senate Democrats forced votes on many amendments to put Republicans on  notice and show their constituents what their real positions are on  issues. It was the longest vote-arama in the history of the Senate. It  included putting Republicans on the record, voting against nursing home  care, home healthcare, food assistance for children of veterans,  protections for Medicaid, clean energy jobs--and the list goes on. And  an expansion of the child tax credit, an idea that has proven  successful--all that was sacrificed to give billionaires tax cuts  instead.

In the end, three sensible Senate Republicans looked at this ugly  betrayal of a bill and agreed they couldn't be part of the process. I  commend them. But, sadly, three votes on the other side of the aisle  wasn't enough. We needed one more.

And who swooped in to cast his vote--the decisive vote? Vice  President Vance. He showed up at the last minute and cast a tie- breaking vote in the Senate to push the bill across the finish line.

A few short years ago, then-Vice President Harris broke a tie in this  very Chamber to pass the largest climate investment bill in history and  to lower prescription drug prices for millions of Americans--what a  sharp contrast. This Vice President cast a deciding vote that will be  painful for so many families across America, and he could have done so  much more and so much better for the people of this Nation. That is the  difference in priorities. In politics, it basically boils down to:  Whose side are you on?

As the effects of this bill take shape and slither their way through  our communities, our Republican colleagues will have to look their  constituents in the eyes and explain their votes. They will have to  explain to a farmer who now must drive an additional 50 miles to the  nearest hospital why they had to shut the community hospital doors.  They will have to explain to the grandmother at a nursing home why her  care is being slimmed down or eliminated because of cutbacks to  Medicaid. They will have to explain to the young mother preparing to  have a baby why there is no longer a maternity ward in her county.

This bill flies in the face of American values that we celebrate on  the Fourth of July and everything we stand for. The other party has a  lot of explaining to do, and the American people are going to face the  consequences.