Recognizing Federal Employees


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688591/recognizing-federal-employees


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, since he took office, President Trump, his  unelected billionaire buddy Elon Musk, and their DOGE bros have begun  to systematically dismantle the Federal Government. In their efforts to  root out so-called ``government waste,'' President Trump and Elon are  targeting and illegally terminating the Federal workforce, the  employees who make our country run.

These are the air traffic controllers who make sure your flights land  safely, the workers responsible for sending Social Security checks out  the door for millions of older Americans, the national security experts  who keep our Nation safe from threats. These people are not loyal to  any party or President. They are career civil servants devoted to  serving Americans and answering to the Constitution. And they are being  abruptly and illegally fired from critical positions across the  government.

Today, I will share the stories of four Federal employees with ties  to Illinois who have been terminated in the President's DOGE rampage.

One of my constituents has devoted his career to transit safety. He  dreamed of working for the Federal Government. After working for a  decade to make the Illinois transit system safer, he landed a job with  the Federal Transit Administration in safety assurance, where he was  hired to start a program that looked into transit safety hazards across  the Nation.

But after President Trump took office, he started to receive strange  emails about his job. He was still on probation, but his performance  was excellent, and even his managers did not know who was sending the  emails. That was until February 14, when he was emailed that he had  been terminated for poor performance, despite there being zero  documentation suggesting lackluster work and glowing appraisals from  his managers.

He was given no severance or benefits. He was gutted. He had never  been fired from a job before, and he loved his work. And more  importantly, he worries about how he will take care of his two  children--both of whom have autism.

We need Federal employees to ensure our public transportation systems  are safe. But now, his job investigating transport hazards sits vacant.  Public transport is less safe as a result.

How will firing transportation safety experts make America greater?

If you live in Chicago, you will remember last July's derecho, when a  record-breaking 32 tornadoes ripped through the Chicagoland area. Eric  Carothers remembers it well. At the time, he was an intern for the  National Weather Service in Chicago under their Pathways student  program, which allowed him to gain experience at the National Weather  Service while he was earning his graduate degree in meteorology.

Eric has long been passionate about public service and meteorology. A  career at the National Weather Service was a dream come true for him,  and he expected to join its staff full-time after graduating from  school this spring. That is until he was terminated last week--without  cause.

Americans rely on the National Weather Service for everything from  knowing when to pack an umbrella to avoid being caught in a  thunderstorm to staying safe during tornado clusters. Eric explained  that meteorologists at the National Weather Service are already  understaffed and overworked. He fears for what the terminations of  younger staff will mean for expertise when more senior forecasters  retire. Without passionate, dedicated, trained meteorologists,  Americans' lives and property are at risk.

How will firing workers in charge of warning the public of weather  emergencies make America greater?

Few of the President's actions have been as repulsive as putting  veterans in the crosshairs of so-called ``government waste.'' I want to  share the story of one employee, a woman who worked at the Marion VA  Medical Center in southern Illinois. Every year, this facility serves  43,000 veterans.

Like many VA employees, she received an email in the middle of the  night informing her that she was fired from her logistical job that  ensured the rural hospital's lab had what it needed for patient care.  Her supervisor had no idea this was coming. Her coworkers were shocked.  Her role was valuable to the lab, and she did good work. According to  the cookie-cutter email, she, too, was being fired for ``poor  performance.'' But how could that be true when she had just received an  outstanding performance evaluation? It made no sense. And get this: She  is a veteran. And her spouse is Active-Duty Army.

Not only does this senseless firing hurt someone who so bravely  served our Nation, but it will impact the ability of other veterans to  receive the healthcare and benefits they need, earned, and deserve.

How will firing veterans responsible for caring for other veterans  make America greater?

Last, I want to reiterate that what we do here at home reverberates  around the world. One of my constituents spent 10 years dedicating his  life to U.S. foreign policy at the State Department and USAID. He was  already among the last staffers at USAID, where rounds of firings have  hollowed out the Agency.

But despite working for years to improve food security in countries  of need around the world and despite exemplary performance reviews, he  was fired. Further, he was posted overseas with a fellow public servant  spouse. Now, he is essentially stranded abroad, fearing for his  livelihood and future of his family.

How will firing and abandoning Americans dedicated to helping others  make America greater?

Our Federal workforce is the backbone of this Nation. And their  indiscriminate, unjust firings not only hurts them, but all Americans  who rely on the government for critical services.

It seems that Donald Trump and Elon Musk have mistaken the Federal  Government for Silicon Valley. The old adage ``move fast and break  things'' might ring true in the tech industry. But, in Washington,  ``moving fast and breaking things'' leads to chaos that everyday  Americans bear the brunt of and suffer from.