Recognizing 50 Years of Haymarket Center


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today when you look at Chicago's West Loop  neighborhood, you will see new lofts and condominiums, trendy  restaurants, and many people moving in. But 50 years ago, it was one of  the poorest parts of Chicago. It used to be called ``Skid Row'' and was  crowded with warehouses and boarded-up businesses. Not much of that  past is left there today, except for a few brick buildings and  Chicago's largest addiction and mental health treatment facility,  Haymarket Center, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year.

When Haymarket Center was founded in 1975, not many people would  venture to the West Loop. Many locals were experiencing addiction and  alcoholism, and the stigmas surrounding those diseases were  devastating. At the time, the sentiment in America was that addiction  was a personal failure. Those who suffered from addiction were cast out  of society, isolated from their families, and denied the treatment they  so desperately needed. Instead of being sent to hospitals, they would  be sent to jails.

However, there was one man willing to venture to Skid Row. He had  rosy Irish cheeks and a slight limp, and he was committed to helping  those who had no one else to care for them. His name was Monsignor  Ignatius McDermott, but we all knew him as Father Mac. Father Mac was a  friend of mine; he was a model of compassion, commitment, and service.

He began his path to addiction treatment at Maryville Academy, an  orphanage in a suburb 25 miles west of Chicago. Father Mac was only 25  when he started working at Maryville, and there, he saw how many  children were affected by their parents' addiction. When he had to make  a home visit, he often would venture to Skid Row and see the plight of  those living there. These experiences drove him to move to Skid Row in  1946 to help people beat their addiction. Almost every night, Father  Mac would walk up and down the streets of Skid Row looking for someone  to offer encouragement.

That was something I always respected about Father Mac. While so many  people would pick up the pace or cross the street to avoid someone who  may be sick with addiction, Father Mac would slow down and stop to see  what he could do to help.

As Father Mac served Chicago's West Loop, he began to realize that  addiction needed to be treated like the disease it was. That  realization was shared by a renowned surgeon and psychiatrist Dr. James  West, who had his own struggles with addiction. Together, these two men  founded Haymarket House, which would go on to become Haymarket Center.

The opening of Haymarket Center was a turning point in Chicago's  approach to addiction treatment. In thinking about the mission that  inspired these two men, I am reminded of something Father Mac would  say. ``The Master is kindness . . . It is the only language in the  world that the deaf can hear, the blind can see, that the mute can  speak.'' And kindness is embodied throughout Haymarket Center's  operations. It was one of the first places in Chicago where people in  the throes of addiction could go and be treated with love, not  judgement.

Fifty years later, that guiding light has not changed. Haymarket  Center still is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It is a beacon of  hope, ensuring our most vulnerable have access to critical services  regardless of their income or background. Haymarket Center has grown to  treat more than 12,000 patients a year and offers 30 specialized  addiction and recovery programs in support of its mission. These  programs also support job training and mental health counseling for  patients, helping to address the root causes of suffering and providing  patients with a path forward. Haymarket Center continues to push our  understanding surrounding addiction into the future, recognizing the  role that poverty and trauma play in addiction.

I and so many other of Chicago's representatives have seen the impact  Haymarket Center has on our community. That is why, throughout my time  in Congress, I have worked to secure resources and change Federal  policies to help the healers at Haymarket Center fulfill their mission.

I want to thank Haymarket Center's current CEO Dr. Dan Lustig for his  work in ensuring Haymarket continues to live up to Father Mac's vision.  Dr. Lustig's leadership has kept Haymarket at the forefront of  addiction treatment amidst the opioid epidemic and mental health  crisis.

While Father Mac is no longer with us, his legacy lives on through  Haymarket Center. I join people across the Chicagoland area in  congratulating Haymarket Center for 50 years of incredible work,  helping those who had no one else to turn to, and treating everyone who  walked through its doors with kindness.