Recognizing the Joliet Ems/Fire Department Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688330/recognizing-the-joliet-emsfire-department-program


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, earlier this month, I had the pleasure of  meeting with leaders from Joliet, IL--including Mayor Terry D'Arcy,  city manager Beth Beatty, fire chief Jeff Carey, deputy chief of health  services Aaron Kozlowski, emergency management coordinator Dr. John  Lukancic, and Sister Mary Francis Seely.

I take dozens of meetings every week in my office here in Washington,  but I was struck by the remarkable work underway in Joliet. Joliet is  the third-largest city in Illinois, and like all communities, it faces  its share of challenges. But over the past few years, Joliet has  launched an incredible program to address mental health and addiction  among its residents.

Starting in 2020, Joliet noticed that mental and behavioral health  calls accounted for a growing percentage of the 9-1-1 calls. The fire  department was spending less time putting out fires--and more time  responding to people in mental health crisis. Some residents were  dialing 9-1-1 regularly--several times a week--because they were facing  underlying mental health needs. This cost the city money. It strained  resources. But most of all, it meant residents of Joliet were  suffering. So they decided to do something about it.

Joliet began by training 200 firefighters and paramedics in ``crisis  first aid,'' to be able to respond appropriately to callers in mental  health distress. You see, after experiencing trauma--like witnessing a  shooting or seeing their home destroyed by a fire--people can suffer.  Exposure to trauma can harm the brain, changing the way people see and  interact with the world.

We know that young people who experience trauma have a shorter life  expectancy, are more likely to misuse drugs, attempt suicide, commit  violence, or not graduate from high school. By providing Joliet  firefighters with the tools to help individuals facing trauma, these  first responders are able to recognize the signs of stress, and plant  the seeds of a healthier tomorrow. It also helps the firefighters  understand their own mental health needs from the strains of the job,  so we can keep them healthy, too.

Additionally, after being dispatched to one of these serious calls,  the Joliet Fire Department pays a follow-up visit within 48 hours.  These visits help to show residents that someone cares and is looking  out for them; it helps calm them down and can help provide referrals to  additional services the residents may need.

In less than 3 years, the Joliet Fire Department has provided more  than 2,000 Joliet residents with these mental health services. Think  about this for a moment: Rather than just throwing up their hands and  saying, ``Sorry, we just fight fires,'' Joliet is taking ownership of  the community's needs and preventing future 9-1-1 calls.

But they are not stopping there. Of course, not every patient's  mental health needs can be addressed by first responders; some  individuals require specialized treatment from a professional. But in  Joliet, like most places across the country, there is a shortage of  counselors and psychologists, causing waitlists that can last for  months until the next available appointment. And what Joliet had  realized was that, if a patient couldn't see a mental health provider,  they were resorting to calling 9-1-1 and taking an ambulance to the  emergency room.

It is similar to a problem that the University of Illinois Hospital  in Chicago was seeing: where 48 individuals accounted for more than 776  visits to the emergency room in a single year. The reason? They were  homeless. That hospital realized they could save money and better treat  these patients, by paying for supportive housing.

Joliet is applying a similar lesson. They have partnered with the  local hospital and a mental health company to offer free mental health  services with a clinician, usually within 24 hours. Whatever insurance  won't cover, the city has set up a fund to pay the co-pays and other  out-of-pocket expenses for the mental health care of its residents.

What has been the result of this effort? Well, in the year before the  program launched, Joliet area high schools experienced 12 teenage  suicides. But in the last 2 school years, there have been zero teen  suicides. Across all ages, citywide suicides have decreased by 50  percent. That is lifesaving work. It is being recognized, too. Joliet  recently received the Congressional Fire Service Award for Excellence.

I hope to support this effort in any way I can. Illinois recently  received Federal approval to use Medicaid to cover preventive mental  health services in the community, which can reduce costs down the line.  And with Senator Capito, I have worked on Federal legislation to  increase funding for trauma-informed care in schools and with first  responders, to help break the cycle of mental health challenges.

I applaud the city of Joliet's efforts, which are serving as a new  national model for emergency medical services and using first  responders to address the root causes of suffering in the community. I  look forward to working with them to identify additional Federal  resources and opportunities to grow this project.

But to do that, my Republican colleagues need to understand a few  things: We must fund the Federal Government and the critical programs  that pay our first responders--and not allow  Elon Musk to decide what he thinks is worthwhile spending; and Medicaid  is the insurance program that pays the largest share of mental health  services; we cannot slash the Medicaid program to pay for billionaire  tax breaks.

These may sound like distant debates in Washington, but when it comes  to preventing suicides in Joliet, IL, it is a critical investment. And  I will work every day to defend these programs.