Recognizing ``Assault on American Diplomacy''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691413/recognizing-assault-on-american-diplomacy


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, since the start of his second term,  President Trump has upended the international world order and America's  leadership on the global stage. He and his allies are working  decisively to erode the values that are central to our Nation. Notably,  retired diplomats, military leaders, national security experts, and  even former Trump administration officials have denounced these actions  as undermining our democratic norms and traditions, and I would like to  highlight one such open letter from former U.S. leaders.

We swore to support and defend       the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.       Foreign and domestic. None of us thought the second part of       that phrase would ever come into play--until now.

American global leadership has depended on many factors,       including political, economic, and military power. But most       important was the moral foundation for that power--America as       an example to others. Though our actions didn't always live       up to our ideals, we stood for simple but powerful ideas that       people everywhere embraced: democracy, equality, individual       liberty, and human rights.

That moral foundation is now in grave danger. The challenge       comes from within, as President Trump and his administration       have assaulted the pillars of our democracy here at home and       our strength around the world.

Internationally, Trump has questioned the value of long-      standing alliances in Europe and Asia. On our borders, he has       poisoned ties with our closest neighbors. He has undermined       the bedrock principle of world peace that sovereign borders       will be respected. The United States now seeks to lay claim       to Greenland, the Panama Canal, and Canada, greenlighting       other countries to proceed as they see fit, most notably       Russia in Ukraine. The global economic order that       ushered in a period of unparalleled prosperity for Americans       is being undermined by Trump's senseless tariffs and war on       legally binding trade agreements. America as the first       responder to global humanitarian crises becomes a distant       memory with the dismantling of USAID.

Domestically, Trump is aggressively eliminating constraints       on his power and fomenting fear. He is intimidating       independent media outlets with frivolous lawsuits. Our       universities are retreating from freedom of speech because of       explicit threats to withdraw federal monies. Our law firms       are being bludgeoned into denying representation to anyone       whom this administration does not like. Our medical research       centers are seeing an exodus of experts forced out by an       administration that does not believe in basic science.       Congress and the Department of Justice threaten to impeach       sitting judges that rule against the government. Federal       trade unions have been shut down by executive order. State       governments that challenge the administration face cuts in       federal funding. A racist, misogynistic and homophobic       mindset is leading to the erasure of history and national       heroes at our cultural institutions. In a country with a       proud history of immigration, legal residents are being       illegally deported for expressing an opinion. People are       whisked off the street by masked officials in unmarked cars       or sent off to imprisonment abroad without due process. Trump       talks publicly about an unconstitutional third term without a       word of concern from his own party.

American democracy and American security are inextricably       linked; weaken one and the other inevitably begins to fail.       As patriots and public servants from both parties who worked       to protect America over many decades, we see that link       unraveling at lightning speed. Many of us have served in       countries where democratically elected leaders followed a       path to autocracy, and we know this crisis requires an urgent       and unified response. As a result, we call for the following:

--Former senior officials, including presidents,       secretaries of state, secretaries of defense, and chiefs of       staff of our military services must jointly and publicly       challenge the administration's dangerous policies and       dismantling of essential institutions.

--Business leaders must condemn Trump's disastrous trade       policy which is plunging the global economy into chaos and       disrupting supply chains that support millions of jobs.

--Medical institutions, like the CDC, NIH, and major       research centers around the country must defend science with       non-partisan funding of medical investigation and warn of the       dangers of abandoning global engagement on pandemic       prevention.

--Universities and media must protect free speech. Without       a unified stance, they will be picked off one-by-one and       first amendment rights for every American will be in peril.

--Our largest law firms must remain guardians of the rule       of law by resisting administration pressure to undermine the       legal system of checks and balances which is so fundamental       to our democracy.

--Finally, politicians on both sides of the aisle who       believe in the core values of our constitution must actively       oppose the administration's efforts to undermine our national       security, our freedoms, and our democracy. Waiting passively       for the electoral calendar to fight back does nothing more       than give the administration additional time and running room       to impose its authoritarian stamp ever more securely on       government and on all of us.

No American should be silent. No American who cares about       our freedoms, our institutions, and our identity as a nation       can afford to be a bystander. Each of us in different walks       of life must do what we can--speak out, mobilize, defend our       way of life. The moment requires nothing less. We must       recognize the seriousness of what is taking place and act       collectively to restore our democracy and our security. If we       do not, the American ideals of liberty, prosperity, and       equality will quickly become relics of the past.

Bernadette Allen, US Ambassador, retired; Rand Beers,       Former Deputy Homeland Security Advisor; Mark Bellamy, US       Ambassador, retired; John Beyrle, US Ambassador, retired;       James Bishop, US Ambassador, retired; Charles Blaha, Senior       Foreign Service Officer, retired; Anne Bodine, Senior Foreign       Service Officer, retired; Avis Bohlen, US Ambassador,       retired, Former Assistant Secretary of State; Michele Bond,       US Ambassador, retired, Former Assistant Secretary of State;       Paul L. Boyd, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired.

Aurelia Brazeal, US Ambassador, retired; Sue Bremner,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Steven Browning, US       Ambassador. retired, Former Principal Deputy Assistant       Secretary of State; David Buckley, Former Inspector General,       Central Intelligence Agency; Susan F. Burk, Former Special       Representative of the President; Peter Burleigh. US       Ambassador, retired; Scott Busby, Former Deputy Assistant       Secretary of State; Prudence Bushnell, US Ambassador,       retired; John Butler, Rear Admiral, U.S. Navy, retired;       Constance Carrino, Senior Foreign Service Officer, USAID,       retired; Steven Cash, Former Senior Advisor, DHS, Former       Chief Counsel to Senator Feinstein, Former CIA Officer.

Asha Castleberry-Hernandez, Senior Executive Service, DOD,       retired; Judith Chammas, Senior Foreign Service Officer,       retired; Phillip Chicola, Senior Foreign Service Officer,       retired; Roberta Cohen, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of       State; Ellen Conway, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired;       Frances Cook, US Ambassador, retired; Sarah Cook, Senior       Foreign Commercial Service Officer, retired; Thomas       Countryman, Former Assistant Secretary of State; Ruth Davis,       US Ambassador, retired, Former Director General of the US       Foreign Service; David Davison, Senior Foreign Service       Officer, retired.

Greg Delawie, US Ambassador, retired; Christopher Dell, US       Ambassador, retired; Anne E. Derse, US Ambassador, retired;       Vicki Divoll, Former General Counsel, Senate Select Committee       on Intelligence; Mary Draper, Senior Foreign Service Officer,       retired; Melvin Dubee, Former Deputy Staff Director, Senate       Select Committee on Intelligence; Martha Duncan, Senior       Executive Service, DOD, retired; William Eacho, Former       Ambassador to Austria; William Eaton, US Ambassador, retired;       Luigi Einaudi, US Ambassador, retired.

Jonathan Elkind, Former Assistant Secretary of Energy;       Nancy Ely-Raphel, US Ambassador, retired; Gregory Engle, US       Ambassador, retired; Joseph Fallone, Captain, US Navy,       retired; John Feeley, US Ambassador, retired, Former       Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; Gerald       Feierstein, US Ambassador, retired, Former Principal       Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; Jeffrey Feltman, US       Ambassador, retired, Former Assistant Secretary of State;       Mark Fitzpatrick, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of       State; Kathleen Fitzpatrick, US Ambassador, retired; Mike       Fitzpatrick, US Ambassador, retired.

Karen Freeman, Senior Foreign Service Officer, USAID,       retired; Bennett Freeman, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary       of State; Susan Kosinski Fritz, Senior Foreign Service       Officer, USAID, retired; Laurie Fulton, Former US Ambassador       to Denmark; Julie Furuta-Toy, US Ambassador, retired;       Rosemary Gallant, Senior Foreign Commercial Officer, retired;       Melvin Gamble, Senior Intelligence Officer, CIA, retired;       William Garvelink, US Ambassador, retired; Brian Goldbeck,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Juan Gonzalez,       Former Special Assistant to the President.

Rose Gottemoeller, Former Undersecretary of State; Deborah       Graze, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Eric Green,       Former Special Assistant to the President; Jennifer Gregg,       Senior Intelligence Officer, retired; Laura Griesmer, Senior       Foreign Service Officer, retired; Anne Gruner, Senior       Intelligence Officer, CIA, retired; Sheila Gwaltney, US       Ambassador, retired; Brent Hartley, US Ambassador, retired;       Patricia Haslach, US Ambassador, retired; William Haugh,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired.

John Heffern, US Ambassador, retired; Robert Herman, Former       Policy Planning Staff, Department of State; Catherine Hill-      Herndon, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Heather       Hodges, US Ambassador, retired; Elizabeth Hopkins, Senior       Foreign Service Officer, retired; Sharon Houy, Former Chief       of Staff, Defense Intelligence Agency; Jeff Hovenier, US       Ambassador, retired; Vicki Huddleston, US Ambassador,       retired; Robert Hutchings, Former Chairman, National       Intelligence Council; Charles Ikins, Colonel, US Marine       Corps, retired.

Robert Jackson, US Ambassador, retired, Former Principal       Deputy Assistant Secretary; Susan Jacobs, US Ambassador,       retired; Ali Jalili, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired;       Oliver John, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Kathy       Johnson, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Deborah       Jones, US Ambassador, retired; Beth Jones, US Ambassador,       retired, Former Assistant Secretary of State; John Jones, US       Ambassador, retired; Denis Kaufman, Senior Chief Petty       Officer, US Navy, retired; Richard Kauzlarich, US Ambassador,       retired, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State.

Yvonne Keeler, Senior Intelligence Officer, CIA, retired;       Ian Kelly, US Ambassador, retired; Herbert Kemp, Colonel, US       Air Force, retired; Laura Kennedy, US Ambassador, retired;       Patrick Kennedy, US Ambassador, retired, Former Under       Secretary of State; Donald Kerrick, Lieutenant General, U.S.       Army, retired, Former Deputy National Security Advisor; Scott       Kilner, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Harold       Hongju Koh, Former Legal Adviser to the Secretary of State,       Former Assistant Secretary of State; Christopher Kojm, Former       Chair, National Intelligence Council; James Kovar, Senior       Foreign Service Officer, retired.

Thomas Krajeski, US Ambassador, retired; Anne Kremidas,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; James Kunder, Former       Deputy Administrator, U.S. Agency for International       Development; Daniel Kurtzer, US Ambassador, retired, Former       Assistant Secretary of State; Anthony Lake, Former National       Security Advisor; Eileen Laubacher, Rear Admiral, US Navy,       retired; James Lawler, Senior Intelligence Officer, CIA,       retired; Suzan LeVine, Former US Ambassador to Switzerland;       Dawn Liberi, US Ambassador, retired; Carmen Lomellin, US       Ambassador, retired.

Frank Loy, Former Under Secretary of State; Deborah Malac,       US Ambassador, retired; Eileen Malloy, US Ambassador,       retired, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary State; Angela       Maloney, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Noah       Marnet, Former US Ambassador to Argentina; Lawrence Mandel,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Steven Mann, US  Ambassador, retired;  Niels Marquardt, US Ambassador, retired; Dennise Mathieu, US  Ambassador, retired; Deborah McCarthy, US Ambassador, retired;

Bill McCulla, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired;       Nancy McEldowney, US Ambassador, retired; Former National       Security Advisor to the Vice President; Michael McFaul,       Former US Ambassador to Russia; Elizabeth McKune, US       Ambassador, retired; James Melville, Jr., US Ambassador,       retired; Leo Michel, Senior Executive Service, DoD, retired;       Thomas Miller, US Ambassador, retired; Derek Mitchell, Former       US Ambassador to Burma (Myanmar); Luis Moreno, US Ambassador,       retired; Joseph Myers, Former Chief Risk Officer, US       International Development Finance Corporation; James Nealon,       US Ambassador, retired.

Brian H. Nilsson, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of       State; Suzanne Nossel, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of       State; Joseph Nye, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense;       Geoffrey Odlum, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Ted       Osius, US Ambassador, retired; Maurice S. Parker, US       Ambassador, retired; David Passage, US Ambassador, retired;       Michael Pelletier, US Ambassador, retired; Robert Perry, US       Ambassador, retired; David Petri, Commander, US Navy,       retired; James Petti, US Ambassador, retired.

Annie Pforzheimer, Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired;       Randal Phillips, Senior Intelligence Officer, CIA, retired;       William Piekney, Senior Intelligence Officer, CIA, retired;       Steven Pifer, US Ambassador, retired; Michael Polt, US       Ambassador. retired; Former Principal Deputy Assistant       Secretary of State; Michael Posner, Former Assistant       Secretary of State; Ned Price, Former Spokesperson,       Department of State; Charles Ray, US Ambassador, retired;       Helen Reed-Rowe, US Ambassador, retired; Stacy Rhodes, Senior       Foreign Service Officer, USAID, retired.

Susan Rice, Former National Security Advisor, Former U.S.       Permanent Representative to the United Nations; John Ries,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Thomas Robertson, US       Ambassador, retired; Enrique Roig, Former Deputy Assistant       Secretary of State; Peter Romero, US Ambassador, retired,       Former Assistant Secretary of State; Jeremy Rosner, Former       Special Assistant to the President; Leslie Rowe, US       Ambassador, retired; Eric Rubin, US Ambassador, retired,       Former President, American Foreign Service Association;       Richard Sanders, Senior Executive Service, DoD, retired;       Janet Sanderson, US Ambassador, retired.

Teresita Schaffer, US Ambassador, retired; Mark Schneider,       Former Assistant Administrator, USAID, Former Principal       Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; Eric Schwartz, Former       Assistant Secretary of State; Kyje Scott, US Ambassador,       retired; Tod Sedgwick, Former US Ambassador the Slovak       Republic; Michael Senko, US Ambassador, retired; Mattie       Sharpless, US Ambassador, retired; Dana Shell Smith, US       Ambassador, retired; Dilpreet Sidhu, Former Executive       Secretary of the National Security Council; Emil Skodon, US       Ambassador, retired.

Adrian Snead, Former Counsel and Foreign Policy Advisor to       Senator Jeffrey Merkley; Sylvia Stanfield, US Ambassador,       retired; Gregory Starr, Former Assistant Secretary of State;       Adam Sterling, US Ambassador, retired; Clyde Taylor, US       Ambassador, retired; Harry Thomas, US Ambassador, retired,       Former Director General of the Foreign Service; Linda Thomas-      Greenfield, US Ambassador, retired, Former U.S. Permanent       Representative to the United Nations; Susan Thornton, Former       Assistant Secretary of State; Thomas Tiernan, Senior Foreign       Service Officer, retired; Charles Uphaus, Senior Foreign       Service Officer, retired.

Kurt van der Walde, Senior Foreign Service Officer,       retired; Alexander Vershbow, US Ambassador, retired, Former       Deputy Secretary General of NATO, Former Assistant Secretary       of Defense; Shari Villarosa, US Ambassador, retired; Patricia       Wagner, Senior Commercial Service Officer, retired; Alexander       Watson, Former Assistant Secretary of State; Linda Watt, US       Ambassador, retired; John Wecker, Senior Foreign Service       Officer, retired; Bruce Wharton, US Ambassador, retired;       Kevin Whitaker, US Ambassador, retired; Pamela White, US       Ambassador, retired.

Stephanie Williams, Senior Foreign Service Officer,       retired, Former Special Advisor to the UN Secretary General;       Bisa William, US Ambassador, retired; Jonathan Winer, Former       Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; David Thomas Wolfson,       Senior Foreign Service Officer, retired; Marcia Wong, Former       Deputy Assistant Administrator, USAID; Kenneth Yalowitz, US       Ambassador, retired; Stephen Young, US Ambassador, retired;       Marie Yovanovitch, US Ambassador, retired, Former Principal       Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; Jane Zimmerman, Former       Deputy Assistant Secretary of State; Ricardo Zuniga, Former       Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State.