Shooting At Brown University and Shooting in Sydney, Australia


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698170/shooting-at-brown-university-and-shooting-in-sydney-australia


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in Skokie, IL, a few miles north of  Chicago, is America's second largest Holocaust museum. Those who visit  see thousands of artifacts from victims and survivors and their  families. There is one lesson that every visitor takes away: All who  walk through its doors learn the importance of tolerance, the need to  choose love over hate. I have been reflecting on this lesson in the  wake of the two awful acts of violence that took place this past  weekend.

On Sunday night, in Australia, hundreds of people gathered at Bondi  Beach to celebrate the first night of Hanukkah. Two men opened fire on  the crowd. The attendees at Bondi Beach were targeted for simply one  reason: They were Jewish, and they were out to celebrate their faith.

At least 15 people were killed, and dozens more were injured. I am  offering my prayers for the victims and their families. I am thankful  for the heroic actions of first responders and civilians to end the  gunmen's rampage.

This act of violence is a grim reminder that we cannot stop combating  anti-Semitism. This tragedy occurred just hours after Brown University,  in Providence, RI, here in the United States, experienced its own mass  shooting.

In the aftermath of these two tragedies, I am in awe of the bravery  and sacrifice displayed by those caught up in the attacks.

One of them, Ahmed al-Ahmed, tackled one of the shooters at Bondi  Beach in Australia, saving countless lives. He is now going through  surgery. I wish him a swift recovery.

Another, Spencer Yang, after being shot in the leg, continued to help  one of his fellow students at Brown hide from the gunman. To Spencer,  too, I wish a full and swift recovery.

Ahmed, Spencer, and countless others should never be put in these  unimaginable situations. Yet their selfless acts in the face of such  violence are the ultimate demonstration of love--a willingness to risk  their own lives to save a stranger.

As we seek to address the scourge of anti-Semitism and gun violence,  may we act in the path of these brave upstanders, who in crisis chose  humanity and love over violence and hate.