Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697541/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


3348

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Dream Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) In general.--Except as otherwise specifically provided,       any term used in this Act that is used in the immigration       laws shall have the meaning given such term in the       immigration laws.

(2) Applicable federal tax liability.--The term       ``applicable Federal tax liability'' means liability for       Federal taxes imposed under the Internal Revenue Code of       1986, including any penalties and interest on Federal taxes       imposed under that Code.

(3) Armed forces.--The term ``Armed Forces'' has the       meaning given the term ``armed forces'' in section 101 of       title 10, United States Code.

(4) DACA.--The term ``DACA'' means deferred action granted       to an alien pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood       Arrivals program announced by President Obama on June 15,       2012.

(5) Disability.--The term ``disability'' has the meaning       given such term in section 3(1) of the Americans with       Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102(1)).

(6) Early childhood education program.--The term ``early       childhood education program'' has the meaning given such term       in section 103 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.       1003).

(7) Elementary school; high school; secondary school.--The       terms ``elementary school'', ``high school'', and ``secondary       school'' have the meanings given such terms in section 8101       of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20       U.S.C. 7801).

(8) Immigration laws.--The term ``immigration laws'' has       the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(17) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)).

(9) Institution of higher education.--The term       ``institution of higher education''--

(A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), has the meaning       given such term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of       1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002); and

(B) does not include an institution of higher education       outside of the United States.

(10) Permanent resident status on a conditional basis.--The       term ``permanent resident status on a conditional basis''       means status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent       residence on a conditional basis under this Act.

(11) Poverty line.--The term ``poverty line'' has the       meaning given such term in section 673 of the Community       Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902).

(12) Secretary.--Except as otherwise specifically provided,       the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland       Security.

(13) Uniformed services.--The term ``Uniformed Services''       has the meaning given the term ``uniformed services'' in       section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.       SEC. 3. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS ON A CONDITIONAL BASIS FOR                     CERTAIN LONG-TERM RESIDENTS WHO ENTERED THE                     UNITED STATES AS CHILDREN.

(a) Conditional Basis for Status.--Notwithstanding any       other provision of law, an alien shall be considered, at the       time of obtaining the status of an alien lawfully admitted       for permanent residence under this section, to have obtained       such status on a conditional basis subject to the provisions       under this Act.

(b) Requirements.--

(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of       law, the Secretary shall cancel the removal of, and adjust to       the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent       residence on a conditional basis, an alien who is       inadmissible or deportable from the United States, is in       temporary protected status under section 244 of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a), or is the       son or daughter of an alien admitted as a nonimmigrant       described in subparagraph (E)(i), (E)(ii), (H)(i)(b), or (L)       of section 101(a)(15) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)) if--

(A) the alien has been continuously physically present in       the United States since the date that is 4 years before the       date of the enactment of this Act;

(B) the alien was younger than 18 years of age on the date       on which the alien initially entered the United States;

(C) subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the alien--

(i) is not inadmissible under paragraph (2), (3), (6)(E),       (6)(G), (8), (10)(A), (10)(C), or (10)(D) of section 212(a)       of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a));

(ii) has not ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise       participated in the persecution of any person on account of       race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular       social group, or political opinion; and

(iii) has not been convicted of--

(I) any offense under Federal or State law, other than a       State offense for which an essential element is the alien's       immigration status, that is punishable by a maximum term of       imprisonment of more than 1 year; or

(II) 3 or more offenses under Federal or State law, other       than State offenses for which an essential element is the       alien's immigration status, for which the alien was convicted       on different dates for each of the 3 offenses and imprisoned       for an aggregate of 90 days or more;

(D) the alien--

(i) has been admitted to an institution of higher       education;

(ii) has earned a high school diploma or a commensurate       alternative award from a public or private high school, or       has obtained a general education development certificate       recognized under State law or a high school equivalency       diploma in the United States;

(iii) is enrolled in secondary school or in an education       program assisting students in--

(I) obtaining a regular high school diploma or its       recognized equivalent under State law; or

(II) in passing a general educational development exam, a       high school equivalence diploma examination, or other similar       State-authorized exam; or

(iv)(I) has served, is serving, or has enlisted in the       Armed Forces; or

(II) in the case of an alien who has been discharged from       the Armed Forces, has received an honorable discharge; and

(E) the alien has sworn under penalty of perjury that the       alien--

(i) has no unpaid applicable Federal tax liability, which       is assessed and is not being disputed;

(ii) has entered into an agreement to resolve any such       assessed and undisputed Federal tax liability (via an       installment agreement, an offer in compromise, or otherwise)       which has been approved by the Commissioner of Internal       Revenue; or

(iii) has applied in good faith to enter into an agreement       to resolve any such assessed and undisputed Federal tax       liability, which has not been rejected by the Commissioner of       Internal Revenue.

(2) Waiver.--With respect to any benefit under this Act,       the Secretary may waive the grounds of inadmissibility under       paragraph (2), (6)(E), (6)(G), or (10)(D) of section 212(a)       of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) for       humanitarian purposes or family unity or if the waiver is       otherwise in the public interest.

(3) Treatment of expunged convictions.--An expunged       conviction shall not automatically be treated as an offense       under paragraph (1). The Secretary shall evaluate expunged       convictions on a case-by-case basis according to the nature       and severity of the offense to determine whether, under the       particular circumstances, the Secretary determines that the       alien should be eligible for cancellation of removal,       adjustment to permanent resident status on a conditional       basis, or other adjustment of status.

(4) DACA recipients.--The Secretary shall cancel the       removal of, and adjust to the status of an alien lawfully       admitted for permanent residence on a conditional basis, an       alien who was granted DACA unless the alien has engaged in       conduct since the alien was granted DACA that would make the       alien ineligible for DACA.

(5) Application fee.--

(A) In general.--The Secretary may require an alien       applying for permanent resident status on a conditional basis       under this section to pay a reasonable fee that is       commensurate with the cost of processing the application.

(B) Exemption.--An applicant may be exempted from paying       the fee required under subparagraph (A) if the alien--

(i)(I) is younger than 18 years of age;

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line; and

(III) is in foster care or otherwise lacking any parental       or other familial support;

(ii) is younger than 18 years of age and is homeless;

(iii)(I) cannot care for himself or herself because of a       serious, chronic disability; and

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line; or

(iv)(I) during the 12-month period immediately preceding       the date on which the alien files an application under this       section, accumulated $10,000 or more in debt as a result of       unreimbursed medical expenses incurred by the alien or an       immediate family member of the alien; and

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line.

(6) Submission of biometric and biographic data.--The       Secretary may not grant       an alien permanent resident status on a conditional basis       under this section unless the alien submits biometric and       biographic data, in accordance with procedures established by       the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide an alternative       procedure for aliens who are unable to provide such biometric       or biographic data because of a physical impairment.

(7) Background checks.--

(A) Requirement for background checks.--The Secretary shall       utilize biometric, biographic, and other data that the       Secretary determines appropriate--

(i) to conduct security and law enforcement background       checks of an alien seeking permanent resident status on a       conditional basis under this section; and

(ii) to determine whether there is any criminal, national       security, or other factor that would render the alien       ineligible for such status.

(B) Completion of background checks.--The security and law       enforcement background checks of an alien required under       subparagraph (A) shall be completed, to the satisfaction of       the Secretary, before the date on which the Secretary grants       such alien permanent resident status on a conditional basis       under this section.

(8) Medical examination.--

(A) Requirement.--An alien applying for permanent resident       status on a conditional basis under this section shall       undergo a medical examination.

(B) Policies and procedures.--The Secretary, with the       concurrence of the Secretary of Health and Human Services,       shall prescribe policies and procedures for the nature and       timing of the examination required under subparagraph (A).

(9) Military selective service.--An alien applying for       permanent resident status on a conditional basis under this       section shall establish that the alien has registered under       the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.),       if the alien is subject to registration under such Act.

(c) Determination of Continuous Presence.--

(1) Termination of continuous period.--Any period of       continuous physical presence in the United States of an alien       who applies for permanent resident status on a conditional       basis under this section shall not terminate when the alien       is served a notice to appear under section 239(a) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1229(a)).

(2) Treatment of certain breaks in presence.--

(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraphs (B)       and (C), an alien shall be considered to have failed to       maintain continuous physical presence in the United States       under subsection (b)(1)(A) if the alien has departed from the       United States for any period exceeding 90 days or for any       periods, in the aggregate, exceeding 180 days.

(B) Extensions for extenuating circumstances.--The       Secretary may extend the time periods described in       subparagraph (A) for an alien who demonstrates that the       failure to timely return to the United States was due to       extenuating circumstances beyond the alien's control,       including the serious illness of the alien, or death or       serious illness of a parent, grandparent, sibling, or child       of the alien.

(C) Travel authorized by the secretary.--Any period of       travel outside of the United States by an alien that was       authorized by the Secretary may not be counted toward any       period of departure from the United States under subparagraph       (A).

(d) Limitation on Removal of Certain Aliens.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary or the Attorney General may       not remove an alien who appears prima facie eligible for       relief under this section.

(2) Aliens subject to removal.--The Secretary shall provide       a reasonable opportunity to apply for relief under this       section to any alien who requests such an opportunity or who       appears prima facie eligible for relief under this section if       the alien is in removal proceedings, is the subject of a       final removal order, or is the subject of a voluntary       departure order.

(3) Certain aliens enrolled in elementary or secondary       school.--

(A) Stay of removal.--The Attorney General shall stay the       removal proceedings of an alien who--

(i) meets all the requirements under subparagraphs (A),       (B), and (C) of subsection (b)(1), subject to paragraphs (2)       and (3) of such subsection;

(ii) is at least 5 years of age; and

(iii) is enrolled in an elementary school, a secondary       school, or an early childhood education program.

(B) Commencement of removal proceedings.--The Secretary may       not commence removal proceedings for an alien described in       subparagraph (A).

(C) Employment.--An alien whose removal is stayed pursuant       to subparagraph (A) or who may not be placed in removal       proceedings pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall, upon       application to the Secretary, be granted an employment       authorization document.

(D) Lift of stay.--The Secretary or Attorney General may       not lift the stay granted to an alien under subparagraph (A)       unless the alien ceases to meet the requirements under such       subparagraph.

(e) Exemption From Numerical Limitations.--Nothing in this       section or in any other law may be construed to apply a       numerical limitation on the number of aliens who may be       granted permanent resident status on a conditional basis       under this Act.       SEC. 4. TERMS OF PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS ON A CONDITIONAL                     BASIS.

(a) Period of Status.--Permanent resident status on a       conditional basis is--

(1) valid for a period of 8 years, unless such period is       extended by the Secretary; and

(2) subject to termination under subsection (c).

(b) Notice of Requirements.--At the time an alien obtains       permanent resident status on a conditional basis, the       Secretary shall provide notice to the alien regarding the       provisions of this Act and the requirements to have the       conditional basis of such status removed.

(c) Termination of Status.--The Secretary may terminate the       permanent resident status on a conditional basis of an alien       only if the Secretary--

(1) determines that the alien ceases to meet the       requirements under paragraph (1)(C) of section 3(b), subject       to paragraphs (2) and (3) of that section; and

(2) prior to the termination, provides the alien--

(A) notice of the proposed termination; and

(B) the opportunity for a hearing to provide evidence that       the alien meets such requirements or otherwise contest the       termination.

(d) Return to Previous Immigration Status.--

(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an       alien whose permanent resident status on a conditional basis       expires under subsection (a)(1) or is terminated under       subsection (c) or whose application for such status is denied       shall return to the immigration status that the alien had       immediately before receiving permanent resident status on a       conditional basis or applying for such status, as       appropriate.

(2) Special rule for temporary protected status.--An alien       whose permanent resident status on a conditional basis       expires under subsection (a)(1) or is terminated under       subsection (c) or whose application for such status is denied       and who had temporary protected status under section 244 of       the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a)       immediately before receiving or applying for such permanent       resident status on a conditional basis, as appropriate, may       not return to such temporary protected status if--

(A) the relevant designation under section 244(b) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1254a(b)) has been       terminated; or

(B) the Secretary determines that the reason for       terminating the permanent resident status on a conditional       basis renders the alien ineligible for such temporary       protected status.       SEC. 5. REMOVAL OF CONDITIONAL BASIS OF PERMANENT RESIDENT                     STATUS.

(a) Eligibility for Removal of Conditional Basis.--

(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary       shall remove the conditional basis of an alien's permanent       resident status granted under this Act and grant the alien       status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence       if the alien--

(A) is described in paragraph (1)(C) of section 3(b),       subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) of that section;

(B) has not abandoned the alien's residence in the United       States; and

(C)(i) has acquired a degree from an institution of higher       education or has completed at least 2 years, in good       standing, in a program for a bachelor's degree or higher       degree in the United States;

(ii) has served in the Armed Forces for at least 2 years       and, if discharged, received an honorable discharge; or

(iii) has been employed for periods totaling at least 3       years and at least 75 percent of the time that the alien has       had a valid employment authorization, except that any period       during which the alien is not employed while having a valid       employment authorization and is enrolled in an institution of       higher education, a secondary school, or an education program       described in section 3(b)(1)(D)(iii), shall not count toward       the time requirements under this clause.

(2) Hardship exception.--The Secretary shall remove the       conditional basis of an alien's permanent resident status and       grant the alien status as an alien lawfully admitted for       permanent residence if the alien--

(A) satisfies the requirements under subparagraphs (A) and       (B) of paragraph (1);

(B) demonstrates compelling circumstances for the inability       to satisfy the requirements under subparagraph (C) of such       paragraph; and

(C) demonstrates that--

(i) the alien has a disability;

(ii) the alien is a full-time caregiver of a minor child;       or

(iii) the removal of the alien from the United States would       result in extreme hardship to the alien or the alien's       spouse, parent, or child who is a national of the United       States or is lawfully admitted for permanent residence.

(3) Citizenship requirement.--

(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B),       the conditional basis of an alien's permanent resident status       granted under this Act may not be removed unless the alien       demonstrates that the alien satisfies the requirements under       section 312(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8       U.S.C. 1423(a)).

(B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to an       alien who is unable to meet       the requirements under such section 312(a) due to disability.

(4) Application fee.--

(A) In general.--The Secretary may require aliens applying       for lawful permanent resident status under this section to       pay a reasonable fee that is commensurate with the cost of       processing the application.

(B) Exemption.--An applicant may be exempted from paying       the fee required under subparagraph (A) if the alien--

(i)(I) is younger than 18 years of age;

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line; and

(III) is in foster care or otherwise lacking any parental       or other familial support;

(ii) is younger than 18 years of age and is homeless;

(iii)(I) cannot care for himself or herself because of a       serious, chronic disability; and

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line; or

(iv)(I) during the 12-month period immediately preceding       the date on which the alien files an application under this       section, the alien accumulated $10,000 or more in debt as a       result of unreimbursed medical expenses incurred by the alien       or an immediate family member of the alien; and

(II) received total income, during the 12-month period       immediately preceding the date on which the alien files an       application under this section, that is less than 150 percent       of the poverty line.

(5) Submission of biometric and biographic data.--The       Secretary may not remove the conditional basis of an alien's       permanent resident status unless the alien submits biometric       and biographic data, in accordance with procedures       established by the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide an       alternative procedure for applicants who are unable to       provide such biometric data because of a physical impairment.

(6) Background checks.--

(A) Requirement for background checks.--The Secretary shall       utilize biometric, biographic, and other data that the       Secretary determines appropriate--

(i) to conduct security and law enforcement background       checks of an alien applying for removal of the conditional       basis of the alien's permanent resident status; and

(ii) to determine whether there is any criminal, national       security, or other factor that would render the alien       ineligible for removal of such conditional basis.

(B) Completion of background checks.--The security and law       enforcement background checks of an alien required under       subparagraph (A) shall be completed, to the satisfaction of       the Secretary, before the date on which the Secretary removes       the conditional basis of the alien's permanent resident       status.

(b) Treatment for Purposes of Naturalization.--

(1) In general.--For purposes of title III of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.), an       alien granted permanent resident status on a conditional       basis shall be considered to have been admitted to the United       States, and be present in the United States, as an alien       lawfully admitted for permanent residence.

(2) Limitation on application for naturalization.--An alien       may not apply for naturalization while the alien is in       permanent resident status on a conditional basis.       SEC. 6. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Documents Establishing Identity.--An alien's       application for permanent resident status on a conditional       basis may include, as proof of identity--

(1) a passport or national identity document from the       alien's country of origin that includes the alien's name and       the alien's photograph or fingerprint;

(2) the alien's birth certificate and an identity card that       includes the alien's name and photograph;

(3) a school identification card that includes the alien's       name and photograph, and school records showing the alien's       name and that the alien is or was enrolled at the school;

(4) a Uniformed Services identification card issued by the       Department of Defense;

(5) any immigration or other document issued by the United       States Government bearing the alien's name and photograph; or

(6) a State-issued identification card bearing the alien's       name and photograph.

(b) Documents Establishing Continuous Physical Presence in       the United States.--To establish that an alien has been       continuously physically present in the United States, as       required under section 3(b)(1)(A), or to establish that an       alien has not abandoned residence in the United States, as       required under section 5(a)(1)(B), the alien may submit       documents to the Secretary, including--

(1) employment records that include the employer's name and       contact information;

(2) records from any educational institution the alien has       attended in the United States;

(3) records of service from the Uniformed Services;

(4) official records from a religious entity confirming the       alien's participation in a religious ceremony;

(5) passport entries;

(6) a birth certificate for a child who was born in the       United States;

(7) automobile license receipts or registration;

(8) deeds, mortgages, or rental agreement contracts;

(9) tax receipts;

(10) insurance policies;

(11) remittance records;

(12) rent receipts or utility bills bearing the alien's       name or the name of an immediate family member of the alien,       and the alien's address;

(13) copies of money order receipts for money sent in or       out of the United States;

(14) dated bank transactions; or

(15) 2 or more sworn affidavits from individuals who are       not related to the alien who have direct knowledge of the       alien's continuous physical presence in the United States,       that contain--

(A) the name, address, and telephone number of the affiant;       and

(B) the nature and duration of the relationship between the       affiant and the alien.

(c) Documents Establishing Initial Entry Into the United       States.--To establish under section 3(b)(1)(B) that an alien       was younger than 18 years of age on the date on which the       alien initially entered the United States, an alien may       submit documents to the Secretary, including--

(1) an admission stamp on the alien's passport;

(2) records from any educational institution the alien has       attended in the United States;

(3) any document from the Department of Justice or the       Department of Homeland Security stating the alien's date of       entry into the United States;

(4) hospital or medical records showing medical treatment       or hospitalization, the name of the medical facility or       physician, and the date of the treatment or hospitalization;

(5) rent receipts or utility bills bearing the alien's name       or the name of an immediate family member of the alien, and       the alien's address;

(6) employment records that include the employer's name and       contact information;

(7) official records from a religious entity confirming the       alien's participation in a religious ceremony;

(8) a birth certificate for a child who was born in the       United States;

(9) automobile license receipts or registration;

(10) deeds, mortgages, or rental agreement contracts;

(11) tax receipts;

(12) travel records;

(13) copies of money order receipts sent in or out of the       country;

(14) dated bank transactions;

(15) remittance records; or

(16) insurance policies.

(d) Documents Establishing Admission to an Institution of       Higher Education.--To establish that an alien has been       admitted to an institution of higher education, the alien       shall submit to the Secretary a document from the institution       of higher education certifying that the alien--

(1) has been admitted to the institution; or

(2) is currently enrolled in the institution as a student.

(e) Documents Establishing Receipt of a Degree From an       Institution of Higher Education.--To establish that an alien       has acquired a degree from an institution of higher education       in the United States, the alien shall submit to the Secretary       a diploma or other document from the institution stating that       the alien has received such a degree.

(f) Documents Establishing Receipt of High School Diploma,       General Educational Development Certificate, or a Recognized       Equivalent.--To establish that an alien has earned a high       school diploma or a commensurate alternative award from a       public or private high school, or has obtained a general       educational development certificate recognized under State       law or a high school equivalency diploma in the United       States, the alien shall submit to the Secretary--

(1) a high school diploma, certificate of completion, or       other alternate award;

(2) a high school equivalency diploma or certificate       recognized under State law; or

(3) evidence that the alien passed a State-authorized exam,       including the general educational development exam, in the       United States.

(g) Documents Establishing Enrollment in an Educational       Program.--To establish that an alien is enrolled in any       school or education program described in section       3(b)(1)(D)(iii), 3(d)(3)(A)(iii), or 5(a)(1)(C), the alien       shall submit school records from the United States school       that the alien is currently attending that include--

(1) the name of the school; and

(2) the alien's name, periods of attendance, and current       grade or educational level.

(h) Documents Establishing Exemption From Application       Fees.--To establish that an alien is exempt from an       application fee under section 3(b)(5)(B) or 5(a)(4)(B), the       alien shall submit to the Secretary the following relevant       documents:

(1) Documents to establish age.--To establish that an alien       meets an age requirement, the alien shall provide proof of       identity, as described in subsection (a), that establishes       that the alien is younger than 18 years of age.

(2) Documents to establish income.--To establish the       alien's income, the alien shall provide--

(A) employment records that have been maintained by the       Social Security Administration, the Internal Revenue Service,       or any other Federal, State, or local government agency;

(B) bank records; or

(C) at least 2 sworn affidavits from individuals who are       not related to the alien and who have direct knowledge of the       alien's work and income that contain--

(i) the name, address, and telephone number of the affiant;       and

(ii) the nature and duration of the relationship between       the affiant and the alien.

(3) Documents to establish foster care, lack of familial       support, homelessness, or serious, chronic disability.--To       establish that the alien was in foster care, lacks parental       or familial support, is homeless, or has a serious, chronic       disability, the alien shall provide at least 2 sworn       affidavits from individuals who are not related to the alien       and who have direct knowledge of the circumstances that       contain--

(A) a statement that the alien is in foster care, otherwise       lacks any parental or other familiar support, is homeless, or       has a serious, chronic disability, as appropriate;

(B) the name, address, and telephone number of the affiant;       and

(C) the nature and duration of the relationship between the       affiant and the alien.

(4) Documents to establish unpaid medical expense.--To       establish that the alien has debt as a result of unreimbursed       medical expenses, the alien shall provide receipts or other       documentation from a medical provider that--

(A) bear the provider's name and address;

(B) bear the name of the individual receiving treatment;       and

(C) document that the alien has accumulated $10,000 or more       in debt in the past 12 months as a result of unreimbursed       medical expenses incurred by the alien or an immediate family       member of the alien.

(i) Documents Establishing Qualification for Hardship       Exemption.--To establish that an alien satisfies one of the       criteria for the hardship exemption set forth in section       5(a)(2)(C), the alien shall submit to the Secretary at least       2 sworn affidavits from individuals who are not related to       the alien and who have direct knowledge of the circumstances       that warrant the exemption, that contain--

(1) the name, address, and telephone number of the affiant;       and

(2) the nature and duration of the relationship between the       affiant and the alien.

(j) Documents Establishing Service in the Armed Forces.--To       establish that an alien has served in the Armed Forces for at       least 2 years and, if discharged, received an honorable       discharge, the alien shall submit to the Secretary official       service records showing the character of the alien's service.

(k) Documents Establishing Employment.--

(1) In general.--An alien may satisfy the employment       requirement under section 5(a)(1)(C)(iii) by submitting       records that--

(A) establish compliance with such employment requirement;       and

(B) have been maintained by the Social Security       Administration, the Internal Revenue Service, or any other       Federal, State, or local government agency.

(2) Other documents.--An alien who is unable to submit the       records described in paragraph (1) may satisfy the employment       requirement by submitting at least 2 types of reliable       documents that provide evidence of employment, including--

(A) bank records;

(B) business records;

(C) employer records;

(D) records of a labor union, day labor center, or       organization that assists workers in employment;

(E) sworn affidavits from individuals who are not related       to the alien and who have direct knowledge of the alien's       work, that contain--

(i) the name, address, and telephone number of the affiant;       and

(ii) the nature and duration of the relationship between       the affiant and the alien; and

(F) remittance records.

(l) Authority To Prohibit Use of Certain Documents.--If the       Secretary determines, after publication in the Federal       Register and an opportunity for public comment, that any       document or class of documents does not reliably establish       identity or that permanent resident status on a conditional       basis is being obtained fraudulently to an unacceptable       degree, the Secretary may prohibit or restrict the use of       such document or class of documents.       SEC. 7. RULEMAKING.

(a) Initial Publication.--Not later than 90 days after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall       publish regulations implementing this Act in the Federal       Register. Such regulations shall allow eligible individuals       to immediately apply affirmatively for the relief available       under section 3 without being placed in removal proceedings.

(b) Interim Regulations.--Notwithstanding section 553 of       title 5, United States Code, the regulations published       pursuant to subsection (a) shall be effective, on an interim       basis, immediately upon publication in the Federal Register,       but may be subject to change and revision after public notice       and opportunity for a period of public comment.

(c) Final Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the       date on which interim regulations are published under this       section, the Secretary shall publish final regulations       implementing this Act.

(d) Paperwork Reduction Act.--The requirements under       chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly known as       the ``Paperwork Reduction Act''), shall not apply to any       action to implement this Act.       SEC. 8. CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.

(a) In General.--The Secretary may not disclose or use       information provided in applications filed under this Act or       in requests for DACA for the purpose of immigration       enforcement.

(b) Referrals Prohibited.--The Secretary may not refer any       individual who has been granted permanent resident status on       a conditional basis or who was granted DACA to U.S.       Immigration and Customs Enforcement, U.S. Customs and Border       Protection, or any designee of either such entity.

(c) Limited Exception.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and       (b), information provided in an application for permanent       resident status on a conditional basis or a request for DACA       may be shared with Federal security and law enforcement       agencies--

(1) for assistance in the consideration of an application       for permanent resident status on a conditional basis;

(2) to identify or prevent fraudulent claims;

(3) for national security purposes; or

(4) for the investigation or prosecution of any felony not       related to immigration status.

(d) Penalty.--Any person who knowingly uses, publishes, or       permits information to be examined in violation of this       section shall be fined not more than $10,000.                                  ______

By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and Mr. Whitehouse):

S. 3350. A bill to amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to  improve the way beneficiaries are assigned under the Medicare shared  savings program by also basing such assignment on primary care services  furnished by nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical  nurse specialists; to the Committee on Finance.