Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700151/tariffs


Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, last Friday, the Supreme Court ruled to  strike down most--70 percent--of Trump's tariff taxes.

Tariffs can be useful when used strategically, but President Trump  exceeded these authorities, as clearly defined by Congress, and the  Supreme Court, by a vote of 6 to 3, told him as much. He defied basic  economic sense. Just ask any American business or consumer who suffered  under this chaotic policy.

Last year, the average American family paid more than $1,700 in  tariff costs. A tariff tax, as described by the President, sounds like  a problem for the exporter to the United States. It is not. It is paid  by the importer. That turns out to be the American consumer.

So, at a time when families are struggling to make ends meet, when  the cost of living is going up, the products that they are buying--many  of them--are subject to Trump's tariff tax, and they have to pay it,  how much does that mean for each American family? It means $1,700 a  year.

A recent report from the New York Fed found that 90 percent of the  economic burden of Trump's tariff taxes fell on Americans--not on  foreigners but on Americans.

How did the Trump administration respond to it? They said the  researchers needed to be ``disciplined.''

The chaos unleashed by this administration's attacks on American  businesses and consumers also resulted in a massive decline in  manufacturing jobs last year--jobs the President promised he would be  creating and would be booming. In fact, U.S. factories employ 72,000  fewer people than they did in April of 2025, with more declines every  single month.

The President has also broken his promise many times over to the  farmers in Illinois. His tariffs have made farming in Illinois  unprofitable--not just by making the fertilizer, seeds, machinery, and  equipment more expensive but also by wrecking export markets like China  for years to come.

I have met with these farmers throughout my congressional career.  They are proud, hard-working people. They are the backbone of so many  communities across our State.

I meet with them, and they say: Senator, all we want the Federal  Government to do is get the heck out of the way. We grow the best crops  in the world. We can compete with any country on Earth. Just don't make  our job more difficult by government action.

The tariffs did make it more difficult for these farmers, and they  told me as much.

Last week's decision was a victory for America and a defeat for this  President. It was a victory for the rule of law. But the damage has  been done to small businesses and balance sheets across this country.

But instead of reconsidering his position after a clear 6-to-3 loss  in the Supreme Court, President Trump is whipsawing between new  tariffs--new taxes--resulting in the European Union halting a trade  deal with us as they consider their next steps.

Chaos, turmoil--the President thrives on it, but American families  and the economy do not. It is up to Congress to reject those desperate  gambles by the President. Congress must also act to ensure that small  businesses across the country get their money back as soon as possible.

And how about the families who paid for these products that have been  taxed by the Trump tariff tax? They deserve relief too. If we are  concerned about the cost of living as it hits American families, they  need to have some relief, too, and the President, after losing in the  Supreme Court, should pay this money back.