-9999


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I know that many of our colleagues and  the American people have seen the tragic news out of my hometown just  yesterday. And I am grateful for their thoughts and their prayers this  morning directed toward the people of Louisville.

Folks around our county, Jefferson County, need those prayers right  now and in the days and weeks to come. The death toll from last  evening's UPS crash has continued to rise throughout the day. For the  families of these victims and for the injured survivors being treated  at area hospitals, life will never be the same. There is a lot of grief  welling up right now in Kentucky.

This would be true even in the case of a single life lost. But as  local first responders, State officials, and Federal investigators  continue their work today, I would like to help our colleagues  understand what makes this tragedy such a gut punch in a place like  Louisville.

During the day, Louisville International hums with thousands of  passengers from all across the country. But around the clock,  Louisville is also a hub for global shipping and logistics, business  supplies, consumer goods, and Christmas gifts.

If it is going somewhere in short order, it is a very good chance it  is passing through UPS Worldport in my hometown of Louisville.

None of this is possible without teams of devoted professionals.  Louisville is home to logistics experts, warehouse workers, aircraft  crews, and maintainers. They take pride in their work, and their  community takes pride in them.

That is why this crash cuts so deep. It is about all of us. Today,  Jefferson County schools and many local businesses are completely  closed. Neighbors are mourning neighbors. So today will be a tough day  in the Commonwealth.

But the people of Louisville are grateful for the swift, lifesaving  efforts of our first responders, from local police, fire, and EMS. They  trust in the prayers of their fellow Americans.

I want them to know that their representatives here in Washington are  making sure that every Federal resource they need is on the ground and  headed their way soon. I spoke with Mayor Greenberg this morning. My  team and I will continue to stay in close contact with local, State,  and Federal officials, including at the FAA and the NTSB, in the coming  days.

But first and foremost, I am keeping my fellow Kentuckians in my  prayers and asking our colleagues to do the same.