-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695989/9999


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, my position on government shutdowns is  pretty well-known. There is absolutely nothing to gain in taking basic  government functions hostage for eleventh-hour partisan demands.

I hope our Democratic colleagues will relearn that lesson in short  order because the American people have plenty to lose from freezing  important functions of the Federal Government. Here in the Senate, the  Democrat shutdown is taking time we ought to be spending on important  outstanding business, beginning with our obligation to provide for the  common defense. In particular, our work to deliver full-year Defense  appropriations is not finished.

So I would like to talk briefly about what must come next after  interim government funding is extended and what is at stake for our  national security. The U.S. military is not immune from the disruptive  short-term consequences of a government shutdown. But the long-term  consequences of going without robust full-year Defense appropriations  are far, far graver.

I offered this warning in the spring when, for the first time,  Washington told America's men and women in uniform to conduct today's  operations and prepare for tomorrow's threats using yesterday's  dollars. We put the national defense on a full-year continuing  resolution and forced the military services to function for another  year--another year--on the anemic defense budget signed into law by  President Biden.

A full-year CR is the enemy of readiness, modernization, and  efficiency. The armed services want to make their budgets simpler, more  efficient, and more flexible by consolidating budget lines. But they  can't do that under a full-year CR.

Punting new appropriations directly contradicts--directly  contradicts--the Pentagon's stated goal of building a resilient, surge- ready munitions enterprise. The prohibitions on new program starts  under a CR effectively put high-priority service modernization efforts  literally on ice.

The administration says it wants ``flexible and efficient''  investments. Well, there is nothing flexible, efficient, resilient, or  lethal about running the national defense enterprise on a full-year CR,  nor will a CR send the consistent signal industry and investors need to  pour private capital into the long-overdue expansion of our defense  industrial base. If you want to increase our Nation's capacity to  produce munitions more quickly and in larger volumes, full-year CRs  just might be the worst way to go about it.

I don't mean to sound overly alarmed. God willing, the House-passed,  short-term funding extension will give Congress enough time to deliver  full-year appropriations and release our military from the constraints  of the Biden fiscal year 2024 budget. But I want our colleagues to  understand what is at stake this fall.

The President has set some ambitious, important, and overdue  priorities for America's national security, and none of them--none of  them--come cheap: the Golden Dome for America, an American shipbuilding  renaissance, sixth-generation stealth fighter aircraft, the long- overdue modernization of our nuclear force. Reconciliation isn't enough  to support these major efforts, and neither is a perpetual freeze at  the Biden fiscal year 2024 level.

Reviving the warrior ethos, rebuilding the military, reestablishing  deterrence--these are priorities we hear about all the time from the  President's advisers. I certainly have no problem with rowing in that  direction. I am all for high standards of physical fitness, but pushups  alone--pushups alone--aren't going to stop Chinese hypersonic missiles.  The next major conflict will likely be a test of lethality at very long  distances.

That is why I have spent years urging successive administrations to  rebuild--rebuild--our global power projection and long-range fires. It  is why I criticized the Biden administration for talking about China as  the ``pacing threat'' but turning in defense budget requests that  didn't even keep pace with inflation.

The administration cannot afford to make this same mistake. So, this  week, I was encouraged to hear Secretary Hegseth proclaim a ``Trump  buildup'' in the mold of the Reagan buildup that helped end the Cold  War. For the record, my fellow defense appropriators and I have been  ready to deliver such a buildup since day one, and our bipartisan bill  speaks for itself in putting money where our mouth is.

Ah, but here is the rub: We can only make it happen if the  administration moves from words to action, and an important step in  that process is the national defense strategy.

Historically, the national defense strategy is what administrations  use to define threats, identify objectives, and propose coherent plans  for aligning resources to actually meet them. But this time around, the  stakes are a lot higher. A shortsighted NDS that doesn't align with the  President's vision of American greatness and peace through strength  could wind up as the pretext to extend Biden-era constraints on our  military indefinitely.

Unfortunately, early reports suggest that this risk may be real and  that the NDS may turn out eerily similar to the rhetoric of Obama-era  officials' who viewed their remit as managing America's decline amid a  transition to a multipolar world.

If the NDS ignores the importance of maintaining American primacy,  fails to account for the global nature of competition with China, or  discounts the value of supporting and integrating allies and partners,  it would risk further sabotaging the President's efforts to restore  peace through strength.

So I will be interested to read how the Department is applying the  lessons and dividends of security cooperation with allies and partners  to looming challenges, how it plans to address critical munitions  shortages even as its fiscal year 2026 request and reconciliation  investment fails to maximize existing production capacity, and how it  accounts for the increased likelihood of simultaneous conflict in  multiple theaters.

If the administration means what it says about restoring deterrence,  it would recognize how plans to reduce security cooperation with  frontline NATO allies invite more brazen Russian incursions into the  alliance's territory and airspace; it would recognize how China is  watching closely for signs of weakening American commitments to  European allies, to Ukraine, or to AUKUS partners.

Of course, responsible senior officials who understood the dividends  of security cooperation would not have tried an end run around the  President to freeze assistance to Ukraine. They certainly would have  appreciated that cutting off intelligence sharing to the world's  foremost experts in drone warfare might make it harder for the U.S.  military to achieve drone dominance.

On that count, I was encouraged earlier this week that the President  himself green-lit an expansion of the intelligence cooperation that  members of his administration had actually wanted to end.

As our colleagues will recall, the President observed last month that  Ukraine can win--the President said Ukraine can win--and unlike some of  his advisers, the American people are indicating in clear majorities  that they think we ought to help.

By one recent poll, more than 6 in 10 Americans support--support-- sending more arms and military supplies to help Ukraine win. That  includes--listen to this: A clear majority of Republicans support  helping Ukraine. And the recent voting history of the House of  Representatives indicates that poll isn't a fluke. Last month, House  Republicans voted overwhelmingly--House Republicans voted  overwhelmingly--to reject an amendment to the NDAA that would have  barred further  assistance to Ukraine. Listen to this: 72 percent of House  Republicans--72 percent of House Republicans--including House  leadership, said that continuing to arm Ukraine's defense was a good  idea.

So the public is behind it. Republicans in Congress are behind it. We  know it is the right thing to do.

Ultimately, the President knows that money talks. He understands that  valuable things are expensive. What is true in property development is  also true in military procurement. There is no way around it. Take the  Golden Dome for example. Building anything close to a continental  missile defense shield will, by reasonable estimates, cost several  times more than was allocated this year in one-off reconciliation  spending, every year, for decades to come.

If the Pentagon isn't even planning to max out its budget request for  procuring critical munitions in the short term, why on Earth should our  adversaries take any talk of long-term missile defense seriously?  Likewise, why should they take American airpower seriously if we are  only willing to develop sixth-generation stealth fighters for the Air  Force but not for the Navy?

What good are multibillion-dollar aircraft carriers if we are not  prepared to equip them with aircraft that can survive modern warfare?

At home and abroad, I am concerned that too many of the President's  advisers are unwilling to acknowledge the gap between his stated  priorities and what they are prepared to invest to achieve them. If you  ask me, the name on the front door at the Pentagon matters a great deal  less than whether the services inside are equipped and prepared to  deter and win wars, and we are facing real, glaring gaps in critical  capabilities.

The ink was barely dry on the One Big Beautiful Bill when senior  Pentagon officials began to report to my colleagues and I on the  Appropriations Committee that they still faced significant funding  shortfalls. Given the high pace of operations in the Middle East and in  the Western Hemisphere, it is safe to assume these costs are only going  to continue to rise.

So there is a lot going on around this building, but, soon, I hope  our colleagues will have an opportunity to go on record in favor of  investing in peace through strength. We will have a chance to put our  money where our mouth is on reestablishing deterrence and rebuilding  the force required to back it up. Our investments in the common defense  are a signal of our national resolve.

When the American people spoke last November, I don't think they  meant for their leaders to mail in a third year of anemic--anemic-- Biden-era top lines. I don't think the President assembled his policy  and budget advisers with a mind to punt in the face of looming threats.  When he hired civilian Pentagon leaders to restore deterrence, I think  he meant more than just threatening adversaries with a catchy line on  camera; I think he meant building the force that threatens them with  its very existence.

So if the administration wants a Trump buildup, then let's build one,  and once the Democrats' shutdown is over, let's start with serious,  increased, full-year investments in our national defense.