Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700454/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, later today, the Senate will consider a  resolution from my good friend and colleague Senator Kaine of Virginia.  The purpose, as our colleague puts it, is to prevent the Nation from  sending our young people to die in war without legitimate  justification.

I do not doubt the sincerity of our colleague's intentions. Like  Kentucky, Virginia is a State with a large military footprint, and the  magnitude of the risks undertaken by the brave people we represent is  simply inescapable. But I would submit to each of our colleagues a few  reminders as the debate unfolds.

First, this weekend's events are not the beginning of a war but an  attempt to end one that has spanned nearly half a century. The Islamic  Republic of Iran was, quite literally, founded on the premise of  existential war against America and against Israel. Over and over  again, it has escalated this war, exported more terror, spilled more  blood, and destabilized an entire region. So, make no mistake about it,  this war belongs to the mullahs in Tehran.

As I have explained so many times, over the years, the powers of the  President for the use of military force--with or without prior  congressional approval--are, actually, well established.

Every single President during my time in the Senate has invoked these  inherent authorities. From President Reagan's strikes on Libya to  President Biden's strikes on the Houthis, to President Trump's use of  force to end Iran's war of terror, it is squarely within his inherent  authorities as Commander in Chief. Therefore, I will oppose the Kaine  resolution and would recommend our colleagues do the same.

Now, with that said, a President's clear authority to use military  force does not absolutely absolve him from a responsibility to place  his national security decisions on the broadest possible political  foundation. In fact, precisely because Presidents hold such expansive  constitutional authority, it is incumbent on them to ensure such use is  judicious, rooted in core national interests, and broadly supported by  the American people.

Literally, for decades following World War II, Presidents of both  parties tended to take this responsibility quite seriously. They  understood that wild swings in foreign policy between administrations  could confuse our allies and embolden our adversaries. So, throughout  the Cold War, they spent considerable time and political capital  explaining to the American people the stakes, objectives, and  strategies they intended to pursue in service of our national security.

When it came to Iran policy, President Obama did not take this  responsibility to heart, and it is little surprise that his unilateral  deal did not survive for long after his Presidency. Likewise,  despite my urging, President Biden failed to speak clearly to the  American people about our national interest in helping Ukraine resist  aggression.

President Trump has made a bold and tough decision--one that could  transform the region for the better, literally, for generations to  come. But there are risks involved, and I hope his administration will  work to explain the connection between the Commander in Chief's worthy  objectives and the military and diplomatic means to achieve them.  Connecting ends and means is the essence of strategy, and it is  important for the administration to explain to the American people how  they intend to do so.

In turn, our colleagues in the minority have a responsibility to  actually listen and to not reflexively oppose foreign policy decisions  of Presidents they don't like. After all, we don't have to look far  into the past to find Senate Democrats voicing support for keeping the  military option on the table in America's dealings with Iran or  supporting President Biden's unilateral military force against Iran's  proxies in the absence of explicit congressional authorization. More  immediately, I hope our colleagues will consider the consequences of  terminating ongoing operations before they have even succeeded.

What would the Chinese or the Russians conclude if America abruptly  lost its stomach for decisive action?

What cold comfort would our allies take from an increasing erratic  and partisan application of U.S. foreign policy commitments?

The consequences of successfully ending Iran's decades-long war  against us and our allies and partners could reach far beyond the  Middle East. This is evident in the way Russian and Chinese officials  quickly--very quickly--condemned U.S. and Israeli operations and in  their unwillingness or inability to come to Tehran's aid in a  meaningful way.

Two observations at this point:

First, one of the reasons U.S. operations have enjoyed such freedom  of maneuver in the Western Hemisphere and the Middle East is that  Russia is bogged down in its war in Ukraine--a war whose battlefield  innovations are already shaping operations over in the Gulf. If Russia  were more unencumbered, it could have provided more materiel assistance  to its partners in Venezuela and Iran.

The price of peace in Ukraine matters, and we should be careful not  to compel an outcome that allows Russia to reassert itself in regions  of critical importance to the United States. At the same time, there is  tremendous value globally to destroying Iran's ability to produce the  drones that rain down death in Europe and the Middle East alike. There  is likewise value in disrupting its illicit oil trade with the PRC.

And, finally, a word about munitions and military readiness and the  defense industrial capacity. Regardless of disagreements on the pending  question, every one of us should want the United States to have the  best possible military. Every one of us should want our Armed Forces to  be prepared for even more challenging threats.

Today, the U.S. military is not prepared to confront aligned  adversaries and deter or defeat aggression simultaneously on multiple  fronts. The reasons are numerous, and there is plenty of blame to go  around.

Administrations have failed to submit budget requests that meet the  basic requirements of the military. Congress has failed to pass timely,  full-year appropriations. Industry has failed to anticipate inevitable  demand. And, now, America faces Russia's war against Ukraine and  China's determined military modernization with shallower magazines of  critical munitions.

But there is good news. With more funding, there is spare production  capacity to be tapped for this year, fiscal year 2026. We can build  more munitions, produce more spare parts for airplanes, repair ships,  invest in dilapidated military infrastructure, and deepen our  cooperation and coproduction with our allies.

We shouldn't wait another year to seize these opportunities. The way  to realize the well-resourced military our Nation requires for future  conflicts is to build it today, right now.

My colleagues have heard me invoke the wartime words of the late ADM  Harold Stark, but his warning bears repeating:

Dollars cannot buy yesterday.