Joint Committee of Congress on the Library Rules of Procedure


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688786/joint-committee-of-congress-on-the-library-rules-of-procedure


(b) Meetings of the committee, including meetings to       conduct hearings, shall be open to the public, except that a       meeting or series of meetings by the committee on the same       subject for a period of no more than 14 calendar days may be       closed to the public on a motion made and seconded to go into       closed session to discuss only whether the matters enumerated       in subparagraphs (A) through (F) would require the meeting to       be closed followed immediately by a recorded vote in open       session by a majority of the members of the committee when it       is determined that the matters to be discussed or the       testimony to be taken at such meeting or meetings--

(1) will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in       the interests of national defense or the confidential conduct       of the foreign relations of the United States;

(2) will relate solely to matters of the committee staff       personnel or internal staff management or procedures;

(3) will tend to charge an individual with crime or       misconduct, to disgrace or injure the professional standing       of an individual, or otherwise to expose an individual to       public contempt or obloquy, or will represent a clearly       unwarranted invasion of privacy of an individual;

(4) will disclose the identity of any informer or law       enforcement agent or will disclose any information relating       to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense       that is required to be kept secret in the interest of       effective law enforcement;

(5) will disclose information relating to the trade secrets       or financial or commercial information pertaining       specifically to a given person if--

(i) an Act of Congress requires the information to be kept       confidential by Government officers and employees; or

(ii) the information has been obtained by the Government on       a confidential basis, other than through an application by       such person for a specific Government financial or other       benefit, and is required to be kept secret in order to       prevent undue injury to the benefit, and is required to be       kept secret in order to prevent undue injury to the       competitive position of such person; or

(6) may divulge matters required to kept confidential under       the provisions of law or Government regulation. (Paragraph       5(b) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate.)

(c) Written notices of committee meetings will normally be       sent by the committee's staff director to all members at       least three days in advance. In addition, the committee staff       will email or telephone reminders of committee meetings to       all members of the committee or to the appropriate staff       assistants in their offices.

(d) A copy of the committee's intended agenda enumerating       separate items of committee business will normally be sent to       all members of the committee by the staff director at least       one day in advance of all meetings. This does not preclude       any member of the committee from raising appropriate non-      agenda topics.

(e) Any witness who is to appear before the committee in       any hearing shall file with the clerk of the committee at       least three business days before the date of their       appearance, a written statement of their proposed testimony       and an executive summary thereof, in such form as the Chair       may direct, unless the Chair waived such a requirement for       good cause.      Rule 2.--Quorums

(a) Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(1) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules, four members of the committee shall       constitute a quorum.

(b) Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(2) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules, two members of the committee shall constitute       a quorum for the purpose of taking testimony; provided,       however, once a quorum is established, any one member can       continue to take such testimony.

(c) Under no circumstance may proxies be considered for the       establishment of a quorum.      Rule 3.--Voting

(a) Voting in the committee on any issue will normally be       by voice vote.

(b) If a third of the members present so demand, a recorded       vote will be taken on any question by roll call.

(c) The results of roll call votes taken in any meeting       upon a measure, or any amendment thereto, shall be stated in       the committee report on that measure unless previously       announced by the committee, and such report or announcement       shall include a tabulation of the votes cast in favor and the       votes cast in opposition to each measure and amendment by       each member of the committee. (Paragraph 7(b) and (c) of rule       XXVI of the Standing Rules.)           Rule 4.--Delegation and Authority to the Chair and Vice Chair

(a) The Chair and Vice Chair are authorized to sign all       necessary vouchers and routine papers for which the       committee's approval is required and to decide on the       committee's behalf on all routine business.

(b) The Chair is authorized to engage commercial reporters       for the preparation of transcripts of committee meetings and       hearings.

(c) The Chair is authorized to issue, on behalf of the       committee, regulations normally promulgated by the committee       at the beginning of each session.