Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696491/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, government shutdowns have real  consequences. I have said that countless times during my time here.  Incredibly, it seems to have taken Democrats a month to remember that  the proverbial stove is, in fact, already hot. And yet, they aren't  ready to turn it off, just turn it down a notch; just low enough that  they can take the political heat.

My friend from Delaware is right: Our military deserves a lot better  than a government shutdown that jeopardizes their paychecks and the  services military families count on. During Democrats' shutdown, the  President has had to scrape together unobligated balances within the  Defense budget in order to uphold the Nation's promise to  servicemembers through another pay period.

I certainly hope he won't have to divert resources from urgent  modernization again to make payroll in another 2 weeks, but that ball,  of course, is in the Democrats' court. I hope they realize the surest  way--the surest way--to help servicemembers and civilian DOD employees  is to simply turn government funding back on and pass full-year  appropriations.

I know my counterpart on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, of  all people, understands this. He knows what would really help our Armed  Forces because he and I worked closely together on a full-year bill for  Defense that would pay servicemembers and invest more in the  capabilities they need to keep America safe.

I am grateful for Senator Coons' collaboration on the bipartisan bill  that earned overwhelming support in committee and would add $22 billion  above the President's defense request. This, by the way, is the bill  that almost every Democrat voted against considering 2 weeks ago.

I know the ranking member cares about the promises we made to the  all-volunteer force and the challenges we expect them to make. I know  he is concerned about the erosion of Congress's authority to set and  fund national security priorities. So am I. And if we cannot  appropriate, we will render ourselves completely irrelevant.

The way to provide real certainty and to deliver serious full-year  appropriations is to just open the government back up and pass our  bill. It is really that simple.