U.S. Senate Committee on Rules and Administration Rules of Procedure


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, the Committee on Rules and  Administration has adopted rules governing its procedures for the 119th  Congress. Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Standing Rules of  the Senate, on behalf of myself and Senator Padilla, I ask unanimous  consent that a copy of the committee rules be printed in the Record.

The regular meeting dates of the Committee shall be       the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month, at 10:00       a.m., in room SR-301, Russell Senate Office Building.       Additional meetings of the Committee may be called by the       Chair as he or she may deem necessary or pursuant to the       provision of paragraph 3 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules       of the Senate.

Rule 2. Meetings of the Committee, including meetings to       conduct hearings, shall be open to the public, except that a       meeting or series of meetings by the Committee on the same       subject for a period of no more than 14 calendar days may be       closed to the public on a motion made and seconded to go into       closed session to discuss only whether the matters enumerated       in subparagraphs (a) through (f) would require the meeting to       be closed followed immediately by a recorded vote in open       session by a majority of the Members of the Committee when it       is determined that the matters to be discussed or the       testimony to be taken at such meeting or meetings:

(a) will disclose matters necessary to be kept secret in       the interests of national defense or the confidential conduct       of the foreign relations of the United States;

(b) will relate solely to matters of the Committee staff       personnel or internal staff management or procedure;

(c) will tend to charge an individual with crime or       misconduct, to disgrace or injure the professional standing       of an individual, or otherwise to expose an individual to       public contempt or obloquy, or will represent a clearly       unwarranted invasion of the privacy of an individual;

(d) will disclose the identity of any informer or law       enforcement agent or will disclose any information relating       to the investigation or prosecution of a criminal offense       that is required to be kept secret in the interests of       effective law enforcement;

(e) will disclose information relating to the trade secrets       or financial or commercial information pertaining       specifically to a given person if:

(1) an Act of Congress requires the information to be kept       confidential by Government officers and employees; or

(2) the information has been obtained by the Government on       a confidential basis, other than through an application by       such person for a specific Government financial or other       benefit, and is required to be kept secret in order to       prevent undue injury to the competitive position of such       person; or

(f) may divulge matters required to be kept confidential       under the provisions of law or Government regulations.       (Paragraph 5(b) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)

Rule 3. Written notices of Committee meetings will normally       be sent by the Committees staff director to all Members of       the Committee at least a week in advance. In addition, the       Committee staff will telephone or e-mail reminders of       Committee meetings to all Members of the Committee or to the       appropriate assistants in their offices.

Rule 4. A copy of the Committees intended agenda       enumerating separate items of legislative business and       Committee business will normally be sent to all Members of       the Committee and released to the public at least one day in       advance of all meetings. This does not preclude any Member of       the Committee from discussing appropriate non-agenda topics.

Rule 5. After the Chair and the Ranking Minority Member,       speaking order shall be based on order of arrival,       alternating between Majority and Minority Members, unless       otherwise directed by the Chair.

Rule 6. Any witness who is to appear before the Committee       in any hearing shall file with the clerk of the Committee at       least three business days before the date of his or her       appearance, a written statement of his or her proposed       testimony and an executive summary thereof, in such form as       the Chair may direct, unless the Chair and the Ranking       Minority Member waive such requirement for good cause.

Rule 7. In general, testimony will be restricted to five       minutes for each witness. The time may be extended by the       Chair, upon the Chairs own direction or at the request of a       Member. Each round of questions by Members will also be       limited to five minutes.                                   quorums

Rule 8. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(1) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules, a majority of the Members of the Committee       shall constitute a quorum for the reporting of legislative       measures.

Rule 9. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(1) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules, one-third of the Members of the Committee       shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,       including action on amendments to measures prior to voting to       report the measure to the Senate.

Rule 10. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(2) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules, two Members of the Committee shall constitute       a quorum for the purpose of taking testimony under oath and       one Member of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the       purpose of taking testimony not under oath; provided,       however, that in either instance,       once a quorum is established, any one Member can continue to       take such testimony.

Rule 11. Under no circumstances may proxies be considered       for the establishment of a quorum.                                    voting

Rule 12. Voting in the Committee on any issue will normally       be by voice vote.

Rule 13. If a third of the Members present so demand a roll       call vote instead of a voice vote, a record vote will be       taken on any question by roll call.

Rule 14. The results of roll call votes taken in any       meeting upon any measure, or any amendment thereto, shall be       stated in the Committee report on that measure unless       previously announced by the Committee, and such report or       announcement shall include a tabulation of the votes cast in       favor of and the votes cast in opposition to each such       measure and amendment by each Member of the Committee.       (Paragraph 7(b) and (c) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)

Rule 15. Proxy voting shall be allowed on all measures and       matters before the Committee. However, the vote of the       Committee to report a measure or matter shall require the       concurrence of a majority of the Members of the Committee who       are physically present at the time of the vote. Proxies will       be allowed in such cases solely for the purpose of recording       a Members position on the question and then only in those       instances when the absentee Committee Member has been       informed of the question and has affirmatively requested that       he or she be recorded. (Paragraph 7(a)(3) of rule XXVI of the       Standing Rules.)                                  amendments

Rule 16. Provided at least five business days notice of the       agenda is given, and the text of the proposed bill or       resolution has been made available at least five business       days in advance, it shall not be in order for the Committee       to consider any amendment in the first degree proposed to any       measure under consideration by the Committee unless such       amendment has been delivered to the office of the Committee       and by at least 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the scheduled       start of the meeting and circulated to each of the offices by       at least 6:00 p.m.

Rule 17. In the event the Chair introduces a substitute       amendment or a Chairs mark, the requirements set forth in       Rule 16 shall be considered waived unless such substitute       amendment or Chairs mark has been made available at least       five business days in advance of the scheduled meeting.

Rule 18. It shall be in order, without prior notice, for a       Member to offer a motion to strike a single section of any       bill, resolution, or amendment under consideration.

Rule 19. This section of the rule may be waived by       agreement of the Chair and the Ranking Minority Member.                  delegation of authority to committee chair

Rule 20. The Chair is authorized to personally sign or sign       by delegation all necessary vouchers and routine papers for       which the Committees approval is required and to decide on       the Committees behalf all routine business.

Rule 21. The Chair is authorized to engage commercial       reporters for the preparation of transcripts of Committee       meetings and hearings.

Rule 22. The Chair is authorized to issue, on behalf of the       Committee, regulations normally promulgated by the Committee       at the beginning of each session.    delegation of authority to committee chair and ranking minority member

Rule 23. The Chair and Ranking Minority Member, acting       jointly, are authorized to approve on behalf of the Committee       any rule or regulation for which the Committees approval is       required, provided advance notice of their intention to do so       is given to Members of the Committee.

Rule 24. The Chair, with the concurrence of the Ranking       Minority Member of the Committee, is authorized to subpoena       the attendance of witnesses and the production of       correspondence, books, papers, documents, and other       materials. Regardless of whether a subpoena has been       concurred in by the Ranking Minority Member, such subpoena       may be authorized by vote of the Members of the Committee.       When a subpoena is authorized, either by a vote of the       Committee or by the Chair with the concurrence of the Ranking       Member, the subpoena may be issued upon the signature of the       Chair or of any other Member of the Committee designated by       the Chair.