U.S. Senate Member Protection Regulations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697952/us-senate-member-protection-regulations


Mr. McCONNELL.  Senate Member Protection Regulations Adopted by the Committee on               Rules and Administration on December 11, 2025

1.0 Scope--These regulations detail the permissible       expenditures and voucher process a Member shall use to       procure personal security devices, physical security       enhancements, and personal security services for the Member's       safety and well-being.

2.0 Definitions--For purposes of these regulations, the       following terms have the meaning specified.

2.1 Capitol complex means the Capitol Buildings as defined       in 40 U.S.C. Sec. 5101 and the United States Capitol Grounds       as described in section 40 U.S.C. Sec.  5102(a).

2.2 Member means a U.S. Senator.

2.3 Non-structural security enhancements include devices       such as security hardware, locks, alarm systems, motion       detectors, and security camera systems.

2.4 Personal security device means an item used for       personal security, except that such term shall not include       any item prohibited in the Capitol Police Board prohibited       items list, which is incorporated into these regulations as       Section 4.1.

2.5 Personal security entity means a person or company that       provides bona fide, legitimate, and professional private       security services acting within the scope of applicable laws.       A personal security entity may also include, or extend its       services through, off-duty, deputized, retired, or otherwise       authorized law-enforcement officers.

2.6 Personal security services means services provided by a       personal security entity that may include the continuous       protection of the Member, the continuous protection of the       Member's residence(s) regardless of the Member's physical       location, secure transportation, and travel-related measures       designed to support threat mitigation.

2.7 Physical security enhancements means non-structural       security enhancements and structural security enhancements.

2.8 Rules Committee means the U.S. Senate Committee on       Rules and Administration.

2.9 SAA means the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the       Senate.

2.10 SOPOEA means the Senators' Official Personnel and       Office Expense Account.

2.11 Structural security enhancements include devices such       as wiring, lighting, gates, doors, and fencing, so long as       such devices are intended solely to provide security and not       to improve the Member's property or increase its value.

2.12 USCP means the United States Capitol Police.

3.0 General Information--in addition to the permissible       expenditures detailed in Section 4.0, Members may utilize the       following additional resources:

3.1 Law enforcement coordination. The SAA and USCP may       enter into mutual aid agreements for law enforcement support       for Members.

3.2 SAA Procurement. The SAA may support Members by       providing concierge security management and coordination for       Members, including liaison activities between federal, state,       local, and private security entities, procuring personal       security devices and services, and physical security       enhancements using SOPOEA funds, upon written delegation of       such authority by a Member.

3.3 SAA Residential Security Program. The SAA Residential       Security System Program provides physical security support to       Members at their residences at no cost to the Senator.       Physical security support can include electronic security       systems, security monitoring, and other physical security       enhancements recommended by the USCP.

3.4 Use of Campaign Funds. Before using campaign funds,       Members should confer with the Senate Select Committee on       Ethics and the Federal Election Commission to ensure       compliance with applicable ethics and campaign finance rules.

4.0 Permissible Expenditures--Each Member may use funds       made available to the Member from their SOPOEA to pay for       certain security products or services. Any conditions or       circumstances pertaining to Member protection not covered by       the following regulations must be submitted in writing to and       approved by the Rules Committee.

4.1 Personal security devices. Each Member may obtain a       personal security device for use by the Member so long as the       device is not:

4.1.1 Ammunition;

4.1.2 Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear       Substances;

4.1.3 Chemicals or other damaging liquids;

4.1.4 Destructive Devices, Explosives, or Combustible       Chemical Compounds and Mixtures (gasoline, gunpowder,       fireworks, flares, Molotov cocktails, or replicas of       explosive devices);

4.1.5 Disabling Chemicals (bear spray, tear gas, poisonous       chemicals or gases, or other chemicals designed for self-      defense);

4.1.6 Drones/UAS;

4.1.7 Firearms (any weapon that expels a projectile with an       explosive);

4.1.8 Handcuffs, Flex Cuffs, or items that can be used as       restraints;

4.1.9 Impact Weapons (batons, blackjack, clubs, maces,       slungshot, etc.);

4.1.10 Knives, 2.5 inches or more, to include sharp tools,       pointed objects or implements such as a switch blade, dagger,       dirk, sword, etc.;

4.1.11 Realistic replicas of explosives, firearms, or other       weapons to include toy weapons;

4.1.12 Tasers, Stun Guns; or

4.1.13 Weapons of any kind or any other item determined by       the USCP to be a potential safety hazard.

4.2 Physical security enhancements. Each Member may obtain       non-structural or structural security enhancements such as a       security system or other security support for any residence       of the Member so long as:

4.2.1 The physical security enhancements are intended       solely to provide security and not to improve the Member's       property or increase its value; and

4.2.2 Neither the Member, any relative of the Member, nor       employee of the Senate has an ownership or financial interest       in the entity providing physical security enhancements.

4.3 Personal security services. A security entity,       including local or state law enforcement, may be hired to       provide personal security services for the Member so long as:

4.3.1 The personal security services provided under the       contract are being provided only for the protection of the       Member or their residence(s);

4.3.2 The personal security services abide by all Capitol       Police Board regulations, and Capitol Police policies and       procedures while in the Capitol Complex; and

4.3.3 Neither the Member, any relative of the Member, nor       employee of the Senate has an ownership or financial interest       in the personal security entity providing the services.

5.0 Submitting Expenditures--Members shall submit expense       vouchers, approved by the Senator and certified by designated       staff, with supporting documentation that shows evidence of       actual expenses incurred and, if seeking reimbursement,       evidence of payment. Office Purchase cards may not be used       for the purchase of any member security expenditures.

5.1 Personal security device vouchers. Personal security       device vouchers shall be reimbursed to the Member and shall       include the following certifications:

5.1.1 The personal security device was purchased by the       Member, or procured by the SAA on the Member's behalf;

5.1.2 The personal security device is intended for sole use       by the Member for their own personal protection; and

5.1.3 The Member, or the SAA on the Member's behalf, has       reviewed the list of permissible and prohibited devices in       Section 4.1 and certifies the device being purchased is not       prohibited.

5.2 Physical security enhancement vouchers. Physical       security enhancement vouchers may be paid directly to the       physical security provider or may be reimbursed to the       Member. These vouchers shall include the following       certifications:

5.2.1 The Member, or the SAA on the Member's behalf,       procured the physical security enhancement solely to provide       security to the Member and not to improve the Member's       property or increase its value; and

5.2.2 Neither the Member, any relative of the Member, nor       employee of the Senate has an ownership or financial interest       in the entity providing physical security enhancements.

5.3 Personal security services vouchers: Personal security       services vouchers may be paid directly to the personal       security provider or may be reimbursed to the Member. These       vouchers shall include the following certifications:

5.3.1 The Member, or the SAA on the Member's behalf,       entered into a contract with a personal security entity for       personal security services for the Member;

5.3.2 The personal security services provided under the       contract are being provided only for the protection of the       Member or their residence; and

5.3.3 Neither the Member, any relative of the Member, nor       employee of the Senate has an ownership or financial interest       in the personal security entity providing the services.