U.S. Senate Health and Fitness Facilities Regulations


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, pursuant to Senate Rule XXXIII, the  Committee on Rules and Administration adopted the U.S. Senate Health  and Fitness Facilities Regulations, on May 6, 2025, which supersede and  replace the current ``Guidelines for Senate Tennis Courts,''  ``Regulations for the Senate Health Facility in the Office of the  Architect of the Capitol,'' and ``Regulations Governing Use of the  Senate Health and Fitness Facility.''

The updated regulations consolidate rules for the use of the fitness  facilities, including the Senators' gym, staff gym, and athletic  courts. The updated regulations define eligible staff for membership  purposes and reflect current operational practices.

Senate Health and Fitness Facilities Regulations   [Adopted by the Committee on Rules and Administration on May 6, 2025,

pursuant to rule XXXIII of the Standing Rules of the Senate]

1.0 Scope--The United States Senate offers the use of       health and fitness facilities within the Senate office       buildings to Senators and staff. These regulations establish       the policies, procedures, and management responsibilities for       these facilities.

2.0 Definitions--For purposes of these regulations, the       following terms shall have the meaning specified.

2.1 AOC means the Architect of the Capitol.

2.2 Athletic courts means the multi-sport courts located in       the Dirksen Senate Office Building.

2.3 Disbursing Office means the Secretary of the Senate's       Disbursing Office.

2.4 Eligible senator means a U.S. Senator.

2.5 Eligible staff means an employee of the Senate,       employee of the Superintendent's Office, a Senate detailee or       paid fellow whose contract duration is greater than or equal       to six months, or an employee of a federal government agency       liaison office housed within Senate space. Interns, clerks,       unpaid fellows, members of the media, and other non-      government employees that provide services to the Senate are       not covered under this term.

2.6 Fitness facilities means the U.S. Senate Health and       Fitness Facilities, including the Senators' gym, staff gym,       athletic courts, and all the associated equipment,       furnishings, and fixtures.

2.7 Membership means the ongoing state of being qualified       to use the fitness facilities by meeting the criteria to be       an eligible senator or staffer and paying the required       membership fee.

2.8 Membership fee means the monthly or annual payment made       to maintain a fitness facilities membership.

2.9 Rules Committee means the U.S. Senate Committee on       Rules and Administration.

2.10 Senators' gym means the gym located in the Russell       Senate Office Building.

2.11 Superintendent's Office means the Architect of the       Capitol's Senate Superintendent Office.

2.12 Staff gym means the gym located in the Dirksen Senate       Office Building.

2.13 Support office means the office of an internal       congressional entity that provides services to the U.S.       Senate including but not limited to, the Architect of the       Capitol, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate,       the Secretary of the Senate, and the United States Capitol       Police.

3.0 General Information--The AOC shall supervise and manage       the fitness facilities       subject to rules, regulations, policies, and fee structures       approved by the Rules Committee.

3.1 The Senators' gym is reserved only for use by eligible       senators with memberships. No guests of any sort are       permitted.

3.2 The staff gym is reserved only for use by eligible       staff with memberships. No guests of any sort are permitted.

3.3 The athletic courts are reserved only for use by       eligible senators with memberships to the Senators' gym,       their current Chiefs of Staff and/or Staff Directors with       memberships to the staff gym, and support office programs       approved by the Rules Committee. Guests are permitted       pursuant to section 5.4.

3.4 No photography, filming, live streaming, or media       related activities are permitted in the fitness facilities.

3.5 No food or event setup is permitted in the fitness       facilities.

3.6 The maximum occupancy for the courts is determined by       the AOC Fire Marshal and shall not be exceeded.

Membership--Prior to using a fitness facility, eligible       senators and staff shall fill out a membership application to       their respective fitness facility, which must be approved or       denied by the AOC.

4.1 If an eligible senator's membership is approved by the       AOC, the senator shall pay a monthly or annual membership fee       through the Disbursing Office.

4.1.1 The Disbursing Office shall provide monthly the list       of senators paying a membership fee to the AOC.

4.2 If an eligible staffer's membership is approved by the       AOC, the staffer shall pay a monthly membership fee through       the AOC.

4.3 Memberships are continuous until the eligible senator       or staff cancels the membership or no longer meets the       criteria for membership.

4.4 A membership may be revoked by the AOC in cases of       noncompliance with fitness facilities policies.         Athletic Court Reservations--Reservations are required to       use the athletics courts.

5.1 Reservations shall be made through the AOC no more than       one month in advance.

5.2 Reservations are first come, first served, and can be       no more than two hours in length.

5.3 Senator reservations have priority and shall supersede       the reservations of Chiefs of Staff and Staff Directors if       the same reservation time period is requested.

5.4 Reservations may include guests without memberships, so       long as the reservation holder is present for the entire       duration of the reservation.