Venezuela


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698662/venezuela


Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I would like to make just a few brief  observations ahead of the vote on Senator Kaine's War Powers  Resolution.

The War Powers Act is not the law I would have written, and there are  reasonable questions about its constitutionality. But it has been the  law now for over 50 years. And it is important to remember what it was  designed to prevent--and, even more importantly, what it wasn't.

Back in 1973, the goal was preventing another Vietnam. The idea was  to impose guardrails against the large-scale, indefinite commitment of  U.S. troops abroad. And in shutting that door, the law very  intentionally reaffirmed our Founders' decision to leave another door  open.

The law grants presidents clear authority for the limited use of  military force. And of the many occasions over the years when  colleagues on both sides of the aisle have invoked the War Powers Act  to condemn such limited use of military force--by Presidents of both  parties--I can't recall a single one in which Congress managed to  change the facts and artificially constrain the Commander in Chief's  authority.

This time is no different. The President was well within this  authority in his decision to bring Nicolas Maduro to justice. How do we  know? A number of ways:

First, plain statute: Notification of Congress within 48? Check.  Withdrawal within 60 days? Try 60 minutes.

What is more, recent history provides clear precedent from Presidents  of both parties. What authority did this operation exceed that  President Obama or President Reagan did not exceed in operations in  Libya? Or President Clinton in Kosovo? What makes this time different  than President Biden's strikes in Syria or Yemen? Certainly, there is  little daylight between the legality of this operation and the one  President H.W. Bush undertook to apprehend Manuel Noriega in Panama.

You don't have to agree with a President's approach to national  security policy to acknowledge his compliance with the law and his  constitutional authority for the use of force, which makes the  invocation of the War Powers Act such a tired and blunt instrument. For  my part, I have consistently opposed resolutions like these aimed at  constraining Presidents' constitutional authority. And I have done it  on behalf of Presidents of both parties.

I am old enough to remember when, during President Obama's feckless  dealings with Iran, no less than the future Democratic leader insisted  that, ``We should never take the military option off the table''.

But every one of our colleagues remembers last summer when the  frequent fliers of the War Powers Resolution reached yet again for  their favorite tool after the President's decision to degrade Iran's  nuclear program without putting a single American boot on the ground.

Of course, there are serious questions at hand to which the Senate  and the American people should expect serious answers from the  Commander in Chief.  The President's authorities to conduct military operations may be wide  and well-established, but they incur a responsibility to situate  decisive actions in broader, longer-term strategy.

Maduro is an authoritarian thug. He reduced a once-prosperous  neighbor of America to an impoverished vassal of Cuba, Russia, Iran,  and China. He profited from the flow of lethal drugs to America. He  spat in the face of Venezuelan voters. And, until very recently, he  slept in peace while they starved.

A Western Hemisphere without him or his ilk in power serves America's  interests. But clearly, Venezuela and the hemisphere have a ways to go.

To the extent that our colleagues are concerned about the mechanisms  and timeline of a transition to democratically elected Venezuelan  leaders, I share their curiosity. If they want to know more about the  President's longer-term strategy to stabilize Venezuela and the Western  Hemisphere, so do I.

Suffice it to say that whatever the objective, whatever the strategy,  America is well-served when its Presidents secure enduring bipartisan  support for their foreign policies. President Obama ignored Congress in  pursuing a reckless and bad nuclear deal with Iran. Unsurprisingly,  that deal did not endure.

Successfully returning Venezuela to its role of stable, prosperous,  democratic neighbor is a noble goal, but an ambitious one. It doesn't  come without risk. And it is worth making the clear case to the  country.

I appreciate the administration's willingness to brief Senators on  the sensitive details of a tactical victory. But they owe it to the  American people--and, frankly, the long-suffering people of Venezuela-- to lay out the path to strategic success in much greater detail.

If the aim is to reestablish American primacy in its near abroad,  great. If the idea is to evict enemies who hate America from a valuable  foothold in our region, onward.

A stable Venezuela, led by duly elected Venezuelans, will leave  Americans safer and more secure. The administration should explain how  that end goal will be achieved.

In the meantime, I will oppose the Kaine resolution and would urge my  colleagues to do the same.