Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I join my colleague and chair, Mr. Babin, and rise in  support of the Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025, H.R.  1325. We are very pleased to see this legislation being reintroduced  this Congress, and certainly it is coming from the leadership of our  former chair of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Mr.  Frank Lucas, and our ranking member, Ms. Zoe Lofgren. It is another  bipartisan bill.

Commercial remote sensing is a vibrant and growing industry. Data and  imagery from commercial remote sensing satellites are used widely in  energy, agriculture, disaster monitoring, mapping, and national  security applications such as maritime surveillance.

Commercial space-based images provide vital scientific information on  the health of our Great Lakes informing policy in my beloved home State  of Michigan and across the basin. These images also provide visibility  and insight into life-threatening events, such as the before and after  observations of the devastating Palisades and Eaton wildfires in  southern California.

In 1992, Congress, led by the Science, Space, and Technology  Committee, authorized the Secretary of Commerce to license and regulate  private-sector parties to operate commercial remote sensing space  systems. Since that time, the commercial remote sensing industry has  changed quite dramatically.

Today, companies from across the world are launching commercial  remote sensing systems and selling the data. We must ensure that the  United States remains at the forefront of this industry, especially as  the Chinese Communist Party is advancing in the remote sensing sector.

As a 2024 report from the Center for Strategic and International  Studies plainly put it: ``Should any one country dominate the  commercial remote sensing market, not only could it gain economic  advantages, but it would also control the information narrative about  the entire planet, from the environment to natural resources to human  conflict.''

So this bill provides Congress the transparency and insight we need  to oversee the licensing and regulation of private remote sensing  systems. It modifies the timeline for completing licenses to conform  with updated regulations. It also requires information to provide  Congress with details on licensing related to regulatory changes.  Further, it extends the requirement for an annual report on commercial  remote sensing licenses through 2030.

I am very enthusiastic about this important bipartisan commercial  space legislation. It is always a good day in the Chamber when Chair  Babin is talking about commercial space legislation, and it is always a  good day when we are doing bipartisan things on behalf of American  competitiveness.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 1325, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time to  speak on this bill, and I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, it is always a good thing when we have a Lucas bill, and  particularly when it is a bipartisan bill, and usually it is. You just  heard his remarks in this debate. He has really nailed this one.

H.R. 1325 remains an important and necessary piece of legislation  that I am proud to support and urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on.