Doe and Nsf Interagency Research Act


Mr. Speaker, hopefully, our friends and colleagues in the other  Chamber are listening because we are moving once again to pass an  incredible piece of legislation, H.R. 1350, the DOE and NSF Interagency  Research Act, that I and Dr.  Jim Baird have introduced yet again to  see it, hopefully, pass in the House, and we eagerly await the Senate  to take it up.

Simply put, H.R. 1350 authorizes collaborative research between the  Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation in areas that  are essential to our national competitiveness. This legislation will  build on the longstanding partnership between the Department of Energy  and the National Science Foundation to leverage the unique investments  and expertise in a wide range of fields, including quantum science,  artificial intelligence, fusion energy, and, of course, advanced  manufacturing.

Alongside these research partnerships, this legislation also  authorizes collaborative initiatives in education, training, and  development to build a stronger workforce in the science, technology,  engineering, and mathematics fields.

Lastly, this legislation promotes secure data and information  transfer capabilities between these agencies so that we are not working  in silos but are working together in a safe and secure environment to  develop a shared, agile data ecosystem.

In August 2024, the Australian Strategic Policy Institute updated its  dataset, exposing a dramatic shift in U.S. technology leadership. Once  dominant in 60 of the 64 critical technologies, according to this  policy institute, the U.S. now leads in just 7. China has surged from 3  to 57 since the start of the century.

This is not to put a wet blanket on our incredible country and our  innovation capabilities. We want to be measuring, coordinating, and  strategic, and we want to be effective stewards of any taxpayer  dollars, which is why this bill is not appropriating any such thing.

We are in a wake-up call moment, but this isn't over. To reclaim our  edge, we have to empower our top  science agencies to unite, to collaborate, and to drive the innovation  necessary to lead before any of our competitors seek to leave us  behind. That is why we have this bill. As the chair said, this has  passed the House. Our colleagues in the Senate just need to do their  jobs.

This collaboration between NSF and the DOE is not new. In fact, they  have an extensive history of joint activities, such as support for the  development of the Vera C. Rubin Observatory, a world-class tool for  scientific discovery and astronomy located in Chile. We are proud of  that partnership.

A testament to the power of these collaborations, this observatory  just reached a major milestone with the installation of the Large  Synoptic Survey Telescope, the LSST, the largest digital camera ever  built. This facility will soon be ready to scan the sky for the next 10  years, creating an ultrahigh definition, time-lapsed record of our  universe.

The DOE and NSF Interagency Research Act strengthens the legislative  foundation of our beloved CHIPS and Science Act, a landmark bill that  enables both agencies to foster a more collaborative research  environment to maximize their collective impacts for our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, for all of these reasons, this bipartisan legislation  falls upon us, and I encourage all of my colleagues to support it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Baird), my dear  friend and one of my favorite colleagues--if that is okay and germane  to say--for his collaboration on this bill. We are both midwesterners.  He is an incredibly accomplished academic, veteran, and businessman  from an important part of our Nation. I have had the sincere privilege  of collaborating on legislation with the gentleman since we were first  sworn into Congress.

Mr. Speaker, we are again partnering on H.R. 1350, and I urge my  colleagues to vote in support of this bill, as I have done in other  sessions, so that we can implore the Senate to do their part. We are  introducing this bill early in the 119th session. We will pass it  through the House and, hopefully, see this become law.