Mathematical and Statistical Modeling Education Act


Mr. Speaker, this is a real honor and a delight to be speaking on  behalf of and in support of the Mathematical and Statistical Modeling  Education Act, otherwise known as H.R. 730.

We have here in the House Chamber gallery an audience of about 75  people. It is really quite amazing to have the outside public in the  Hall of the House of Representatives watch this debate today, because  if you are interested in government, maybe sometimes you are attuned to  what is going on, on social media or the cable news, and sometimes that  really misses the mark of what we are doing here in the Nation's  Capital, which is bipartisan legislation committed to moving this  Nation forward.

Mr. Speaker, I don't say that lightly. I look at Representative  Houlahan and Representative Baird, two Members of the class of 2018,  both in their fourth term. I have passed legislation with both of them.  Now they have joined together to pass H.R. 730, a STEM bill, science,  technology, engineering, and mathematics. You don't have STEM without  mathematics.

We call on the National Science Foundation to support mathematical  and statistical modeling education starting in elementary school and  secondary schools. These activities include providing grants to  academic institutions and nonprofit organizations  that improve data, science skills, enhance computational thinking, and  enable access to professional development opportunities. My friends,  this is how we compete and win on the world's stage.

It is so very important to me, as somebody who worked in a  manufacturing research lab. I have brought in expert witnesses to the  Science Committee that, yes, our great chairman has been a part of for  his whole tenure in Congress. We have heard this from the researchers.  I have heard this since before I came to Congress. We need this skill  set.

This is what we want to say to the young people we have observing the  floor right now. I don't know the full curriculum that they are in and  whatnot. I imagine there is an interest in government. STEM is also of  note. When we were doing STEM education in the lab I was in, we had a  great researcher. This man had a great engineering degree, and we would  do the STEM education. He would tell the students that he didn't always  pass his math classes the first round, but he had the surrounding  cushion to help him go back for a second round.

That is what it is all about in America. If you want to be an  engineer or if you want to contribute to our advanced manufacturing  economy, we want your talent. With the Baird-Houlahan bill, what we are  going to do is see NSF do what it is already doing but double down for  a continuing educational experience at the NSF so that students can  thrive.

What we don't want is a bunch of one-offs and all of a sudden you are  graduating high school and maybe you had some exposure to these  computational skills. We are competing across the world with talent.  Our schools need to have the best ability to thrive. I urge everybody  in this data-driven, AI, exciting world that the United States is  leading, and encourage our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  say, yes, we want this bill, H.R. 730, to move forward.

Ms. STEVENS.  Houlahan) for her remarks.

Mr. Speaker, I thank our wonderful sponsors of this bill. It is  really quite exciting. We continue to move toward urging colleagues to  vote ``yes'' on H.R. 730, the Mathematical and Statistical Modeling  Education Act.