Stop Trump's Chaos--Stand Up for Science


Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, tonight I rise with my Democratic  colleagues, frankly, to call out the dangerous and draconian  antiscience agendas of this current administration. Since day one, this  administration has unleashed chaos on our national scientific  enterprise, undermining our Nation's competitiveness, our health  safety, and the dignity of research and how it is conducted. It is  coming at a time that will, frankly, move our country in the wrong  direction, and it will cost us.

In just over 100 days, we have seen the firing and rehiring of  experts, the illegal impounding of congressionally authorized and  appropriated research funding, and the future of our STEM student  pipeline jeopardized. Frankly, it has created a chilling effect across  our scientific research enterprise.

For the science enthusiasts watching at home, allow me to clarify  that, yes, we support our national scientific research enterprise, our  National Science Foundation, and our National Institute of Standards  and Technology.

In this country, we also have the National Institutes of Health. Some  of us are old enough to remember when we passed a DARPA for health  research, ARPA-H, Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health.

While much of my remarks will be dedicated toward our hard-nosed  scientific research funding, I do want to make mention of what it means  to have our health sciences under attack right now as well because  doctors and researchers, particularly in the medical fields, are  feeling extraordinary pain.

These aren't just talking points. This isn't just fear-mongering.  This is the cessation of scientific research, health research, special  projects dedicated toward combating cancer, pilot projects being  suddenly halted. It is a blow to patients. It is a blow to medical  researchers and physicians.

My colleagues tonight are going to join me in speaking about the  antiscience agenda that is in full swing in the United States of  America and what it means. Tonight, I am going to speak about Michigan.  I am going to speak about the harm of this chaos and the antiscience  agenda that it poses to the incredible State of Michigan.

The State of Michigan is known for its manufacturing prowess. Yes, we  have great healthcare institutions as well, but we are known as the  place that has put the world on wheels for our best-in-class workforce.  We are, of course, also known for the beauty of our Great Lakes. We are  known as a place that has the most number of first robotics teams in  the Nation. Also, that we are a hotbed and a place that people and  businesses come to to expand, to grow, and to tap into our engineering  talent.

Mr. Speaker, you can't have a shop floor without research and  development. You can't have incredible manufacturing and incredible  innovation without scientific research and development.

It is about problem-solving. I know this from my time in the Obama  administration. I know this from my time working in a scientific  research lab. That innovation takes place on the shop floor and in the  heart of Michigan's manufacturing capabilities.

We are so proud of public-private partnerships. We are so proud of  how the government can provide seed funding through the National  Science Foundation and support for our National Institute of Standards  and Technology through the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program.

My friend Mike Coast, the former leader of the Michigan Manufacturing  Technology Center, Michigan's MEP, and I are overdue for a  conversation. He is ringing the alarm bell about what these cuts will  do for Michigan and what this means.

From growing up and from my upbringing, I saw this story of what it  means to have a strong and vibrant manufacturing economy. It is  intertwined with the Nation's scientific research enterprise and  appropriated dollars.

I have visited my friends in over 250 unique small businesses, small  manufacturers, innovators, entrepreneurs, and training centers. The  innovation story is powered by Michigan's incredible workforce, our  hardworking men and women, and those large concentrations of engineers  that we have. They are from Grand Rapids, Flint, Saginaw, Lansing, and,  of course, all over southeast Michigan, from Detroit to Macomb County  and throughout Oakland County.

All of this goes hand in hand from the lab to the shop floor, to the  classroom, to the tinkering in the garage, or in Michigan--because we  do have those cold winters--in our basements. People are innovating,  designing, and doing.

I woke up on a Saturday morning to a headline that the National  Science Foundation is canceling more than 400 STEM grants. What does it  mean for Michigan? What does that mean for our schools that are not  fully funded? What does it mean when we are competing on the world  playing field?

We need to have these scientists. We need to have these  technologists. We need to have engineers and mathematicians. The  student pipeline is absolutely essential, Mr. Speaker.

Because of this Trump-Musk antiscience agenda undermining the  symbiotic relationship and threatening Michigan's future in advanced  manufacturing, environmental protection, and next-generation mobility  technologies--news flash, we had 40-plus new factories built and  developed in Michigan last year alone--the chaos continues to set us  back.

These aren't false threats. They are now a reality. It is blow after  blow. It is self-inflicted chaos at a time when we don't need it, when  it is not going to work for Michigan and not going to work for this  country.

Michigan is a national leader in public university research, with  nine public institutions in the great State of Michigan ranked as top- tier universities. They are what we call R1 research universities. We  also have R2 universities. They all rank in that top nine.

This also includes Oakland University, which is located in my  district and where my parents met, and it is part of my origin story.  They have a very robust engineering department that relies on these  National Science Foundation grants, basic scientific research,  technology readiness 1 through 9.

What does that mean? We need to have basic scientific research. We  need to have the scientific method, of course, dictating and governing  how we conduct research in the United States of America.

University of Michigan and Michigan State University recently came  forward with what it would mean to see these grants and the  relationship between our universities and our government shrink.

I will hold this up. In fact, that was also in The Detroit News, that  the MSU president has spoken about the partnership between research  universities and innovation driven by government. We need these things.

At Wayne State University and Michigan Technological University, it  is the same thing. They conduct over 90 percent of the State's academic  research, totaling more than $3 billion. We want to compete. We want to  be a driver of the moonshot of this century.

Every day, Michiganders reap the benefits of these universities,  these small businesses, the entrepreneurs, and the small business  innovation research grants. I walk out my door, and people are  practically coming up to me, saying that this is where they want to  grow and go. The STEM talent is so mission critical to all of us.

Just the three largest research institutions created an economic  impact of nearly $24 billion for the State of Michigan. This is  personal for us, and this is very real. Our universities are where  tomorrow's breakthroughs are going to begin, breakthroughs that our  automakers are going to rely on, breakthroughs to compete in the global  marketplace, and also breakthroughs to win on the battlefield.

We are in a race for technological and, frankly, innovation  dominance. These cuts that have come through from the stroke of a pen  in the Oval Office have sincere, grave, and real results that are  harmful.

As a lawmaker, I choose to use my time to continue to craft the  legislation on quantum and on reauthorizing NSF and NIST that I am so  proud to see making its way through the Committee on Science. I hope  that my colleagues will join in to pass those bills.

Today, we use our voices to call out the harms of an antiscience  agenda, the setbacks it means for equity, the setbacks it means for  disadvantaged students, women, and students of color, and what this  means for our manufacturers that rely on the diversity of a fully  educated, skilled, and trained workforce, something that I see  happening every single day in my incredible home State.

It is that grit that Michiganders bring to everything that I know  will get us through, and it is with tremendous honor, Mr. Speaker, that  I sit and stand with my colleagues tonight as we speak out.

I  thank him for leading with me tonight.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Subramanyam, a new freshman  member on the Committee on Science and Member of this very body. As we  can tell, he is already leading in an extraordinary way.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Beyer for his great leadership  in Congress and for his continued dedication to education as he is  getting a degree in artificial intelligence.

Mr. Speaker, we also have another very well-degreed Member of  Congress, Dr. Bill Foster, whom I have been so proud to serve alongside  for many years in this Chamber and, of course, for many years on the  Science Committee where we have passed a lot of bills together.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Foster for his always wise and  important words.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Whitesides for his comments.  How lucky the people of California are to have his representation and  how lucky the United States Congress is to have his expertise.

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Foushee for her  ongoing leadership for women in the sciences and for HBCUs that are  also so important to our STEM scientific research enterprise.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to pass the floor over to the congresswoman  from New Mexico (Ms. Stansbury).

Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank our science nerds and enthusiasts  for their work, just as Ms. Stansbury so nicely laid out.

Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Tonko for his years of  leadership on the Scientific Integrity Act, still very essential  legislation for this country.

What a profound honor it is to be with colleagues in this democracy  sharing these views.

Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Takano).

Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Virginia  (Mr. Subramanyam) to close us out. He is such a leader, and I am so  proud of him for helping with this Special Order hour.

Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for his remarks.

We will continue to use our voices. To every scientific researcher,  science student, and American wondering, we have your back. We will use  our voices. We will not be silent in the face of these cuts.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.