Citizens United 16th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699248/citizens-united-16th-anniversary


Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today on the 16th anniversary of the  United States Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, a decision that  disfigured our political landscape, reorienting power away from voters  and toward corporate and wealthy special interests.

In Citizens United, a 5-4 conservative Court majority endorsed almost  unlimited political spending by corporations and wealthy individuals,  and alongside several subsequent Federal Court rulings, demolished  longstanding limits designed to prevent undue influence in our  politics.

It is well beyond time for Congress to pass a comprehensive campaign  finance reform package to protect our constituents from the widespread  political corruption that Citizens United unleashed.

Since 2010, more than $10 billion in corporate and dark money has  saturated every aspect of our politics. Super-PACs and dark money  groups now spend vast sums to influence, and sometimes determine,  election outcomes while shielding their donors from public scrutiny.  Compounding the problem, the Federal Election Commission has too often  failed to enforce the law, leaving voters vulnerable and unable to  discern who is trying to influence them and why.

We know that transparency is a baseline requirement for a functioning  democracy. We know, too, that its absence erodes public trust in  politics and fuels the belief that the system is rigged for wealthy  elites and insiders. Most troubling, however, is that Citizens United  threatens to compromise the incentives of those of us who serve in  public office.

House campaigns now require previously unimaginable sums of money.  Members spend far too much time courting wealth or corporate donors  rather than engaging with constituents.

Americans reasonably question whether this imbalance helps explain  why policies related to taxes, healthcare, corporate regulation, and  environmental protection so often favor powerful interests over working  families, families who are struggling with an affordability crisis that  this administration has exacerbated.

While Citizens United greatly harmed our body politic, we will not  let it prove fatal. In a 1938 address to Congress, President Franklin  D. Roosevelt issued a stark warning: `` . . . the liberty of a  democracy is not safe if the people tolerate the growth of private  power to a point where it becomes stronger than the democratic state  itself.''

House Democrats recognize the fierce urgency of this warning. At the  request of Leader Hakeem Jeffries, I am coordinating a comprehensive  anticorruption legislative agenda to restore fairness, transparency,  and a requisite principle of our Republic, that government must serve  the people, not the highest bidder.

This sweeping agenda will address corruption across all three  branches of government as well as, critically, unfettered corporate  influence in our broken campaign finance system.

The package will include pieces of legislation that House Democrats  have long championed, like the DISCLOSE Act, that will shine a light on  the dark money donors that seek to purchase the outcomes of our  elections. It will fundamentally reform the FEC, so our Federal  campaign finance laws no longer go unenforced.

Indeed, at present, the FEC has no quorum and cannot function in a  law enforcement capacity at all. House Democrats will put a cop back on  the beat.

Vitally, House Democrats will move to ratify a constitutional  amendment to overturn the horrific Citizens United decision.

House Democrats will ensure this package reflects the pressing reform  interests of Americans from coast to coast, Americans who demand an end  to the culture of corruption endemic in Washington.

While Citizens United did not create every problem in our politics,  it has undeniably enhanced the power of the wealthiest few at the  expense of the many. When a single billionaire spends more on an  election than countless thousands of voters combined, the principle  that every voice counts equally in our political system withers. We  must, and we can, remedy the rot at the deeply misguided Citizens  United decision introduced into American politics.

As ranking member of the Committee on House Administration, the  committee with jurisdiction over campaign finance legislation, I look  forward to continuing to work to restore trust and honesty to American  governance.