Procurement and Placement of Statue of Benjamin Franklin in the United States Capitol


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688219/procurement-and-placement-of-statue-of-benjamin-franklin-in-the-united-states-capitol


Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I want to begin by thanking my dear friend and  colleague, the chair of the Committee on House Administration, for  bringing these bills to the floor and also for his partnership and all  the great cooperation that we enjoy.

I rise today in support of H.R. 250. The bipartisan legislation would  direct the Joint Committee on the Library, as Mr. Steil said, to  procure a statue of Benjamin Franklin for placement in the Capitol to  be observed by all those blessed to come and tour the United States  Capitol.

As my colleague and friend, the sponsor of this bill, along with  Representatives Brian Fitzpatrick and Chrissy Houlahan have observed-- and I am quite certain will observe once again in just a few moments-- while there are references to Benjamin Franklin across the Capitol and  a statue tucked away in a back hallway, it is black when there are no  lights on. There is no statue of one of the most important Founding  Fathers accessible to the millions of visitors who have the privilege  of touring the Capitol each year.

This legislation would change that, honoring one of the greatest  minds and patriots in American history.

Benjamin Franklin was a statesman, diplomat, scientist, inventor,  political philosopher, and businessman. His groundbreaking experiments  pushed forward scientific understanding, his role as the first  Postmaster General created the foundation of our modern mail system,  and he was resolutely committed to freeing the Colonies from British  rule.

He helped draft both the Declaration of Independence and the United  States Constitution, and he negotiated the treaty that ended the  Revolutionary War. His genius has shaped our Nation in innumerable  ways, and he deserves to be prominently displayed and honored in the  United States Capitol.

Madam Speaker, I look forward to working with the Joint Committee on  the Library to obtain a new statue of Benjamin Franklin. I urge my  colleagues to support this measure, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Pennsylvania (Ms. Houlahan), who is my dear friend and the person who  has really led this effort.

Mr. MORELLE. In closing, Madam Speaker, I thank the people who have  spoken here on an idea whose time has more than come. I think this is  the appropriate way, and particularly, as Ms. Houlahan says, in  recognition of our 250th anniversary upcoming, this will be the  appropriate way to honor one of our truly great founding members of the  American Revolution and our country.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.