Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699938/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my longtime friend, the  distinguished ranking member of the Rules Committee, for his vigorous  defense of our position and his encouragement that people vote against  the so-called SAVE America Act.

Mr. Speaker, the way to enhance Americans' trust in government is by  holding ourselves to a higher standard, not by disenfranchising  citizens seeking to participate in our democracy.

The vast majority of Americans believe that it is time to end the  practice of Members of Congress and the President and Vice President  from trading stocks, and that is what the Restore Trust in Government  Act would do.

Speaker Johnson has refused to move any bill to ban Member stock  trading. I offered this proposal as an amendment to the SAVE America  Act, but it was rejected by the majority.

I also have a discharge petition on stock trading that has over 170  signatures, nearing the 218 signatures needed to pass the House. If we  want Americans to trust us, to trust our government, we need to root  out corruption, real corruption, not imaginary voter fraud.

We have an opportunity to do that right here and right now. That is  what the Restore Trust in Government Act would do.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to recognize the importance of the  moment and to defeat the previous question. Once we do, the House can  finally pass a stock trading ban.