Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696785/raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H. Res. 878. While I respect the  sponsor of this resolution and appreciate very much her work on behalf  of her constituents in southwest Washington, I cannot support this  measure.

My friend and classmate from the 116th Congress, Representative Chuy  Garcia, embodies the highest ideals of the American Dream.

Born in Mexico, Representative Garcia moved to the Little Village  neighborhood of Chicago in the 1960s and never left. After earning his  citizenship in 1977, Representative Garcia graduated from college and  began his career in public service with a community-based housing  initiative.

Since his time as a member of the Chicago City Council, the Illinois  State Senate, and Cook County Board of Commissioners, Congressman Chuy  Garcia has served his community, the Congress, and our country with  great distinction.

As it relates to the matter under consideration, in nearly every  election he has been a candidate, Representative Garcia has faced  opposition in both primary and general elections. Representative Garcia  has proven himself unafraid to campaign. He has sought other offices  and come up short.

During the filing period in Illinois, any qualified citizen and any  qualified resident of the State could have filed to challenge  Representative Garcia. In fact, Representative Garcia won a competitive  primary just last cycle.

Throughout his career in public service, Chuy Garcia has demonstrated  a broad and deep respect for his constituents. This includes his fierce  advocacy for Chicago's immigrant communities, teachers, public  employees, and the economically striving and struggling among us.

Representative Garcia is a dedicated public servant, and his record  of accomplishment is worthy of celebration.

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I once again remind the Members that any  one of the citizens of this district could have filed petitions. In  fact, Mr. Garcia has faced primaries before and general elections  before.

Mr. MORELLE.  Balint).

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. MORELLE.  Kamlager-Dove).

Mr. MORELLE.  Salinas).

Mr. MORELLE.  Schakowsky).

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned earlier in the debate, I deeply respect  the sponsor of this resolution. We are fellow appropriators, and I  observe firsthand the energy and commitment she brings to serving the  people of southwest Washington.

This resolution is wrong. It shouldn't be before us. The House has so  much work we need to do. We need to address the affordability crisis in  America, save healthcare, and fight the cost of the actual corruption  happening on the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. Let's get back to  work.

I commend my dear friend, Representative Garcia, for his long and  distinguished tenure in public life and as a devoted public servant. I  wish him and his family the very best as they begin the next chapter of  their lives.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this ill-conceived  resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.