Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690001/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. Speaker, together with President Trump's recent voting- restrictive executive order, the SAVE Act would cripple American  elections. It would end voter registration in the United States as we  know it.

The SAVE Act would end mail-in registration. You heard that right,  Mr. Speaker. All those States and all those people who register by  mail--not vote by mail--registration by mail, it would end that.  American citizens would have to appear in person at an election office  and bring with them various documents and forms to register to vote.

Think about it, Mr. Speaker. Just to exercise your fundamental,  inalienable rights as a citizen of this country, Republicans would  force Americans into a paperwork nightmare, burying voter registration  under a mountain of bureaucracy and red tape.

So what exactly would the SAVE Act do?

It would create enormous burdens for every American citizen who seeks  to register to vote.

Let's dig into the details.

As my Republican colleague and friend admitted at the Rules  Committee, under the SAVE Act, most Americans would be unable to  register to vote using their REAL ID. Further, under the SAVE Act,  almost 70 million American women will be unable to register to vote  using their birth certificate simply because they changed their name  upon marriage. The bill would disenfranchise survivors of domestic  abuse who have changed their names for safety purposes, which is truly  shocking.

The SAVE Act will also have a steep financial cost to American  citizens because, yes, the SAVE Act does allow Americans to use their  passports to register to vote, but one-half of all Americans do not  have a passport, and a passport costs $130 plus additional fees. So the  SAVE Act would cost American voters who do not have passports billions  of dollars to secure them.

Americans are facing rising costs exacerbated by the recent Trump  tariffs. Economists are warning about a looming Trump recession.

Let's face it. The SAVE Act would force U.S. citizens to spend  billions of dollars to register to vote. This includes rural voters,  many of whom now register to vote online or by mail, who will be forced  to drive hours and cross hundreds of miles to present documentary  proof. This includes senior citizens who are particularly likely to  lack documentary proof of citizenship, including passports, copies of  their birth certificates, or other documents.

What about the men and women in uniform who serve our country all  over the world?

Can a member of our military use their military ID?

Surely military IDs should be enough to register to vote, but not  according to the SAVE Act. Servicemembers will need to bring their  military ID and a copy of their service record showing their place of  birth within the United States. However, many servicemembers were born  abroad, say to military parents overseas. Many are naturalized  citizens. Those servicemembers will be blocked from using their  military ID to register to vote.

Mr. Speaker, do you remember the SAVE Act's requirement that  Americans show their documentation in person at an election office?

It will have drastic consequences. The SAVE Act will prevent members  of our Armed Forces from registering to vote while deployed overseas.

Moreover, the SAVE Act is not actually meant to prevent noncitizens  from voting. The SAVE Act is really about silencing Americans. This  bill is about disenfranchising Americans, not noncitizens, but  Americans, Americans like James Wilson.

James Wilson is an Arizona voter whom I met with last week. He was  meant to join us in the gallery. He flew all the way to Washington,  D.C., last week to watch Congress debate the SAVE Act. He was forced to  fly home after the Speaker canceled 3 days of legislative work.

Mr. Wilson is an American citizen, born in Japan to a military father  during the Vietnam war. Mr. Wilson is also a veteran. He proudly served  our Nation overseas, including in Korea and Germany.

Like millions of Americans, Mr. Wilson does not have a passport  because he does not need a passport. Like millions of Americans, Mr.  Wilson does not have access to his birth certificate.

When Arizona introduced a restrictive voter registration law, a law  just like the SAVE Act, Mr. Wilson's right to vote was imperiled. Mr.  Wilson did not have any of the documents required by the Arizona law  and required by the SAVE Act to prove his citizenship. But for a last- minute emergency court order, Mr. Wilson, an American citizen, a  veteran, and a patriot, would not have been able to vote this past  election.

If the SAVE Act becomes law, Americans nationwide will face the same  bureaucratic nightmare that Mr. Wilson faced in Arizona. The SAVE Act  will force Americans like Mr. Wilson to pay billions of dollars to  exercise their inviolable right to vote.

House Republicans want to increase the burdens and amplify the costs  in time, in money, and in effort for American citizens to vote. House  Democrats do not.

The SAVE Act would cost American citizens something deeply important,  something essential to the soul of this Nation, the right to freely and  fairly participate in our elections.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge defeat of this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I always appreciate the work of my colleagues from the  committee. We agree on many things, but this is certainly not one of  them.

I want to reflect on what the gentlewoman from Florida and others  have said several times, that the SAVE Act allows States to create a  process to provide additional proof of citizenship. Why not write it in  the bill? Why are we making the potential for 50 different standards to  be set to prove citizenship? What additional forms would be used, a  birth certificate together with an ID, also including a marriage  certificate, also including a record of a changed name?

What must survivors of domestic abuse provide? Must they provide  court orders protecting them from stalkers, restraining orders, divorce  records, divorce papers? How much would that cost? How much paperwork  do Republicans want Americans to drown in?

Further, how long will these new rules take? The SAVE Act takes  effect immediately. What if States take months or years to amend their  systems? What if they never do it?

You might have someone interested in voting, but their State hasn't  acted. They have no way of proving that the name on their birth  certificate, which differs from the name on their ID, is because they  got married. They would be unable to register to vote.

Here is what we do know. President Trump's executive order doesn't  want any alternative forms of identification, no alternative State  processes, no additional avenues for voters. Why would we expect the  EAC to disregard the President's clear desire to limit documentary  proof of citizenship to a small, exclusive, difficult-to-obtain list of  options?

I would say in addition to my dear friend--and I mean that  sincerely--the gentleman from Wisconsin, I would like to remind him  that an estimated 165,000 women in his district in Wisconsin have a  different name on their birth certificate than is on their current  photo ID. Under the SAVE Act, these women could not register  using their birth certificate alone. Roughly 340,000 residents in  Wisconsin's First District lack a passport, so the SAVE Act could cost  voters in the district $45 million if they chose to comply that way.

I would also like to remind my colleague and friend, Representative  Lee, an estimated 170,000 women in her district have a different name  on their birth certificate than on their photo ID. Likewise, under this  bill, these women could not use their birth certificate to register to  vote because they have a different name now than at birth. Roughly  368,000 residents of Florida's 15th District lack a passport. It would  cost voters in the district at least $47.8 million to secure a passport  to register to vote.

These are the facts. This is what the bill requires. We should not  gloss over it because this is a mountain of bureaucratic red tape. If  you can't get it right in the bill, if you don't list marriage license  in the Federal bill, and it is left to the States, who knows how and  when we resolve these issues.

Bonamici).

Mr. Speaker, I want to make note of the point that REAL ID in the  United States does not have citizenship in almost all States. A handful  have it. You couldn't even use your REAL ID.

If we are talking about voter ID and photo ID, it doesn't even allow  you to vote under the SAVE Act. The gentlewoman should read the bill.  It doesn't allow it, and I think that is part of the problem.

I would also note, Mr. Speaker, in Representative Miller's district,  an estimated 150,000 women have a different name on their birth  certificate than their current photo ID. Under the SAVE Act, these  women could not use their birth certificate to register to vote and  would not be able to use their ID, their driver's license. Roughly  414,000 residents of Illinois' 15th District lack a passport.

The SAVE Act would cost voters in Mrs. Miller's district $53.8  million should they avail themselves of a passport to prove the  requirements of the SAVE Act.

Ross).

Mr. Speaker, I remind the gentleman that, in the United States of  America, you have to be a U.S. citizen to vote in a Federal election.  If you are not, you are subject to penalties for attempting to register  to vote, and you are subject to felonies and deportation if you do vote  and are not an American citizen. That is the current law.

I also remind my friend, the gentleman from California (Mr.  McClintock), that an estimated 135,000 women in his district have a  different name on their birth certificate than they have on their  current photo ID, and roughly 290,000 residents of California's Fifth  District lack a passport. The cost to those voters would be $37.7  million to get passports.

Williams), my dear friend.

Mr. Speaker, I hate to disagree with my dear friend, the gentlewoman  from Oklahoma (Mrs. Bice), but the words ``marriage certificate'' do  not appear anywhere in the SAVE Act. In fact, it could have been  written in that way since Republicans are adding all these lists and  requirements for people to do. Yet, it actually does make it harder for  almost 70 million American women to vote.

Eighty-four percent of women choose their husband's name when they  get married. That is just a statistic.

As we have discussed, under the SAVE Act, most Americans will be  unable to use the standard-issued driver's license when registering to  vote because most REAL IDs don't include citizenship on them. They  don't automatically update if you haven't registered at all. When you  go to register, there is nothing to update.

You have your birth certificate. In the case of Mary Beth Bauer, that  is what it says on her certificate. Her driver's license now says  ``Mary Beth Morelle.'' She would not be able to register using those  two pieces of information. She would have to get an additional piece of  documentation to register, which is not identified in the SAVE Act.

Mr. Speaker, I think we have talked about it at length. This is  clearly intended to make it much more difficult. According to House  Republicans, none of these women should be allowed to register to vote.  They are roughly 25 percent of the U.S. citizen voting age population.

I also suggest to my friend from Oklahoma (Mrs. Bice) that an  estimated 179,000 women in her district have a different name on their  birth certificate than a current photo ID, and roughly 394,000  residents of Oklahoma's Fifth District lack a passport. The SAVE Act  would cost them $51.3 million to secure passports.

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, I note that while the previous speaker, Ms. Boebert, has  not had to bring all of those documents, she hasn't had to register to  vote under the SAVE Act. That is actually the point.

Mr. Speaker, I also remind her that an estimated 159,000 women in her  district have a different name on their  birth certificate than they have on their current photo ID and that  roughly 284,000 residents of Colorado's Fourth District lack a  passport. The SAVE Act could cost them $36.9 million to secure  passports in order to register to vote.

Mr. Speaker, I think my colleagues doth protest too much. I have read  the bill many times. I have debated the bill. There is nothing in the  bill that allows you to bring a marriage license to prove who you are  when you register to vote. You will have to do all the things we  suggest you will have to do, and that is exactly the problem.

I will also remind my colleague and friend from Florida that in Mrs.  Cammack's district, an estimated 170,000 women in her congressional  district have a different name on their birth certificate than on their  current photo ID and that roughly 409,000 residents of Florida's Third  Congressional District lack a passport. The cost to those individuals:  $53.1 million to secure passports.

Sewell), my dear friend and distinguished member of our committee and  the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Elections of House  Administration.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman's comments lead me to the question: Do  Republicans believe that every attestation under Federal law is rife  for subversion? Americans must attest under penalty of perjury that  their tax returns contain correct information. Do Republicans want to  end this honor system by requiring Americans to provide even more  documentation to the Internal Revenue Service?

It is a Federal crime to lie on alcohol, tobacco, and firearms Form  4473, the firearms transaction record. That form is filled out under  the same honor system that governs voter registrations. Are you telling  me that Republicans are open to strengthening gun licensing laws in the  United States and no longer accept attestation?

Each of us must submit records to the FEC, attesting under penalty of  perjury that our campaign committee reports are accurate. Do  Republicans now want to provide the American people greater  transparency around political spending because if they do, I have a  bill they can support, the Freedom to Vote Act.

I will also suggest to the gentleman, Representative Bean, that an  estimated 170,000 women in his district have a different last name on  their birth certificate than is on their current photo ID and roughly  397,000 residents of Florida's Fourth District do not have a passport.  It would cost them $51.7 million to secure one.

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. MORELLE.  Friedman).

Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I was remiss earlier. I want to remind my  colleague, Mr. Roy, that an estimated 150,000 women in his district  have a different name on their birth certificate than on their photo  ID, and 336,000 residents of Texas' 2lst District lack a passport, a  cost of $43.7 million to those who would need to get a passport should  they choose that.

Also, I would like to remind my colleague, Representative Kiley, an  estimated 135,000 women in his district have a different name, and  roughly 268,000 residents of California's Third District do not have a  passport. The cost to them for getting one is $34.8 million.

Johnson), my friend.

The SAVE Act is, to put it nicely, the most severe voter suppression  bill ever considered at the Federal level.

Coupled with President Trump's recent antivoter executive order, the  SAVE Act would end the voter registration process for all Americans as  they know it.

Republicans have repeatedly failed to present any evidence that  noncitizen voting at the Federal level has ever affected the outcome of  any election.

The SAVE Act will make it harder for American citizens to vote--for  married women to vote, for servicemembers, students, rural Americans,  senior citizens, Native voters, survivors of natural disasters, and  survivors of domestic abuse to vote. It will make voting more  expensive, in fact forcing American families to pay billions of dollars  just to register to vote.

Democrats want a country where every American citizen can vote. That  is why we champion bills like the Freedom to Vote Act, the John R.  Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, and the Native American Voting  Rights Act, not the SAVE Act.

I fiercely oppose this anti-American bill. I urge every one of my  colleagues, Republicans and Democrats alike, to defeat this extremist,  antivoter SAVE Act.