Recognizing the Junior League of Arlington: Empowering Women, Strengthening Community


Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  contributions and enduring legacy of the Junior League of Arlington  (JLA), an organization that has been empowering women and strengthening  the Arlington community for nearly five decades.

Founded on October 22, 1975, as the Service League of Arlington with  45 charter members, the organization was officially welcomed into the  Association of Junior Leagues International on February 22, 1982,  becoming the 248th Junior League and adopting the name Junior League of  Arlington. Since that time, JLA has remained steadfast in its mission  to advance women's leadership for meaningful community impact through  volunteer action, collaboration, and training.

Over the years, the Junior League of Arlington has invested more than  $3 million and over one million volunteer hours into more than 100  local agencies. Through these efforts, the League has made a tangible  difference in the lives of countless residents across North Texas. This  year alone, JLA is providing $100,000 in grants to 10 community  organizations, continuing its long tradition of philanthropy and  partnership.

Beyond its financial and volunteer contributions, the Junior League  of Arlington's influence is seen in its enduring commitment to service  and empowerment. From its collaboration with Arlington ISD on the  annual Back to School Kick-off at AT&T Stadium, to its many ``Done in a  Day'' projects, JLA consistently answers the call to serve families,  women, and children in need.

As the League begins a new chapter in its new home at Wellspring on  Main--The Arlington Center for Community Engagement--it reaffirms its  dedication to building stronger, more inclusive communities. Through  leadership training, volunteerism, and a commitment to diversity,  equity, and belonging, JLA continues to shape women into leaders who  create lasting, positive change.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating the Junior  League of Arlington for its nearly 50 years of outstanding service,  leadership, and community partnership. The League's unwavering  dedication to empowering women and strengthening the Arlington  community stands as a model of civic engagement and compassion for us  all.