Aces Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693894/aces-act-of-2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (S. 201) to provide for a study by the National Academies of Sciences,  Engineering, and Medicine on the prevalence and mortality of cancer  among individuals who served as active duty aircrew in the Armed  Forces, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 201

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``ACES Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. NATIONAL ACADEMIES STUDY ON PREVALENCE AND MORTALITY                     OF CANCER AMONG INDIVIDUALS WHO SERVED AS                     ACTIVE DUTY AIRCREW IN THE ARMED FORCES.

(a) Agreement.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National       Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (in this       section referred to as the ``National Academies''), under       which the National Academies shall conduct a study on the       prevalence and mortality of cancers among covered       individuals.

(2) Deadline.--

(A) Date.--The Secretary shall finalize the agreement under       paragraph (1) by not later than 60 days after the date on       which the Secretary enters negotiations with the National       Academies with respect to such agreement.

(B) Report; briefings.--If the Secretary fails to satisfy       the requirement under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall--

(i) submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the       Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of       Representatives a report that includes--

(I) an explanation of the reasons the Secretary failed to       satisfy such requirement; and

(II) an estimate of the date on which the Secretary will       finalize the agreement under paragraph (1); and

(ii) not less frequently than once every 60 days after the       date on which the Secretary failed to satisfy such       requirement, provide to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of       the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the       House of Representatives a briefing on the progress of the       Secretary toward finalizing such agreement.

(b) Study.--The study required under subsection (a) shall--

(1) identify exposures associated with military occupations       of covered individuals, including relating to chemicals,       compounds, agents, and other phenomena;

(2) review the literature to determine associations between       exposures referred to in paragraph (1) and the incidence or       prevalence of overall cancer morbidity, overall cancer       mortality, and increased incidence or prevalence of--

(A) brain cancer;

(B) colon and rectal cancers;

(C) kidney cancer;

(D) lung cancer;

(E) melanoma skin cancer;

(F) non-Hodgkin lymphoma;

(G) pancreatic cancer;

(H) prostate cancer;

(I) testicular cancer;

(J) thyroid cancer;

(K) urinary bladder cancer; and

(L) other cancers as determined appropriate by the       Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the       National Academies; and

(3) determine, to the extent possible, the prevalence of       and mortality from the cancers specified in paragraph (2)       among covered individuals by using available sources of data,       which may include--

(A) health care and other administrative databases of the       Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense,       and the individual Services, respectively;

(B) the national death index maintained by the National       Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease       Control and Prevention; and

(C) the study conducted under section 750 of the William M.       (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3716).

(c) Report.--At the conclusion of the study required under       subsection (a), the National Academies shall submit to the       Secretary, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate,       and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of       Representatives a report containing the results of the study       described in subsection (b).

(d) Covered Individual Defined.--In this section, the term       ``covered individual'' means an individual who served on       active duty in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps as       an aircrew member of a fixed-wing aircraft, including as a       pilot, navigator, weapons systems operator, aircraft system       operator, or any other crew member who regularly flew in a       fixed-wing aircraft.

Mr. BOST.  201.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 201. The bill was  introduced by Senators Kelly and Cotton, and the House version was  introduced by my  friend and fellow Representative, Mr. Pfluger.

The bill would ensure that there is trusted medical research  available to pave the way for toxic-exposed military pilots and aircrew  to access their VA disability compensation benefits.

Colonel Andrew Shurtleff, who testified before the House Committee on  Veterans' Affairs in March, was one of these veterans. He served our  country as an Air Force fighter pilot for 23 years, flying over 1,800  hours.

The colonel began his career flying the F-15C Eagle and was chosen as  one of the first F-22 Raptor instructors. I am told that one of his  proudest achievements was serving as the 325th Operational Support  Squadron commander at Tyndall Air Force Base, supporting Operation  Northern Watch.

Colonel Shurtleff started fighting stage IV cancer in 2019 at just 41  years old and, unfortunately, passed away on May 23 at the age of 48.

My prayers are with his wife, Julie, and their family. We are forever  grateful for his service to this country and to his community.

Military pilots and aircrew like Colonel Shurtleff work in tight  spaces and are exposed to chemicals and toxic fumes every time they fly  a mission. However, there is not enough medical research available for  VA to simply presume that their cancers are related to those exposures.  This lack of comprehensive medical research makes it hard for these  military pilots and aircrew to access and earn these benefits.

Each one of those veterans must prove to VA that chemicals and toxins  caused their cancer. Many had to fight the VA system for years before  receiving any disability compensation, and many others never received  their earned benefits before they passed away.

S. 201 would require the National Academies to conduct a study on  whether the cancers suffered by military pilots and aircrew are related  to their chemical and toxic exposures.

VA needs robust medical research to streamline military aircrew  veterans' access to disability compensation, and VA needs it fast for  today's and tomorrow's veterans.

This bill ensures that research gets done and that our military  pilots and aircrew get the answers they deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support S. 201, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, understand that we at the committee have  hearings and will continue to have hearings on things like this many  times. We will take the ranking member's comments under advisement. We  will set the agenda and figure out what we will have hearings on and  what we won't. I appreciate the request. This is why we have these  types of hearings, and that is why we have this legislation here today.

Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.