Clear Communication for Veterans Claims Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689678/clear-communication-for-veterans-claims-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1039) to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to seek to  enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and  development center for an assessment of notice letters that the  Secretary sends to claimants for benefits under laws administered by  the Secretary, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1039

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Clear Communication for       Veterans Claims Act''.       SEC. 2. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF NOTICES THAT THE SECRETARY                     OF VETERANS AFFAIRS SENDS TO CLAIMANTS.

(a) Agreement.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall seek to enter into an agreement with an FFRDC for an       assessment of notices that the Secretary sends to claimants.

(b) Assessment.--An FFRDC that enters to an agreement under       subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary a written       assessment of such notices. The assessment shall include the       following:

(1) The determination of the FFRDC, made in consultation       with covered entities, whether each such notice may be       feasibly altered to reduce paper consumption by, and costs       to, the Federal Government.

(2) The recommendations of the FFRDC regarding how the       Secretary may make such notices clearer to claimants, better       organized, and more concise.

(c) Report; Implementation.--Not later than 90 days after       the Secretary receives the assessment under subsection (b),       the Secretary shall--

(1) submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the       Senate and House of Representatives a copy of such       assessment; and

(2) implement the recommendations in the assessment that       are in compliance with the laws administered by the       Secretary.

(d) Deadline for Implementation.--The Secretary shall       complete the implementation of such recommendations pursuant       to subsection (c)(2) by not later than one year after the       date on which the Secretary commences such implementation.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) The term ``FFRDC'' means a federally funded research       and development center.

(2) The term ``covered entities'' includes--

(A) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;

(B) an expert in laws administered by the Secretary of       Veterans Affairs;

(C) a veterans service organization recognized under       section 5902 of title 38, United States Code;

(D) an entity that advocates for veterans; and

(E) an entity that advocates for the survivors of veterans.

(3) The terms ``claimant'' and ``notice'' have the meanings       given such terms in section 5100 of title 38, United States       Code.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``December 31, 2031''.

Mr. BOST.  1039, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1039, as amended.

This bill was introduced by the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.  Barrett), my friend and fellow veteran, and I am proud to be a  cosponsor.

H.R. 1039, as amended, would require VA to contract with a research  entity to improve the notice letters VA sends to veterans and survivors  who file claims for VA benefits. The VA provides veterans and their  survivors information throughout the VA claims process. It is important  for these notice letters to be understandable so that the veterans and  survivors know their rights and how to navigate the claims process.

I am pleased to see that the VA has recently improved some of their  notice letters. However, hundreds of other VA letters are still  difficult to understand.

At a recent hearing, we heard from veterans' advocates that the VA  needs help from outside experts, given the huge number of letters that  VA must draft. We still hear from veterans that many of VA's letters  are too long, filled with legal jargon, and contain information that is  not relevant to their claims.

These complex letters sometimes cause veterans and survivors so much  confusion and stress that they just abandon their claims.

As a veteran myself, I continue to receive long and complex letters.  You shouldn't have to be a Member of Congress or an attorney to  understand how the VA claims process works.

H.R. 1039, as amended, would ensure that none of VA's notice letters  discourage veterans from accessing the benefits they have earned.  Representative Barrett's bill would ensure that VA sends veterans and  survivors understandable notice letters so they can make informed  decisions about their claims. Further, this modernization bill is  supported by the administration.

Mr. Speaker, I thank our veterans service organizations for their  support of this commonsense bill. I urge all of my colleagues to  support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I join with the ranking member and ask all of  my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.