Deliver for Veterans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689675/deliver-for-veterans-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 877) to amend title 38, United States Code, to expand the  authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide or assist in  providing a vehicle adapted for operation by a disabled individual to  certain eligible persons, by paying expenses associated with the  delivery of such vehicle, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 877

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Deliver for Veterans Act''.       SEC. 2. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO PAY                     COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE DELIVERY OF AN                     ADAPTIVE VEHICLE TO AN ELIGIBLE PERSON.

Section 3902(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended       by striking ``by paying the total purchase price of the       automobile or other conveyance'' and inserting ``by paying       the total purchase price of the automobile or other       conveyance, and the total shipping price to deliver the       automobile or other conveyance to the veteran''.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITATION OF PENSION PAYMENTS.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``March 31, 2032''.

Mr. BOST.  877, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 877, as amended, offered  by my friend and colleague, the delegate from Guam (Mr. Moylan).

H.R. 877, as amended, would allow the VA to pay for the shipping  price of specially adapted vehicles for disabled veterans. Currently,  service-connected disabled veterans who are unable to drive due to  their disability can work with the VA to get a vehicle that is adapted  for their use.

This is an important program and helps disabled veterans in their  daily lives by allowing them to drive to medical appointments, to the  grocery store, and to work. Unfortunately, shipping costs are not  currently covered, creating a financial burden on veterans who want to  make their lives better.

While this might not be an issue for some veterans, other veterans  are unable to get a vehicle adapted for them because there are no  resources capable of making the vital modifications nearby.

Delegate Moylan's bill would correct this issue by including shipping  costs in the $24,000 the VA provides to support veterans who are having  trouble accessing the resources they need for any adapted vehicle.

In a time when bureaucracy is getting in the way of doing what is  best for our veterans, Congress must intervene to eliminate the red  tape and provide the necessary assistance our veterans deserve.

This bill would do just that and would save hundreds of dollars for  disabled veterans across the country. It would also ensure that the  disabled veterans have the ability to get to a job and earn money to  support themselves and their families.

I thank the DAV and the VFW for supporting this bill last Congress  and for their tireless work on the Hill advocating for this  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in supporting this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.