Edith Nourse Rogers Stem Scholarship Opportunity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695427/edith-nourse-rogers-stem-scholarship-opportunity-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2034) to amend title 38, United States Code, to modify the  requirements of the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2034

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Edith Nourse Rogers STEM       Scholarship Opportunity Act''.       SEC. 2. MODIFICATIONS TO EDITH NOURSE ROGERS STEM                     SCHOLARSHIP.

Section 3320 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (b)--

(A) by striking paragraph (2);

(B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs       (2) and (3), respectively; and

(C) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, in subparagraph       (A)(ii)--

(i) by striking ``60'' and inserting ``45''; and

(ii) by striking ``90'' and inserting ``67.5'';

(2) in subsection (c)(1)--

(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as       subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and

(B) by inserting before subparagraph (C), as so       redesignated, the following new subparagraphs:

``(A) Individuals who have used the most number of months       of the educational assistance to which they are entitled       under this chapter.

``(B) Individuals who are using their entitlement under       this chapter to pursue a program of post-secondary education       and who have declared a major in a field referred to in       subsection (b)(3)(A)(i).''; and

(3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following       new paragraph:

``(5) An individual who receives a benefit under this       section may only use such benefit after the individual has       used all of the educational assistance to which the       individual is entitled under this chapter.''.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``March 31, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  2034, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2034, as amended,  offered by my colleague, Representative Nikki Budzinski of Illinois.

This bill would make needed improvements to the Edith Nourse Rogers  STEM Scholarship education benefits program.

Currently, the program is underused because of bureaucratic red tape  that limits who is eligible for the scholarship. This mistake made by  previous Congresses has prevented the STEM scholarship from helping  those who are most in need.

While I believe more information is necessary to fully improve the  program, this bill is a step in the right direction. I thank our  colleague, Nikki Budzinski, for her support of this legislation.  Additionally, I thank my friend and fellow Representative, Abraham  Hamadeh of Arizona, for cosponsoring this legislation.

Representative Hamadeh's advocacy on this bill has been pivotal to  getting it on the House floor today to cut through the red tape and  improve education benefit access.

Finally, I thank The American Legion and Paralyzed Veterans of  America for their support of this legislation.

Madam Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I have no more speakers at this time.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, once again I encourage all Members to  support this legislation. I yield back the balance of my time.