Fairness for Servicemembers and Their Families Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 970) to amend title 38, United States Code, to require the  Secretary of Veterans Affairs to periodically review the automatic  maximum coverage under the Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance program  and the Veterans' Group Life Insurance program, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 970

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Fairness for Servicemembers       and their Families Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. PERIODIC REVIEW OF AUTOMATIC MAXIMUM COVERAGE UNDER                     SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND                     VETERANS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE.

(a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 19 of title 38,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following new section:       ``Sec. 1980B. Periodic review of automatic maximum coverage

``(a) In General.--On January 1, 2026, and every five years       thereafter, the Secretary shall--

``(1) complete a review of how the amount specified in       section 1967(a)(3)(A)(i) compares to the amount described in       subsection (b); and

``(2) submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the       House of Representatives and the Senate the results of the       review, which may serve as a guide for coverage increases       within the existing administrative incremental structure.

``(b) Amount Described.--The amount described in this       subsection is the amount equal to--

``(1) $500,000; multiplied by

``(2) the average percentage by which the Consumer Price       Index changed during the five fiscal years preceding the       review under subsection (a).

``(c) Consumer Price Index Defined.--In this section, the       term `Consumer Price Index' means the Consumer Price Index       for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor       Statistics of the Department of Labor.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the       beginning of chapter 19 of such title is amended by inserting       after the item relating to section 1980A the following new       item: ``1980B. Periodic review of automatic maximum coverage.''.

Mr. BOST.  970.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 970 offered by my  colleague from Washington (Ms. Strickland).

H.R. 970 would require the VA to regularly review and compare the  maximum coverage for VA life insurance programs to keep them in line  with the average cost-of-living changes.

The maximum coverage of these programs is provided by law and under  current law does not automatically adjust for changes in cost of  living. Any increases in the maximum coverage for these programs  require congressional action.

We must ensure that we have all the data we need to make an informed  decision on whether the maximum coverage has kept pace with the cost of  living. The bill would help us do that by ensuring that the VA sends  Congress the results of the VA review so that we can decide whether to  adjust the maximum coverage for VA life insurance programs.

We are duty bound to ensure that the families of our veterans are  taken care of after their loved one passes away. This commonsense bill  would provide us with the data to help Congress do just that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 970, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 970,  and I yield back the balance of my time.