Fallen Servicemembers Religious Heritage Restoration Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695626/fallen-servicemembers-religious-heritage-restoration-act


Mr. BOST.  Madam Speaker, I rise to include in the Record the  following letter of support for H.R. 2701 from National Commander Scott  P. Stevens, CW04, USA, (R).

The Jewish War Veterans of the USA supports H.R. 2701, the       Fallen Servicemembers Religious Heritage Restoration Act. JWV       appreciates the leadership of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz        (D-FL) and Rep. Max Miller (R-OH) for their bipartisan       introduction, as well as the support of the House Veterans       Affairs Subcommittee on Disability and Memorial Affairs and       the Full Committee in moving this critical legislation to the       House floor. JWV urges swift passage of H.R. 2701 to start       the process of properly marking graves and honoring these       brave Jewish American servicemembers.

The Fallen Servicemembers Religious Heritage Restoration       Act requires the American Battle Monuments Commission (ABMC)       to create a program to identify Jewish servicemembers buried       with grave markers that do not reflect their faith and to       connect with their descendants. This vital effort will       correct the historical record and ensure our fallen heroes       are remembered as they lived and served.

JVW understands that approximately 900 American-Jewish       servicemembers who lost their lives during World War I and       World War II and were buried in U.S. military cemeteries       overseas (ABMC) were mistakenly interred under markers that       do not represent their religion or heritage. JVW recognizes       that most of these errors are unintentional; however, these       mistakes hide the identity and legacy of those who made the       ultimate sacrifice for our country. American-Jewish       servicemembers served with honor and bravery, playing a       crucial role in winning the Allied victory. They deserve to       be remembered with dignity and accuracy.

The United States has a solemn duty to ensure every fallen       servicemember is honored correctly Enacting H.R. 2701 helps       ensure that the Star of David marks the Jewish graves of       servicemembers, currently marked in error.