Health Professionals Scholarship Program Improvement Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3767) to amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for a  time frame for the employment in the Department of Veterans Affairs of  participants in the Health Professionals Scholarship Program, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3767

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Health Professionals       Scholarship Program Improvement Act of 2025'' or the ``HPSP       Improvement Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. TIME FRAME FOR EMPLOYMENT OF PARTICIPANTS IN                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HEALTH                     PROFESSIONALS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Section 7616 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(d)(1) The Secretary shall ensure that a participant in       the Scholarship Program receives a contract for employment in       the full-time clinical practice of such participant's       profession at a Department facility with the highest need, as       determined by the Secretary, by not later than 90 days after       the later of the following dates:

``(A) The date on which the participant completes the       course in the Scholarship Program.

``(B) The date on which participant obtains all required       licensure, certification, or credentialing necessary to       practice independently in their field.

``(2) A contract referred to in paragraph (1) shall include       a competitive salary and benefits package consistent with the       employment standards of the Department.''.

(b) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter       until the termination date specified in paragraph (2), the       Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees       on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of       Representatives a report on the implementation of subsection       (d) of section 7616 of title 38, United States Code, as added       by subsection (a).

(2) Termination date.--The termination date specified in       this paragraph is September 30, 2027.       SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON SMOKING IN FACILITIES OF THE VETERANS                     HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

(a) Prohibition.--Section 1715 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended to read as follows:       ``Sec. 1715. Prohibition on smoking in facilities of the

Veterans Health Administration

``(a) Prohibition.--No person (including any veteran,       patient, resident, employee of the Department, contractor, or       visitor) may smoke on the premises of any facility of the       Veterans Health Administration.

``(b) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) The term `smoke' includes--

``(A) the use of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, and any other       combustion or heating of tobacco; and

``(B) the use of any electronic nicotine delivery system,       including electronic or e-cigarettes, vape pens, and e-      cigars.

``(2) The term `facility of the Veterans Health       Administration' means any land or building (including any       medical center, nursing home, domiciliary facility,       outpatient clinic, or center that provides readjustment       counseling) that is--

``(A) under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans       Affairs;

``(B) under the control of the Veterans Health       Administration; and

``(C) not under the control of the General Services       Administration.''.

(b) Conforming Amendments.--

(1) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the       beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by striking       the item relating to section 1715 and inserting the       following: ``1715. Prohibition on smoking in facilities of the Veterans Health                Administration.''.

(2) Conforming repeal.--

(A) In general.--Section 526 of the Veterans Health Care       Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-585; 38 U.S.C. 1715 note) is       repealed.

(B) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents of such Act       is amended by striking the item relating to such section.

Mr. BOST.  3767, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3767, as amended,  offered by my friend and colleague, Representative Hamadeh.

This bill would hold the VA to a deadline to hire participants in the  Health Professionals Scholarship Program.

The scholarship was created to address chronic workforce shortages.  Critical healthcare jobs, like nurses, physician assistants, and mental  health providers, continue to be short-staffed and need good people in  these roles.

Right now, VA pays for scholarship enrollees' education in return for  several years of service to the VA.

Unfortunately, there have been cases where VA can take months before  offering them a position. Sometimes, people in the program are forced  to break the agreement because of bureaucracy delays at the VA. They  seek work elsewhere just to make ends meet.

Representative Hamadeh's bill would ensure that VA is properly  staffed by making VA fulfill its end of the bargain.

This bill also includes language from Representative Neal Dunn's  bill, which would prohibit smoking on VHA campuses.

Since the nineties, VA has issued policies to provide safer smoking  environments. Then, in March 2019, VA issued its most recent policy for  a smoke-free VHA. This bill would align law with the current VA  practice.

Patients and VA employees have a right to be protected from the  harmful medical effects of secondhand smoke. This bill would do just  that. Many private-sector healthcare systems already have smoke-free  policies.

This bill, as amended, would take important steps to improve VA  healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.