Leonard G. ``bud'' Lomell Va Clinic


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693923/leonard-g-bud-lomell-va-clinic


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2170) to name the Department of Veterans Affairs community-based  outpatient clinic in Toms River, New Jersey, the Leonard G. `Bud'  Lomell, VA Clinic, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2170

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The Department of Veterans Affairs outpatient clinic, a       state-of-the-art facility serving the region's largest       veteran population, located at 1055 Hooper Avenue, recently       opened in the Township of Toms River, Ocean County, New       Jersey, in the Fourth Congressional District.

(2) The local community, including veterans, believe that       this facility deserves to be named in honor of Second       Lieutenant Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell, a long time Toms River       and Ocean County resident, who served courageously and       heroically during World War II.

(3) Second Lieutenant Lomell was born in 1920, the adopted       son of Scandinavian immigrant parents living in Brooklyn, New       York, and his family eventually moved to Point Pleasant       Beach, New Jersey.

(4) After graduating from Tennessee Wesleyan College,       Second Lieutenant Lomell was drafted into the Army, serving       first with the 76th (Liberty Bell) Infantry Division. When       the 2nd Ranger Battalion was formed in April 1943, Leonard       Lomell was invited to be the First Sergeant of D Company.

(5) On D-Day, June 6, 1944, First Sergeant Lomell's platoon       landed at Pointe du Hoc, Normandy, France, successfully       scaling the cliffs, despite a withering German defensive       barrage.

(6) Pointe du Hoc, a rugged 100-foot-high coastal promenade       along the English Channel was located between the American       landing beaches, Omaha and Utah. It was heavily defended by       the Germans and the mission of Colonel James Earl Rudder's       225 Rangers was to disable five 155-millimeter artillery       guns, which could have rained artillery fire on the American       forces landing on either beach, jeopardizing the invasion.

(7) Unknown to the American forces, the guns had been moved       from the tip of the Pointe and hidden, pointed in the       direction of Utah Beach, in an inland apple orchard nearly a       mile from the coastal batteries.

(8) First Sergeant Lomell and another Ranger, Sergeant Jack       Kuhn, found the guns undefended, and, with Kuhn providing       cover, Lomell destroyed the weapons with thermite grenades       and used his rifle butt to smash the sights of the guns.

(9) First Sergeant Lomell subsequently received a       battlefield promotion to Second Lieutenant, and was awarded       some of the       Army's highest honors, including the Distinguished Service       Cross, Purple Heart, and Silver Star.

(10) Renowned historian Steven Ambrose regarded First       Sergeant Lomell's valiant acts along with General       Eisenhower's decision to invade on June 6, 1944, as the most       significant actions ensuring the Allied victory on D-Day.

(11) Following World War II, Second Lieutenant Lomell was       appointed as the First Director of the newly organized Ocean       County Veteran's Service Bureau, serving from 1946 until       1948, before he attended law school on the G.I. Bill.

(12) Leonard Lomell and his wife, Charlotte Ewart Lomell,       settled their growing family in Toms River, where, in 1957,       Leonard established his own law firm, which grew to become       one of Ocean County's largest firms.

(13) Leonard Lomell was involved in numerous local civic,       business, and charitable organizations, including serving as       president of the Ocean County Bar Association, a director of       the First National Bank of Toms River, a member of the Dover       Township Board of Education, and a co-founder of the Garden       State Philharmonic. He was also National Commander of the       Legion of Valor (1964-1965) and President of the Ranger       Battalion Association of World War II (1967) and served on       the French Committee of Pointe du Hoc.

(14) Second Lieutenant Lomell is profiled in ``The Greatest       Generation'', former NBC news Anchor Tom Brokaw's testament       to the heroes of World War II, and ``Len Lomell: D-Day       Hero'', Steven M. Gillon's entry in the American War Heroes       Series.

(15) As a decorated war hero, model citizen, and dedicated       husband and father, Second Lieutenant Lomell is exceedingly       deserving of the posthumous honor of having a new and long-      awaited Toms River-based Department of Veterans Affairs       outpatient clinic named in his honor.       SEC. 2. NAME OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS COMMUNITY-                    BASED OUTPATIENT CLINIC, TOMS RIVER, NEW                     JERSEY.

The community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of       Veterans Affairs in Toms River, New Jersey, shall, after the       date of the enactment of this Act, be known and designated as       the ``Leonard G. `Bud' Lomell VA Clinic''. Any reference to       such clinic in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or       other paper of the United States shall be considered to be a       reference to the Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell VA Clinic.

Mr. BOST.  2170.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2170, a bill to rename  the community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of Veterans  Affairs in Toms River, New Jersey, as the Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell VA  Clinic.

Leonard ``Bud'' Lomell was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1920 and  enlisted in the Army after the U.S. entered into World War II.  Initially serving with an infantry division, Lomell quickly volunteered  for the newly formed 2nd Ranger Battalion. There, he became the  platoon's first sergeant.

During the earliest hours of D-day, First Sergeant Lomell's platoon  landed at Pointe du Hoc, Normandy. Their mission was to disable the  heavy defense artillery guns set to rain fire on the brave soldiers on  Utah Beach.

Despite all the fire and obstruction, First Sergeant Lomell and his  platoon became the first unit to accomplish their D-day mission.

Lomell continued to distinguish himself during the war, receiving a  promotion to second lieutenant and being awarded the Distinguished  Service Cross, Purple Heart, and Silver Star.

After his service ended in 1945, Lomell married his wife, Charlotte.  Together, they became proud parents of three daughters and continued  serving in their community. I am happy to say that Charlotte is still  able to see this bill being offered in honor of her husband.

Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell served as a great example of the Greatest  Generation. It is a fitting tribute to name the VA clinic after him to  tell the story of his service.

I thank the sponsor of this bill, Representative Smith, as well as  the entire New Jersey delegation for honoring their fellow New Jerseyan  with this tribute.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2170, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, the  distinguished chairman, for yielding and for the job he is doing as  chairman of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs. I once served in  that position. I know how important it is to defend our veterans so  vigorously. I thank the chairman for that leadership. I thank the  ranking member as well for his support of this important piece of  legislation.

Let me just begin.

Today, the House of Representatives has the opportunity to further  recognize and honor one of the bravest and most highly decorated combat  soldiers of World War II, Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell, by naming the new  veterans outpatient clinic in Toms River, New Jersey, in his honor.

While Bud Lomell passed away in 2011 at the age of 91, his dear wife,  Charlotte, is turning 104 in September, and she and her family deeply  loved Bud and continue to deeply cherish his memory. I spoke to Bud's  youngest daughter, Renee, again this morning. They are very pleased  that Congress is poised to honor him today.

I also extend my special thanks to former Toms River mayor and  retired admiral, Mo Hill, for originally coming up with this idea to  name the clinic for Bud Lomell, as well as his incredible advocacy on  behalf of Bud and his family.

On June 6, 1944, D-day, First Sergeant Bud Lomell of D Company, 2nd  Ranger Infantry Battalion, and his Army Rangers were tasked with the  nearly impossible mission of scaling the 100-foot cliffs at Pointe du  Hoc and  to destroy the Germans' 155-millimeter artillery guns, which have a  range of between 10 and 15 miles, that threatened the entire invasion  which they believed were positioned at the top of the cliffs.

Bud Lomell and his Rangers, upon successfully climbing the cliffs  despite heavy casualties, were dismayed to find when they got to the  top of the cliffs that the Allied military intel was misled by decoys  and that the entire invasion was now at risk. Bud, I know  parenthetically, was actually wounded leaving the landing craft but  tenaciously continued. In one interview, he said: I lost half my guys.

First Sergeant Lomell and another Ranger, Sergeant Jack Kuhn, found  the five guns camouflaged in a nearby orchard. He discovered they were  all aimed at Utah Beach, although they could easily reach Normandy as  well. Remember, they have a 10-to-15-mile range. They could have taken  out ships, landing craft, and, of course, the infantry soldiers and  others making the beachheads.

With Kuhn providing cover, Bud Lomell used thermite grenades to  singlehandedly destroy three of the Nazi big artillery guns, then got  more thermite grenades and went back and destroyed the other two. Five  massive artillery guns were utterly destroyed, ultimately helping to  ensure the success of the Allied invasion and saving countless lives.

Historian Stephen Ambrose has described Bud Lomell as the single  individual, besides Supreme Allied Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower, as  the most responsible for the success of D-day.

In his book, ``The Greatest Generation,'' Tom Brokaw devoted an  entire chapter to Bud Lomell, who he first met 40 years after the  invasion of D-day. He noted that during their interview, even after  several decades--these are his words--he ``could almost see the tough,  young First Sergeant Lomell directing his men as they landed under the  withering fire of German forces.''

For his amazing leadership and extraordinarily brave acts, Bud Lomell  received the Distinguished Service Cross. As we all know, that is the  second highest military decoration. The citation said in part: ``First  Sergeant Lomell led a patrol of men through the heaviest kind of  automatic weapons fire to destroy an enemy machine gun nest. Later on  the same day, while leading another patrol, he penetrated through the  enemy lines to the rear and discovered five enemy 155-millimeter guns.  . . .

``[He] gallantly led his patrol against the enemy and successfully  destroyed the guns . . . . First Sergeant Lomell's bold and outstanding  leadership in the face of superior numbers is in keeping with the  highest traditions of the military forces of the United States and  reflect great credit upon himself and the United States Army.''

Lomell also received a rare battlefield promotion to second  lieutenant, and it was said that ``there was not a man who did not feel  proud to serve with him.''

Six months later, Bud Lomell served in the Battle of Hurtgen Forest,  where he and D Company helped capture and defend the notorious Hill  400, which had claimed thousands of his fellow servicemembers' lives.

He subsequently received the Silver Star for his valor in combat, and  that citation says in pertinent part: ``Conspicuously leading from the  front, Lomell directed the successful defense of the hilltop in the  face of nearly overwhelming German counterattack midday . . . .  [Refusing] shelter and at risk of his life with blood oozing from his  ears, nose, and mouth, firing his machine gun cradled in his bandaged  left arm with his right hand, he continued to lead his men against  another ruthless German assault throughout the entire afternoon.''

What an amazing, amazing hero. He was wounded at Hurtgen and again  several weeks later at the Battle of the Bulge. In addition to the  Distinguished Service Cross and Silver Star, Bud Lomell received other  awards, including the Bronze Star, Purple Heart with two oakleaf  clusters, and France's highest medal, the Legion of Honor. Those are  just some of the most remembered ones. There were others as well.

As was pointed out by my colleagues, he became an unbelievably  effective lawyer, had his own law firm, and was very active in the  community in Ocean County. He was even the head of Veterans Services in  Ocean County, the first person to take on that position.

As President Reagan famously said in his speech at Pointe du Hoc, the  men who invaded Normandy, including and most especially Bud Lomell,  ``had faith that what they were doing was right, faith that they fought  for all humanity, faith that a just God would grant them mercy on this  beachhead or on the next.'' They were ``the men who took the cliffs.''  They were ``the champions who helped free a continent.'' They were  ``the heroes who helped end a war.''

Mr. Speaker, in enduring gratitude to them, I ask my colleagues to  vote for this legislation.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.