Medal of Honor Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688213/medal-of-honor-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 695) to amend title 38, United States Code, to increase the rate  of the special pension payable to Medal of Honor recipients, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 695

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Medal of Honor Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The Medal of Honor is the highest and most prestigious       military decoration of the United States.

(2) To earn the Medal of Honor ``the deed of the person . .       . must be so outstanding that it clearly distinguishes his       gallantry beyond the call of duty from lesser forms of       bravery''.

(3) The actions of Medal of Honor recipients inspire       bravery, and the willingness to give all, in those who serve       in the Armed Forces and those who will serve in the future.

(4) Those listed on the Medal of Honor Roll exemplify the       best traits of members of the Armed Forces, a long and proud       lineage of those who went beyond the call of duty.

(5) Pursuant to section 1562 of title 38, United States       Code, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall pay monthly to       each living person whose name has been entered on the Army,       Navy, Air Force, and Coast Guard Medal of Honor Roll a       special pension.

(6) Recipients of the Medal of Honor have earned a       substantial and historic increase to such special pension in       recognition of their conspicuous gallantry, unwavering       commitment, and heroic actions above and beyond the call of       duty.       SEC. 3. INCREASE IN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS SPECIAL                     PENSION PAYABLE TO MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS.

Section 1562 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subsection (a)(1)--

(A) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``The Secretary'';

(B) by striking ``the rate of $1,406.73'' and inserting       ``the rate described in subparagraph (B)''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

``(B) The rate described in this subparagraph is equal to       the amount of monthly compensation paid to a veteran without       dependents under subsection (m) of section 1114 of this       title, increased to the next intermediate rate under       subsection (p) of such section.''; and

(2) in subsection (e)--

(A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Effective'';

(B) by inserting ``, subject to paragraph (2),'' before       ``shall''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):

``(2) The Secretary shall not, under paragraph (1),       increase the amount of monthly special pension payable under       subsection (a) in a year if such amount was otherwise       increased during such year.''.       SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``January 31, 2033''.

Mr. BOST.  695, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 695, offered by my  colleague, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Nehls). This bill would  increase the rate of special monthly pension for Medal of Honor  recipients and their surviving spouses.

The Medal of Honor is our Nation's highest military award. It is  reserved for servicemembers who have demonstrated extraordinary bravery  and self-sacrifice in combat.

The Medal of Honor special pension is intended to repay part of the  debt that our Nation owes them. The Medal of Honor pension is separate  from the compensation that a veteran receives when they are unable to  work due to service-related disabilities.

Today, there are just 63 Medal of Honor recipients who currently  receive less than $2,000 in special pension payments per month. Their  stories of service, without question, should be honored and remembered  and told.

However, the current pension offered does not cover the cost of  travel to speak at events that inspire future generations and tell  their fellow Americans about their service in defense of our freedom.

It is time we increase the Medal of Honor recipients' pension in  recognition of their heroic military service and their continued  service to our Nation. The bill is fully offset by using a bipartisan  offset related to older veterans and pensions, and I urge all of my  colleagues to support H.R. 695, as amended.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to support this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.