Montgomery Gi Bill Selected Reserves Tuition Fairness Act of 2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 983) to Amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the  Secretary of Veterans Affairs to disapprove courses of education  offered by a public institution of higher learning that does not charge  the in-State tuition rate to a veteran using certain educational  assistance under title 10 of such Code, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 983

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Montgomery GI Bill Selected       Reserves Tuition Fairness Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS DISAPPROVAL OF COURSES                     OFFERED BY PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER                     LEARNING THAT DO NOT CHARGE VETERANS IN-STATE                     TUITION RATE FOR PURPOSES OF SELECTED RESERVE                     EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Subsection (c) of section 3679 of title       38, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, or chapter 1606 of       title 10,'' after ``chapter 30, 31, 33, or 35 of this       title'';

(2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following       new subparagraph:

``(E) An individual who is entitled to assistance under       section 16131 of title 10.''; and

(3) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``, or chapter 1606 of       title 10'' before the period at the end.

(b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (e) of such section       is amended--

(1) in paragraph (1)--

(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, or chapter 1606       of title 10,'' after ``chapter 31, 33, or 35 of this title'';       and

(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``chapter 31 33, or 35       of this title'' and inserting ``chapter 31, 33, or 35 of this       title, or chapter 1606 of title 10''; and

(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``chapter 31 33, or 35 of       this title'' and inserting ``chapter 31, 33, or 35 of this       title, or chapter 1606 of title 10''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act       and shall apply with respect to an academic period that       begins on or after August 1, 2026.

Mr. BOST.  983.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 983, offered by my  friend and colleague, the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden).

This bill would reduce tuition costs for Montgomery GI Bill Selected  reservists by making them eligible for the same in-State tuition  waivers.

When a veteran uses other education benefits offered by VA, they are  able to receive an in-State tuition. It is time to include MGIB  Selected Reserves as another benefit that uses in-State tuition.

Last Congress, under the Republican majority, the House passed  legislation that would streamline benefits and protect taxpayers. This  bill would continue that mission in the 119th Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 983, and I  reserve the balance of my time.                                                      April 1, 2025.      Hon. Mike Bost,      Chairman, Committee on Veterans' Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Bost: H.R. 983, the ``Montgomery GI Bill       Selected Reserves Tuition Fairness Act of 2025'', was       referred primarily to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs,       with an additional referral to the Committee on Armed       Services.

H.R. 983 contains provisions within the Committee on Armed       Services' Rule X jurisdiction. As a result of your having       consulted with the Committee and to expedite this bill for       floor consideration, the Committee on Armed Services will       forego action on the bill. This is being done based on our       mutual understanding that doing so will in no way diminish or       alter the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services       with respect to the appointment of conferees, or to any       future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters       contained in the bill or similar bills.

I would appreciate your response to this letter confirming       this understanding, and would request that you include a copy       of this letter and your response in the committee report or       in the Congressional Record during floor consideration of       this bill. Thank you in advance for your cooperation.            Sincerely,                                                       Mike Rogers,                                                          Chairman.                                  ______                                                                                       April 7, 2025.      Hon. Mike Rogers,      Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Rogers: Thank you for your letter regarding       H.R. 983, the Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserves Tuition       Fairness Act of 2025. I acknowledge that provisions of the       bill fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed       Services. I agree that your forgoing further action on this       measure does not in any way diminish or alter the       jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services over the       subject matters contained in this bill or similar legislation       in the future. In addition, I would support your request to       have the Committee on Armed Services appropriately consulted       on any issues in this bill or similar legislation that fall       under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services.

I am grateful for your willingness to work with us in a       collegial manner to move this legislation forward. I will       place copies of this exchange in the Congressional Record       during consideration of this legislation on the House floor.            Sincerely,                                                         Mike Bost,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my legislation, H.R.  983, the Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserves Tuition Fairness Act of  2025.

This bill holds particular significance for me because the issue was  first brought to my attention by one of my constituents, Mr. Greg  Tremelling, a fellow veteran, during our Veterans Day listening session  hosted last Congress.

His voice, joined by countless other reservists and veterans,  highlighted the urgent need for policy change, and this is precisely  what this government  should be doing: listening to our constituents and acting on their  needs.

I am honored to represent the brave men and women serving at Fort  McCoy and Volk Field, whose daily sacrifices safeguard our Nation and  its values. My legislation will help veterans utilizing the Montgomery  GI Bill Selected Reserves by including them in the in-State tuition  waiver that all other beneficiaries currently receive.

These reservists face the same dangers and make identical sacrifices  as our Active-Duty counterparts when deployed. Their courage and  dedication deserve equal recognition.

Mr. Speaker, of the last eight servicemembers killed in the line of  duty, six of them were reservists, the two remaining being my fellow  Navy SEALs, who were lost in the Red Sea. Their loss underscores the  serious consequences of the decisions made by the previous  administration.

Mr. Speaker, I would remind everyone that the enemy does not care if  you are a National Guardsman or -woman. They don't care if you are a  selected reservist or Active Duty. They are simply aiming at the  American flag on your shoulder.

By passing this bill, we are going to ensure parity between the  reservists and Active-Duty servicemembers. It is long due for a change,  and I extend my personal gratitude to Mr. Tremelling for bringing this  critical matter to my attention, and I thank Chairman Bost for his  steadfast leadership and support.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 983.

Mr. Speaker, once again, we are seeing fear-mongering from the other  side of the aisle.

VA's decision to phase out the Veterans Affairs Servicing Purchase  program, or VASP program, is an important step by the Trump  administration.

Last Congress, the Biden-Harris administration, during an election  year, created VASP instead of implementing a partial-claim program.  This decision added billions of dollars to the VA budget without any  assurance to the taxpayer that this was a good decision.

The average amount that a veteran had to pay back in their mortgage  was less than $25,000. Instead of solving the problem, VA chose to  purchase the entire loan, which, on average, was about $321,000. In no  way does this make sense to solve a $25,000 problem with a $320,000  solution. Therein lies the problem with our colleagues across the  aisle.

Rather than being wise and trying to fix it for the veterans and for  the veterans in the future, Democrats instead do a political thing  during an election year that ends up costing the taxpayers. I will say  it again that veterans are taxpayers.

This is why, under my leadership, House Republicans have a solution,  the alarm on the Biden administration program and the risk it could  bring to VA home loans.

This is also why House Republicans have a solution in this problem,  H.R. 1815, introduced by my friend, Representative Van Orden.

Mr. Speaker, if the ranking member is so concerned about the  veterans, I ask him and his side of the aisle why my Democratic  colleagues haven't introduced a solution to aid veterans and still make  sure that it actually deals with the veterans' problems, not just all  of a sudden spends not only more money than they have to fix their  problem, but creating a problem for other veterans because Democrats  are going to drain this system.

Now, I welcome the ranking member and other colleagues on the other  side of the aisle to cosponsor Mr. Van Orden's legislation and get it  out of the House to the Senate. Instead of complaining, the ranking  member should join us in this legislation. I, once again, encourage  people to get back to the issue at hand and support the bill that we  were debating before.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of our colleagues to vote for that bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.