Moving National Woman's Relief Corps Incorporation and Domicile to Illinois; Principal Office to Murphysboro, Illinois


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699501/moving-national-womans-relief-corps-incorporation-and-domicile-to-illinois-principal-office-to-murphysboro-illinois


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Jordan for allowing me this time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the Woman's Relief Corps, the  oldest national women's patriotic organization and the auxiliary to the  Grand Army of the Republic, which was our first VSO in the United  States.

This organization has a long history of service and patriotism, with  strong ties to Illinois and to my hometown, Murphysboro, not  Murfreesboro. That is in Tennessee. I am speaking of Murphysboro, M-u- r-p-h-y-s-b-o-r-o. There is only one in this world, and it is  Murphysboro.

Murphysboro is also the hometown of former Member of Congress, former  U.S. Senator, and Civil War General John A. Logan, who was a strong  advocate for our Nation's veterans. He played a key role in  establishing Memorial Day as a national holiday in his 11th general  order when he was commandant of the Grand Army of the Republic. His  legacy of service continues to inspire Americans today.

It is fitting that the Woman's Relief Corps has made its home at the  General John A. Logan Museum in Murphysboro, Illinois.

Although the Woman's Relief Corps received its congressional charter  many years ago, the charter still lists Washington, D.C., and  Springfield as its official location. That is why I introduced  legislation to update the charter to recognize Murphysboro, my  hometown, as the Woman's Relief Corps' home.

This change reflects where the organization is actually based and  honors its close connection to John A. Logan and the southern Illinois  communities that support its work. I am proud to support this measure  and am grateful for the opportunity to assist an organization that has  done so much for veterans and our communities.

The Woman's Relief Corps stands for patriotism, service, and  community. By recognizing Murphysboro as its home, we honor its history  and support its continued work.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting  this legislation and in recognizing Murphysboro, Illinois, as the home  of the Woman's Relief Corps.