Protecting Regular Order for Veterans Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693967/protecting-regular-order-for-veterans-act-of-2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (S. 423) to protect regular order for budgeting for the Department of  Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                   S. 423

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. PROTECTING REGULAR ORDER FOR VETERANS.

(a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the       ``Protecting Regular Order for Veterans Act of 2025'' or the       ``PRO Veterans Act of 2025''.

(b) Quarterly Briefings on Department of Veterans Affairs       Budgetary Shortfalls.--

(1) Quarterly briefings.--

(A) Quarterly briefings required.--During the first quarter       beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act and in       each quarter thereafter until the date that is three years       after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of       Veterans Affairs shall provide to the appropriate committees       of Congress a quarterly briefing, in person, on the budget of       the Department of Veterans Affairs and any shortfall the       Department may be experiencing.

(B) Plans.--In any case in which the Secretary informs       Congress during a briefing under paragraph (1) that the       Department is experiencing a shortfall, the Secretary shall,       during such briefing, present the plans of the Secretary to       address or mitigate the shortfall.

(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:

(A) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--

(i) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on       Appropriations of the Senate; and

(ii) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee       on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

(B) Shortfall.--The term ``shortfall'', with respect to a       fiscal year, means that the amount of appropriations required       by the Department of Veterans Affairs for such fiscal year to       meet all of the statutory obligations of the Department       during that fiscal year exceeds the amount of appropriations       requested for the Department for that fiscal year in the       budget of the President submitted pursuant to section 1105(a)       of title 31, United States Code, for that fiscal year.

(c) Limitations on Provision of Incentives for Critical       Skills to Senior Executive Service Employees of Department of       Veterans Affairs.--Section 706(d) of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(7)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B)(ii), a critical skill       incentive may not be provided under paragraph (1) to an       employee of the Department employed in a Senior Executive       Service position, or a position in another comparable system       for senior-level Government employees, as defined by the       Secretary, whose position is at the Central Office of the       Department, including the Veterans Health Administration, the       Veterans Benefits Administration, and the National Cemetery       Administration, regardless of the actual location where the       employee performs the functions of the position.

``(B)(i) A critical skill incentive provided under       paragraph (1) to an employee of the Department employed in a       Senior Executive Service position, or a position in another       comparable system for senior-level Government employees, as       defined by the Secretary, not described in subparagraph (A)       of this paragraph may only be provided--

``(I) on an individual basis and may not be provided to a       group of such employees; and

``(II) upon approval of the following officers or those       serving in an acting capacity:

``(aa) The Under Secretary for Benefits, the Under       Secretary for Health, or the Under Secretary for Memorial       Affairs.

``(bb) The Assistant Secretary for Human Resources and       Administration.

``(cc) The Director of the Office of Management or the       Chief Financial Officer.

``(dd) The Assistant Secretary for Accountability and       Whistleblower Protection.

``(ee) The General Counsel.

``(ff) Such other officers as the Secretary determines       appropriate.

``(ii) In the case of an employee of the Department       employed in a Senior Executive Service position, or a       position in another comparable system for senior-level       Government employees, as defined by the Secretary, whose       position is primarily at the Central Office of the       Department, but who performs some portion of the employee's       job function at other facilities of the Department, as       defined by the Secretary, not at Central Office--

``(I) the employee shall not be considered described in       subparagraph (A) with respect to the portion of the       employee's job function that is based out of non-Central       Office facilities of the Department; and

``(II) any critical skill incentive provided under       paragraph (1) to the employee for the portion of the       employee's job function that is based out of facilities of       the Department other than the Central Office shall be       proportionate to the time spent at those Department       facilities.

``(C)(i) Not later than one year after the date of the       enactment of the Protecting Regular Order for Veterans Act of       2025, and not less frequently than once each year thereafter,       the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans'       Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs       of the House of Representatives an annual report on the       employees of the Department employed in a Senior Executive       Service position, or a position in another comparable system       for senior-level Government employees, as defined by the       Secretary, who were provided a critical skill incentive under       paragraph (1).

``(ii) Reports submitted pursuant to clause (i) may be       submitted by incorporating their contents into other       congressionally mandated reports to the committees described       in such clause.

``(D) In this paragraph, the term `Senior Executive Service       position' has the meaning given such term in section 3132(a)       of title 5.''.       SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF VETERANS EXPERIENCE OFFICE.

(a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the       ``Improving Veterans' Experience Act of 2025''.

(b) Establishment.--

(1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 38, United States Code,       is amended by adding at the end the following new section:       ``Sec. 325. Veterans experience office

``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the       Department within the Office of the Secretary an office to be       known as the `Veterans Experience Office' (in this section       referred to as the `Office').

``(b) Head of Office.--(1) The head of the Office shall be       the Chief Veterans Experience Officer.

``(2) The Chief Veterans Experience Officer shall--

``(A) be appointed by the Secretary from among individuals       the Secretary considers qualified to perform the duties of       the position;

``(B) report directly to the Secretary; and

``(C) be responsible for carrying out the functions of the       Office set forth under subsection (c).

``(c) Function.--The functions of the Office are as       follows:

``(1) Carrying out the key customer experience initiatives       of the Department relating to veterans' and other       beneficiaries' satisfaction with and usage of benefits and       services furnished under laws administered by the Secretary       for which they are eligible, including setting the strategy,       framework, policy, and other guidance for the Department       relating to customer experience, including ensuring the       activities of the Office and those of other organizations and       offices within the Department are coordinated and not       duplicative.

``(2) Requiring the heads of other organizations and       offices within the Department to report regularly on customer       experience metrics, action plans, and other customer       experience improvement efforts to the Chief Veterans       Experience Officer.

``(3) Collecting veteran-derived data--

``(A) to determine veteran and beneficiary satisfaction       with and usage of the benefits and services furnished under       laws administered by the Secretary for which they are       eligible; and

``(B) to be considered during policymaking.

``(4) Providing strategic guidance and strategies to       Department entities for engaging with veterans and       beneficiaries regarding benefits and services furnished under       laws administered by the Secretary, including those not using       such benefits and services.

``(5) Assessing and advising the Secretary on the accuracy       and helpfulness of the websites and other customer-facing       information of the Department, be it available electronically       or in any other format.

``(6) Assessing and advising the Secretary on the status       and opportunities for improvement of the customer service       efforts of the Department.

``(d) Reports.--(1) Each year, the Chief Veterans       Experience Officer shall submit to the Secretary a summary of       the data received by the Chief Veterans Experience Officer       under subsection (c)(2).

``(2) Each year, not later than 180 days after the date on       which the Secretary receives the summary under paragraph (1),       the Secretary shall submit to Congress an annual summary and       analysis of the matters summarized pursuant to such       paragraph.

``(3) Each annual summary submitted pursuant to paragraph       (2) shall include the following:

``(A) Data regarding customer service and experience       feedback, disaggregated by benefit or service furnished under       laws administered by the Secretary, and relevant demographic       data of the veterans and beneficiaries providing the       feedback.

``(B) Data regarding veteran and beneficiary satisfaction       with and usage of benefits or services, disaggregated by       benefit or service furnished under laws administered by the       Secretary, and relevant demographic data of the veterans and       beneficiaries providing the feedback, including--

``(i) potential reasons for not using the benefits or       services, such as--

``(I) eligibility;

``(II) lack of knowledge or awareness of existence of       benefit or service;

``(III) barriers of technology, information, or time; and

``(IV) other related reasons; and

``(ii) an analysis of how such reasons may be addressed.

``(e) Staff and Resources.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure       that--

``(A) the Office has such staff, resources, and access to       customer service and experience information as may be       necessary to carry out the functions of the Office; and

``(B) any information provided to the Office does not       include personally identifiable information of an individual       veteran, survivor, dependent, or other beneficiary unless       such individual provides appropriate consent to allow such       information to be shared with the Office.

``(2) Funds available for basic pay and other       administrative expenses of other Department organizations and       offices may be available to reimburse the Office for all       services provided at rates which will recover actual costs       for services provided to such organizations if the Secretary       determines that contributing to such costs will not undermine       the ability of any such organization or office to provide       services required by such office.

``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to       authorize an increase in the number of full-time employees       otherwise authorized for the Department.

``(f) Privacy.--Nothing in this section shall be construed       to authorize the Chief Veterans Experience Officer to       disclose any record in contravention of section 552a of title       5 (commonly referred to as the `Privacy Act of 1974').

``(g) Sunset.--The requirements and authorities of this       section shall terminate on September 30, 2028.''.

(2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the       beginning of chapter 3 of such title is amended by adding at       the end the following new item:  ``325. Veterans Experience Office.''.

(c) Comptroller General of the United States Review of       Veterans Experience Office and Customer Service Improvement       Efforts.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United       States shall--

(1) complete an analysis of the methodology, effectiveness,       and implementation of findings and feedback of veterans and       beneficiaries used by the Department of Veterans Affairs,       including the Veterans Experience Office, to improve veteran       and beneficiary customer experience and satisfaction,       including through the use of what are known as ``trust-      scores'', Veteran Signals also known as ``VSignals'', and       related survey and data collection activities, processes, and       initiatives; and

(2) submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the       Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of       Representatives a report setting forth the findings of the       Comptroller General with respect to the analysis completed       pursuant to paragraph (1).

Mr. BOST.  423.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 423, introduced by my  colleague and fellow marine from across the Capitol, Senator Dan  Sullivan from Alaska.

S. 423 would require the Secretary of the VA to provide quarterly  briefings to Congress on the budget execution and any projected budget  shortfalls. It also creates new guardrails on the use of critical  skills incentive bonuses to make sure they only go to the employees  whom they are intended for.

Finally, it would codify the Veterans Experience Office to improve  the delivery of benefits to veterans and their beneficiaries.

These efforts already exist at the VA, and this legislation simply  makes these efforts permanent. This bill is a straightforward,  commonsense effort that partners with Secretary Collins and the Trump  administration to establish greater accountability and oversight of  career senior executives at the Department.

The need for this legislation comes in the wake of the critical  skills incentive payments scheme uncovered by my committee during the  last Congress. The days of waste, fraud, and abuse are over.

After the OIG identified over $10 million in improper critical skills  incentive payments awarded to VA executives, Congress recognized the  need for accountability. Let me be clear. I believe the VA employees  deserve to be recognized for the extraordinary work they do.

Critical skills incentive bonuses are useful tools for the VA to  attract talented staff who are dedicated to serving veterans. However,  some of these bonuses were as high as $100,000 for D.C. office staff  employees, more than double what a single veteran who is 100 percent  disabled would receive in an entire year.

Additionally, during the investigation, my staff identified employees  who  received these critical skills bonuses while they were under  investigation for misconduct at the VA.

Mr. Speaker, it is time to make sure this never happens again. I am  proud of the work done by my friend, Secretary Collins, and I believe  the PRO Veterans Act will support his mission to build up the VA's  workforce and put veterans first.

In addition to stopping the glut of critical skills payments from  going to executives, this legislation would require the VA to provide  in-person budget briefings to Congress every quarter for 3 years,  detailing the agency's financial projections and budget management  strategy.

After the Veterans Benefits Administration's shortfall crisis  manufactured by the Biden administration cost the government billions  of dollars, increasing the frequency of these conversations will help  Congress execute its constitutional oversight and appropriations  responsibilities.

While leadership in the Biden White House was replaced with the  veterans-first Trump administration by the American people, many of the  career VA employees who contributed to the crisis remain. Some of these  employees have operated far too long without scrutiny and with no  consequences for planning failures that total billions of dollars.

Without some ways of tying poor performance to outcomes for these  employees, what message does the business-as-usual status quo send to  rank-and-file employees?

When they hear of senior executives filling each other's pockets with  improper bonuses, what does that tell the frontline VA police officer,  the hospital housekeepers, and the food service staff?

It tells them that the efforts they bring to the job really don't  matter. It tells them that executives will score a nice bonus despite  terrible performance and that they are being held to a different  standard.

That is the wrong message to send to VA employees and to the veterans  who rely on the VA for lifesaving healthcare.

Now, I applaud both parties in this Congress and the current  administration for taking the right steps and working together to pass  this bill and begin the work of restoring that trust.

This is commonsense legislation that ensures the VA operates with  basic accountability and protects the future of benefits for our  veterans who have earned them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support S. 423, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

One, for the people listening to the rhetoric that came from the  other side of the aisle, they need to understand that the VA has  477,000 employees. With that massive amount of employees, over the last  several years, many of the jobs were not getting done correctly even  though we put out a lot of money and hired a lot of employees.

Secretary Collins has said that he will reduce staffing based on  attrition--attrition, mind you. We won't lose docs. We won't lose  nurses. We won't lose frontline workers. We will be good stewards of  the taxpayers' dollars.

So as the rhetoric comes from the other side on this administration  and the fact that when they were in the majority and it was the Biden  administration they didn't push for this legislation shows that it is  more about the politics than it is about taking care of our veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of our Members to support this bill, and  I yield back the balance of my time.