Providing for Consideration of H.R. Supporting Pregnant and Parenting Women and Families Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Pregnant Students' Rights Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to Public Land Order No. 7917 for Withdrawal of Federal Lands; Cook, Lake, and Saint Louis Counties, Mn


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699218/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-supporting-pregnant-and-parenting-women-and-families-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-pregnant-students-rights-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-public-land-order-no-7917-for-withdrawal-of-federal-lands-cook-lake-and-saint-louis-counties-mn


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, Friday is the March for Life. It is a moment for  compassion, common sense, and a commitment to our most vulnerable. That  is why I rise today in strong support of the pro-life bills included in  this rule, including  safeguarding funding for pregnancy resource centers act and the  Pregnant Students' Rights Act.

These bills are about something very simple: Protecting the dignity  of the unborn and meeting very real needs of mothers and families.

Pregnancy resource centers offer counseling, medical services,  parenting resources, and support systems through some of the most  difficult moments that a mother can face. They should never be targeted  or defunded because they protect life.

At the same time, no woman should be forced to choose between  continuing her education or continuing her pregnancy. Women who choose  life should be supported, encouraged, and empowered, not pushed aside  or told that their dreams for the future don't matter.

I have always been proud to stand for life, and that commitment has  guided my work not only here in Congress but my work as a State  legislator. My wife and I make sure that we put our money where our  mouth is in supporting young women who find themselves in a situation  with a pregnancy out of wedlock.

Being pro-life is about doing more than just talking about it. It  means standing up for life at every stage and backing it up with  actions. This Friday, this Mall out here will be packed with a powerful  demonstration of the sanctity of life. It is important that the  people's House meets that moment. We should be unafraid to say that  every life has value and that mothers deserve our support, not our  silence.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule and these pro- life, profamily priorities.