Rural Veterans' Improved Access to Benefits Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695499/rural-veterans-improved-access-to-benefits-act-of-2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3951) to amend the Veterans' Benefits Improvements Act of 1996  and the Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D. Veterans Health Care and  Benefits Improvement Act of 2020 to improve the temporary licensure  requirements for contract health care professionals who perform medical  disability examinations for the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3951

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Rural Veterans' Improved       Access to Benefits Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENTS TO TEMPORARY LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR                     CONTRACT HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS WHO PERFORM                     MEDICAL DISABILITY EXAMINATIONS FOR THE                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

(a) Expansion.--Section 504 of the Veterans' Benefits       Improvements Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-275; 38 U.S.C. 5101       note), as amended by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of       section 2002 of the Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D.       Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2020       (Public Law 116-315; 38 U.S.C. 5101 note), is further       amended, subject to the sunset in paragraph (4) of such       subsection, by striking paragraph (2) of subsection (c) and       inserting the following:

``(2) Health care professional described.--A health care       professional described in this paragraph is a person who is       eligible for appointment to a position in the Veterans Health       Administration covered by section 7402(b) of title 38, United       States Code, who--

``(A) has a current and unrestricted license to practice       the health care profession of the health care professional;

``(B) is not barred from practicing such health care       profession in any State; and

``(C) is performing authorized duties for the Department       pursuant to a contract entered into under subsection (a).''.

(b) Delayed Sunset of Amendment.--Paragraph (4) of       subsection (a) of section 2002 of the Johnny Isakson and       David P. Roe, M.D. Veterans Health Care and Benefits       Improvement Act of 2020 (Public Law 116-315; 38 U.S.C. 5101       note) is amended by striking ``On the date that is five years       after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting       ``On September 30, 2031''.

(c) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection       is amended by striking ``physicians assistants, nurse       practitioners, audiologists, and psychologists'' and       inserting ``health care professionals''.

(d) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the       Senate and House of Representatives a report regarding the       use of the authority under section 504 of the Veterans'       Benefits Improvements Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-275; 38       U.S.C. 5101 note), as temporarily amended by section       2002(a)(1) of the Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D.       Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act of 2020       (Public Law 116-315; 38 U.S.C. 5101 note) and this section.       Such report shall include, with respect to the one-year       period after the date of the enactment of this Act, the       following elements:

(1) The number of examinations conducted pursuant to a       contract under such authority.

(2) The cost, timeliness, and legal adequacy of such       examinations, disaggregated by--

(A) health care professional; and

(B) contract.

(3) The number of such examinations conducted in each       State, the District of Columbia, or a Commonwealth,       territory, or possession of the United States.

(4) The numbers of each kind of health care professionals       who conducted such examinations.

(5) The number of examinations that were erroneously       conducted by a health care professional--

(A) without such a contract; or

(B) unauthorized to enter into such a contract.

(6) The plan of the Secretary to correct errors in the use       of such authority.

Mr. BOST.  3951, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3951, introduced by my  colleague Representative Ciscomani from Arizona.

This bill would extend the license portability authority for  contracted medical professionals conducting compensation and pension  examinations for veterans until 2031. These exams are a vitally  important part of going through the VA benefits process.

Veterans living in rural or underserved areas often need to travel  far distances for their exams. Veterans in my district know this hurdle  firsthand and the impact it can have on dragging out the timeline for  them to receive their disability benefits.

Congress created the authority to expand the net for qualified,  contracted medical professionals. By ensuring more contracted medical  professionals can perform these exams, veterans would have greater  access to their benefits closer to home.

Under current law, license portability only applies to physician  assistants, nurse practitioners, audiologists, and psychologists. This  bill would expand that authority to include even more providers who are  eligible for employment at the VA to perform medical disability  examinations. This is a necessary expansion to the VA's exam programs  to get even more qualified people serving veterans.

I thank Representative Ciscomani for his leadership on this bill and  his efforts to increase access to disability benefits for our Nation's  veterans.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 3951, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.