Servicemember Residence Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695471/servicemember-residence-protection-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2334) to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to preempt any  squatter's rights established by State law regarding real property  owned by a member of the uniformed services, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2334

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Servicemember Residence       Protection Act''.       SEC. 2. SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT: TOLLING OF PERIOD OF                     ADVERSE POSSESSION.

(a) In General.--Section 206 of the Servicemembers Civil       Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3936) is amended by adding at the end       the following new subsection:

``(d) Tolling of Period of Adverse Possession.--The period       of a servicemember's military service may not be included in       computing a period of adverse possession of such       servicemember's real property.''.

(b) Website.--Not later than 45 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall consult with the Attorney General and update the       website of the Department of Veterans Affairs and other       relevant websites to include information and resources       regarding--

(1) how a member of the uniformed services may secure real       property while absent for a period of military service;

(2) leasing real property;

(3) landlord-tenant rights and obligations; and

(4) any other relevant information determined necessary by       the Secretary and the Attorney General.

Mr. BOST.  2334, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2334, as amended,  offered by the gentleman from Florida (Mr. Mast), my friend and  colleague.

This bill would protect servicemembers' homes from squatters while  they are away on Active Duty. Under current law, servicemembers are not  clearly protected under various State adverse possession laws. Due to  this lack of protection, a squatter might be able to move in and make a  claim to that servicemember's home when that servicemember is deployed.

This is outrageous. We must ensure that servicemembers can return to  their homes following a deployment without the worry that someone might  be occupying their home and that they will be forced to get into a  costly legal battle to get their home back.

Mr. Speaker, it should go without saying that this should not be  happening, and I will do what I can to protect our servicemembers.

This important bill would also require the VA and Department of  Justice to work together to provide updated information to  servicemembers about their rights.

I thank Chairman Mast for bringing this issue to the committee's  attention and championing this legislation. We must ensure that  servicemembers' homes are not occupied by squatters while a  servicemember is away serving our great country.

I look forward to continuing to work with the ranking member this  fall on a bipartisan piece of legislation like this one that puts  veterans' and servicemembers' needs first.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.