Territorial Response and Access to Veterans' Essential Lifecare Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695431/territorial-response-and-access-to-veterans-essential-lifecare-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3400) to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the  Secretary of Veterans Affairs to assign physicians of the Department of  Veterans Affairs to temporarily serve as traveling physicians in the  territories and possessions of the United States, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3400

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Territorial Response and       Access to Veterans' Essential Lifecare Act'' or the ``TRAVEL       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS ASSIGNMENT OF TRAVELING                     PHYSICIANS TO SERVE TERRITORIES AND                     POSSESSIONS.

(a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 74 of title 38,       United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the       following new section:       ``Sec. 7415. Traveling physicians

``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary may assign a physician       appointed under section 7401 or section 7431 of this title to       serve as a traveling physician for a period of not more than       one year at a time. A physician assigned to serve as a       traveling physician under this section may be assigned to       provide health care to veterans residing in American Samoa,       Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the       Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United       States, or any other territory or possession of the United       States at Department facilities or other approved facilities       located in such territory or possession.

``(2) The Secretary may assign multiple physicians to serve       as traveling physicians under this section and may assign       each such physician to serve in a specific territory or       possession.

``(b) Coordination of Care.--In providing care under this       section, traveling physicians shall coordinate with non-      Department medical providers to the extent practicable and       necessary to ensure high quality and coordinated care for       veterans receiving hospital care and medical services.

``(c) Pay.--In addition to pay under section 7431 of this       title, the Secretary shall provide a relocation or retention       bonus to traveling physicians under this section. Such       relocation or retention bonus shall be substantially similar       to a relocation or retention bonus offered under section       7410(a) of this title, as the Secretary considers       appropriate.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the       beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the       item relating to section 7414 the following new item: ``7415. Traveling physicians.''.

(c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Title 38, United       States Code, is further amended as follows:

(1) In section 7410(a)(1), by--

(A) by striking ``retention allowances'' and inserting       ``retention bonuses''; and

(B) by striking the second comma after ``section 7401(1) of       this title''; and

(2) In section 7431(e)(5)(B), by striking ``retention       allowances'' and inserting ``retention bonuses''.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``December 31, 2032''.

Mr. BOST.  3400, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3400, as amended,  offered by my colleague on the Veterans' Affairs Committee  Representative King-Hinds.

This bill would give the VA Secretary the power to assign traveling  physicians for up to 1 year at a time in the U.S. territories to  deliver care.

The VA provides healthcare in five U.S. territories in the Pacific  and Atlantic. In the Pacific, the VA has one medical center in  Honolulu, Hawaii. There are three outpatient clinics in American Samoa,  Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. In the Atlantic, the VA has one  medical center in Puerto Rico. There are 10 outpatient clinics across  Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Based on the most recent data we have, the VA Pacific system served  7,200 enrolled veterans. The VA Caribbean system serves 61,000 enrolled  veterans. The veterans in these parts of the world are forced to spend  time and money to get their hard-earned care. For example, a veteran in  Guam must travel 4,000 miles for care in Honolulu. A veteran in the  Virgin Islands has to fly to Puerto Rico to receive care at the VA  Medical Center there. The TRAVEL Act would expand the reach of VA care  by putting physicians where the veterans live.

I thank Representative King-Hinds, my friend, for her leadership on  this bill to get veterans in remote parts of the world the healthcare  they have earned. I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST.   King-Hinds).

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to support  this legislation.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.