Veterans Education Transparency and Training Act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 981) to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the  processes to approve programs of education for purposes of the  educational assistance programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs,  and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 981

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Education       Transparency and Training Act'' or the ``VETT Act''.       SEC. 2. PROCESSES TO APPROVE PROGRAMS OF EDUCATION FOR                     PURPOSES OF THE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS                     OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

(a) Limitation of Disapproval of Programs of Education for       Failure To Provide Certain Forms.--Section 3679(f)(5) of       title 38, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``this paragraph'' and       inserting ``this subparagraph'';

(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``this paragraph'' and       inserting ``subparagraph (A)''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

``(C) If an educational institution cannot provide to an       individual a form under paragraph (1) that contains all of       the information required under subparagraph (A) of such       paragraph, the educational institution shall provide to such       individual, with the form under such paragraph, a notice--

``(i) that specifies what such information may be       inaccurate or incomplete; and

``(ii) that includes, in place of the information that may       be inaccurate or incomplete, the best estimate available on       the date of such notice.''.

(b) Publication of Information About Training for School       Certifying Officials.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall establish a website to serve as a central location for       the publication of information about the training that the       Department of Veterans Affairs provides for school certifying       officials and shall update such information on a regular       basis.

Mr. BOST.   981.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 981 offered by the  gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden), my friend and colleague.

The bill would improve the information schools are required to give  individuals regarding GI Bill benefits.

Currently, schools are required to give an estimated cost of  education to anyone who potentially will use the GI Bill. However,  there are cases where a school cannot accurately estimate the tuition  and expenses for the year. This means that the schools are providing  misleading information that serves the interests of the institution  over the veterans due to bureaucratic obstacles.

I support a veteran getting accurate estimates of what their expenses  would look like. I do not support veterans having to choose a school  based off of incorrect financial information.

Without this fix, veterans are having to make a choice that could  harm them financially in the future.

This change is a commonsense addition to the Trump administration's  mission to make VA work for veterans.

Finally, this bill would also ensure that schools have a central  place to find information to train their staff in charge of helping to  make sure students and veterans understand.

In a time when government is filled with bureaucratic red tape, I am  happy that we, as a Republican majority, are making it easier for  veterans to get an education.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 981, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, at this time, I yield such time as he may  consume to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden), who is the  chief sponsor of the bill.

Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, the Veterans  Education Transparency and Training Act, or the VETT Act.

This bill addresses critical barriers that veterans currently face  with accessing educational benefits that they have earned through their  dedicated service to our Nation. It helps ensure a smoother, more  effective transition back into civilian life.

Specifically, my legislation requires educational institutions to  clearly provide estimated tuition costs to potential GI Bill students.  If an institution cannot accurately estimate the tuition, they must  explain exactly why, and this transparency ensures veterans aren't  misled by inaccurate information, preventing unnecessary debt that they  would accrue.

The bill directs the VA to establish an online resource center, a  centralized hub regularly updated to include all available training for  school certifying officials, and this simple change provides essential  flexibility for institutions, such as police academies and truck  driving schools, ensuring that they can effectively support veterans  and their families.

At a time when this bureaucratic red tape has been strangling our  veterans, when it has become a barrier rather than a bridge, I am proud  to champion a bill that directly helps veterans reduce unnecessary  government hurdles.

Mr. Speaker, this legislation aligns perfectly with President Trump's  mission to make the VA truly work for our veterans. I urge all Members  to support H.R. 981.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, at this time, I encourage all of our Members  to support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.