Veterans' Compensation Cost-Of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696763/veterans-compensation-cost-of-living-adjustment-act-of-2025


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (S. 2392) to increase, effective as of December 1, 2025, the rates of  compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities and the  rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of  certain disabled veterans, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 2392

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans' Compensation Cost-      of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INCREASE IN RATES OF DISABILITY COMPENSATION AND                     DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION.

(a) Rate Adjustment.--Effective on December 1, 2025, the       Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall increase, in accordance       with subsection (c), the dollar amounts in effect on November       30, 2025, for the payment of disability compensation and       dependency and indemnity compensation under the provisions       specified in subsection (b).

(b) Amounts To Be Increased.--The dollar amounts to be       increased pursuant to subsection (a) are the following:

(1) Wartime disability compensation.--Each of the dollar       amounts under section 1114 of title 38, United States Code.

(2) Additional compensation for dependents.--Each of the       dollar amounts under section 1115(1) of such title.

(3) Clothing allowance.--The dollar amount under section       1162 of such title.

(4) Dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving       spouse.--Each of the dollar amounts under subsections (a)       through (d) of section 1311 of such title.

(5) Dependency and indemnity compensation to children.--      Each of the dollar amounts under sections 1313(a) and 1314 of       such title.

(c) Determination of Increase.--Each dollar amount       described in subsection (b) shall be increased by the same       percentage as the percentage by which benefit amounts payable       under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et       seq.) are increased effective December 1, 2025, as a result       of a determination under section 215(i) of such Act (42       U.S.C. 415(i)).

(d) Special Rule.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may       adjust administratively, consistent with the increases made       under subsection (a), the rates of disability compensation       payable to persons under section 10 of Public Law 85-857 (72       Stat. 1263) who have not received compensation under chapter       11 of title 38, United States Code.       SEC. 3. PUBLICATION OF ADJUSTED RATES.

The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish in the       Federal Register the amounts specified in section 2(b), as       increased under that section, not later than the date on       which the matters specified in section 215(i)(2)(D) of the       Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 415(i)(2)(D)) are required to       be published by reason of a determination made under section       215(i) of such Act during fiscal year 2026.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 2392. Each year, Congress  passes the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act.

The legislation ensures that VA compensation benefits for veterans  and their survivors keep pace with inflation and the cost of living.  Millions of veterans and their loved ones depend on these benefits to  pay for daily living expenses.

This bill would help them meet that need by increasing certain VA  benefits to the same percentage as the annual Social Security cost-of- living adjustment increase.

I recognize this is something we could and should have taken up  sooner, and there was real concern that if the shutdown dragged on, VA  might not have had the staff in place to implement the COLA on time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the sponsors of this bill, Senators Moran and  Blumenthal, for their bipartisan work on this vitally important bill to  ensure our veterans get their benefits. I also thank Representative  Luttrell for his leadership on this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support S. 2392, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am ready to  close.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all of our Members to  vote ``yes.''

Mr. Speaker, I thank our veterans. This is the right piece of  legislation and something that we need to do, and make sure we do every  year, to make sure that those costs of living are covered for our  veterans and their survivors.