Veterans Readiness and Employment Program Integrity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695445/veterans-readiness-and-employment-program-integrity-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3579) to amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain  improvements to the Veterans Readiness and Employment program of  Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3579

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Readiness and       Employment Program Integrity Act''.       SEC. 2. APPLICATION REQUIREMENT UNDER VETERANS READINESS AND                     EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS                     AFFAIRS.

Section 3106(a) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended--

(1) by striking ``necessary (1) to determine'' and       inserting ``necessary to determine'';

(2) by striking ``and (2) in the case'' and inserting       ``and, in the case'';

(3) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; and

(4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(2) The Secretary may not provide an initial evaluation       of a veteran under paragraph (1) before the veteran submits       to the Secretary an application containing the substantive       work record and educational transcripts of the veteran that       the Secretary determines appropriate.''.       SEC. 3. MAXIMUM DURATION OF EMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE UNDER                     VETERANS READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM OF                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

Section 3117(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended       by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), a veteran may not       receive assistance under this subsection for more than 365       days.

``(B) A veteran may receive an additional 180 days of such       assistance if an individual who provides counseling under       this chapter to such veteran certifies that the veteran is       actively seeking employment.''.       SEC. 4. REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS UNDER                     VETERANS READINESS AND EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM OF                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

(a) In General.--Chapter 31 of title 38, United States       Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new       section:       ``Sec. 3123. Requirements for data collection and reporting

``(a) Data Collection.--The Secretary shall submit to the       Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of       Representatives a report regarding the employment of veterans       who participate in a vocational rehabilitation program under       this chapter. Such information shall include, for each such       veteran--

``(1) the regional office responsible for the provision of       the program; and

``(2) the annual wages of the veteran before and after the       completion of the program.

``(b) Publication of Wait Times.--On an annual basis, the       Secretary shall make publicly available, on an appropriate       website of the Department, the average time between the date       on which a veteran requests a vocational rehabilitation       program under this chapter and the date on which the veteran       first meets with a counselor as part of the veteran's       program.''.

(b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the       beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the       following new item:  ``3123. Requirements for data collection and reporting.''.

(c) Independent Review of Program.--

(1) Review required.--Not later than one year after the       date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans       Affairs shall seek to enter into a contract, with a non-      Department entity that has expertise in vocational       rehabilitation, pursuant to which the entity shall conduct a       review of rehabilitation programs (as such term is defined in       section 3101 of such title) under such chapter.

(2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of such       a contract, the entity shall submit to the Secretary a report       containing recommendations regarding how to improve and       modernize such rehabilitation programs.

Mr. BOST.  3579, as  amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3579 offered by my  friend and colleague, Representative Ciscomani of Arizona. This bill  would make needed modernizations to the VA's Veterans Readiness and  Employment program, the VR&E program.

Over the last 2 years, our committee has uncovered disastrous wait  times, fraud, waste, and abuse in the VA's VR&E program. This bill  would steer the ship in the right direction by establishing more  oversight of the program.

It is the duty of Congress to make sure that veterans who complete  this workforce program are earning more and are in a better spot than  they were before entering the program. VR&E currently does not track  those results.

At a recent hearing, VA told the committee that 45 percent of  veterans who successfully complete the program reenter it later. This  does not show that the program is working for veterans. In fact, Mr.  Speaker, it shows that the VR&E needs an overhaul. It is time to reform  VR&E so that veterans can receive the training they need to find a  meaningful career field that is fit for them.

This bill would also implement better practices for transparency on  wait times to allow veterans to better plan for their future.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Representative Ciscomani, for  sponsoring this bill to improve job training access for veterans. My  committee will continue to seek ways to level the playing field for  veterans seeking employment so that every veteran has access to the  opportunity they want all the while protecting the taxpayers'  investment in these programs.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I, once again, encourage all  Members to support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my  time.