Veterans Education and Technical Skills Opportunity Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699511/veterans-education-and-technical-skills-opportunity-act-of-2025


Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1458) to amend title 38, United States Code, to modify the  criteria for approval of certain independent study programs for  purposes of the educational assistance programs of the Department of  Veterans Affairs, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1458

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans Education and       Technical Skills Opportunity Act of 2025'' or the ``VETS       Opportunity Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPAYMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR                     CONTRIBUTIONS TOWARDS POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL                     ASSISTANCE: TIMING; MECHANISM FOR INDIVIDUALS                     NOT ELIGIBLE FOR A MONTHLY HOUSING STIPEND.

(a) In General.--Subsection (f) of section 3327 of title       38, United States Code, is amended--

(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``together'' and all that       follows through ``before'' and inserting ``not later than 60       days after''; and

(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

``(4) Additional assistance for an individual not eligible       for a monthly housing stipend.--In the case of an individual       making an election under subsection (a) who is described by       subparagraph (A), (C), or (E) of paragraph (1) of that       subsection, and who is not eligible for a monthly stipend       payable under section 3313(c) of this title, the educational       assistance payable to the individual under this chapter shall       be paid--

``(A) in a lump sum calculated by multiplying--

``(i) the total amount of contributions described in       paragraph (1)(A) with regards to such individual; and

``(ii) the sum of the number of months described in       subclauses (I) and (II) of paragraph (1)(B)(i) with regards       to such individual; and

``(B) to the individual not later than 60 days after the       exhaustion of the individual's entitlement to educational       assistance under this chapter.''.

(b) Technical Corrections and Conforming Amendment.--Such       subsection is further amended--

(1) by striking ``paragraphs (2) through (7)'' and       inserting ``paragraphs (2) through (6)''; and

(2) in paragraph (1), in the heading, by inserting ``for an       individual eligible for a monthly housing stipend'' after       ``Additional assistance''.

(c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section       shall take effect on August 1, 2026.       SEC. 3. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INDEPENDENT STUDY PROGRAMS UNDER                     EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT                     OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

(a) In General.--Section 3680A(a)(4)(A)(ii)(III) of such       title is amended--

(1) by inserting ``that requires regular and substantive       interaction between students and instructors'' after ``course       of study'';

(2) in item (aa), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a       semicolon;

(3) in item (bb), by striking ``; and'' and inserting ``;       or''; and

(4) by adding at the end by following new item:

``(cc) an institution of higher education, as such term is       defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965       (20 U.S.C. 1002), that is approved to participate or       participating in the student financial assistance programs       authorized by title IV of that Act; and''.

(b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a)       shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as       applicable, that begins on or after August 1, 2026.       SEC. 4. ABSENCE FROM CERTAIN EDUCATION DUE TO CERTAIN                     SERVICE.

(a) Options.--Section 3691A of such title is amended by       striking paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and inserting the       following:

``(1) A covered member may, after receiving orders to enter       a period of covered service--

``(A) withdraw from covered education;

``(B) take a leave of absence from covered education; or

``(C) subject to subsection (d), enter into an agreement       with the institution concerned to complete a course of       covered education to the satisfaction of such institution       concerned.''.

(b) Conforming Amendment.--Such subsection is further       amended, in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``or takes a leave       of absence'' and inserting ``, takes a leave of absence, or       enters into an agreement''.

(c) Agreement.--Such section is further amended--

(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and

(2) by inserting, after subsection (c), the following new       subsection (d):

``(d) Agreement With Institution Concerned.--A covered       member may enter into an agreement under subsection (a) only       if the covered member has completed at least half of a course       of covered education.''.

(d) Section Heading.--Such section is further amended by       striking the heading and inserting ``Absence from certain       education due to certain service''.

(e) Table of Sections.--The table of sections at the       beginning of chapter 36 of such title is amended by striking       the item relating to section 3691A and inserting the       following new item:  ``3691A. Absence from certain education due to certain service.''.       SEC. 5. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS COMPLIANCE SURVEYS.

Section 3693 of such title is amended--

(1) in subsection (c)--

(A) by striking ``not more than 10 business days of       notice'';

(B) by striking ``this section.'' and inserting ``this       section--''; and

(C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:

``(1) in the case of an educational institution or training       establishment with a time stamp database collection feature,       not fewer than 10, and not more than 15, business days of       notice; and

``(2) in the case of any other educational institution or       training establishment, not more than 10 business days of       notice.''; and

(2) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following       new subsection (d):

``(d) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) The terms `educational institution' and `training       establishment' have the meanings given such terms in section       3452 of this title.

``(2) The term `school certifying official' means an       employee of an educational institution with primary       responsibility for certifying veteran enrollment at the       educational institution.''.       SEC. 6. NOTIFICATION OF SCHOOL CERTIFYING OFFICIALS OF                     HANDBOOK UPDATES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 14 business days after       updating the school certifying official handbook of the       Department of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Veterans       Affairs shall provide notice to all school certifying       officials of such update.

(b) School Certifying Official Defined.--The term ``school       certifying official'' means an employee of an educational       institution with primary responsibility for certifying       veteran enrollment at the educational institution.       SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``January 31, 2033'' and inserting ``May       31, 2034''.

Mr. BOST.  1458, as amended.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1458, as amended,  offered by my friend and colleague, Representative Juan Ciscomani of  Arizona.

This bill would modernize the GI Bill by approving hybrid and online  independent study programs to meet veterans' needs. During the COVID  pandemic, these institutions offered classes in both online and hybrid  settings to stop the spread of COVID. These institutions also received  GI Bill funding during that time. Many of these institutions were even  told to move their programs to fully remote.

This bill would allow these education programs to receive funding  again and get more veterans into successful programs. It is clearer  than ever that VA education programs need to meet veterans where they  are and not the other way around.

Additionally, this bill would ensure guard and reserves who get  called up on orders during a semester can receive a grade. This bill  would also give school certifying officials, or SCOs, time to prepare  for a required survey to ensure there is no fraud, waste, or abuse at  the GI Bill-eligible institution.

Finally, this bill would also allow servicemembers and veterans who  paid into the Montgomery GI Bill to receive their $1,200 refund if they  chose to fully use their post-9/11 GI Bill.

I am fully supportive of this bill as we must ensure that VA services  veterans first.

This bill would not only give freedom of choice for what institution  veterans can attend, but when a veteran does go to school, they would  receive more protection when they are called up to protect this  country.

I thank Representative  John James of Michigan and Representative  Ronny Jackson of Texas for introducing important provisions to this  language, and I thank my friend, Representative Ciscomani, for  introducing this bill and continuing to be a champion of improving  education opportunities for veterans and their dependents.

My committee will continue to seek ways to level the playing field  for veterans seeking education and employment so that every veteran has  access to the opportunities that they want, all the while protecting  the taxpayers' investment and these programs.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the concerns of the minority,  and I would like to dispel some misinformation provided by the ranking  member.

H.R. 1458 would expand the way in which the GI Bill benefits can be  used by veterans, but it would not remove any of the guardrails in  place to keep out bad actors. In fact, the bill would require regular  and additional interaction between students and instructors, which  would add an additional meaningful guardrail for veteran providers.

In the most recent VA ``Annual Benefits Report,'' only 3.5 percent of  veterans pursued vocational or technical education, even though skilled  trades are among the fastest growing career opportunities in the United  States.

This bill would help tackle the current workforce shortage in skills  and trades in the U.S. while maintaining the oversight that VA has over  bad actors. Now the GI Bill already has limits on tuition payments  approval and quality standards to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in  the program.

Often, veterans may need to attend school or training online or  hybrid, not due to performance but due to the necessity of taking care  of their families or loved ones. This bill would respond to those  realities, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the  Senate to get the bill signed into law.

Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman  from Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani), the sponsor of this bill.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I have no additional speakers.

Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to  support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.