Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689625/vietnam-veterans-liver-fluke-cancer-study-act


Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 586) to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to study and  report on the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in veterans who served  in the Vietnam theater of operations during the Vietnam era, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 586

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke       Cancer Study Act''.       SEC. 2. STUDY ON THE PREVALENCE OF CHOLANGIOCARCINOMA IN                     VETERANS WHO SERVED IN THE VIETNAM THEATER OF                     OPERATIONS DURING THE VIETNAM ERA.

(a) Epidemiological Study.--Not later than 120 days after       the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans       Affairs, in consultation with the Director of the Centers for       Disease Control and Prevention of the Department of Health       and Human Services, shall commence an epidemiological study       on the prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans       of the Vietnam era, using data from the Veterans Affairs       Central Cancer Registry and the National Program of Cancer       Registries. The study shall include--

(1) an identification of the rate of incidence of       cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the Vietnam era and       in residents of the United States, from the beginning of the       Vietnam era to the date of enactment of this Act; and

(2) for each of the groups specified in paragraph (1), an       identification of the percentage of individuals with       cholangiocarcinoma by various demographic characteristics,       including by age, gender, race, ethnicity, and the geographic       location of the patient at the time of diagnosis.

(b) Reports to Congress.--

(1) Initial report.--Not later than one year after the       completion of the study under subsection (a), the Secretary       shall submit to Congress a report containing--

(A) the results of the study under subsection (a); and

(B) recommendations for administrative or legislative       actions required to address issues identified in the study       under subsection (a).

(2) Follow-up reports.--The Secretary shall periodically       submit to the Congress a follow-up reports, as determined by       the Secretary, to provide updates to the information included       in the initial report under paragraph (1) and information       collected pursuant to subsection (c).

(c) Continued Tracking of Cholangiocarcinoma in Covered       Veterans of the Vietnam Era.--The Secretary shall track the       prevalence of cholangiocarcinoma in covered veterans of the       Vietnam era using       the Veterans Affairs Central Cancer Registry, and provide       such information to Congress in follow-up reports submitted       under subsection (b)(2).

(d) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) The term ``Vietnam era'' has the meaning given such       term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

(2) The term ``covered veterans of the Vietnam era'' means       veterans who served in the Vietnam theater of operations       during the Vietnam era.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITATION OF PENSION PAYMENTS.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``December 31, 2031''.

Mr. BOST.   586, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 586, as amended, offered  by Representative LaLota from New York, my friend and fellow veteran.

Representative LaLota's bill would require VA to conduct a study and  produce a report on the frequency of bile duct cancer for veterans who  served in and around the Vietnam war.

Mr. Speaker, it goes without saying that many Vietnam veterans  suffered greatly in service to their country. Thousands of Vietnam  veterans still live with invisible and visible wounds of war today.

My own uncle is one of them. He served in Vietnam and, like so many  others, suffered debilitating injuries from his service. Sadly, many  never received the treatment or recognition they deserved when they  came home.

Today, we are still learning about the full extent of the health  risks these veterans faced, some of which weren't understood at the  time.

One risk may have come from something as simple and routine as eating  local food during their deployment. Certain uncooked fish consumed in  Southeast Asia are known to carry a parasite called a liver fluke. The  parasite can cause infection and long-term scarring that may lead to  bile duct cancer. This is a rare but serious illness here in the U.S.  and one more commonly found in the region where our veterans served.

This bill would require VA to study whether bile duct cancer is  linked to service in Vietnam and whether this rare condition should be  considered service-connected.

One of VA's most important missions is to care for the injuries  veterans sustain while they serve this country. This study would help  uphold that sacred obligation.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my fellow veteran, Mr. LaLota, for his  leadership on this bill on behalf of our veterans. I urge my colleagues  to support H.R. 586, as amended.

Mr. BOST.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to support this bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.