Department of Health and Human Services


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today with my colleagues in  strong opposition to the firings of scientists, medical researchers,  and more at the Department of Health and Human Services.

HHS is in charge of everything from preventing disease outbreaks to  making sure that our kids are healthy to ensuring that seniors can live  with dignity.

It directly touches more lives than any other Cabinet Agency. That is  why the administration's mass firings of thousands of HHS employees are  deeply troubling.

When a new CEO comes in and wants to see a new direction for a  company, they look at it, they look at all the divisions, they figure  out their direction. They maybe cut a division; they maybe make changes  to it. They look at the merits of certain employees; they move some  employees to different divisions. And they figure out, thoughtfully,  what is the right way and what is the best way for their company.

This is the entire government, but that is not what is happening  here. They are firing people across the board, without regard to merit,  without regard for function. They are firing some of the newest  employees who are eager and excited to have their jobs. They are firing  some people who are simply up for promotion which puts them in a  probationary status.

They are not looking at what these people are doing or the value they  bring to the workforce and to the American people. They are just doing  it and getting on TV with a chain saw.

These are people who went into public service for a reason. They are  people, in the case of Health and Human Services, who keep us healthy  and save lives, who work every day to keep America at the forefront of  medical breakthroughs and innovation.

It has been our secret sauce. It has given the world the most  incredible, credible, lifesaving drugs and medical devices--like the  pacemaker in my State.

That didn't just come out of one company. That came out of a lot of  ideas, and that came out a lot of universities, and that came out of  people doing clinical trials, and that came out of a devotion by our  country to moving forward. That is how we have gotten these lifesaving  cures.

That is how we mapped the human genome, so that we are now starting  to offer personalized medicine, drugs that fit people, things that  work, things that cure diseases we never thought were possible to cure.  That is how our economy has been so strengthened, and we have led  across the world.

You know, I have worked for years to cut redtape, and I know there is  more to do. I know there is more we can do to make our government  effective. But we can do that together and take the ideas from the  administration. We can work on it in the next budget. We can make some  changes. I support permitting reform--all kinds of things that we could  do.

But these mass firings in the area of medical research? This makes no  sense.

The Department of Health and Human Services is also tasked with  implementing Medicare drug price negotiation, which I fought for years  to pass into law, along with my colleague Senator Welch from Vermont,  when he was in the House, and Senator Sanders here in the Senate.

This is expected--we finally passed it. It was part of the Inflation  Reduction Act, and it actually says: Hey, this sweetheart deal that  pharma had with Medicare, in which they can't negotiate at all and that  the prices are locked in and so our country--people are paying twice as  much as they do in places like Canada, for the drug. Yet it is our  taxpayers that put in the money for the research or the VA, which works  so well for our veterans. They are able to negotiate and get better  prices, but not 50 million seniors?

So what did we do? We finally ended the sweetheart deal, and we  passed a law. I would have been more aggressive about how many drugs we  could negotiate because I understand they start with a group of drugs,  and pretty soon that is going to help people who aren't seniors, as we  did with the insulin cap. That insulin cap, at 35 bucks a month, was  only for seniors, but Merck and other companies offered it to  nonseniors, as well, because we got it going with the biggest  prescription drug buying group in the country, and that would be our  seniors.

So this Medicare negotiation has ramifications for everyone in this  country. However, even though we only did 10 drugs at first, the Biden  administration picked blockbuster drugs--big drugs that so many people  take, like Januvia and Jardiance and Xarelto and Eliquis. Combined, in  1 year--just 1 year, when this starts next year; no one has refuted  these statistics--9 million seniors will save $1.5 billion in out-of- pocket costs in the first year alone and save taxpayers over $100  billion in the next decade. That is just 10 drugs.

They have now come up with 15 more drugs, including Ozempic and those  weight-loss drugs, and they have passed that torch now--or the voters  have--onto the next administration. So now, it is on them to negotiate  these 15 and then pick 15 more and 15 more. Imagine how much money we  can save, not just for the seniors--that is obvious--but also for the  taxpayers because  we are footing part of this bill. And then, ultimately, it will bring  down drug prices, like they have in other countries.

But firing the men and women who carry out these price negotiations  put those savings totally at risk. You cannot take on some of the  world's biggest companies--the pharmaceutical companies--with bandaids  and a skeleton crew. That is not going to work. I think we all know  that. We all know this is really hard work.

On top of this, the firings threaten healthcare for the 170 million  Americans who get coverage through Medicare, Medicaid--which is so many  of our seniors when they are in assisted living with their long-term  care, and people's parents and grandparents--as well as coverage under  the Affordable Care Act, including over 2 million Minnesotans. In fact,  Medicaid actually provides healthcare for 20 percent of my rural  residents in my State. You will see similar numbers all across the  country. And more than half of all nursing home residents in our State  are on Medicaid.

I remember when my dad was in assisted living. He got late-onset  Alzheimer's. I found a place for him and found the next place when he  needed a little more help, and I knew, as his savings were running out,  what that day was. I knew the exact month that he was going to run out  of his savings, and then he would go onto Medicaid. And that was a  safety net. I actually knew I couldn't keep him at the same place, but  I knew a place I could have him go to.

He ended up dying a year before that date happened. But there are so  many people in our country that know the exact date when their parent  or their grandparent is going to be able to have that safety net of  Medicaid because they have actually run through all their savings.

Nationwide, Medicaid provides coverage for two-thirds of all nursing  home care. And these cuts--what we are seeing out of the House budget,  where they have put targets on the exact program that includes  Medicaid--these cuts will be particularly disastrous for people with  chronic conditions, including millions of veterans who become sick or  disabled as a result of their service.

What is this all about? It is about funding giant tax breaks for  billionaires. Yes, over 2 trillion of that money goes to people who are  wealthy, people making over $400,000 a year.

I am all for keeping in these tax cuts for people making under  $400,000 a year, but I do not know why, when you are facing the debt  that our country has and when you are dealing with people's needs with  Medicaid and the like, you would decide to add tax cuts and make  permanent tax cuts for people who are making over $400,000 a year.

We actually had a vote on this, late at night about a week ago, where  we asked our Republican colleagues: OK. Well, how about for people  making over $10 million a year? That was Senator Warren's amendment.  She said: OK. How about if they are making over 10 million? Could we at  least agree we shouldn't cut their taxes?

And, unfortunately, our Republican colleagues, for that amendment,  yelled out: No.

Then we said--Senator Kelly got up there and said: OK. How about if  they are making over $100 million? Then we should add more tax cuts?

Our colleagues voted against that amendment, which said we should not  add more tax cuts for people making over $100 million when our country  is facing the debt it has, when you have got the needs for people in  nursing homes and the needs for people with childcare and the like.

So then they tried one more time. Senator Angus King, Independent of  Maine, said: OK. How about for people making over $500 million? Then,  at least, you can agree with us--right?--that we shouldn't add more tax  cuts for those people making over $500 million a year. And, sadly, our  colleagues voted no.

Instead of cutting costs for regular people and their prices and  groceries, they are cutting Medicaid, which provides healthcare for 7.2  million seniors, almost 40 million children, nearly two-thirds of  nursing home residents, and millions of people with rare diseases.

But this isn't just the numbers. There are moms and dads, brothers  and sisters, friends and neighbors. I heard from one Minnesotan who, at  4 years old, was diagnosed with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which  causes rapid muscle weakness, making it harder to complete most  physical tasks. But this Minnesotan, who is now 26, has been able to  thrive because he has Medicaid coverage. He got an education. He got a  job. He graduated with a master's degree in public policy. He is paying  taxes. In his words, Medicaid gave him the affordable health coverage  he needed to manage his rare condition.

For him and millions more, the cuts at the Department of Health and  Human Services put their lives and livelihood at risk.

This week is rare disease week. I have met with many rare disease  patients. I am the cochair of that caucus. And they are in town right  now to convene and collaborate with Federal medical researchers, Ph.D.  students, other families affected, drug and device reviewers and  advocates.

Many of these rare disease patients were looking forward to attending  the rare disease event that was supposed to be today. And this year it  was going to be a collaboration between NIH and the FDA because of all  that integral work that goes on with drugs being approved for people  with rare diseases, but that annual event was canceled because the  people carrying that out--these people here with very difficult, rare  diseases--that was canceled because the people doing the event were  fired.

The mission of the Department of Health and Human Services, which the  thousands of Americans who were fired work every day to uphold, is  enhancing the health and well-being of all Americans. These mass  firings are a direct affront to that mission.

The building that houses the Department of Health and Human Services  is named for Minnesota's ``Happy Warrior,'' Vice President Hubert  Humphrey. It has been that way through Democrat and Republican  Presidents. He was a champion for expanding access to healthcare.  Inscribed in the entrance hall of that building are words from  Humphrey's final speech in 1977. By the way, he was someone who was  loved right here in this Chamber by Democrats and Republicans. Some of  the most conservative Republicans mourned his loss, and they loved the  guy. And this is what he said in his final speech here:

The moral test of government is how that government treats       those who are in the dawn of life, the children; those who       are in the twilight of life, the elderly; and those who are       in shadows of life, the sick.

And he added, given he had a child in his own family with Down  syndrome, and those with disabilities.

The firing of those who care for kids and seniors and those who work  on rare diseases and those who are bringing together our people who  work on drugs that are supposed to solve and are solving the problems  for these rare disease families and those that are doing the approvals  and those that are doing the research and the families that want to  talk to them about it--they were all here, and they canceled it  because, just like that, Elon Musk came in with his chain saw.

Those families are not going to tolerate this much longer.