Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services Relating to ``Patient Protection and Affordable Care


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I want to thank Senator Warner for his  tremendous leadership on this important issue that is just really  tormenting so many Americans right now--as well as Senator Wyden.

This involves tens of millions of Americans who are facing a  healthcare crisis. Their premiums are doubling or tripling, and it is  completely in our hands to do something about it.

Open enrollment is ending in 2 days. Americans across the country are  looking at their budgets and facing this difficult choice of whether to  pay double or triple for coverage or go uninsured.

Why are tens of millions of Americans facing this reality? Well,  because congressional Republicans failed to act, to come to the table  to negotiate an extension of the enhanced Affordable Care Act tax  credits before the end of last year.

Last Thursday, the House passed legislation to extend these  healthcare tax credits for 3 years. Seventeen Republicans joined  Democrats. You think about it, they could have done that months ago-- months ago. We were willing to negotiate with them 3 years, 2 years, 1  year at the time. They wouldn't do anything. And now they have  realized--I guess they didn't understand what was happening to their  constituents when 20-some percent of farmers and ranchers are on these  kinds of policies and 75 percent of them are in red States.

The legislation that Senator Warner and Senator Wyden proposed is  simple and reasonable. We are simply saying: Let's make sure the same  tax credits that made care more accessible for tens of millions of  Americans yesterday and last year and the year before that continue to  be there for families this year. Americans are looking for us to act,  and the time to act is now.

I have heard from people across my State in what is a very, very  difficult time right now in the State of Minnesota. With the arrival of  ICE on our streets, with people terrified, with the chaos that has  ensued, we are still hearing from people about healthcare all the time.

Nicci from Waseca wrote to me that the healthcare premium for her and  her husband almost tripled from $862 a month to $2,344, which, over the  course of the year, is more than her annual salary. She called the  increase ``insufferable.''

Nadine from Sartell, a 53-year-old single mom, shared that she has a  master's degree in social work but lives nearly paycheck to paycheck  now because her housing and utility costs eat up over half of her  monthly income, and unless Congress renews the healthcare tax credits,  she is not going to be able to purchase healthcare because there are  only 2 days left. And here is the kicker: Just 4 months ago, she was  diagnosed with breast cancer. She has already used up nearly all she  has in savings for the copays and coinsurance to get a diagnosis and  receive treatment.

Another constituent, a schoolbus driver named David, saw his premiums  double. He is now spending 12 percent of his total pretax income on  health insurance. David wrote:

It's difficult and frustrating to see life crumble before       your eyes. Just trying to get ahead and just to find setbacks       waiting for you. I would like Congress to actually sit in       real life people's shoes for just a while to see how it       feels. I hope we can get something changed.

That is a busdriver in Minnesota begging our colleagues on the other  side of the aisle to stand and sit in his shoes, because if Congress  can't fix this, David shared with me that even though he works full  time, he will have to give up his health insurance entirely.

The rules that Senator Warner and Senator Wyden and others of us have  suggested do away with the caps that limit how much of their income  people like David must spend on health insurance, and so as we work to  extend the healthcare tax credits, it is critical that we stop the  administration from further undermining the Affordable Care Act and  raising costs.

And this just isn't happening in my State. As I know, three-quarters  of the people who get their health coverage on this ACA Marketplace  live in States that President Trump won. We know the stakes, and we  must come together to solve this affordability crisis. And I will note  that the amount of money given to Argentina was approximately the same  amount it would take to fix this for 1 year.

There is a lot more work to be done to lower healthcare costs:  Medicare drug price negotiations that I have led for years and making  sure that is really happening under this administration, reforming  prior authorization, making improvements, public option. We can go on  and on and on.

But, right now, we have one crisis that is hitting so many Americans,  and we have a way to fix it. So I urge my Republican colleagues to join  us to stop Americans' healthcare premiums from skyrocketing, and simply  bring to the Senate floor and pass the bipartisan House-passed bill to  extend the healthcare tax credits that Americans rely on, and, of  course, to vote for S.J. Res. 84, which is in front of us today. And we  thank Senator Warner and Senator Wyden for leading the effort.