Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to join my colleagues in  standing up for the right to vote and the critical need to ensure that  that right is protected.

I want to thank Ranking Members Padilla and Reed for their leadership  on this issue and in organizing this floor block. Senator Padilla, a  former Secretary of State himself, understands to a core how important  the right to vote is.

The right to vote is sacred to our democracy. It secures all of our  freedoms. As Congressman John Lewis once said, voting is the most  powerful nonviolent tool we have to create a more perfect Union.

But in recent years, from the January 6 insurrection--I just came  from a spotlight hearing in which Officer Dunn and in which former  prosecutors were speaking out about their work on that day. I remember  that day because, at 3:30 in the morning, it was Senator Blunt and Vice  President Pence and I that were here on our own in this very Chamber  and made that walk, which in the morning had been a big celebration of  our democracy; but this time we were walking over broken glass, we were  walking by marble pillars spray-painted with racist vulgarities. But we  made that walk, and our democracy prevailed.

But in one of President Trump's first acts, he pardoned the violent  offenders who had struck police officers, who had injured over 100  police officers. That is what he did.

And from that January 6 insurrection to dangerous rhetoric and  baseless election conspiracies, to other actions taken by this  administration over the past 100 days, we have seen unprecedented  attacks on the freedom to vote and our democracy.

Nowhere are these attacks more clear than at the Department of  Justice. The Justice Department was founded in 1870 with the very  purpose to enforce civil rights. This includes voting rights guaranteed  by the 15th Amendment. And since the passage of the Voting Rights Act,  the Civil Rights Division has been responsible for enforcing that law.

Today, the work to protect voting rights is as urgent as ever. In  2023 alone, over 19 States enacted laws to restrict access to voting  and to make it more difficult to vote.

In the words of Senator Warnock, what is happening is simple: Some  people don't want some people to vote.

Yet what are the words that are inscribed at the Justice Department  over its entrance?

Equal Justice for All.

Department of Justice officials would like us to believe that the  fight for equal rights and the fight for voting rights is already over.  In fact, the Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights has said that  the Voting Rights Act ``was once necessary to push back on Jim Crow  laws.''

At her hearing in front of the Judiciary Committee, I asked her if  she will enforce section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which the Supreme  Court of the United States, a conservative Supreme Court, just  reaffirmed 2 years ago. She didn't answer the question.

It is clear why she didn't answer--because she never planned on  enforcing it. In fact, it has been reported that the Department's  lawyers in the voting rights section have been directed to dismiss  active voting cases.

But they are not stopping--this administration--at forcing attorneys  to dismiss cases. Justice Department officials have also removed all of  the senior civil servants--civil servants--in the Civil Rights  Division. That has had a ripple effect, as you can imagine, causing a  mass exodus of experienced attorneys from the Division. And rather than  try to stop the loss of talent,  the current head of that Division, installed by the Trump  administration, simply told reporters:

I think that's fine.

Well, I don't think that is fine. The people who have endured voter  discrimination don't think it is fine. Those of us who have been active  in this area, who have heard the stories, as I did when I was Rules  chair and held a field hearing in Georgia--the story of the veteran who  had signed up to serve and there was no waiting line, and when he comes  home to this country and he wants to vote, he finds out that there is a  waiting line in the hot Sun for hours; he finds out that his vote in  one location, which he figures out, for the primary is different from  where he votes in the general and then is different from where he votes  in the runoff. That is a system designed to make it harder to vote.

In the election for Senator Warnock, suddenly they took down Saturday  voting when there are only a few weekends between the general election  and the runoff.

Then there were the people in camo standing to intimidate voters in  lines in Arizona.

The stories go on and on.

In Harris County in Texas, they had one voting dropoff box in a  county the size of my entire State when it comes to population.

So, no, I don't think it is just fine.

It is not just at the Department of Justice that we see an assault on  voting. President Trump also issued an Executive order to overhaul our  Nation's elections.

As a Federal judge recently made clear, the President has claimed  power over our elections that the Constitution does not give him.

If implemented, the order could disenfranchise millions of citizens,  including millions of women who changed their last names after getting  married, as would the legislation that my colleagues have just  highlighted. I heard Senator Merkley discussing the problems with this  bill.

It would make it harder for men and women in uniform serving overseas  to vote, and it would compromise--this Executive order--sensitive,  personal data, giving Elon Musk access to private information about  citizens, contained in voter files in every State.

Instead of creating barriers to the ballot box, we should be  protecting access to the polls. That is why we intend to reintroduce a  bill that I led, the Freedom to Vote Act--something that we negotiated  over months and months and months. This legislation would set national  standards to ensure that all eligible Americans can vote in the way  that works best for them, regardless of their ZIP Code. That is why I  also strongly support the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to  restore and strengthen key portions of the Voting Rights Act.

But there are things that all of us should be able to agree on, like  ensuring that State and local governments have reliable Federal support  and funding to maintain election infrastructure--something that Senator  Blunt and I, when he was chair of the Rules Committee and when he was  ranking on the Rules Committee, agreed on, and I know Senator Padilla  is carrying on that torch; that we must, in our local election offices,  keep pace with new technology; that we must combat cyber security  threats.

I think about Chris Krebs, someone who I respect very much, who was  in charge of the Division of the government that makes sure elections  are protected from cyber attacks.

After the election in 2016, after that election, he declared it safe.  The Attorney General for the United States at the time for Donald  Trump, Bill Barr, echoed his words and said it was safe. Then the  President just decided at the time--President Donald Trump, in his  first term--to fire Chris Krebs.

But that wasn't even enough for this President. He comes back just a  few weeks ago and says he is going to investigate Chris Krebs. Why?  Because this civil servant had the audacity to declare our election  safe and correct, which it was, after spending his time in government  working to make sure that it was and that Russians and other countries  that wanted to do us harm would not influence our election.

We also should be able to stand by our election workers, including  volunteers, who face a barrage of threats and intimidation. We have  heard the testimony--so many us--of those who were threatened, of those  who were told--election workers just doing their jobs--that their head  would be on a stake.

Mr. President, Congressman Lewis never stopped working for our  democracy. While we are seeing daily assaults on our democracy, it is  our duty to never give up hope and to continue to fight for what  Congressman Lewis aptly called ``one of the most important blessings of  our democracy,'' and that is our Nation's right to vote.