Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698753/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for this time.

Mr. Speaker, since my first day as an elected Federal official, I  sought to serve on the House Appropriations Committee because the work  of this committee is so critical to the economic success of our Nation  and the safety of our communities.

This focus and interest are also what led me to choose to be a member  of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Subcommittee  and the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.  I am so pleased today that a reasonable and bipartisan version of these  two measures is included in this legislation.

I thank the ranking member and the chairman of both the full  committee and these subcommittees, as well as all the dedicated staff,  for their similar commitment to put in the hours, find common ground,  and move these essential bills forward.

Notably, I express my profound appreciation for the inclusion of the  community project funding requests in these measures, including the  funds specific to the members of northwest Indiana law enforcement  agencies. I am grateful every day for the selfless service and  sacrifice that first responders, including our local police, fire  departments, and emergency personnel, provide to our communities every  day.

These requested funds will ensure that our officers and public safety  personnel have the resources that they need to carry out their  responsibilities safely and effectively, while ensuring that families  in northwest Indiana can live, work, play, and raise their children  without fear.

I thank the leaders of this committee for advocating for a  transparent process that allows Members to advocate safely for the  well-being of the communities that we represent and for prioritizing  the protection of northwest Indiana and our neighborhoods.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to supporting this measure and continuing  to work with the Appropriations Committee to deliver real, meaningful  public safety investments for the people whom I serve.

Mr. Speaker, I also thank Rosa DeLauro, our ranking member, and  Chairman Cole for the countless hours truly working in a bipartisan way  and being an example to me of how people should work together for the  interests of our Nation. I thank them both very much for their work on  this bill, and it is a pleasure to serve on their committee.