Devastating Harm Caused By Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695607/devastating-harm-caused-by-trump-administration


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ms. Kaptur for bringing us together.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in great urgency to voice the concerns of  hardworking families in Indiana's First Congressional District.

Communities across northwest Indiana are feeling the economic  hardship and uncertainty brought on by this administration's policies.

I was proud to support the bipartisan infrastructure law, which  awarded $1 billion for a clean hydrogen hub that would create thousands  of jobs in northwest Indiana. BP's oil refinery prepared to make a  private investment of over $6 billion. Members of organized labor  created apprenticeship programs to ensure we had the workforce to bring  this project to fruition, but the so-called big, beautiful bill  terminated the clean hydrogen production tax credit, causing BP to put  the project on indefinite pause for reasons related to economic  uncertainty.

These policies are conscious decisions to create confusion,  hesitation, and uncertainty, not just in hydrogen production, but also  the challenges for our auto industry to grow and for the outsourcing of  American steel production and our national security to the highest  foreign bidder.

Mr. Speaker, the loss of American manufacturing jobs is a direct  result of the administration's failed economic policies that harm  hardworking families in my district.

Just today, I met with the equipment manufacturers from Indiana. They  make essential products in the construction, automotive, energy, and  agricultural industries. Rising costs on inputs, market uncertainty,  and disruption in supply chains are harming these businesses and  putting millions of good-paying jobs at risk.

When costs for these businesses rise, so does the cost of living for  the families across the country. I believe that targeted tariffs such  as section 232 is not only a national security issue but boosts  domestic manufacturing. Many steel workers in the steel industry in my  district rely on our ability to combat unfair trade practices from  China and elsewhere that flood our markets with heavily subsidized and  cheaply made products.

Mr. Speaker, we must have a more surgical and sector-based approach  toward our trade policies; or we will continue to see job loss in the  manufacturing sector, rising costs at the grocery store, and long- lasting impacts on our economy.

I will continue to work across the aisle to find middle ground to  make sure we support our working families and that we lower the costs  to live in northwest Indiana, in Indiana, and the United States.

Mr. Speaker, it is our responsibility to create domestic  manufacturing that creates jobs so those individuals can have a  healthcare policy and so those individuals can have an economy that  grows and works for them. Again, I thank Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur for  leading us today.