Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694858/energy-and-water-development-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Chair, I thank Ranking Member Kaptur, Chairman  Fleischmann, and all the staff for their thoughtful and dedicated  efforts in the drafting of this measure.

Recently, I joined constituents in Indiana's Lowell Labor Day parade,  in Laborers' Local 81's summer picnic in Valparaiso, and an  Ironworkers' picnic and bingo in Crown Point. The issue at the top of  everyone's mind is the rising cost of their utility bills.

I choose to serve on Appropriations' Energy and Water Development and  Related Agencies Subcommittee because I believe that energy and water  will be two of the greatest challenges for our national security and  economic stability in the years ahead.

I understand the role of the Indiana State regulators, but I also  believe that the Federal Government and this bill have a role to  promote the availability of a variety of energy resources in order to  drive down costs.

The Department of Energy has a critical role in conducting research  in energy innovation, including for wind, solar, and nuclear, and also  to ensure that we maximize the efficiency of all of our energy sources,  including oil, gas, and coal. More efficient energy production means  lower prices.

It is deeply disappointing that this measure follows the  administration's lead to abandon the transformational projects like the  hydrogen hub in my district. Industry, the USW, the building trades,  other labor organizations, along with communities throughout my  district, were planning for and relying on massive economic development  investments, only to see this project undermined because the Republican  majority's tax and investment policy is now: Do not invest in our  future but, rather, give more handouts to the privileged, wealthy, and  few at the expense of the working class.

Let's be clear. The Federal Government should be building, not  blocking projects that strengthen our economy, lower costs, and create  American jobs.

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to reject this legislation and,  instead, work in a bipartisan manner to promote long-term economic  prosperity in our communities.