Recognizing Mrs. Mary Edith Brown Coleman's 109th Birthday


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699981/recognizing-mrs-mary-edith-brown-colemans-109th-birthday


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great respect that I rise to  congratulate Mrs. Mary Edith Brown Coleman as she celebrates her 109th  birthday on February 13, 2026. Edith will gather with her friends and  family in Schererville to commemorate this significant milestone.

Edith Brown was born on February 13, 1917, in Muskogee, Oklahoma. She  was one of four children born to Luther Albert Brown and Dora Rozolia  Draper Brown. Her family went on to live in Kansas City, Kansas, and  after her parents passed Edith moved to the south side of Chicago,  Illinois, to live with her aunt. In 1940, Edith met her husband, the  late William Henry Coleman, and relocated to Gary's Midtown  neighborhood.

Edith is an accomplished scholar, having earned both a Bachelor of  Science and Master of Science in education at Indiana University in  Bloomington. After graduating, Edith pursued a career in the teaching  profession where she went on to enrich the lives of thousands of young  minds. For over 27 years, Edith taught students at Frederick Douglass  Elementary School. She also helped connect students with scholarships  through her involvement with the Women's Association of the Northwest  Indiana Symphony Society and the American Association of University  Women.

Outside of the classroom, Edith is an active member of the Gary  community, holding memberships in the Red Hat Society and the Sigma  Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. She is well known for her involvement with her  church, the First Church of God in Gary. In 2023, Edith was recognized  by the First Church of God in Gary for her lifetime of dedicated  service to the community. For over seven decades Edith has served her  church in several roles, including teaching Sunday School, serving as  Director of the Daily Vacation Bible School, holding memberships in the  local and national Missionary Societies, singing in the church choir,  serving as a deaconess, and teaching a manners class for young  children.

Mr. Speaker, Edith has always given her time and efforts selflessly  to the youth and the community in Northwest Indiana throughout her  illustrious life. For her dedication to academic success and her  commitment to empowering youth with the skills and knowledge to thrive,  Edith is worthy of the highest praise. Mr. Speaker, I respectfully ask  that you and my other distinguished colleagues join me in wishing Mary  Edith Brown Coleman a very happy 109th birthday.