Recognizing Women's History Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700349/recognizing-womens-history-month


Mr. MRVAN. Mr. Speaker, it is with great respect and sincere  admiration that I rise to celebrate Women's History Month and its 2026  theme--Leading the Change: Women Shaping a Sustainable Future. This  year's theme honors the women who are reimagining and rebuilding  systems to ensure long-term sustainability and create a future that is  rooted in equity, justice, and opportunity for all.

As we celebrate women who have dedicated their lives to shaping a  more sustainable future, I would like to recognize the extraordinary  women whose vision and leadership shaped one of Northwest Indiana's  most enduring conservation organizations. Save the Dunes was founded by  Dorothy Buell in her Ogden Dunes home in 1952, a time when women rarely  centered in public policy debates. The group, composed of all women,  was committed to preserving the Indiana Dunes within the protective  boundaries of a National Park. What began as a living room conversation  grew into a national grassroots movement that ultimately led to the  creation of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, now the Indiana Dunes  National Park.

Many extraordinary women joined Dorothy in shaping Save the Dunes,  including the organization's first Executive Director, Charlotte Read,  who led efforts for the park's first successful expansion bill. Lee  Botts brought national attention to the importance of protecting the  Great Lakes. Sylvia Troy and Ruth Osann defended the dunes from intense  development pressures and mobilized community members for key advocacy  campaigns during pivotal moments in the organization's history.

Over 70 years later, Save the Dunes remains a women-led organization,  which is a testament to the enduring leadership of women in  conservation. Presidents including Susan MiHalo, Melli Hoppe, Dorreen  Carey, and Nancy Moldenhauer have guided the organization through  periods of growth and strategic impact. Executive Directors, including  Nicole Barker, Natalie Johnson, and Betsy Maher, have strengthened its  role as a leading partner to the Indiana Dunes National Park, expanded  habitat restoration initiatives, deepened community engagement, and  advanced environmental advocacy across Northwest Indiana. Today, women  serve in professional staff roles and as members of the Board of  Directors, guiding governance and strategy. For  their environmental stewardship and generational leadership, the women  who volunteered their time and efforts to the Save the Dunes  organization are worthy of the highest praise.

Mr. Speaker, I ask you and my other distinguished colleagues to join  me in celebrating Women's History Month and recognizing the women of  Save the Dunes, who continue to shape a more sustainable future for  Northwest Indiana and our Nation.