Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700497/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, in 1979, the Islamic Revolution began, and a dark veil  of terror descended upon the Middle East. Since then, Iran has operated  as the nucleus to the world's most dangerous terror network.

When the withdrawal from Afghanistan set the world on fire, the  regime grew even more emboldened, fanning the flames of chaos and  violence beyond its borders. From that moment onward, China, Russia,  and Iran have been locked together in an unholy alliance which seeks to  destroy Western values and upend the global balance of power.

Iran has played a key role in these malign efforts, arming Russia  with lethal drones to massacre Ukrainians and fueling China's military  machine through illicit sales of oil. Its terror proxies, Hamas,  Houthis, and Hezbollah, have sown terror and instability across the  world.

This is a regime that values martyrdom over prosperity and chaos over  peace. From their legacy of American bloodshed in Beirut and the USS  Cole to harboring terrorists after 9/11, to backing Hamas' unprovoked  October 7 attacks that killed 46 Americans, a regime this murderous can  never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

Thanks to President Trump and Operation Epic Fury, the dark shroud  that covered the Middle East for nearly five decades has now been  lifted. The people of Iran, who have suffered so greatly at the hands  of the ayatollah, finally have a chance for freedom.

This is a historic moment, one that could finally put the Middle East  on the path to peace. In my judgment, Iran's decision to hit our  partners was a severe miscalculation, turning the Gulf nations against  Iran. Meanwhile, the regime's so-called allies, Russia and China, have  abandoned Iran. Iran is isolated and now an island. Normalization  between Israel and the Arab nations, as envisioned in the Abraham  Accords, is now at hand.

Despite these truths, Congressional Democrats are seeking to force  President Trump to halt Epic Fury mid-operation, risking the objectives  of this critical mission, solely for political purposes.

Now is not the time to tie the hands of our Commander in Chief, and  it is also not the time to hold up DHS funding.

Even before Operation Epic Fury, the threat landscape was at an all- time  high. President Biden's open border allowed more than 700 Iranian  nationals to enter our country and more than 18,000 known or suspected  terrorists.

As former chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, I know all  too well how sleeper cells can execute foreign-inspired or foreign- directed acts of terrorism within our borders.

I have already seen that happen in my hometown of Austin, where three  people were tragically killed over the weekend at the hands of a  terrorist.

Operation Epic Fury confronts this threat head-on, severing the  tentacles Iran has wrapped around the globe to strangle peace and  spread terror.

The ayatollah's reign of terror began with weak leadership from  President Carter. It will end with strong leadership from President  Trump.

This War Powers Resolution is ill-timed and ill-advised. Congress  must stand with the President and our military to finally close once  and for all this dark chapter of history and pave the way for lasting  peace.