Mikaela Naylon Give Kids A Chance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697274/mikaela-naylon-give-kids-a-chance-act


Mr. McCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my dear friend from Georgia (Mr.  Carter) for those kind words. I thank Chairman Guthrie, Gus Bilirakis,  Mr. Pallone, and, especially, Chairwoman Dingell for their steadfast  advocacy for these kids. I can't think of anything more important in my  22 years.

As chairman of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I host a yearly childhood  cancer summit. Mrs. Dingell is a co-chair. It is a time for pediatric  cancer patients, survivors, and advocates to rally together around  these precious children, the most precious thing we have, and to spread  hope to them.

Each year, I meet a child who impacts me in a very strong way. This  year, I was blessed to get to know this beautiful, beautiful young  woman by the name of Mikaela Naylon. I could see in her eyes that she  was at the height of her struggle with cancer. It took so much strength  for her to come to the summit, but she believed that she was meant to  be there. She wanted her presence and her voice to help shape our  policies and change our world for the better.

We got her into a joint clinical trial at MD Anderson and Texas  Children's Hospital, but, unfortunately, it was too late. She had to be  put on a ventilator 3 weeks after our summit, and she passed away.

As Congresswoman Dingell mentioned, we sent videos to her to remind  her of how important she is. In her final moments on this Earth, I  reached out to her and told her that her story would not be forgotten  and that her legacy would continue to help thousands of other children.  I wanted her to know that her impact would outlive all of us.

Mr. Speaker, today, in her honor, the United States Congress will  vote on the Mikaela Naylon Give Kids a Chance Act.

Mr. Speaker, 16 years ago, I founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus  because I saw that children with cancer did not have a voice here in  Washington. We cared about adult treatments, but no one was paying  attention to the precious children who are battling this heartbreaking  disease. In fact, they called it rare orphan diseases.

Since then, we have made a change for the better, and today is proof  of that. Put simply, this bill gives kids the same chance to beat  cancer that adults already have.

Right now, thousands of successful drug combination therapies are  being studied and developed for adults, but not for children. The Give  Kids a Chance Act will change that. It authorizes the FDA to direct  companies to study those same drugs and therapies in children, as well.

It will also reauthorize my Creating Hope Reauthorization Act, which  created a pediatric review voucher program within the FDA. It was the  first-ever market incentive for pharmaceutical companies to develop  childhood cancer treatments. Prior to that, there were none.

Since its inception in 2012, 63 vouchers have been awarded for  treatments of at least 39 different rare pediatric diseases, 36 of  which previously had no FDA-approved treatments. These diseases  typically lead to death before a child can reach adulthood, but not  anymore.

A dear friend of mine, Dr. Allison from MD Anderson in my home State  of Texas, was able to use this voucher program to obtain FDA approval  for a treatment called CAR-T immunotherapy. He received the Nobel Prize  in medicine for it, and this voucher program had everything to do with  the FDA approval of it. This breakthrough treatment could change  everything, and it has changed everything, not just for kids with  cancer, but also for many adults.

This bill will keep this successful voucher program going for another  5 years, fueling more innovation and more hope for children and  families who desperately need it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank all of my friends on the Committee on Energy and  Commerce--I am not on the committee--who helped me get this bill done.  I also want to recognize the childhood cancer survivors who are in the  gallery today.

With 313 cosponsors, this bill has the most bipartisan support in  Congress, and that is because there is nothing political about a child  with cancer. There is nothing more important than saving the lives of  the next generation.

My prayers remain with Mikaela's family, and we are honored to have  them here with us today: her mother, Kassandra; her father, Doug; and  her brother, Ayden. I thank them for sharing Mikaela's beautiful story  with us.

Mikaela represents all the children who have suffered with this  heartbreaking disease. After meeting with many of them over all of  these years, I can tell you these kids are tougher and more resilient  than any adult I have ever seen, and they are truly my biggest  inspiration. Many survive, but many don't, and that needs to change.  Losing these kids has been the hardest part of my career over 22 years.

Today, I am encouraged because Mikaela's legacy and all of their  legacies, all those who have died and survived this horrible disease,  will live on in this bill forever.

Mr. Speaker, it is rare in this place that you can pass a bill that  will end up saving children's lives. I can think of nothing more  important.

I urge my colleagues to do right by our children and pass the Mikaela  Naylon Give Kids a Chance Act without delay.