Mobilizing and Enhancing Georgia's Options for Building Accountability, Resilience, and Independence Act


Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill  (H.R. 36) to counter the influence of the Chinese Communist Party, the  Iranian Regime, and the Russian Federation in the nation of Georgia.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 36

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Mobilizing and Enhancing       Georgia's Options for Building Accountability, Resilience,       and Independence Act'' or the ``MEGOBARI Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives; and

(D) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives.

(2) NATO.--The term ``NATO'' means the North Atlantic       Treaty Organization.

(3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of State.       SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that--

(1) the progress made by the people of Georgia in forging       an innovative and productive society since the country's       independence from the Soviet Union should be applauded;

(2) the consolidation of democracy in Georgia is critical       for regional stability and United States national interests;

(3) Georgia has seen significant democratic backsliding in       recent years, as evidenced by numerous independent       assessments and measures;

(4) the current Georgian government is increasingly hostile       towards independent domestic civil society and its chief       Euro-Atlantic partners while increasingly embracing enhanced       ties with the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of       China, and other anti-Western authoritarian regimes;

(5) the United States has an interest in protecting and       securing democracy in Georgia; and

(6) the Secretary should suspend the United States-Georgia       Strategic Partnership Commission, established through the       United States-Georgia Charter on Strategic Partnership on       January 9, 2009, until after the Government of Georgia takes       measures--

(A) to represent the democratic wishes of the citizens of       Georgia; and

(B) to uphold its constitutional obligation to advance the       country towards membership in the European Union and NATO.       SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States--

(1) to support the constitutionally stated aspirations of       Georgia to become a member of the European Union and NATO,       which is made clear under Article 78 of the Constitution of       Georgia and is supported by the overwhelming majority of the       citizens of Georgia;

(2) to continue supporting the capacity of the Government       of Georgia to protect its sovereignty and territorial       integrity from further Russian aggression or encroachment       within its internationally recognized borders;

(3) to call on all political parties and elected Members of       the Parliament of Georgia to continue working on addressing       the reform plan outlined by the European Commission to resume       Georgia's recently granted candidate status through an       inclusive and transparent consultation process that involves       opposition parties and civil society organizations, which the       people of Georgia have freely elected to pursue;

(4) to reevaluate its relationship with the Government of       Georgia and review all forms of foreign and security       assistance made available to the Government if it takes the       required steps--

(A) to reorient itself toward its European Union accession       agenda; and

(B) to advance policy or legislation reflecting the express       wishes of the Georgian people;

(5) to emphasize the importance of contributing to       international efforts--

(A) to combat Russian aggression, including through       sanctions on trade with Russia and the implementation and       enforcement of worldwide sanctions on Russia; and

(B) to reduce, rather than increase, trade ties between       Georgia and Russia;

(6) to continue supporting the ongoing development of       democratic values in Georgia, including free and fair       elections, freedom of association, an independent and       accountable judiciary, an independent media, public-sector       transparency and accountability, the rule of law, countering       malign influence, and anti-corruption efforts and to impose       swift consequences on individuals who are directly       responsible for leading or have directly and knowingly       engaged in leading actions of policies that significantly       undermine those standards;

(7) to continue to support the Georgian people and civil       society organizations that reflect the aspirations of the       Georgian people for democracy and a future with the people of       Europe;

(8) to continue supporting the right of the Georgian people       to freely engage in peaceful protest, determine their future,       and make independent and sovereign choices on foreign and       security policy, including regarding Georgia's relationship       with other countries and international organizations, without       interference, intimidation, or coercion by other countries or       those acting on their behalf;

(9) to call on all political parties, elected Members of       the Parliament of Georgia, and officers of the Ministry of       Internal Affairs of Georgia to respect the freedoms of       peaceful assembly, association, and expression, including for       the press, and the rule of law, and encourage a vibrant and       inclusive civil society;

(10) to call on the Government of Georgia to release all       persons detained or imprisoned on politically motivated       grounds and drop any pending charges against them;

(11) to call on the Government of Georgia to thoroughly       investigate all allegations emerging from the recent national       elections, which took place on October 2024, make a       determination whether the elections should be judged as       illegitimate and hold those responsible for interference in       the elections; and

(12) to continue impressing upon the Government of Georgia       that the United States is committed to sustaining and       deepening bilateral relations and supporting Georgia's Euro-      Atlantic aspirations.       SEC. 5. REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS.

(a) Report on Russian Intelligence Assets in Georgia.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in       coordination with the Director of National Intelligence and       the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to the appropriate       committees of Congress a classified report, prepared       consistent with the protection of sources and methods,       examining the penetration of Russian intelligence elements       and their assets in Georgia, that includes an annex examining       Chinese influence and the potential intersection of Russian-      Chinese cooperation in Georgia.

(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this section,       the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the       Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and the       Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives, the Permanent Select Committee on       Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the       Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.

(b) 5-Year United States Strategy for Bilateral Relations       With Georgia.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the       Administrator of the United States Agency for International       Development, in coordination with the heads of other relevant       Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the       appropriate congressional committees a detailed strategy       that--

(A) outlines specific objectives for enhancing bilateral       ties which reflect the current domestic political environment       in Georgia;

(B) includes a determination of the tools, resources, and       funding that should be available to achieve the objectives       outlined pursuant to paragraph (1) and an assessment whether       Georgia should remain the second-highest recipient of United       States funding in the Europe and Eurasia region;

(C) includes a determination of the extent to which the       United States should continue to invest in its partnership       with Georgia;

(D) includes a plan for how the United States can continue       to support civil society and independent media organizations       in Georgia; and

(E) includes a determination whether the Government of       Georgia remains committed to expanding trade ties with the       United States and Europe and whether the United States       Government should continue to invest in Georgian projects.

(2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be       submitted in unclassified form, with a classified annex.       SEC. 6. SANCTIONS.

(a) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Admission; admitted; alien.--The terms ``admission'',       ``admitted'', and ``alien'' have the meanings given such       terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act       (8 U.S.C. 1101).

(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(B) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of       the Senate;

(C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;

(D) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives;

(E) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of       Representatives; and

(F) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of       Representatives.

(3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means any       individual or entity that is not a United States person.

(4) Immediate family members.--The term ``immediate family       members'' has the meaning given the term ``immediate       relatives'' in section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Immigration and       Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(b)(2)(A)(i)).

(5) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to       conduct, a circumstance, or a       result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should       have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

(6) Unites states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means--

(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted       for permanent residence to the United States;

(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity; or

(C) any person within the United States.

(b) Inadmissibility of Officials of Government of Georgia       and Certain Other Individuals Involved in Blocking Euro-      Atlantic Integration.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall determine       whether each of the following foreign persons has knowingly       engaged in significant acts of corruption, or acts of       violence or intimidation in relation to the blocking of Euro-      Atlantic integration in Georgia:

(A) Any individual who, on or after January 1, 2014, has       served as a member of the Parliament of the Government of       Georgia or as a current or former senior official of a       Georgian political party.

(B) Any individual who is serving as an official in a       leadership position working on behalf of the Government of       Georgia, including law enforcement, intelligence, judicial,       or local or municipal government.

(C) An immediate family member of an official described in       subparagraph (A) or a person described in subparagraph (B)       who benefitted from the conduct of such official or person.

(2) Sanctions.--The President shall impose the sanctions       described in subsection (d)(2) with respect to each foreign       person with respect to which the President has made an       affirmative decision under paragraph (1).

(3) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the       appropriate committees of Congress with respect to--

(A) any foreign person with respect to which the President       has made an affirmative determination under paragraph (1);       and

(B) the specific facts that justify each such affirmative       determination.

(4) Waiver.--The President may waive imposition of       sanctions under this subsection on a case-by-case basis if       the President determines and reports to the appropriate       committees of Congress that--

(A) such waiver would serve national security interests; or

(B) the circumstances which caused the individual to be       ineligible have sufficiently changed.

(c) Imposition of Sanctions With Respect to Undermining       Peace, Security, Stability, Sovereignty or Territorial       Integrity of Georgia.--

(1) In general.--The President may impose the sanctions       described in subsection (d)(1) and shall impose the sanctions       described in subsection (d)(2) with respect to each foreign       person the President determines, on or after the date of the       enactment of this Act--

(A) is responsible for, complicit in, or has directly or       indirectly engaged in or attempted to engage in, actions or       policies, including ordering, controlling, or otherwise       directing acts that are intended to undermine the peace,       security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of       Georgia;

(B) is or has been a leader or official of an entity that       has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity described       in subparagraph (A); or

(C) is an immediate family member of a person subject to       sanctions for conduct described in subparagraph (A) or (B)       and benefitted from the conduct of such person.

(2) Brief and written notification.--Not later than 10 days       after imposing sanctions on a foreign person or persons       pursuant to this subsection, the President shall brief and       provide written notification to the appropriate committees of       Congress regarding the imposition of such sanctions, which       shall describe--

(A) the foreign person or persons subject to the imposition       of such sanctions;

(B) the activity justifying the imposition of such       sanctions; and

(C) the specific sanctions imposed on such foreign person       or persons.

(3) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       sanctions under this subsection with respect to a foreign       person for renewable periods not to exceed 180 days if, not       later than 15 days before the date on which such waiver is to       take effect, the President submits to the appropriate       committees of Congress a written determination and       justification that the waiver is in the national security       interests of the United States.

(d) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following with respect to a foreign person       described in subsection (b) or (c), as applicable:

(1) Blocking of property.--Notwithstanding the requirements       under section 202 of the International Emergency Economic       Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701), the President shall exercise all       authorities granted under the International Emergency       Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent       necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in property       and interests in property of the foreign person if such       property and interests in property are in the United States,       come within the United States, or are or come within the       possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--

(A) Visas, admission, or parole.--A foreign person that is       an alien shall be--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to       enter the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--The foreign person shall be       subject to the following:

(i) Revocation of any visa or other entry documentation       regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is       or was issued.

(ii) A revocation under clause (i) shall take effect       immediately and automatically cancel any other valid visa or       entry documentation that is in the foreign person's       possession.

(e) Implementation; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702       and 1704) to carry out this section.

(2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to       violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of       subsection (d)(2)(A) or any regulation, license, or order       issued under that subsection shall be subject to the       penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206       of the International Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to       the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act       described in subsection (a) of that section.

(3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this Act, or any       amendment made by this Act, may be construed to limit the       authority of the President to designate or sanction persons       pursuant to an applicable Executive order or otherwise       pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act       (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

(f) Rulemaking.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall prescribe such       regulations as are necessary for the implementation of this       section.

(2) Notification to congress.--Not later than 10 days       before prescribing regulations pursuant to paragraph (1), the       President shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress       of the proposed regulations and the provisions of this       section that the regulations are implementing.

(g) Sanctions With Respect to Broader Corruption in       Georgia.--

(1) Determination.--The President shall determine whether       there are foreign persons who, on or after the date of the       enactment of this Act, have engaged in significant corruption       in Georgia or acts that are intended to undermine the peace,       security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of       Georgia for the purposes of potential imposition of sanctions       pursuant to powers granted to the President under the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701       et seq.).

(2) Report.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit a       report to the appropriate committees of Congress that--

(i) identifies all foreign persons the President has       determined, pursuant to this subsection, have engaged in       significant corruption in Georgia or committed acts that are       intended to undermine the peace, security, stability,       sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Georgia;

(ii) the dates on which sanctions were imposed; and

(iii) the reasons for imposing such sanctions.

(B) Form.--The report required under subparagraph (A) shall       be provided in unclassified form, but may include a       classified annex.

(h) Termination of Sanctions.--Any sanctions imposed on a       foreign person pursuant to this section shall terminate on       the earlier of--

(1) the date on which the President certifies to the       appropriate committees of Congress that the foreign person is       no longer engaging in the activities that led to the       imposition of such sanction; or

(2) the sunset date described in section 7.

(i) Exceptions.--

(1) Definitions.--In this section:

(A) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural       commodity'' has the meaning given such term in section 102 of       the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).

(B) Good.--The term ``good'' means any article, natural or       man-made substance, material, supply, or manufactured       product, including inspection and test equipment and       excluding technical data.

(C) Medical device.--The term ``medical device'' has the       meaning given the term ``device'' in section 201 of the       Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

(D) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the meaning given       the term ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug,       and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

(2) Exceptions.--

(A) Exception relating to intelligence activities.--      Sanctions under this section shall not apply to--

(i) any activity subject to the reporting requirements       under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.       3091 et seq.); or

(ii) any authorized intelligence activities of the United       States.

(B) Exception to comply with international obligations.--      Sanctions under this section shall not apply with respect to       a foreign person if admitting or paroling the person into the       United States is necessary to permit the United States to       comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the       United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and       entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United       Nations and the United States, or other applicable       international obligations.

(C) Humanitarian assistance.--Sanctions under this section       shall not apply to--

(i) the conduct or facilitation of a transaction for the       provision of agricultural commodities, food, medicine,       medical devices, or humanitarian assistance, or for       humanitarian purposes; or

(ii) transactions that are necessary for, or related to,       the activities described in paragraph (1).

(j) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--The       requirement to block and prohibit all transactions in all       property and interests in property under this section shall       not include the authority or a requirement to impose       sanctions on the importation of goods.       SEC. 7. ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE WITH RESPECT TO GEORGIA.

(a) In General.--Upon submission to Congress of the       certification described in subsection (c)--

(1) the Secretary of State, in consultation with other       heads of other relevant Federal departments and agencies,       should seek to further enhance people-to-people contacts and       academic exchanges between the United States and Georgia; and

(2) the President, in consultation with the Secretary of       Defense, should maintain, and as appropriate, expand military       co-operation with Georgia, including by providing further       security and defense equipment ideally suited for territorial       defense against Russian aggression and related training,       maintenance, and operations support elements.

(b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that,       after the submission of the certification described in       subsection (c) should the Georgian government take steps to       re-align itself with its Euro-Atlantic agenda, including       significant changes to the foreign influence law, the       President should take steps to improve the bilateral       relationship between the United States and Georgia, including       actions to bolster Georgia's ability to deter threats from       Russia and other malign actors.

(c) Certification Described.--The certification described       in this subsection is a certification submitted to Congress       by the President that Georgia has shown significant and       sustained progress towards reinvigorating its democracy and       advancing its Euro-Atlantic integration.       SEC. 8. SUNSET.

This Act shall cease to have any force or effect beginning       on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment       of this Act.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, the Republic of Georgia was once a prime contender for  NATO and an ally of the United States, especially following Russia's  2008 invasion. The United States benefited from military and  intelligence cooperation, and the Georgian people are well known for  their pro-American sentiment.

Unfortunately, our bilateral relationship with Georgia has been  eroded by the ruling Georgian Dream party's moves that mimic Russia's  authoritarian tactics, as well as their rapprochement with China and  Iran.

The opportunities provided by a pro-Western, democratic Georgia are  manifest. Georgia's strategic location on the Black Sea makes it a  pivotal nation for trade through the Middle Corridor to Central Asia  and can be a counterbalance to Iranian and Russian influence in the  region.

I support this bipartisan bill introduced by Mr. Wilson because it  takes an America-first approach to the Republic of Georgia. This bill  will impose sanctions on regime officials for their roles in  undermining Georgia's sovereignty and pro-Western trajectory, as well  as review our bilateral relationship, including assistance programs,  and require a report that spotlights Russian intelligence actions in  Georgia.

However, this bill also provides Georgia with an alternative. Once  the President certifies that Georgia has returned to its pro-Western  trajectory, it promises enhanced people-to-people ties, military  cooperation, and encourages an improved bilateral relationship.

The United States should reward partners for good behavior. This bill  is not an attack on the Georgian people. It seeks to support them by  punishing rogue officials who are taking them further away from the  United States.

The House Committee on Foreign Affairs favorably marked up a version  of this bill during the last Congress, where it passed with a strong  majority, and I expect it will receive similar support today.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this pragmatic  approach to foreign policy and support this measure, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from  South Carolina (Mr. Wilson), the sponsor of this legislation.

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman Brian  Mast for yielding and thank him for his leadership on behalf of the  American people.

Madam Speaker, I am grateful for the bipartisan endorsement of this  legislation. It is bipartisan with Republican and Democratic support  and bicameral with Senate and House support of the MEGOBARI bill, which  promotes the brave people of the Republic of Georgia.

For more than 155 days, the freedom-loving people of Georgia have  peacefully taken to the streets in defense of the future and soul of  their nation. They drape themselves in the flags of the United States  and carry posters of our President, Donald Trump, as an indication of  their love and affection for freedom and democracy.

Their will is clear: They will not allow the illegal regime of  corrupt Bidzina Ivanishvili to drive their country into ruin and be  dependent on the failed Soviet Union.

Georgia is a Black Sea nation that has always prized its hard-won  freedom. Sadly, the will of the people is being subverted by the  illegitimate Georgian Dream regime, an American-hating Mafia cabal that  seeks to sell the country to U.S. adversaries, including the Chinese  Communist Party, practically giving away a port on the Black Sea that  should be for the people of Georgia.

They are also subservient to the regime in Tehran, who we know  launched attacks against Israel just yesterday; and war criminal Putin,  who seeks to indeed make the people of Georgia subservient.

The Georgian people are among the bravest and most pro-American in  the world. I have had the opportunity, with three of my sons serving  with Georgian troops across the world in Afghanistan and Iraq, to see  how brave and capable the troops of Georgia are. Georgian troops have  fought alongside American troops in the global war on terrorism and had  no limits on the assignments that they would undertake bravely and  competently.

In 2020, I was grateful to lead the Republican Study Committee  national security report under then-chairman and now Speaker   Mike  Johnson calling for sanctions on Ivanishvili. Republicans saw the  threat then posed by this thug and his cronies.

Georgian Dream has moved swiftly to criminalize the association with  America since the election of October 2026. It rejected bids by  American companies for construction of their strategic deep-sea port to  the Chinese Communist Party. Every major building contract, over $100  million in U.S. dollars, has been awarded to the Chinese Communist  Party or affiliated companies or state-owned companies of the Chinese  Communist Party.

This blocks America from the Middle Corridor and cuts off land access  to critical minerals in Central Asia, which, additionally, want to be  friends of America and friends of Western civilization. The regime  peddles in daily anti-American propaganda accusing top officials of the  United States Government, including President Trump and the very  appreciated Senate Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Jim Risch, of  corruption and acting as tools of the deep state.

In fact, just last week, there was a statement by government  officials that Donald Trump was a tool of the deep state.

As the Trump administration State Department's spokesman, Tammy  Bruce, said:

``Regarding continuing anti-democratic actions taken by the Georgian  Dream government--as Vice President Vance said in Munich, you cannot  win a democratic mandate by censoring your opponents or putting them in  jail, nor can you win one by disregarding your basic electorate on  questions like who gets to be a part of our shared society.''

This bill provides for sanctions against Georgian Dream thugs for  their illegal actions, and it also provides for stronger bilateral ties  after confirmation of Georgia's return to adherence to its  constitution.

Madam Speaker, I urge support for this legislation for the mutual  benefit of the people of Georgia and the people of the United States.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio  (Mr. Davidson).

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I firmly believe that every country in the world  should choose the United States of America as their first partner and  our allies over dictatorships like Russia and China. It is essential  that these countries walk the walk.

American largesse will not be taken advantage of by those who accuse  the United States of being part of a global war party or the global  deep state.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this measure and stand  with the people of Georgia and an America-first foreign policy, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.