No Dollars to Uyghur Forced Labor Act


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1724) to prohibit the use of funds supporting any activities  within the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People's Republic  of China, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1724

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``No Dollars to Uyghur Forced       Labor Act''.       SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS SUPPORTING ANY ACTIVITIES                     WITHIN THE XINJIANG UYGHUR AUTONOMOUS REGION OF                     THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

(a) In General.--No funds authorized to be appropriated to       the Department of State or the United States Agency for       International Development may be used to develop, design,       plan, promulgate, implement, or execute a policy, program, or       contract that knowingly uses goods, wares, articles, or       merchandise mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in       part in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People's       Republic of China or produced by a covered entity, unless       such activity is specifically authorized pursuant to       subsection (b).

(b) Specific Authorization.--The Secretary of State may       specifically authorize an activity otherwise prohibited by       subsection (a) if--

(1) the Secretary--

(A) obtains in writing an assurance from the relevant       program partner, implementor, or contractor that such       partner, implementor, or contractor--

(i) will not use goods, wares, articles, or merchandise       mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the PRC with respect to       the program; and

(ii) will develop a system to ensure compliance with the       requirements in subsection (a); and

(B) provides notice to the Chair and Ranking Member of the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives       and the Chair and Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign       Relations of the Senate not later than 15 days before       authorizing the activity; and

(2) the activity is not otherwise prohibited.

(c) Report.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives       and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report       on an annual basis for three years that describes--

(1) all activities prohibited by subsection (a) that were       carried out in violation of such prohibition and not       specifically authorized pursuant to subsection (b) in the       previous year;

(2) any challenges in enforcing the requirements of this       section; and

(3) a plan to improve enforcement of the requirements of       this section.

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) The term ``covered entity'' means an entity listed       pursuant to clause (i), (ii), (iv), or (v) of section       2(d)(2)(B) of Public Law 117-78 (135 Stat. 1527) under the       strategy developed by section 2(c) of such Public Law 117-78.

(2) The term ``forced labor'' has the meaning given that       term in section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.       1307).

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of the No Dollars to  Uyghur Forced Labor Act.

The Chinese Communist Party is carrying out a campaign of genocide  against Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang.

The evidence, documented by human rights organizations, journalists,  and survivors, is overwhelming: over a million people detained,  families torn apart, entire communities forced into labor in factories  that feed global supply chains. Some of those goods end up right here  in the United States on our shelves and in our homes.

The No Dollars to Uyghur Forced Labor Act makes one principle clear:  Not a single American taxpayer dollar should be used to purchase goods,  raw materials, or services tainted by Uyghur forced labor.

It ensures that Federal contracts, programs, and policies only go to  companies that can certify their supply chains are free from this  abuse.

American consumers should not be complicit in human rights  violations. American businesses should not profit from forced labor,  and our government, our tax dollars, must never enable oppression.

Mr. Speaker, I urge strong support, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, this bill, this debate, and previous bills send a clear  message to the Chinese Communist Party and to the world, the United  States does not turn a blind eye to China's atrocities. I thank the  gentleman from Texas (Mr. Moran) for his leadership.

We must pass this bill and say with one voice: Not one more dollar.

I urge my colleagues to pass this bill, and I yield back the balance  of my time.