Relating to A National Emergency By the President on February 2025


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the order of the House of February  10, 2026, I call up the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) relating to a  national emergency by the President on February 1, 2025, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

Mr. Speaker, we are about to have a debate apparently for about an  hour. We are going to have that debate for one reason and one reason  alone. Democrats in the House and in the Senate as well, refuse to  recognize that there is a crisis because of fentanyl entering the  United States of America.

Whether on our northern border, on our southern border, through the  Caribbean, or other places, they refuse to recognize that threat  anywhere. Specific to the debate today, they would like to end an  executive order relating to the crisis of fentanyl coming across our  northern border.

Democrats don't recognize that there is a crisis and that it is  killing thousands of Americans, tens of thousands of Americans, each  and every year. They are trying to literally end that executive order  that identifies the national emergency, an emergency that is literally  agreed upon by our northern neighbor, Canada. Even Canada acknowledges  that they have this as a national emergency.

Mr. Speaker, there is a lot to correct from that diatribe I just  heard. I am going to start to go through some of that.

Number one, who will pay the price? That was a question begged by my  colleague. Who will pay the price? It is a very sad thing to have been  asked this by my colleague.

It is important to remember what this resolution is. This resolution  ends an emergency related to fentanyl. I would say to the gentleman  over here that 5,000 people a year die in his State alone from  fentanyl.

If he wants to beg the question of who is going to pay the price for  him trying to end an emergency that actually for the first time has  Canada dealing with fentanyl because of the pressure being put on them,  who is going to pay the price? It is going to be 5,000 more of his  State's residents. That is who is going to pay the price.

I think the gentleman next to me mentioned as well, when he goes  home, this is what he sees when he goes home. When he goes home each  and every year, because they don't want to address fentanyl, they are  going to see 5,000 less faces because they don't want to deal with  fentanyl.

He said it himself. He sees no emergency. The ``so-called emergency''  were the exact words used, the so-called emergency. There is no  emergency that exists, to quote my colleague. If 5,000 people were  dying in my State every single year from one thing and one thing alone,  I think that is an emergency. His people will pay the price.

Let's be clear again about what this resolution is and what it is  not. It is not a debate about tariffs. We can talk about those, but  that is not really what it is. This is Democrats trying to ignore that  there is a fentanyl crisis. Again, they just ignored it. They just  literally said it doesn't exist.

I will read again directly from the bill: `` . . . the national  emergency declared by the finding of the President on February 1, 2025,  in Executive Order 14193 . . . is hereby terminated.''

That is their language. They are terminating the executive order, and  it is an EO on the fentanyl crisis at the northern border.

It matters to talk about that it is the northern border. Why? That is  because my Democratic colleagues don't believe that there is a crisis  there, but my Democratic colleagues don't believe there is a fentanyl  crisis under any circumstance. Any fentanyl that flows into the  country, they don't see any of it as a national emergency.

We have yet to find a place where Democrats say that drugs are a  national emergency. They made it clear that there is not one single  circumstance where they see the deaths of millions of Americans due to  fentanyl as a crisis. They don't see that anywhere.

Mr. Speaker, let's look again at my colleague's own State. This is a  report. Last report, almost 5,000 deaths, or just under that.

Mr. Speaker, we can talk about the largest fentanyl lab found in  Canada. Where was that found in Canada that was recently shut down  because of the pressure that President Trump is putting on Canada? It  was 30 miles from the New York border. They didn't close it down 2  years ago or 3 years ago. Why not? It was because Canada didn't have  the pressure put on them to do so. That is not a coincidence.

Mr. Speaker, again, do you know who is going to pay the price for  taking the pressure off of Canada? It is going to be  the constituents of my colleague, where 5,000 people a year die from  fentanyl overdose. If I were him, I would think that is a pretty big  emergency.

Mr. Speaker, I lost 2,500 brothers and sisters in Afghanistan over  the course of 20 years. Our country took that extremely seriously for  every single one of them. Mr. Meeks' State is losing double that from  fentanyl alone every single year, and he says that he sees no  emergency. That is sad for the people of New York.

The administration is doing everything that they can to defeat  fentanyl, while my Democratic colleagues are willing to do everything  that they can to have those deaths continue. They don't support  striking drug boats. We know that much. They don't support removing  cartel leaders. We know that. Apparently, they don't support tariffing  a country that acknowledges that they have a drug trafficking crisis  but weren't doing anything to fix it.

I am going to suspect that my colleague over here doesn't know this  as well: Last year, Justin Trudeau, former Prime Minister of Canada,  himself addressed the fentanyl problem and said that it needed to be  eradicated. That is the Prime Minister of Canada, or former Prime  Minister.

It was so bad that Canada created a fentanyl czar, who admitted that  they underestimated--Canada underestimated the toll of the fentanyl  crisis and what it had taken, and they literally called it, according  to the Canadian fentanyl czar, a national security threat.

The northern border, for whom this emergency exists, is acknowledging  that there is an emergency, a national security threat, but I guess my  colleagues think that they know better.

Mr. Speaker, take the Chinese-run fentanyl lab that I mentioned being  shut down, or one of them being shut down, of many. There was over 800  pounds of fentanyl confiscated. Why is it being shut down now and not  before? It is being shut down now because the administration had the  stones to put economic pressure on them, but my colleagues want to take  that pressure off because they don't worry about their people dying in  their State.

It is simple. Whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, if you care  about the U.S. Government responding to millions of Americans being  killed by fentanyl, this is the policy that addresses that. Even our  northern partner acknowledges that.

The truth is that Canada hasn't wanted to put effort into cracking  down on drugs. They didn't want to close the Chinese fentanyl labs.  They didn't want to increase their spending on border patrols, but they  have to do it because President Trump is putting pressure on them.

Tariffs get more attention than strongly worded letters, and millions  of Americans' lives are being saved because President Trump has  declared this national emergency and is actively forcing our neighbors,  like Canada, to act. It is saving lives.

My colleague wants to make sure that that no longer happens because  he doesn't see an emergency, even though 5,000 people from his State  are dying every single year. That is pretty sad. That is where the  price is paid.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, before I yield to my colleague, Mr. Issa, I  would ask my colleague--I am happy to yield a moment--would you like to  say 5,000 deaths in New York is an emergency?

Crickets.

Would you like to respond: 5,000 deaths in New York is an emergency.

Mr. MAST. Do you want to answer?

Mr. MAST. I gave you my speculation. It might have been making room  for Maduro.

Mr. MAST. We didn't have that talk, but he might be making room for  Maduro.

Mr. MAST. I asked you a question. Would you like to say 5,000 deaths  are an emergency in New York?

Mr. MAST. Can we engage in a colloquy? Is that something we can do?

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, then, in this colloquy, I would present the  opportunity again: Would my colleague like to deny or admit that 5,000  deaths in New York related to fentanyl is an emergency?

Mr. MAST. Much of it did. Would you like to hear some stats?

I am sorry, Mr. Speaker. I guess you need to direct your--

Mr. MAST. You have to direct your remarks to the Speaker.

Mr. MAST. I would point to just Canada, number one. Canada, in the  last year, had an additional 8,000 fentanyl-related arrests because  they finally started cracking down on it. There was an increase of 80  percent that was seized at the U.S.-Canada border because of the  actions taking place, so, yes, there were deaths going on in New York.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I am going to end this colloquy and reclaim my  time.

Mr. MAST. I note for the record, again, ample opportunities have been  given for my colleague, who represents New York, to just say 5,000  fentanyl-related deaths in New York is an emergency. Silence, crickets,  no response, because the death of 5,000 of his constituents apparently  means nothing to him.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Issa for his remarks,  and I believe there will be another Representative from California  speaking on the other side. I will be curious if that Representative  will acknowledge the thousands of deaths from fentanyl in California  being an emergency.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I would let my colleague know that just one-- because he said Canada plays almost no role in fentanyl deaths--one 70- pound bust of fentanyl alone was enough to kill every single person in  New York City. Again, my colleague is unwilling to acknowledge that  this is about fentanyl, because that is literally what the executive  order says, and unwilling to acknowledge that 5,000 deaths in his State  is an emergency, certainly in 1 year.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, it is amazing to me we are talking about the  deaths of thousands of Americans, tens of thousands of Americans, and  somebody is talking about wine. We are talking about the lives of tens  of thousands of Americans, and my colleagues are talking about wine.  Let's get some perspective here.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues should educate themselves on  what these tariffs are affecting. They are third-party goods coming in  from countries like China. I don't think they are growing much coffee  in Canada. They might want to look at the map and look at the  temperatures and where these items grow.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I am the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs  Committee. My colleague over here is the ranking member, the top  Democrat. It is important that when we use our voice, when we speak, we  speak accurately.

Number one, they refuse to speak about the fact that this bill is  about ending an emergency relating to a fentanyl crisis. Number two,  every single item that they like to talk about on tariffs and Canada  are literally items that are exempt from tariffs in Canada.

It is very important, certainly as one of 435 in the House of  Representatives, that you know what you are talking about. It is  especially important as the number two person on the Foreign Affairs  Committee that you know what you are talking about when you talk about  tariffs.

There are not Canada beef tariffs, not Canada potash tariffs or dairy  or food or grain or fertilizer. The list goes on and on. They mentioned  coffee I don't know how many times.

The only things that there are tariffs on are things that are coming  in from third-party countries into Canada and then coming into the  United States of America. If it is grown in Canada, there is not a  tariff on it. It is very important that my colleagues know that and  recognize that and speak accurately in the positions that they are in.

Mr. Speaker, I will go back to what this is about.

My colleagues say there is no emergency. In fact, my colleague Mr.  Meeks said that if you think there is a crisis, if you think this is an  emergency, then vote. Those were his words.

I think the only person on that side who might be able to change the  mind of Democrats is my colleague, Mr. Meeks, who is, again, unwilling  to acknowledge that the death of 5,000 people in his State from  fentanyl alone in 1 year is an emergency. He is unwilling to  acknowledge it.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to take the remainder of my time here, about  1 minute, and give my colleague the opportunity one last time to  correct the record for his New Yorkers.

Mr. MAST. Would my colleague like to say that 5,000 deaths aren't an  emergency?

Mr. MAST. Would my colleague like to say that 5,000 deaths are an  emergency? Five thousand deaths in his State in 1 year from fentanyl-- preventable. The President is doing everything he can to stop it with  drug boats, with the Caribbean, with the northern border, with the  southern border. Crickets. You could hear a pin drop in here. Not a  word from them.