Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the order of the House of December  16, 2025, I call up the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 61)  directing the President, pursuant to section 5(c) of the War Powers  Resolution, to remove United States Armed Forces from hostilities with  presidentially designated terrorist organizations in the Western  Hemisphere, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

Mr. Speaker, right now we have cartels operating in our backyard.  They are kidnapping Americans, extorting families, trafficking women  and children, and flooding our towns with fentanyl to maximize death  and addiction on American soil.

Someone tell me that I am wrong. I don't hear anything. Just look at  the images next to me. It is not photoshopped. None of this is new. It  is just new that it is being defeated by President Trump and brought to  an end by President Trump. This violence comes from the Sinaloa and  Jalisco cartels. It comes from Tren de Aragua, MS-13, and Cartel of the  Suns, headed by Nicolas Maduro, just to name a few.

The President has every bit of Article II authority to defend the  United States of America from these imminent threats. These cartels  that are doing this are an imminent threat. These cartels have tens of  thousands of members who wake up every day and see it as their sole  mission to flood the United States with lethal drugs. My Democrat  colleagues want to ignore that.

Sinaloa and Jalisco alone have 45,000 members combined. The Gulf  Cartel has 50,000 members. MS-13 has another 30,000. They are coming  across the Gulf constantly. Mr. Speaker, 365 days a year, 7 days a  week, they are coming to the United States of America with their  violence. That is the definition of ``imminent.''

These drug cartels are highly organized and militarized. They are  terrorist networks that have convinced my colleagues they are nothing  more than small street gangs.

They control territory, run armed convoys, use drones for  surveillance, and communicate through encrypted networks like the  military. They terrorize entire countries with extreme violence, and  they terrorize the United States of America and our people. They spread  carnage wherever they go, not just across the border but on our side of  the border, as well, right here in the United States of America.

Look at this morbid scene we will put up here. These two men are  about to be decapitated literally out in the open by the Gulf Cartel.  The tactics of these cartels are the same as those used by al-Qaida and  ISIS. These are terrorist networks. Some are given safe haven by  foreign governments. Others, like Tren de Aragua, take orders from  Nicolas Maduro. Americans have paid the price for it.

Laken Riley, a 22-year-old nursing student, was murdered in Georgia  by a confirmed member of Tren de Aragua. Claretha Daniels and Justin  Lawless were executed outside of their Bronx apartment by six Tren de  Aragua terrorists. These were neighbors of my ranking member.

Mr. Speaker, a 74-year-old American rancher was killed in  Brownsville, Texas, when his truck hit an IED planted by the cartel.  That is exactly the same kind of thing that took off my legs.

Democrats don't want the President to be able to defend America from  these terrorists. Even more tragic is the fact that nearly 80,000  Americans overdosed last year on fentanyl, cocaine, and other drugs  trafficked by cartels. Democrats don't want to protect us from that  either.

In fact, yesterday, after we had a classified briefing, the gentleman  on my left, the ranking member, went directly to the press to claim  that these strikes were not protecting America. He literally said that  these strikes were not stopping drugs. Everything that he said is very  easy for me to prove wrong.

Every drug boat sunk is literally drugs not coming to the United  States of America. Every narcoterrorist killed is an American life,  like Laken Riley or Claretha Daniels, saved. The threat is pressing,  and it is frequent.

In November, the Coast Guard announced it seized 510,000 pounds of  cocaine in the eastern Pacific and the Caribbean since the start of  2025. This is enough cocaine to harm nearly 170 million Americans.  Congressional authorization is not required to carry out precise,  limited strikes.

My colleagues did not object when prior Presidents conducted military  operations in Yemen and Libya and Syria, operations which were also  limited and successful.

This resolution is also reckless and poorly written. It prevents the  President from acting against any foreign terrorist organization in the  Western Hemisphere. Under this resolution, the President could strike  al-Qaida or ISIS in the Middle East. If those same terrorists came  across into the Western Hemisphere, they could be untouchable and free  to kill as many Americans as they want.

Democrats are not putting forward an authorized use of military  force, telling the President how to combat any of these issues.  Democrats are putting forward a resolution to say the President cannot  do anything about MS-13 or Tren de Aragua and every other cartel. That  is giving aid and comfort to narcoterrorists. That is ignoring an  imminent threat.

The cartels are relentless and ruthless. They have military  capabilities and use them every day against the American homeland. When  a threat poses immediate danger to Americans, the Constitution gives  the President the authority to act.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I would let the ranking member know that, just  in the last year in his district, he has lost at least 140 people to  overdose, which apparently he does not want to protect his community  from those like the President wants to protect his community.

Salazar), the chairwoman of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, to Representative Himes, I tell him that he has had 182  overdoses in his district in the last year and lost somebody named  Angel Samaniego by a suspected Tren de Aragua member.

Voting for this resolution to limit the President absolutely is not  standing with the United States of America. There are people  deliberately targeting Americans, and he is saying the President can do  nothing about it. That is what his vote will say today.

I think the other side should take a look at the chart. You can see  when operations were kicking off in September, there were 3 strikes,  going up in October to 11 strikes. Then it started to come down. Why?  Because people started thinking about, am I going to push off the dock  in this boat full of drugs and then take a Hellfire through the hull of  my vessel sitting out here in the middle of the Gulf because I am  transporting drugs to the United States of America? It dropped down to  seven, dropped down to four, and it is going to continue to drop off  because, finally, those that are shipping drugs to the United States of  America are recognizing there are real consequences.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. McCormick).

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I don't quite reserve yet.

I would let the next speaker on the other side know that they lost  116--Ms. Kamlager-Dove had 116 overdoses in the last year. I can count  at least six individuals killed recently by MS-13. The President is  working to protect her district from MS-13.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I would let Ms. Jayapal know that in her  district they have lost 237 people in the last year from overdoses and  had a number of people killed by MS-13 and Tren de Aragua. The  President is working to protect her people.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, I would let Representative Omar know that in  her district, she lost 205 people in the last year from overdose and  have had people killed by MS-13. Teenagers have been killed by MS-13.  The President is working to stop that from happening.

I would also remind the ranking member that just yesterday--he should  know this, he was standing on stage with me--we had a classified  briefing  with the Secretary of War and the Secretary of State. His comments  afterwards did not reflect the truth of what was said, but he was  there.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much debate time remains.

Mr. MAST.

Mr. Speaker, the ranking member made the claim that nobody fights  harder against drugs. He made a big speech. Nobody fights harder  against drugs than the President of the United States of America. He is  the one sinking the boats.

Democrats are the ones saying any terrorist organization, no matter  how many people they kill, behead, abduct, no matter how much drugs  they traffic, the President shall not have the authority to go out  there and combat them.

If there is a boat coming across with anthrax in it, the President  can't hit it. If there is a boat coming across that had something  brought over from Iran, the President can't deal with it. Anything that  comes across in the Western Hemisphere--that is literally what his  legislation says--the President cannot go out there and defend the  United States of America from imminent threats.

How imminent is this threat of drugs? Mr. Speaker, 365 days a year, 7  days a week prior to President Trump starting to sink their boats that  they were bringing to the United States of America, that is as imminent  as it gets. It is as imminent as the Sun rising. That is how prevalent  that threat has been.

The President is finally bringing it to an end. Nobody fights harder  than the  President of the United States of America. Nobody is fighting harder to  allow drugs into this country than Democrats with this reckless and  ridiculous piece of legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I reserve the balance of my  time until the gentleman yields back his time.

Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, let me put this up. I was asked to take it  down for a moment. Let me take a second and put this up. I will get to  it.

This resolution, plain and simple, is about telling the President he  has no authority to combat terrorists in the Western Hemisphere. Those  are the words of this resolution. It is not a secret. Anybody can read  it.

The President doesn't have the authority to combat MS-13, Tren de  Aragua, Sinaloa Cartel, take your pick. If the President says they are  terrorists, and they are in the Western Hemisphere, the President can't  touch them.

That is what they are trying to do. They want to tie his hands and  not let him defend the United States of America.

We are not talking about street gangs. They are militarized threats.  They have taken over entire apartment complexes and neighborhoods in  the United States.

My colleagues say this resolution is just about putting Congress on  record, so let's put Congress on record.

If you stand with protecting the United States of America against  narcoterrorists, then oppose this resolution. It is plain and simple.  If you stand shoulder to shoulder with MS-13, Tren de Aragua, and  Sinaloa Cartel, and the dictators who work hand in hand with them, like  Nicolas Maduro in this photo, then this resolution is for you. Vote for  it.

We know exactly where some of my colleagues stand. You can look to  see where they stand in this photo. Let's talk a little bit about that  in a moment. I will touch on something else first.

Since President Trump took office, we have seen our Democrat  colleagues fight to unmask agents, to dox Border Patrol officers. We  have seen them issue warnings ahead of immigration raids. They spent  taxpayer dollars to keep illegal immigrants in the United States. Now,  Democrats are going even further with this resolution and saying the  President can't protect our country.

I am going to show you this photo. I actually thought a lot about  this photo as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee because I take  photos with foreign heads of state, diplomats, and other people from  other countries on a daily basis. I shake hands and greet people.  Whether I like them or not, I shake hands. It is something that I do,  but I can tell you what I don't do. I do not let other people wrap  their arms around me unless they are my kids, my friends, or my family.

That is Nicolas Maduro's hand right there. I will put a little arrow  there. That is Ranking Member Meeks, who has been arguing with me for  the last little while, right here. That is his arm around the ranking  member. I don't let people put their arms around me, especially not  people like that.

In this photo of Nicolas Maduro, you probably also recognize John  Kerry. It is sad to see that. I think it says a lot about the  origination of this bill, the heart of this bill. This is not a  handshake. It is an embrace of somebody with a relationship. That is  what happens.

If somebody puts their arm around me, that means they have a  relationship with me. To me, this says a lot about who this bill stands  shoulder to shoulder with.

Do you stand shoulder to shoulder with Nicolas Maduro, with his arms  wrapped around you, or do you stand shoulder to shoulder to protect the  United States of America and our people from the people who are  murdering us and sending their drugs over? The choice is up to you.