Combating the Lies of Authoritarians in School Systems Act


Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 916, I call up  the bill (H.R. 1005) to prohibit elementary and secondary schools from  accepting funds from or entering into contracts with the Government of  the People's Republic of China and the Chinese Communist Party, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. WALBERG.  1005.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1005.

For much of the 20th century, the United States bravely confronted  the threat of communism worldwide.

As the Soviet Union oppressed its own people and extended its  influence abroad, countless Americans dedicated their lives to stopping  the spread of repressive ideology.

In 1987, President Reagan famously called on Secretary Gorbachev to  ``tear down this wall'' at the Brandenburg Gate. A few short years  later, the Berlin Wall fell, the Soviet Union collapsed, and democracy  gained ground across the globe.

In the years that followed, democracy and Western values flourished,  but authoritarian regimes like the Chinese Communist Party have chosen  repression over freedom, indoctrinating their citizens to embrace  socialism and communism, ideals fundamentally opposed to American  values of liberty, freedom, and self-determination.

Now, we are seeing those same authoritarian efforts reach into our  classrooms. While some are now closed, the CCP established Confucius  Institutes on college campuses and Confucius classrooms in K-12  schools, funding programs with untold dollars. Marketed as cultural  exchanges to teach Chinese language and culture, these classrooms are  in reality beachheads in the war for young minds.

That is why I am proud to support H.R. 1005, the Combating the Lies  of Authoritarians in School Systems, known as the CLASS Act, from  Representative   David Joyce and Representative  Michael Rulli. It is  an important piece of legislation requiring schools to disclose any  funding or contracts received from foreign entities above a nominal  threshold.

For too long, schools have allowed foreign adversaries to funnel  propaganda into classrooms, propaganda that rewrites history and  undermines American values. These programs are funded and directed by  the CCP's propaganda arm, targeting children for indoctrination.

No lesson from an authoritarian regime comes without strings  attached. The CCP seeks to shape American students' views of communism  and tyranny, softening opinions toward authoritarianism, and  potentially fostering replication of those same ideas here.

Already, we see these influences on college campuses. Instead of free  speech and open debate, we see censorship. Instead of independent  thought, we see indoctrination.

This is why we must pass the CLASS Act. Confucius classrooms and  similar programs pose real risks to both national and academic security  while promoting authoritarianism over freedom and democracy.

As the saying goes, sunlight is the best disinfectant. Greater  transparency in education will reveal where school funds come from and  whether foreign adversaries are exploiting financial ties to influence  students.

By requiring disclosure, we protect American values, strengthen  national security, and ensure our children learn what is right, not  what our adversaries dictate.

Mr. WALBERG.  I say that as a gentleman from  Michigan.

Mr. WALBERG.  As a Member coming from the  Wolverine State, I congratulate him on Saturday's victory.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1005, the CLASS Act, is a critical step in limiting  foreign influence in our classrooms. Too often, foreign funding comes  with strings attached--maybe in every case--especially when those  dollars come from adversaries like the Chinese Communist Party.

Students deserve strong education without indoctrination. I would  hope my esteemed colleagues on the other side of the aisle would agree  with me on that. Cultural exchange is valuable, but it should never  mean sitting through lessons created by the CCP propagandists  attempting to rewrite history and change our minds.

Our classrooms are becoming front lines in a battle of ideas, and the  CLASS Act provides the transparency needed to protect our students and  uphold American values. Students deserve better than indoctrination.  That is why we must pass the CLASS Act, send it to the Senate, and,  ultimately, to the President's desk, defending both our children and  our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Representatives Joyce and Rulli,  for their clear-eyed attention to this important and credible concern,  and I urge my colleagues to support the legislation.