Enhancing Science, Treatment, and Upkeep of America's Resilient and Important Estuarine Systems Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3962, as amended, the  Enhancing Science, Treatment, and Upkeep of America's Resilient and  Important Estuarine Systems Act, more simply known as the ESTUARIES  Act.

I am proud to be the lead on this bipartisan bill. I thank the co- chairs of the Estuary Caucus, Ranking Member Rick Larsen, as well as  Representatives Bonamici, Haridopolos, and Mast, all of whom are  original cosponsors of this bill.

The National Estuary Program, or NEP, is an important resource for  supporting locally led efforts to restore and protect the health of our  coastal estuaries nationwide. This bill reauthorizes the NEP for 5  years and adds the Mississippi Sound to the list of estuaries for  priority consideration.

Reauthorization ensures continued Federal support for this critical  program, which has protected vital habitats, improved water quality,  and fostered regional resilience since its creation in 1987.

Protecting and restoring Mobile Bay, which is in the heart of my  district, is essential to Alabama's environment, flood protection, and  seafaring economy as well. Mobile Bay is now home to the deepest port  in the Gulf, so protecting its surrounding estuaries is critical not  just to our local economy but to our regional and national economy as  well.

I will take a moment to recognize Roberta Swann, who has led the  Mobile Bay National Estuary Program since 2009 and is calling it a  career at the end of this year. Ranking Member Larsen and I had the  privilege of meeting with her in Mobile this past August, and her  dedication to building partnerships and advancing science-based  solutions is a big reason the program has been so successful in Mobile.

It could not be more fitting that, in the same year in which she  celebrates 16 years of leadership and her retirement, that her  Congressman has the honor of leading this reauthorization and advancing  it through the House of Representatives here today.

This year, the Association of National Estuary Programs' fall meeting  was held in Mobile, which is my hometown, a powerful reminder of Mobile  Bay's national significance and how this program brings people together  to share solutions across the country.

This program funds partnerships between the EPA, States, local  governments, and community stakeholders. It is very successful in  leveraging not just Federal dollars, but on average the local NEPs  raise an additional $17 for every $1 in Federal funding, as my  colleague Representative Johnson also noted.

These non-Federal dollars come through in kind, local, State, and  private sources, which are utilized by the local program leaders in  accordance with their Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plans.  The NEP allows the locals to lead and address the water quality issues  because they know best.

Projects carried out using NEP funds cover a wide range of  possibilities but always keep the locals in the driver's seat. They may  include protecting shoreline habitats, increasing the ecological  integrity of estuaries, or building coastal resilience. Projects may  also aim to improve water quality or encourage community access to  coastal ecosystems.

In other instances, funds may support estuaries in a broader scope,  such as supporting adjacent land acquisitions or upgrading nearby  wastewater or stormwater infrastructure.

Regardless, these decisions are made locally and based on the  specific NEP program and its unique location and specific needs.

Currently, there are 28 active NEP initiatives nationwide. This  includes all corners of the country, from the Puget Sound in Washington  to Santa Monica Bay in California, my home in Mobile, Alabama, all the  way up to Casco Bay in Maine.

I will always champion efforts like the National Estuary Program,  which protect and restore our critical natural resources while  utilizing local knowledge and ensuring the efficient use of Federal  funds.

This is a program that is working. It is popular, and it deserves our  support. I urge passage of the ESTUARIES Act, as amended, and ask all  my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. FIGURES.  Bonamici).

Mr. Speaker, to date, the National Estuary Program has restored more  than 2\1/2\ million acres of coastal habitat nationwide. The 28  programs, soon to be 29 with the addition of the Mississippi Sound, and  partnerships will work hard to address challenges we are all familiar  with, like harmful algal blooms, coastal erosion, and runoff pollution.

Keeping our estuaries healthy means keeping our coastal communities  strong. Estuaries protect these communities from flooding, store clean  water, support commercial fish habitats, and provide recreational  opportunities. Let's keep working together to restore and protect these  essential ecosystems. Reauthorizing the national estuary program will  allow us to do just that.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3962, as amended, the ESTUARIES Act, and  I urge my colleagues to do the same. I yield back the balance of my  time.

Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.

I think, Mr. Speaker, the American people can be forgiven if they are  watching cable news and assume the only thing we do around here is  fight, but I think the last three bills on the floor are a good example  that, indeed, is not the case.

Now, let's be honest. None of these bills have been silver bullets  slaying the biggest policy challenges facing our Nation, but they are  real attempts at governing. The Save Our Seas Act, FMC reauthorization,  and this, the ESTUARIES Act, are attempts by serious legislators,  people like Mr. Mast, Mr. Haridopolos, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Larsen, and  Mr. Figures, to address real problems facing our country.

Indeed, this bill is a bipartisan attempt to reauthorize the  longstanding, nonregulatory EPA grant program that does empower locals  to solve these problems far more powerfully than if we just had the  experts in D.C. do it.

This is a good bill. It is a continuation of a theme on the floor  today of serious legislators doing serious work.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time.