Personnel Oversight and Shift Tracking Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3425, the Personnel Oversight  and Shift Tracking Act of 2025, a bill that I am proud to cosponsor.

This bill would require the Director of the FPS, the Federal  Protective Service, to establish processes to strengthen oversight,  performance, and accountability of contract security personnel engaged  in the protection of Federal buildings and grounds that are owned,  occupied, or secured by GSA.

FPS law enforcement officers and the contract guards who support them  risk their lives every day to protect Federal workers and the public by  controlling access to government facilities and screening visitors for  prohibited items. As part of these efforts, FPS investigators have  covertly tested security at Federal buildings to ensure the accuracy of  these systems and have developed a tracking system to ensure guards are  qualified and posts are staffed adequately.

Despite these efforts, however, guards failed to detect prohibited  items in about half of the 27 covert tests that the Government  Accountability Office investigators conducted just last year.

Additionally, the new FPS tracking system has not worked well enough  to replace the old paper-based system, as my colleague has just  described. By improving FPS data collection and analysis and  implementing the findings on these security tests, the agency will be  able to better ensure the safety and security of Federal buildings,  employees, the public, and the FPS officers themselves.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation and urge all Members to do  the same to make sure that we are holding our contractors accountable  and doing everything we can to protect our Federal buildings and our  personnel located within.

Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 3425, and I thank my  colleague, Mr. Kennedy, for his leadership on this important matter.  The POST Act of 2025 is something that I urge all of my colleagues to  support, and I yield back the balance of my time.