Providing for Consideration of H.R. Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Special Interest Alien Reporting Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Jeremy and Angel Seay and Sergeant Brandon Mendoza Protect Our Communities From Duis Act of and Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Mr. FIGURES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on the critical  importance of both SNAP and Medicaid, not just to Alabama's Second  District but in every congressional district across this country.

When I took this position, like all of my colleagues, I took an oath  not just for this position but I took an oath to the people that I  represent. That is to not forget where I come from.

I took an oath to places like Mobile, Montgomery, Phenix City,  Evergreen, and Greenville. I took an oath to the neighborhood I grew up  in, in Toulminville, to not forget the type of district that I come  from.

For me, what that district looks like is about one in four households  rely on SNAP benefits. Over 200,000 people, almost a third of the  population in the State of Alabama, are enrolled in Medicaid.

The individual median income in my district is just about $31,000 a  year. I come from a district that is not the wealthiest in this  country. It is not even close to the wealthiest or well-off.

These aren't just statistics. These are real people I see when I go  home to my district. These are children, seniors, working parents, and  people with disabilities. These are neighbors. These are people who I  grew up with in church. These are people I went to school with. These  people depend on these programs to survive, not because they want to  but because they have to.

Cutting these benefits would force impossible choices amongst some of  these people between food, medicine, utilities, housing, and overall  stability.

It wouldn't reduce the need because the need would still be there.  The hunger would still be there. The poverty would still be there. It  would shift the cost onto our hospitals, our schools, and emergency  services.

Alabama SNAP does more than just provide food for people. It also  supports, as it does across this country, our local grocers and grocery  stores. All of the statistics show that SNAP is a net positive return  on the local economy.

We have to recognize that Medicaid keeps working families healthy.  Mr. Speaker, 61 percent of Medicaid recipients in the State of Alabama  are working. The majority or remainder are either children or people  with disabilities. These programs are not luxuries. They are lifelines  that people need to get by.

Let's stop pretending that these are just numbers in a budget and  these are not real people. Protecting SNAP and Medicaid is not about  politics. It is not about priorities. We are not in a position where we  can't afford it. We spend almost $4 million every trip Donald Trump  takes to Mar-a-Lago. It is not a question of resources. It is a  question of priorities.