Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Griffith for  the opportunity to speak in support of this resolution.

It is death by a thousand cuts with the EPA. Each one only costs a  little bit. It is kind of like when we have DOGE right now. It only  costs a little bit to have two or three extra people on each job. It  only costs a little bit to add another regulation that does not make  sense and that does not accomplish anything.

These businesses are dying because, one regulation at a time, for no  reason other than to create jobs for some bureaucracy, we continue to  have those.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.J. Res. 61 to repeal  yet another burdensome regulation from the Biden administration that  threatens American jobs and manufacturing, some of those in my  district. Although it may only be a few that are recognized, one of  those is in my district.

This rule imposes costly, unnecessary mandates that do little to  improve the environment but will drive up costs, hurt businesses, and  put hardworking Americans at risk or out of work.

In my district and across the country, the manufacturers provide  good-paying jobs that support families and strengthen our economy, but  under this rule, companies will be forced to take on massive new costs,  costs that will either be passed on to consumers or result in lost jobs  and closed facilities. We cannot afford to let Washington bureaucrats  dictate policies that weaken American industries and send our  opportunities overseas.

I urge my colleagues to support H.J. Res. 61 and to push back against  reckless regulatory overreach. American workers and businesses are  better.

Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. If it doesn't apply to you.

Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Also, thousands of those minor rules add up  over time.