Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Chair, I thank Chairman Rogers whose  critical work on acquisition reform with Ranking Member Smith set the  foundation for the advances we are making in this year's bill.

I thank my friend and Seapower Ranking Member   Joe Courtney for his  commitment to bipartisanship and his continued collaboration toward  stronger naval and projection forces.

Finally, I thank Kyle Noyes, Kelly Goggin, Phil MacNaughton, and Abby  Snyder, the subcommittee staff. I also thank my personal staff, Semaj  Redd, and my fellow, Bobby Hsu.

I am excited to highlight a few of the many wins for our national  defense in this year's bill. We are adding to our fleet of Virginia-  and Columbia-class submarines. We ensure that new sealift vessels will  be made right here in America. We are making investments in the  transformative power of unmanned vehicles.

We also are advancing support for our airborne force projection  needs, investing in aerial drones and antisubmarine sonobuoys, raising  the floor on the minimum number of aerial refueling missions, and  maintaining the inventory requirement for C-130 aircraft needed for  intra-theater airlift.

This year's NDAA also makes key investments in future procurements of  ships, submarines, and airborne projection forces. This gives our  defense industry the base they need to continue the important work they  do in so many of our communities and paves the road for a smoother  procurement process going forward.

With global tensions as high as they are, it is more important than  ever for America to preserve the ability to project power across even  the furthest reaches of the globe, from the Pacific to the Middle East  and even the Arctic. Our ability to meet any challenge near or far is  critical to homeland defense and advancing our national interests.

This year's NDAA is an opportunity to make essential investments in  our ability to project power across the oceans and in the air and to  ensure that America's defense remains second to none, now and for  generations to come. I urge all Members to support a vote in favor of  this bill.