Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act


Mr. KUSTOFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank our Ways and Means chairman, Jason  Smith, not only for his strong leadership but for his support on this  important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, every year, more and more Americans are having their  identity stolen. It is a sad fact. However, actors are becoming more  sophisticated. They are using new technology to gain access to  sensitive information. Just last year, there were over 3,000 separate  data breaches that were reported, including many leaks involving stolen  Social Security numbers.

Currently, when somebody has their identity stolen, they have got to  navigate a baffling process at the Social Security Administration. The  Ways and Means Committee has heard from victims who describe the  process of regaining their identities as a bureaucratic nightmare. It  is complex. It is lengthy, and it is frustrating. Sometimes they report  being passed from representative to representative and from department  to department. Sometimes they even get conflicting advice from people  within the Social Security Administration.

As identity theft becomes more commonplace, the system at the Social  Security Administration needs to be streamlined to work better for the  victims. The Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity  Theft Act addresses this problem head-on.

Specifically, this bill will establish a single point of contact at  the Social Security Administration for Americans who have had their  Social Security numbers lost or stolen. Mr. Speaker, think of it as a  one-stop shop for those trying to protect themselves from identity  theft. Having a single point of reference, one point of contact, at the  Social Security Administration will simplify the process, making it  easier and faster for victims to get relief.

This piece of legislation was passed favorably out of the Ways and  Means Committee with a strong bipartisan vote. Mr. Speaker, now it is  time to act in a bipartisan manner to support Americans whose Social  Security numbers fall into the wrong hands.