Cormorant Relief Act of 2025


Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the bill (H.R. 2293) to require the Secretary of the Interior to  reissue certain regulations relating to the taking of double-crested  cormorants at aquaculture facilities, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2293

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Cormorant Relief Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. REGULATIONS RELATING TO TAKING OF DOUBLE-CRESTED                     CORMORANTS AT AQUACULTURE FACILITIES.

(a) In General.--The Secretary shall reissue the original       depredation order in accordance with subsection (b).

(b) Requirements.--The depredation order reissued under       subsection (a) shall be the same as the original depredation       order, except that the depredation order reissued under       subsection (a) shall--

(1) apply to--

(A) each of the States of California, Colorado,       Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Missouri, New       Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin and any other State       or territory of       the United States the Secretary determines appropriate in       addition to and in the same manner as each of the States to       which the original depredation order applied; and

(B) lake managers and pond managers in addition to and in       the same manner as each of the entities to which the original       depredation order applied;

(2) incorporate modern terminology;

(3) simplify the provisions contained in the original       depredation order related to compliance with other Federal       law;

(4) modernize the recordkeeping requirements contained in       the original depredation order; and

(5) remove the June 30, 2014, expiration date contained in       the original depredation order.

(c) Renewal.--Not less than once every 5 years after the       date on which the Secretary reissues the original depredation       order under subsection (a), the Secretary shall renew the       depredation order reissued under subsection (a).

(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act may be       construed to waive the obligation of the Secretary to comply       with the--

(1) National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.       4321 et seq.); or

(2) Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.).

(e) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Lake manager.--The term ``lake manager'' means a person       that is licensed by a State regulatory agency to manage a       private lake.

(2) Original depredation order.--The term ``original       depredation order'' means the depredation order for double-      crested cormorants at aquaculture facilities contained in       section 21.47 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations (as in       effect on January 1, 2016).

(3) Pond manager.--The term ``pond manager'' means a person       that is licensed by a State regulatory agency to manage a       private pond.

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United       States Fish and Wildlife Service.

Mr. HURD of Colorado.  2293, the bill now  under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2293, the Cormorant Relief Act  of 2025, sponsored by Representative Ezell from Mississippi. This  legislation would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to  reinstate the Aquaculture Depredation Order for double-crested  cormorants, which was in place from 1998 until 2016, until it was  vacated by a judge in response to yet another activist lawsuit.

Double-crested cormorants are waterbirds common to the Great Lakes  States and the Southeast. They are opportunistic and intelligent  predators that often feed at aquaculture facilities, where fish are  easy to catch. A variety of studies have determined that predation from  double-crested cormorants costs the aquaculture industry nearly $65  million annually in economic losses.

This legislation would streamline the permitting process to take  double-crested cormorants, restoring protections for aquaculture  producers without negatively impacting cormorant populations.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Ezell for his continued  leadership and urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2293. I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, this commonsense bill allows  aquaculture producers to effectively manage the overpopulation of  double-crested cormorants, which threatens their way of life and harms  coastal economies. I once again thank Mr. Ezell for his diligent work  and attention to this issue.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of H.R. 2293 and yield back the  balance of my time.