Wetlands Conservation and Access Improvement Act of 2025


Mr. HURD of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for  yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my legislation, H.R. 2316,  the Wetlands Conservation and Access Improvement Act of 2025.

This bipartisan legislation ensures that the interest earned on  unallocated Pittman-Robertson funds will continue to support wetlands  restoration through the North American Wetlands Conservation Act for  years to come.

For nearly a century, the Pittman-Robertson Act has stood as one of  the most successful conservation funding models in the world. It works  because sportsmen and sportswomen pay a dedicated excise tax on  firearms, ammunition, and archery equipment. That money is then  invested in habitat restoration, public access, and in hunter  education.

Since 2004, interest generated from these funds has added an average  of nearly $11 million per year to support wetland and waterfowl  conservation across North America. That funding is leveraged by  nonprofit and State partners, often doubling or tripling the Federal  investment, delivering high-impact results.

This bill is about safeguarding that model. It is about making sure  that the dollars contributed by sportsmen and sportswomen continue to  be put to work by conserving the wetlands that sustain wildlife,  outdoor access, and rural economies, including in places like  Colorado's San Luis Valley, where thousands of acres of wetlands  benefit from these funds.

There is no better conservationist than the American sportsman, and  this legislation honors their legacy by protecting the very lands and  waters that they have long fought to preserve.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman and the staff of the House  Committee on Natural Resources for working with my office to get this  bill introduced. I thank my colleague from across the aisle,  Representative Elfreth, for co-leading this legislation with me. I also  thank all of the organizations who are supporting this effort.

Mr. Speaker, I respectfully ask my House colleagues to join me in  supporting this commonsense, bipartisan bill.