Open Ran Outreach Act


Mr. CARTER of Louisiana. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Pallone  for yielding the time.

I stand in strong support of H.R. 2037, the Open RAN Outreach Act. I  am proud to introduce this bipartisan Open RAN Outreach Act with  Representative Richard Hudson of North Carolina. I am grateful that the  full House is considering this bill.

Today's bill is an example of what bipartisanship can look like on  the Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill provides greater Federal  support for small telecommunications companies in rural and  disadvantaged communities to help these companies improve their  networks and remove potentially insecure Chinese network hardware.

Specifically, this bill directs the National Telecommunications and  Information Administration to provide outreach and technical assistance  to small  communications network providers about the benefits of transitioning to  Open Radio Access Networks, or Open RAN or ORAN technologies.

It is imperative that telecommunications providers of all sizes are  aware of and have access to cutting-edge technologies. It is also the  case that this bill promotes U.S. technological innovations and  competitiveness and, most importantly, our national security.

While I am proud to be a part of this effort, I would be remiss in  not highlighting that programs like the wireless supply chain  innovation grant program may be negatively affected by reconciliation  decisions made by the administration.

This is a pivotal step toward strengthening our Nation's  telecommunications infrastructure. By providing technical assistance  and outreach to small telecommunications providers, especially in rural  areas, this bill opens the door to a more secure, diverse, and  competitive wireless network landscape.

The shift to Open RAN technology not only enhances national security  by reducing reliance on foreign-made equipment but also boosts American  manufacturing and fosters innovation in 5G and 6G.

The bill ensures that rural communities are no longer left behind in  the race for cutting-edge technology, driving down costs and empowering  smaller carriers to build stronger, more resilient networks.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to pass the Open RAN Outreach  Act.