Congratulating Vincent High School


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692105/congratulating-vincent-high-school


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Vincent High  School on winning the baseball State championship for the 2A division  in Alabama.

On Monday night, the Vincent Yellow Jackets were headed into the  bottom of the seventh inning, tied 1-1 with Pike Liberal Arts. That is  when Landon Archer delivered an RBI single that sealed the deal and  crowned the Yellow Jackets as State champions for the first time in 40  years.

The Vincent players demonstrated the kind of grit, teamwork, and  commitment to excellence that define championship-winning programs. If  the State of Alabama knows anything, we know what it means to win a  championship.

Congratulations to Coach Timothy Junkins, MVP Landon Archer, and the  entire team on a fantastic season. They have made their school and  entire community proud. I couldn't be more excited to join them in  honoring the team's success.                    Congratulating Hackleburg High School

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize my alma mater,  Hackleburg High School, on winning the 1A baseball State championship.

In the fourth inning, the Panthers were tied with Leroy High School  4-4. Ross Hudson, who was named MVP, singled, driving in the go-ahead  run that proved to be the difference. Pitchers Maddox Vickery and  Blaise Vickery held Leroy scoreless for the remainder of the game,  securing the 1A championship. This was Hackleburg's second State 1A  championship in baseball.

As a proud alumnus, I stand here excited to congratulate Coach Jon  McKinney and the entire team on an incredible season and for winning  the title of State champion for the first time since 2007.              Congratulating Second Lieutenant Caroline Robinson

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate Second Lieutenant  Caroline Robinson on her graduation from the United States Military  Academy at West Point.

A little over 4 years ago, I had the honor of nominating Caroline to  West Point when she was a student at Mountain Brook High School. While  at West Point, Caroline earned the rank of First Captain of the Corps  of Cadets, which is the highest ranking cadet in the Corps of Cadets'  chain of command.

Second Lieutenant Robinson will now report for active duty at Fort  Sill, Oklahoma.

I am proud of Caroline and her desire to serve our Nation as an  officer in the United States Army. I know she will serve our Nation  with great distinction and honor.