Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701473/defending-american-property-abroad-act-of-2026


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 7084,  the Defending American Property Abroad Act of 2026.

This legislation codifies the commonsense principle that foreign  nations should not profit from properties stolen from Americans. This  bill is needed because for years the Mexican Government has engaged in  a deliberate campaign against an American company, Vulcan Materials,  headquartered in my district.

In 2022, Mexican authorities used military force to shut down  Vulcan's lawful operations. Then, in 2024, they took the dramatic step  of declaring Vulcan's private property a protected natural area. The  move was not designed to conserve land but to justify taking it.

However, this is about more than one company. Mexico's actions sent a  dangerous signal to every American business operating abroad that their  investments, their assets, their rights could be stripped away at any  moment by the corrupt Mexican Government.

When I and other members of the Alabama delegation, in a bipartisan  manner, met with the Ambassador from Mexico, he described his  government's actions as a civil dispute. I pointed out to the  Ambassador that in America we don't send in our military to resolve  civil disputes.

The port at the center of the dispute is not just any asset. As has  been pointed out by other speakers, it is the only deepwater port on  the Yucatan Peninsula, built by American investments and critical to  supplying construction materials for infrastructure across the United  States.

Mexico's actions undermine not only property rights but also our  supply chains. The illegal action is more like an action by a cartel  than it is a trustworthy government, and it raises serious questions  about entering into any agreements with Mexico.

The Defending American Property Abroad Act ensures that foreign  governments cannot seize American-owned infrastructure and then benefit  from the infrastructure. It authorizes the United States to deny entry  to vessels operating out of or that have visited ports unlawfully  expropriated from American companies.

Mr. Speaker, this is about protecting American businesses and,  fundamentally, the rule of law. If we fail to act here, then we invite  more of this behavior not just from Mexico, but from any nation  watching to see how the United States responds.

I thank Representative Pfluger for his work on this important issue,  and I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 7084.