Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701957/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1174, I call up  the bill (H.R. 6387) to amend the Clean Air Act to require revisions to  regulations governing the review and handling of air quality monitoring  data influenced by exceptional events or actions to mitigate wildfire  risk, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. PALMER.  6387.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6387, the FIRE Act, a  bipartisan bill introduced by Congressman Gabe Evans of Colorado and  co-led by Congressman Adam Gray of California.

The FIRE Act ensures that States are not penalized for wildfire  mitigation practices like prescribed or controlled burns and brush  clearing. States currently limit these practices for fear of falling  out of containment of national air quality standards.

Unlike wildfires, prescribed burns do not automatically qualify as  exceptional events under the current provisions of the Clean Air Act.  This is because prescribed burns are human caused, likely to recur, and  preventable. As a result, prescribed burns are often counted against  States for the purpose of national air quality standards.

In 2016, the EPA amended the exceptional events rule in an effort to  include prescribed burns, but the attempt failed. Only one prescribed  fire qualified for the exceptional events exception in the last decade.

Congress must amend the Clean Air Act to allow wildfire mitigation to  be included as an exceptional events exception.

Time has taught us that agency action is not enough to address the  current statutory obstacles. The FIRE Act directly amends the Clean Air  Act so that prescribed burns are treated as exceptional events and  States are not penalized for wildfire mitigation measures. It provides  clarity and predictability for air quality planning and encourages  proactive wildfire measures.

There is nearly unanimous agreement that increasing the use of  prescribed fire and other wildfire mitigation practices is necessary to  reduce the growing wildfire threats across the country.

With what is projected to be a severe wildfire season around the  corner, Congress must modernize the Clean Air Act to ensure that  wildfire mitigation practices are eligible for the exceptional events  rule. The FIRE Act allows States to perform prescribed burns and  wildfire mitigation activities without severe economic consequences,  protecting their communities from the devastating impact of wildfires.

Mr. Speaker, I am constantly amazed at what my colleagues across the  aisle say in response to these bills. They make this claim that  prescribed burns will increase air pollution, when the fact is that we  are trying to prevent wildfires.

When you compare the emissions from a prescribed burn to the  emissions from a wildfire, it could be as little as 17 percent of what  a wildfire produces. They both emit fine particulate matter and carbon  dioxide and carbon monoxide, but prescribed burns are managed to ensure  more complete combustion and less overall polluted output per acre,  whereas a wildfire consumes more fuel and produces denser and more  toxic smoke.

What they are arguing for is more pollution and more dangerous fires.  We have seen what has happened in California and other States, where  wildfires have gotten out of control. Look at Paradise in California,  the number of lives lost and the amount of destruction there. Those  fires actually produced more pollutants, more toxins, and more  tremendous damage.

I am, again, amazed. I guess they doubt the common sense of the  average American about these issues, when the fact of the matter is  that prescribed burns reduce the amount of pollutants that are emitted  into the atmosphere.

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, once again, it is as though we are debating  two different bills. I have no idea where industry comes into this.  This is about protecting forests. It is about promoting wildlife. It is  about reducing emissions by prescribed burns.

If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are interested in  looking up this data, what they are saying is in direct contradiction  to what the science  shows: A prescribed burn reduces the amount of emissions compared to a  wildfire.

Mr. PALMER.  Hageman).

Mr. Speaker, I again am at a loss to understand where my Democratic  colleagues are coming from with this argument about all of these  problems  with our air quality. We have only had one exceptional event approved,  and I am not sure that it was actually executed since the exceptions  were put in, the exceptional event provision was adopted by the EPA.

If you are talking about pollution from fires, it is from wildfires,  uncontrolled wildfires. As I have pointed out, if they are interested  in looking it up, it is clear that we reduce air pollution by having  these prescribed burns.

The other thing they keep talking about is public health. Most of  these wildfires occur in rural areas. The Republicans in the Working  Families Tax Cut Act put in $50 billion to transform rural healthcare,  and every one of my Democratic colleagues voted against it. The State  of Oregon got $197.3 million this year. Again, I am just at a loss to  understand where they are coming from on some of this. It is in direct  conflict with what the science shows.

Mr. Speaker, I am amazed at what my Democratic colleagues say about  these issues as far as quoting data. The data shows, as I have already  pointed out, that the emissions from controlled burns, from prescribed  burns, could be as low as 17 percent of what would come from a  wildfire.

As a matter of fact, controlled burns consume one-sixth of the fuel  per acre as an intense wildfire. As I pointed out numerous times about  my Democratic colleagues and their talking about what they want to do  for healthcare and worried about people's health, we put $50 billion  into the Working Families Tax Cut Act to help rural healthcare, to  transform rural healthcare. Every one of my Democratic colleagues voted  against it.

As a matter of fact, the State of New Mexico received $211.5 million,  and they voted against it.

Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Evans).

Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Crank).

Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, once again, I want to point out some of the  inconsistencies in the argument.

They have talked about healthcare, and I pointed out three or four  times already that Congress put $50 billion into the Working Families  Tax Cuts Act specifically to modernize and improve rural healthcare.  They are largely the ones who suffer the most from uncontrolled  wildfires. Every Member of the Democratic side of the aisle voted no.

I pointed out before that they talk about impact on senior citizens.  This year, 51.4 million senior citizens paid no income tax on their  Social Security. However, every one of my Democratic colleagues voted  against that.

They talk about families. In the Working Families Tax Cuts Act,  Congress eliminated taxes on tips. These are some of the hardest  working people in the country living largely off of tips. I think, on  average, they are going to get about $3,000 back. That could be used to  buy needed school supplies for their children, to pay a bill, to maybe  even make a repair on an automobile, or to improve their housing, which  is one of the leading factors in asthma.

According to the CDC, there is no single definitive known cause for  the development of asthma but indoor air quality is a significant  factor that is related to housing. This is what troubles me about the  opposition to this bill. The science, the data, shows that controlled  burns mitigate the intensity of wildfires. It reduces the amount of  emissions into the atmosphere. This is a way to improve air quality,  not make it worse.

They cite climate change in the frequency and intensity of wildfires.  That is exactly what we are trying to mitigate against by doing these  prescribed burns.

I am amazed at how many of the policies that they propose stifle the  formation of new businesses, providing more jobs and better  opportunities for families when the data, particularly on this issue,  is clear. This is good for the local communities. It is good for rural  communities. It is good for air quality.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 6387, and  I yield back the balance of my time.