Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701729/foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1174, I call up  the bill (H.R. 6409) to amend the Clean Air Act to clarify standards  for emissions emanating from outside of the United States, and for  other purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. PALMER.  6409.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6409, the FENCES Act,  which addresses the need for commonsense reforms on how emissions  impact our Nation's ability to support domestic manufacturing and  unleash affordable and reliable energy.

For far too long, burdensome regulations have stood in the way,  allowing investments to go overseas while Americans are forced to pay  higher prices. Many of these costly regulations result from regulatory  burdens associated with the Clean Air Act.

The legislation considered today makes targeted and effective reforms  that will support American job creators while continuing to protect our  environment and the air we breathe.

The legislation produced by my colleague Congressman August Pfluger  of Texas ensures that States and local communities are not penalized  for foreign air emissions emanating from outside our borders. Across  the country, States are being unfairly penalized for pollution that  originates from foreign nations, including air emissions from natural  events, like the Canadian wildfires.

Currently, the Clean Air Act allows States to adjust their plans when  foreign emissions prevent them from meeting Federal standards. However,  the guidance from the EPA under the previous administration narrowed  that relief, limiting it to only human-caused emissions from abroad.

This bill clarifies that all foreign emissions, whether natural or  man-made, are excluded from consideration when determining whether a  State meets national air quality standards.

Importantly, the bill allows States to account for foreign emissions  earlier in the regulatory process, instead of forcing them to wait  until the very end and risk costly delays or Federal sanctions.

Mr. Speaker, it is always interesting to me to hear my Democratic  colleagues talk about where Republicans are on healthcare when, in  fact, it was Republicans who initiated the $50 billion Rural Health  Transformation Fund that every Democrat voted against.

As a matter of fact, just this year, the State of New Jersey is going  to get $147,250,806 from the Rural Health Transformation Fund. I think  that is a pretty good investment in trying to improve healthcare for  people all over the country.

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, again, my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle want to talk about Republican positions on healthcare. I will  remind them again that, in particular, the State of Ohio received  $202,030,262 from the Rural Health Transformation Fund that every  Democrat voted against. I remind my colleagues that the Republicans  have made a major investment in healthcare.

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman bringing up the  situation that people in rural America find themselves in. What we  tried to do with the One Big Beautiful Bill Act with the Rural Health  Transformation Fund was meet a lot of those needs. The State of Texas  got more money than any other State, $281,319,361, to try to improve  healthcare opportunities for people who live in disadvantaged areas.  What we are also trying to do is improve those conditions, to give  people an opportunity to have a better job, to have better options in  food, and have better healthcare options, as well. That is a big part  of what we are trying to do with the modernization of the Clean Air Act  and these bills that we bring before the House today.

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I don't think we want to follow the  California model for America's economic future, with their high energy  prices, the highest poverty rate in the country, and destructive  economic policies driving businesses out of the State.

I think with Republicans' policies, it is very clear that we have the  best interests of the people at heart.

Mr. Speaker, I would just like to point out that no one wants  polluted air and polluted water. We have made tremendous advances in  pollution control. As a matter of fact, I worked for two international  engineering companies, one of which was in environmental systems. We  built the pollution control equipment that has made our air  demonstrably cleaner. We built flue gas scrubbers. We built  electrostatic precipitators and baghouses.

The technology has improved dramatically since I left my work in the  field of engineering. Since 1980, we have reduced pollution from the  six criteria gases monitored by the EPA by 78 percent. That is despite  the fact that the economy has grown over 240 percent. That is $2.9  trillion to an economy of $30.6 trillion adjusted for inflation.

Vehicles miles driven are up 113 percent, and the population is up  over 50 percent, yet we have seen remarkable improvements in air  quality.

What we are trying to do with this long overdue effort to modernize  the Clean Air Act is to not only continue to keep our air clean and our  water clean, but to improve economic opportunity to people,  particularly people who are disadvantaged such as I was growing up.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues, Democratic and Republican,  to support this commonsense legislation, and I yield back the balance  of my time.