Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this rule and the  SAVE America Act. This essential legislation would require, as we have  said previously, proof of citizenship when registering to vote and the  presentation of a valid ID when at the ballot box. Currently, only 13  States do not require any form of voter ID. Having this requirement  should be the standard and not the exception.

My Democratic colleagues claim that requiring a photo ID to vote is  too burdensome. Some say it is too difficult for rural Americans and  will lead to voter suppression. I grew up in rural America.

The reality is that Americans use photo IDs every day to carry out  basic tasks like opening a bank account, boarding a flight, checking  into a hotel, renting a car, or applying for a business license.

Americans use photo IDs to buy alcohol, tobacco, or nicotine  products. They use it to sign a lease or rental agreement. It is also  used to get a marriage license, purchase firearms or ammunition, check  in for jury duty, or enroll in a college or university. Purchasing  insurance or donating blood requires a photo ID.

I hope that people who don't have a photo ID don't get sick because  they need a photo ID to purchase things like Sudafed, NyQuil, and  Mucinex D. I hope they don't have to pick up a package at the post  office because we have to have a photo ID to pick up a package at the  post office.

If we require a photo ID to prevent fraud in these areas I just  mentioned, why are my colleagues so opposed to preventing fraud in  elections? It is hard to argue that a photo ID is too much to ask for  in voting when Americans already use it routinely for far less  important activities.

Mr. Speaker, protecting election integrity should be a priority. I  urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying SAVE America  Act to secure our elections.

Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I point out that in 2005, 18 of the 21  members of a bipartisan Federal commission headed by former President  Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State James Baker came out in  support of photo ID requirements more stringent than what Indiana had  at that time. ``Voters in nearly 100 democracies use a photo  identification card without fear of infringement on their rights,'' the  commission stated.

In regard to voter registration fraud, just last year, six people  were indicted for fraudulent voter registration forms submitted ahead  of last year's Presidential election.

The allegations of fraud appeared to be motivated by the defendants'  desire to make money and to keep their jobs and was not an effort to  influence the election, so said the Pennsylvania Attorney General Dave  Sunday. It really doesn't matter what the motivation is. What matters  is the result--fraudulent voter registrations.

Back in 2008, there was an organization called ACORN. There was an  ACORN whistleblower who worked for both it and its Project Vote  registration affiliate from 2005 until 2006. She said: It is ludicrous  to say that fake registrations can't become fraudulent voters. She  said: I assure you if you can get them on the rolls, you can get them  to vote, especially using absentee ballots.

There were documents that were provided by the whistleblower that  indicated that the goal of ACORN's New Mexico affiliate was that only  40 percent of its submitted registrations had to be valid.

I think fraudulent voter registration is a problem. I think requiring  a valid photo ID, as President Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of  State Jim Baker said, is totally a way to ensure integrity in our  elections and is not a burden on the people.