Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688292/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, it is amazing to me to listen to my  Democratic colleagues talk about the cost of living going up.

Mr. Speaker, during the first week of the Biden administration, my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle shut down the Keystone XL  Pipeline. My Democratic colleagues implemented energy policies that  have immediately caused energy prices to go up, causing massive  suffering and massive inflation. The inflation hit 9 percent.

It is amazing to me that the minority came in here and made these  statements, and the American people figured it out. That is why my  Democratic colleagues are in the minority. The American people were  tired of being told what to do, what they could buy, what they could  wear, and what they could use. Here we are, and my colleagues are  hearing the same cold rhetoric that leads to cold homes and cold water.

I introduced this resolution because we are determined to restore a  quality of life in this country that we enjoyed before the Democratic  Party took over the White House and the House and the Senate.

We believe that we can help the American people be able to afford  their groceries, afford an automobile, and afford education. That is  why we are doing what we are doing.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.J. Res. 20. The Congressional  Review Act is in response to the Biden-Harris administration's last- minute, overreaching attempt to ban natural gas water heaters.

If this rule is not stopped, a substantial number of Americans would  be forced to purchase more expensive and less-efficient models of water  heaters. In fact, 40 percent of consumers who will be directly impacted  by this rule would face a significant cost increase. It will be  particularly hard on senior citizens and low-income families.

Additionally, this rule mandate of fuel switching would set a  dangerous precedent for natural gas appliances. We know my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle have already tried to ban natural gas  stovetops.

This would allow future Democratic administrations to restart their  party's regulatory attack on our home appliances. I know that when the  government steps in to pick winners and losers there are manufacturers  of competing products that would profit.

It is amazing to me that my Democratic colleagues claim that a United  States-based company based in Georgia is foreign manufacturing. What do  Democratic Members say about Toyota, Honda, Mercedes, Kia, and the  other foreign-owned companies that are based in this country, creating  American jobs and providing incomes for American families?

We should let consumers decide what products succeed in the  marketplace, not a bureaucrat implementing a regulation pushed out in  the final hours of the Biden-Harris Presidency.

Earlier this week, the Trump administration issued a statement of  administration policy agreeing that this egregious rule implemented by  the previous administration must be repealed. While making a speech  last week, the Secretary of Energy, Chris Wright, even mentioned how  absurd this rule is.

Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, H.J. Res. 20 is essential for  prioritizing consumer choice, protecting natural gas appliances,  keeping prices affordable, and undoing the damage inflicted on the  American people by the Biden-Harris administration for the past 4  years.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.''