Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701783/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1174, I call up  the bill (H.R. 6398) to amend the Clean Air Act relating to review by  the Environmental Protection Agency of proposed legislation, and ask  for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. PALMER.  6398.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6398, the RED Tape Act,  which would address burdensome regulations in the Clean Air Act and  provide the permitting reform needed to support American innovation.

The legislation, which was introduced by my friend Congressman   John  Joyce of Pennsylvania eliminates the duplicative requirement in the  Clean Air Act that requires the EPA to assess and provide feedback on  environmental impact statements other agencies prepare under NEPA.

The primary agency preparing an environmental impact statement  already possesses the expertise and resources necessary to evaluate the  impacts of a project on our environment, and the EPA is often already  involved in the NEPA review process as a cooperating agency. Requiring  them to provide a secondary review under section 309 is unnecessary,  duplicative, and inefficient, leading to more delays and higher costs  for American job creators.

This legislation is an important step to streamline permitting, and  it removes burdensome inefficiencies in the current NEPA process. This  bill is an essential component in the committee's permitting reform  efforts.

The Clean Air Act is long overdue for an update to eliminate outdated  provisions that are holding back American manufacturing.

Mr. PALMER.

Mr. Speaker, one of the things I will point out is in 2025, the  Supreme Court decision in Seven County Infrastructure Coalition v.  Eagle County, Colorado, ruled that upstream-downstream impacts of  Federal action fall outside the scope of the environmental impact  statement under NEPA. In light of this decision, the EPA's separate  review and comment on broader environmental impacts of proposed Federal  action are no longer appropriate.

It is really insulting to the American people to have my colleagues  make outrageous statements in regard to what our intent is with this.  We have the means to make sure that our air is clean. We are working on  that. We do not want, in any form or fashion, to compromise the quality  of life that we have here in this country.

It really is stunning to hear fellow Americans want to deny economic  justice to whole communities throughout the country. I pointed out  several times what each one of their States was receiving in funding  from the Rural Health Transformation Fund, a historic effort to improve  healthcare in rural areas where so many disadvantaged people live, that  every one of my Democratic colleagues voted against.

We want to give people economic opportunity, not deny them. We want  to dramatically improve the healthcare of people who have been denied  the opportunity to have a good-paying job with good benefits. As one  who grew up with few opportunities, I understand how important it is to  have a job that allows people to live in better housing, to have access  to better food, better healthcare, and to have something left over to  save to meet future needs and eventually retirement.

My colleagues who oppose this bill literally oppose the economic  opportunities that could lift millions of disadvantaged Americans into  a much brighter future.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is high time that we recognize that we have a  host of Federal regulations that need to be reviewed, to be modernized,  not to compromise anyone's healthcare, not to compromise environmental  quality, but to improve these to make them work better for all  Americans.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this excellent  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.