Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699994/securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I want to address some of the things my  Democratic colleagues have said. They are really high on China. They  look at China as a model for America. Apparently, they like how they do  their economy. They like their energy production.

I would just like to point out, Statistical Review of World Energy  reports that coal accounted for 58 percent of China's energy. Oil was  at 20 percent, and natural gas was at 10 percent. Some of my colleagues  struggle with math. I will just add that up for them. That is 88  percent of their energy production comes from hydrocarbon sources. That  means that the remaining 12 percent came from hydroelectric, solar, or  wind.

What is interesting about this is they make it seem as though China  is just dominating the world in renewable energy production. That is  approximately the same amount of renewable energy production as the  United States. It doesn't sound like the model.

I also wanted to point out--because they keep talking about higher  energy costs--the increase in energy costs has occurred in the States  with the most stringent requirements for renewable energy: California,  New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut. That is where energy  costs have gone up the most. That is where people are struggling the  most to pay their energy bills.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to speak in support of H.R. 3617,  introduced by the gentleman from Michigan (Mr. James), my friend and  colleague. If the United States hasn't learned anything else from the  war in Ukraine, it should be this, this is a fundamental principle: No  nation, let alone America, should be reliant on adversarial nations for  energy and refined materials, critical minerals, rare earth elements  that would threaten our economy and threaten our national security, but  that is where we find ourselves and where we put ourselves in terms of  access to critical minerals, processed and refined critical minerals.

H.R. 3617 addresses this. It is a crucial challenge facing the United  States today, how to decouple and derisk ourselves from China and other  foreign adversaries and build resilient, secure, domestic energy and  critical mineral supply chains?

Our country is blessed with an abundance of energy and critical  mineral resources that are a linchpin to our economy. They are a  linchpin to our national security and a linchpin to the new and  emerging energy technologies that we are trying to develop here.

Yet we are stuck under the thumb of Communist China, who exerts their  dominance over energy supply chains, critical mineral supply chains to  undermine U.S. interests. This is not a new issue, but one that has  grown over the last several decades.

The United States used to be a leading producer and refiner of many  critical minerals and rare earth elements. We developed the technology  to refine rare earth elements, to produce magnets that are critical in  our economy and to our national security.

By the late 1990s, most of that industry, especially refining, went  overseas. This trend has led us to where we are today. The United  States is now almost 100 percent import reliant on a dozen critical  minerals and heavily reliant on imports for more than half of all  critical minerals.

The challenge we face today is exacerbated by burdensome permitting  processes and regulations, uncertainty in commodity pricing, and market  manipulation by Communist China.

A few years ago, I launched the Western Hemisphere Prosperity and  Security Alliance as a soft power alternative to China. The Western  Hemisphere Prosperity and Security Alliance could help us shed our  dependence on Communist China when it comes to these critical  resources.

H.R. 3617 directs the Secretary of Energy to coordinate with industry  and relevant stakeholders to identify ways to diversify domestic  critical energy resources and supply chains.

As part of that assessment, the DOE Secretary will assess how Federal  regulations may be affecting domestic production of critical energy  resources and minerals and how adversarial nations seek to exploit  those markets to undermine investment in the United States.

Solving this issue is paramount, and we must address it before we are  too late. Critical minerals and their supply chains are vital. We  cannot allow the prosperity of future generations to be dictated by  adversarial nations.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to keep America at the forefront of  the next generation's economy and support H.R. 3617.