Dhs Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program and Law Enforcement Support Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696796/dhs-intelligence-rotational-assignment-program-and-law-enforcement-support-act


Mr. MACKENZIE. Madam Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 2212, the DHS  Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program and Law Enforcement Support  Act.

Next year, our Nation will mark the 25th anniversary of the 9/11  terrorist attacks. As we approach this solemn milestone, it is  important that we reflect on the progress we have made in preventing  attacks, as well as the areas where we can continue to improve.

Countless Americans work every day across numerous agencies to keep  our citizens safe from potential threats. In the aftermath of the 9/11  attacks, the intelligence community was strengthened and its ranks were  bolstered. Because of their work, and the courage of our veterans and  servicemembers, our Nation has been spared from similar attacks.

We thank all of those who serve our Nation, both as civilians and  servicemembers, in the fight to secure our homeland.

Despite this success, we remain vigilant in the face of continuing  threats against our country. That means continuing to analyze our  tactics, refine our strategies, and ensure that critical information is  efficiently shared between agencies.

Information silos are not unique to the intelligence community, but  the need to overcome them is more acute. The consequences are far  greater if there are problems that arise. The intelligence community's  ability to detect and prevent attacks against our homeland depends on  coordinated and efficient information flows.

We expect smooth interaction and joint maneuvers from our Nation's  warfighters, and we depend upon the same thing across all components of  our intelligence community.

However, this coordination can be improved. In 2017, the inspectors  general of the Intelligence Community, the Department of Homeland  Security, and the Department of Justice all completed a report that  noted the DHS intelligence enterprise was not as effective and as  valuable as it could be. This was attributed, in part, to a lack of  unity throughout the DHS intelligence enterprise.

For the intelligence community, the stakes could not be higher. Our  Nation's security depends on streamlined coordination across agencies.  That is why this bill ensures that the intelligence components of DHS  are fully integrated within joint duty programs across the broader  intelligence community. This allows intelligence analysts at DHS to  sharpen their knowledge and expertise by spending time across different  agencies.

These benefits are similar to what many Americans have experienced  throughout private industry. As a one-time board member for the  Pennsylvania Workforce Development Board and as Republican chair of the  Pennsylvania House Labor and Industry  Committee, I got to see how innovative ideas like these can improve  workplaces. Gaining experience and making contacts across departments  can enhance the efficiency and morale of the organization, helping them  to achieve their objectives.

Rotational programs can take employees out of their respective  bubbles, helping them see the big picture of the organization and the  important roles that are played by employees in other areas.

These same principles and strategies can certainly be translated into  the homeland security space, where wider knowledge and institutional  connections mean stronger security. By giving DHS staff the opportunity  to gain knowledge and skills from throughout the department, we give  the intelligence community a leg up in the fight to protect our Nation.

It is time for Congress to codify DHS' Intelligence Rotational  Assignment program and ensure that our intelligence community has the  breadth of experience necessary to tackle the threats of tomorrow.