Expressing the Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701382/expressing-the-support-of-the-house-of-representatives-for-the-department-of-homeland-security


Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1131, I call  up the bill (H. Res. 1128) expressing the support of the House of  Representatives for the Department of Homeland Security, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. MACKENZIE.  Res. 1128.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1128, Expressing the  Support of the House of Representatives for the Department of Homeland  Security.

As we meet today, tens of thousands of Federal workers serving on the  front lines of our national security are going unpaid. For over 40  days, the men and women we count on to protect passengers, secure our  critical infrastructure, and step up during disasters have gone unpaid.

For the third time in 6 months, politics is getting in the way of  critical American workers, the pay that they have earned. The impact of  these political games isn't theoretical. It is causing real-world  impacts each and every day.

Over 50,000 Federal employees are going without paychecks just at TSA  alone. Hundreds of employees have quit. Call-out rates are in the  double digits, and those who are able to go to work are stuck managing  some of the longest lines that we have seen at U.S. airports.

All of this is happening at a time when our Nation is preparing to  host major events while experiencing heightened national security  risks.

We have to do better.

Today, this House will have an opportunity to vote on my resolution,  H. Res. 1128, affirming the importance of DHS, the necessity of funding  its agencies and employees, the risks of defunding our security  apparatus, and our gratitude to the men and women who are working every  day to protect this Nation.

The House has already passed the appropriations bill to fully fund  DHS twice, both times with bipartisan support.

Now, it is time for us to speak with one voice putting aside politics  to thank the members of the Coast Guard, FEMA, TSA, and more, who are  continuing to do their jobs and keep us safe, despite many now going  nearly a month and a half without a paycheck.

Saying ``yes'' to funding does not mean saying ``no'' to reform.  There are concerns that need to be addressed with respect to certain  ICE and CBP operations, and when there are opportunities for positive  reform we should work together to achieve it.

That is why the DHS funding bill passed twice by this House already  features significant new measures aimed at reducing tensions and  improving transparency, including new funding for body cameras, de- escalation training, and the DHS Office of Inspector General.

Despite this, in the face of grave terror threats against our Nation,  some are choosing to politicize our national security and hold  paychecks hostage until all of their demands are met.

Let me be clear. Conversations about commonsense reforms at DHS  operations are underway. They were underway before this shutdown. They  continue to go on, and we will not stop until we get the reforms that  the American people are looking for.

I look forward to continuing to engage on this issue and working  together to achieve a system of immigration enforcement that meets the  needs and standards of the American people.

Defunding our security apparatus, robbing workers of their paychecks,  and creating chaos at our airports across this country does not bring  us any closer to achieving those goals. It is time to put the politics  aside and get serious about our national security.

In the meantime, the American people are waiting. Throughout this  shutdown, we have seen powerful examples of our communities stepping in  to provide for neighbors and those who are impacted. In my district in  Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley, we have seen residents coming forward to  donate everything, like food and diapers, to our dedicated TSA agents  at our local airport. They are continuing to do their jobs every single  day, even as the bills pile up and savings are stretched thin.

To the TSA staff at the ABE airport and to all those impacted workers  in my district and throughout the country who are continuing to work, I  say: Thank you. I also thank all of those who stepped up to provide  support for them and their families.

Here is the reality: We shouldn't have to count on local communities  to provide for our Federal workers. That is the job of our elected  Representatives. That is why I and so many in this Chamber have voted  to provide full funding for DHS.

Tens of thousands of Federal workers are doing their jobs. We, in a  bipartisan fashion, have already done that here in the House of  Representatives, but we need bipartisan buy-in from our colleagues on  the other side of the aisle to make it a reality. We need bipartisan  support in the Senate to get Democrats to go along with this full  funding of DHS to make sure that this makes its way to the President's  desk and gets signed into law.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this resolution thanking  these workers and recognizing the critical nature of the work that they  do to protect our communities and our country, and calling for the  Department of Homeland Security to receive full funding--full funding-- for its needs to keep our community safe.

Mr. MACKENZIE.

Mr. Speaker, what we just heard was not, in fact, the whole story.  The previous speaker mentioned that he wanted to tell the whole story.  Well, I think it is important that we get all the facts on the record.

What the gentleman left out was that he, himself, voted twice against  funding for DHS. This resolution is not in lieu of the opportunity to  vote for funding. We are going to give you another opportunity, but you  are going to vote ``no'' again. That is the whole story.

The Democrats in this House want to stand in the way of keeping  America safe. The Democrats in the Senate want to change the rules of  the game. What they choose to do is they go out there and demand all  kinds of unrealistic conditions that would actually hamstring DHS, keep  our country less safe, and are totally unworkable in practice.

We, as Republicans, have offered full funding. We have offered  partial funding with reforms. We have said here is the way that we can  make this system not only better but keep America safe while making  these reasonable commonsense reforms.

What did they do? They dismissed them out of hand.

He said Donald Trump, our President, our duly elected President, has  shot down these opposition proposals. That is not the case. The Senate,  the Congress are the ones that are going to advance these pieces of  legislation to the President's desk.

The Senate has put forward those proposals to Democratic colleagues,  and what did they do? They are the ones who rejected the latest offer.  We have extended the olive branch, we have extended our hand and said:  Come together, work with us, fully fund the Department of Homeland  Security.

They will never fund ICE because of their radical left. They are  beholden to the fringe in their party that will do everything to  protect and promote illegal immigrants over the interests of American  citizens. However, it should be noted that ICE actually does some very  critical work in our local community.

There is Homeland Security Investigations, HSI. What does that do as  a part of ICE? They go out and protect people against human  trafficking, drug trafficking, drug smuggling. That is what you are  opposed to? It is ludicrous.

Mr. Speaker, we have to fully fund ICE. The previous gentleman said  that this resolution doesn't do enough. I agree. I agree. The  resolution is a way to thank and recognize DHS and all of its employees  for the great work they do to keep us safe. We should agree on that.

We should also agree on getting funding to fully fund the operations  of DHS. You voted against it twice. You are going to vote against it  again, and you are going to leave the American people less safe. That  is the full story.

I appreciate the spirited debate, but it is important when you are  debating somebody to call out their half-truths and their deflections.  The half-truth that this gentleman speaks of is that Republicans  control the House, Senate, and White House, and so that gives us total  ability to pass whatever we want. That is not the case.

We know that in the Senate you need 60 votes to get something passed  in policy, so you do need bipartisan support to actually get something  passed into law and help the American people.

We are asking, Mr. Speaker, for our Democrat colleagues to come along  and join us in fully funding the operations of DHS.

Now, the deflection comes when he tells you all about the important  and critical training and the ways that DHS operates.

We are talking not only in this resolution but also in an  appropriations bill that is going to follow about fully funding the  operations of ICE.

The gentleman tries to obfuscate, tries to change the conversation.  The bottom line is that that funding for DHS was voted on twice in this  House already. We voted for it in a bipartisan fashion, and we are  going to give all Members of this body the ability to vote on it for a  third time.

Mr. VAN EPPS. Mr. Speaker, Democrats' government shutdown has now  lasted over 40 days, and it will have lasting consequences.

This goes far beyond long airport lines.

Only a fraction of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security  Agency's  workforce remains on duty, weakening our ability to defend critical  infrastructure from threats like Iranian cyber retaliation.

Modern conflicts aren't limited to air, sea, and land. Adversaries  now target critical infrastructure, including energy grids, financial  systems, transportation networks, government systems, and healthcare  services.

Democrats say they want a deal. Well, let's look at their deals.

Under the Biden administration, officials apprehended a Venezuelan  illegal alien at the border and still released him into the country.  Now, 3 years later that man killed an innocent 18-year-old American,  Sheridan Gorman.

This is the consequence of Biden's failed policy: When the Democrats  are in control, they prioritize criminals over citizens.

Now the damage extends beyond our streets. The shutdown is setting  back American shipbuilding and weakening our maritime readiness. The  Coast Guard can't pay shipyards to maintain its fleet, and contractors  are reconsidering whether it is even worth doing business with the  Federal Government.

Think about that. It is now too risky to work with the United States  Coast Guard. That is the direct result of Democrats using DHS as  leverage. They put Americans at risk to advance a political agenda. As  we approach the 25th anniversary of September 11, we should be  strengthening Homeland Security. Instead, Democrats are weakening it.

After three shutdowns in a single fiscal year, their priorities are  clear: They care more about politics than protecting the American  people.

Mr. Speaker, it is so critically important that we fund and fully  fund the Department of Homeland Security. The best way to do that is in  a bipartisan fashion. That is why this House of Representatives has  already voted twice with bipartisan support to advance that legislation  over to the Senate.

The previous speaker, his wishful thinking, his off-the-wall Rube  Goldberg proposal, saying that Republicans in the House are somehow  opposing his scheme, it is just simply unrealistic. The American people  don't buy it because there is not something before us that has the  bipartisan support of over 218 votes to pass. That is not what he is  proposing. What we have is the pragmatic, commonsense solution that has  the bipartisan support to pass twice. Join us in that effort. Join us,  please. Please. I don't understand, Mr. Speaker--

Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate all this discussion, again.  We have to do what is best for the American people. We already have  something that is advanced. We are going to continue that conversation.  In addition to that, we can continue to thank and recognize all of our  workers at DHS.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleague who just spoke can stick around to  hear this. It is important that we are on the same page.

My esteemed colleague was here years ago during 9/11. The reason why  we established the Department of Homeland Security, as the gentleman  knows, is to break down silos. What Democrats are advocating for is  building up walls, siloing off parts of our Department of Homeland  Security, and leaving our country less safe.

That was the whole point of having a unified Department of Homeland  Security. The previous speaker knows that history, Mr. Speaker. The  gentleman knows that full well. Everybody who was here after 9/11 knows  that full well.

To go back on that and try to break down these silos and say that we  want to fund everything, but we want to defund Federal law enforcement,  that is an affront to our national security. That is an affront to the  American people.

Mr. Speaker, what I am saying is that we need to fully fund the  Department of Homeland Security. We have that resolution on the floor.  We are going to offer it up again. We are going to give them a third  opportunity, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful that my colleague stuck around to hear  that it is a disastrous idea to build silos in the Department of  Homeland Security and to defund Federal law enforcement. That is  absolutely accurate,  and we need it on the record that those statements were damaging to  what our national security apparatus does every single day to keep us  safe.

Mr. Speaker, again, I appreciate the spirited debate with my  colleagues, especially the past speaker. We appreciate his experience.  He has been a Member of this body since even before I was born. I am 43  years old now. He has been a Member of this Chamber for longer than  that. He was elected in 1981, and we appreciate his experience and  knowledge that he brings to this debate. Yet, when somebody is wrong,  regardless of their age or experience, it is our obligation to  recognize that and call that out.

Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, may I as to the time remaining?

Mr. Speaker, again, Republicans are offering this resolution to thank  our great men and women of the Department of Homeland Security for all  of their work during this Democratic shutdown, where they are not  receiving funding and their paychecks to support them and their  families.

Republicans have this resolution and also the resolution for  appropriating all of the funding, and those are both going to come  before the full House. I encourage all of my colleagues to support it.  We have had bipartisan support for the appropriations in the past, and,  hopefully, we will get that again this time.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for  yielding the time.

Mr. Speaker, I have a message for the American people.

Dear Americans: Democrats do not care about your safety.

They are displaying this right before our very eyes. Democrats do,  obviously, before our own eyes, practice political gamesmanship rather  than provide real security for our homeland safety.

At a time when our Nation faces threat after threat, it is imperative  that we have a strong and fully funded Department of Homeland Security.

The brave men and women of DHS work hard every single day to keep  Americans safe. They have earned our support. How do Democrats repay  them for their work? They shut down the Department of Homeland  Security.

I am proud to stand in support of this resolution today to shine a  light on the great work that they do. However, it cannot go unsaid that  many of my Democrat colleagues who may vote in favor of this resolution  today will still continue to maintain that DHS would be unfunded, as  they have voted four separate times against its reopening, purely  because of political games.

At a time when our Nation faces increased security risks, Democrats  are choosing politics over our Nation's safety.

They are giving us one crystal clear message: They do not care about  Americans' safety. If they did, wouldn't the agency whose sole job is  to protect America be funded at this very hour?

Securing America's safety and the ensuring brave employees of the  Department of Homeland Security receive the funding they undoubtedly  deserve must happen, and it must happen soon.

Mr. Speaker, this conversation has been rewarding and enlightening  for the American people.

I have heard half-truths, deflections, and obfuscations from the  other side throughout our conversation today. I have also heard  fearmongering.

What we need are pragmatic, commonsense solutions that have  bipartisan support. That is what we have with the DHS funding  appropriations that Congress has already passed through the House that  we are going to have an opportunity to vote on again. It is a chance to  give the American people the results that they are looking for. It is  not a conversation. It is fact.

Mr. Speaker, it has been great to hear the other side put themselves  on the record for not fully funding parts of the Department of Homeland  Security, for building up silos, for advocacy about defunding law  enforcement. That is what we have heard here today. It is shocking, but  I think it is enlightening for the American people to see that contrast  and have it on full display.

I wish that we had more than an hour to have this debate. I think  this is something that every American should see: Republicans coming  together to support national security, to fund our workers, and to give  our workers, the American people, the paychecks they deserve for the  work that they are doing. However, Mr. Speaker, the other side stands  in objection as an obstacle to this commonsense solution every single  day.

Mr. Speaker, at this point, I thank the other side for putting this  contrast on full display for the American people, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

I couldn't agree with my colleague more that we should fund and fully  fund the Department of Homeland Security today. That is why we are  going to have the opportunity for every Member to vote ``yes'' on that  resolution to fully fund it.

We are also going to have the opportunity in addition to that funding  to  give our Members the opportunity to vote in full support of the men and  women at the Department of Homeland Security and all the great work  they do every single day. I would encourage a ``yes'' vote on both of  those resolutions, certainly on the one that is being debated here  before us, H. Res. 1128.