Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700555/further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding the  time.

For nearly 3 weeks, key pieces of the Department of Homeland Security  have been shut down, and families face uncertainty about their  paychecks. This is happening because some in this Chamber are choosing  to play politics at a time when the work of DHS staff is urgently  needed and despite having negotiated this bipartisan agreement  themselves.

Today, some DHS components are operating at limited capacity.  Trainings are halted. Long-term planning is paused. Only bare-minimum  essential services are being continued. This is not sustainable for our  national security.

While some have chosen to politicize this debate by exclusively  focusing on ICE, this ignores the fact that DHS is responsible for a  wide range of responsibilities that are essential for our national  security.

TSA officers stand on the front lines every single day to secure our  skies, yet they are working without paychecks.

The Coast Guard could fully execute marine security if they had  funding. Search and rescue operations and drug interdiction missions  are in jeopardy because, again, of the opposition from the other side.

FEMA's disaster response and recovery efforts are scaled back as  severe weather and emergencies approach.

CISA, our Nation's cyber defense agency, is operating at limited  capacity during heightened global tensions.

The Secret Service faces constraints in protecting our leaders.

Mr. MACKENZIE. All of this, again, is after the other side voted in a  bipartisan way to support this effort initially and then pulled back  their support because of politics.

It is despicable what we see happening in our budgeting process here  in Congress. We should stand up right now at this time more than ever  to protect the American people and protect our homeland by providing  this funding.

It is time to put the politics aside. Support the men and women who  protect our Nation. Prioritize the safety of the American people. That  means ending this shutdown, passing the bill, and fully restoring the  operational readiness of the Department of Homeland Security.