Lowering Housing Costs and Advancing Main Street Community Banks


Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend from Florida for  yielding, and I thank Chairman Hill and members of the Financial  Services Committee who helped bring this legislation, the Housing for  the 21st Century, to the House floor and helped get it passed with  overwhelming bipartisan support.

Throughout our Nation, the American people are experiencing a housing  crisis that has been years in the making.

From 2020 to 2024, the cost of a home soared 37 percent. Over that  same period, rents increased 24 percent. Many communities, including  those that I represent in the Lehigh Valley and the Poconos, have seen  even sharper increases. In Allentown, home prices have increased 63  percent in the past 5 years while rents have risen 44 percent. Working  families who were already squeezed by the worst inflation in decades  have been stretched to the limit by these increases, dashing their  hopes and derailing their plans.

For millions of hardworking Americans, especially young people,  renting has become a painful burden, and homeownership has become a  near impossibility. Apartments in cities should not be reserved only  for those who can afford luxury units. They should be accessible to all  working Americans who  keep our cities running and keep them safe. Houses shouldn't be limited  to those who have a lifetime of accumulated assets. They should be  available to young families and those just starting out who have  scraped and saved to afford a reasonable downpayment. However, what we  have seen after years of bad economic policies in the Biden  administration, those inflationary prices have actually made it so that  the first-time home buyer has risen to the age of 40.

For millions of Americans striving to afford the American Dream: We  hear you, and we see you.

That is why this Financial Services Committee, led by Chairman Hill,  has brought this legislation to the floor. It is why the administration  and President Trump are speaking out about changes to our housing  situation right here in the United States.

Congress is now working in a bipartisan way to resolve this issue and  bring back housing affordability. In 2025, as a part of the Working  Families Tax Cuts Act, we passed what has been called the largest  expansion ever of affordable housing tax credits. Our reforms to the  low-income housing tax credit are predicted to create 1.2 million  additional affordable housing units over the next decade, helping  millions more Americans access the high-quality affordable housing they  deserve. We have also passed legislation like the SPEED Act, clearing  away bureaucratic obstacles that are slowing down construction and  driving up costs.

Today, the Housing for the 21st Century Act will help us take an  additional step forward.

This bipartisan legislation tackles some of the biggest challenges  driving today's housing shortage, cutting red tape, streamlining  Federal processes, and using public policy to support housing  production rather than slow it down. By enabling jurisdictions to adopt  ready-to-use, pre-approved home designs, it helps builders focus on  building instead of navigating unnecessary bureaucracy. By modernizing  key HUD programs and coordinating outdated review processes, it ensures  the department supports construction and opportunity rather than  standing in the way. By expanding flexible financing tools for  community and neighborhood lenders, it empowers them to do what they do  best: serve local communities and help power America's housing  comeback.

We know that solving the housing crisis requires a lot of changes for  our State and local government partners, but we in the Federal  Government have a role to play as well, one where we can help  facilitate these changes as opposed to more bureaucracy or rules that  stand in the way of American talent and ingenuity. By embracing these  reforms, we can help grow the housing supply, expand opportunity, and  unlock the American Dream for millions of Americans.