Solidify Iran Sanctions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690689/solidify-iran-sanctions-act-of-2025


Mr. MACKENZIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support my bill, H.R.  1800, the Solidify Iran Sanctions Act of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, at a time when our country is working to achieve peace  and de-escalate military conflict in multiple locations around the  world, we must remain vigilant about the ongoing threats posed by some  of our long-term adversaries.

Iran has a well-established record of destabilizing the Middle East  and threatening its neighbors.

The Government of Iran is manufacturing weapons, including drones,  acquiring conventional weapons through malign actors, and supporting  those actors around the world by funneling weapons and financial  support. They do it through their terrorist proxy network throughout  the Middle East.

These actions directly threaten U.S. personnel and our allies in the  region. Iran-backed militias have killed and injured U.S. troops  stationed on bases in the Middle East, including an attack on a U.S.  base in Jordan on January 28, 2024, which killed three American  soldiers and injured dozens more.

We also know that Iran is continuing to enrich uranium and  manufacture long-range missiles which together pose an unprecedented  threat to regional stability.

As the current administration works to achieve the total  dismantlement of Iran's nuclear program, it is critical that we give  them the tools that they need in order to enforce their policy of  maximum pressure. In order to achieve peace and stability in the  region, we have to remind Tehran that they will not be able to grow,  prosper, or effectively do business until they end their nuclear  ambitions and stop supporting terrorism. Today's legislation achieves  that by empowering our administration during negotiations and putting  Iran on notice.

This bill removes the sunset clause from the Iran Sanctions Act of  1996, making it permanent law. The original act mandates sanctions on  individuals and entities involved in Iran's energy sector in its  efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction. By eliminating the  expiration date, we ensure that these sanctions remain a steadfast  component of our national security strategy.

The Iran Sanctions Act has been a cornerstone in our efforts to deter  Iran's malign activities, and this legislation will show our clear  resolve on that issue. We must send this message: The United States  will not tolerate Iran's support of terrorism, its pursuit of nuclear  weapons, or its support for attacks on international vessels and  American servicemembers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this vital legislation.  By voting for the Iran Sanctions Act of 2025 and solidifying it, we  affirm our resolve to confront Iran's threats and protect America's  interests and allies.