Recognizing Kyla Guerrero for Her Impressive Gold Award Project


Ms. BYNUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the impressive  efforts of Kyla Guerrero, a constituent of mine from Bend, Oregon. Kyla  has used her Gold Award Girl Scout project to tackle the issue of food  waste, taking leftover food and repurposing it to sustain a local farm.  I am truly impressed by her innovation and hard work. This creative  compost system keeps our community eco-friendly and helps protect our  planet for future generations. I thank and congratulate Kyla. I include  in the Record this article from the Central Oregon Daily written by  Jakob Salao that details Kyla's hard work:

BEND, Ore.--More than one-third of all available food in       the country goes to waste, according to the U.S. Department       of Agriculture. A Central Oregon Girl Scout is hoping to       change that by taking that waste and using it to sustain a       local farm. ``I've always had a passion for supporting       environmental efforts and I feel like this was a way I could       create a project that suits those passions,'' Girl Scout Kyla       Guerrero said. ``And working with a local farm has been super       fun.'' Guerrero is one of two local Girl Scouts working on a       Gold Award Project. She's partnered with Around the Bend       Farms to get youth involved and make farming a little more       eco-friendly.

``We're creating this food scrap to compost system where       the food scrap waste from the Bethlehem Inn kitchen gets       delivered here and turned into compost which is used for the       farm's agriculture,'' Guerrero said. Those food scraps       contain vital nutrients for vegetables that would otherwise       rot away in a landfill. ``By throwing those nutrients into a       compost pile and into that kind of system, we can re-collect       the nutrients and re-integrate it into our soil to rebuild       that cycle,'' Urban Farm Manager Josh Lesko said. ``Then, our       plants are just re-feeding themselves and feeding us more in       the future.''

The compost system also helps keep the farm eco-friendly.       ``We're lowering the amount of costs we're putting in,''       Lesko said. ``We're lowering the amount of transportation for       things we need to pick up. We're letting the natural cycle do       its thing and kind of working alongside it.'' But for       Guerrero, it's starting to plant the seeds for the next       generation. ``It's a great opportunity to have high school       students come out and share this with their friends and be       like `oh there's a farm here and we can all help together.' I       really like that aspect of it,'' Guerrero said.