Recognizing Ms. Abby Lachman for Her Dedicated Medical Research Advocacy


Ms. BYNUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  efforts made by one of my own constituents, Ms. Abby Lachman. Ms.  Lachman, who was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes at age 6, recently  visited Washington, D.C. to advocate on behalf of herself and the  millions of Americans living with Type 1. I am impressed by her  dedication to advocating for herself and her peers at such a young age  and I am eager to see the changes she will make in the future. I am  proud to represent you here in Congress Abby. I include in the Record  the following article written by Noemi Arellano-Summer in the Bend  Bulletin highlighting Abby's work.

A Bend teenager who was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes at       age 6 is going to Washington, D.C. to advocate for medical       research and affordable insulin. Abby Lachman is traveling to       D.C. Monday through 10 with Breakthrough T1D, an organization       that supports those with Type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes is       a chronic autoimmune disease in which the body's immune       system attacks the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas,       so people with the disease must take insulin by injection or       insulin pump to survive Abby, 15, will be a sophomore at       Summit High in the fall. One of Abby's mentors with       Breakthrough T1D encouraged her to apply to be part of the       Children's Congress, an initiative the organization runs that       sends more than 160 kids with Type 1 diabetes to the capitol       every two years to advocate for research. She will be       speaking with a senator and representatives to share her       story.

``A lot of it, I think, is just to put a face to the number       or the story,'' she said. ``Because we want to help increase       funding or continue it, especially at a time when a lot of       medical research is getting cut. . . I'm looking forward to       all of it. Sometimes it feels surreal just thinking about it.       This is such a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I feel so       blessed that I get to go and do this.'' Abby's been part of       Zoom meetings with the team to talk through ideas for the       trip and has put together a scrapbook of her journey with       Type 1 diabetes, she said. She's had to manage her disease       constantly for nearly a decade. ``For me, since I've had it       for so long, it's pretty much my life, so I'm a lot more used       to it. I have two devices, which are really helpful,'' she       said. ``It's pretty much just constant regulation. It's like,       where's my number at? Do I need to give a little insulin to       help it bring down? Do I need to eat something to come up?       It's just constantly doing little things, checking it, making       sure you're where you need to be.''

When she was first diagnosed, Abby had to give herself       injections, and didn't have the insulin pump, phone app and       other devices she has now to help her monitor her blood       sugar. ``I didn't have the easiest time with it, so if I get       the chance to maybe help other kids not have that, it's       really important to me,'' she said. ``I think that's a big       part of what keeps me involved with this stuff.'' Last       summer, Abby helped out at Camp Tamarack, during a week that       is dedicated to kids with Type 1 diabetes. In the future, she       said she wants to travel and see the world.

Though there are two types of diabetes, they are fairly       different, and Abby thinks that's part of the reason why Type       1 diabetics have a hard time being diagnosed. ``(Type 1       diabetes) is definitely a hard disease to see, and it is       common. A lot of people have it, which is why it's so weird       that it's almost unheard of at times,'' she said. ``Diagnosis       is not easy for a lot of kids. My time with diagnosis was       easy. My mom's a doctor, so we caught it super easy, which       was very lucky. Kids that don't have that same chance--I knew       a kid who didn't know, his parents had no idea it could be a       possibility and he got super sick. When he woke up in the       morning, he had to get evac'd out and had brain damage. He       had to learn how to walk again. It's just so hard. It really       needs both that work towards a cure and showing that this is       something out there that people struggle with.''