Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695365/stop-illegal-entry-act-of-2025


Mr. KNOTT. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 682, I call up  the bill (H.R. 3486) to amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to  increase penalties for individuals who illegally enter and reenter the  United States after being removed, and for other purposes, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. KNOTT.  3486.

Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to open remarks on this important  legislation which holds a specific criminal category to account,  specifically those who exploit weak border policies to bring crime into  the United States.

I certainly feel that it is appropriate, before I begin my remarks,  to note that today is the 24th anniversary of the September 11 attacks,  and in that same vein, Mr. Speaker, this proposed legislation  profoundly enables law enforcement to protect us from all threats that  seek to enter our country illegally.

Let me begin by commending Congresswoman Bice for partnering with me  on this important issue.

As to the bill, Mr. Speaker, no matter the type or category, all  crime is made worse by illegal immigration. Theft, assault, murder,  drug trafficking, human trafficking, violent crime, and property crime,  you name it, Mr. Speaker, illegal immigration makes it worse.

What is perhaps most unfortunate is that many of the worst offenders  in this specific category return to the United States after being  deported due to gaps in the current immigration law.

As a former U.S. prosecutor, I saw how deportation alone is  insufficient to deter the committed illegal immigrant criminal. I have  investigated, tried, and convicted many individuals who had been  deported 2 times, 3 times, 4 times, and some even beyond 10 times. Yet,  they continue to illegally return with the sole intent--the sole  intent--to commit crime here in the United States.

The original version of this bill, Mr. Speaker, was drafted after a  32-year-old woman, an American woman, was tragically murdered by an  illegal alien who had five felony convictions and had been deported  multiple times from the United States. Tragically, her case is not an  outlier. It has become far too common.

Under the current law, we must wait for a repeat felon, a recidivist  illegal alien, to harm another American before we can effectively  punish him or her for the crimes they seek to commit.

Enough is enough.

For any illegal immigrant who has demonstrated a clear and perverse  disregard for our law, this bill shows that we will not wait for them  to harm another American before we punish them. The act of returning  after deportation is a serious crime, and it should denote serious  consequences.

Further, if a person is here illegally, commissioning and being  convicted of a felony is not a victimless crime. All felonies have a  victim.

Enough is enough.

In the current state of the law, we must wait for an American to be  harmed before significant punishments are issued to those who are here  illegally. That is the core motivation of the changes being sought in  this bill.

Candidly and specifically, if a person is here illegally with  demonstrated criminal intent, that alone is sufficient to be punished  meaningfully in this country.

Utilizing my own experience prosecuting this specific class of  criminal, this bill implements the following commonsense provisions.

First, if any illegal alien is found guilty of a State or Federal  felony, that alone qualifies the illegal alien for a new Federal charge  that will bring a minimum of 5 years in Federal prison.

Secondly, rather than capping the sentence for illegally reentering-- again, this is not the first attempt--illegally reentering the country  at 2 years in prison, which is, again, the current state of the law,  the new maximum would become 10 years for all illegal reentries  regardless of the criminal history that they have.

Thirdly, if an illegal alien is convicted of any felony and then  deported, and that illegal alien attempts to enter the country  illegally again, that will qualify the illegal alien for a new Federal  charge that carries a minimum of 10 years and up to life in Federal  prison.

I want to make it very clear that this bill does nothing to remove  the current immigration authority. If a swift deportation is sought, it  can be achieved. If apprehension for an underlying crime and  prosecution is sought, that is within the discretion of law enforcement  and the prosecutor. This merely adds new tools with which we can fight  illegal immigrant criminals.

The premise of the bill, Mr. Speaker, begins with the reality that  anyone who is in the country illegally is guilty of criminal conduct.  However, what triggers the enhanced penalties is either illegal  reentry--illegal reentry--after deportation or a felony conviction  within the United States.

Let me be clear to preempt some of the concerns on the other side of  the aisle. This bill adheres to strict and constitutionally protected  due process, requiring a conviction in a court of law to trigger the  enhanced penalties while leaving room for discretion as the prosecutor  deems necessary.

Yes, we need the law. Yes, we need deportations. Yes, we need to  remove those who are here illegally, especially those who have  committed crimes that harm Americans. The President has shown that  these steps are essential. However, from my firsthand experience, from  my conversations with these criminals, and from the crime data that is  all over this country, sophisticated criminal networks with vast  resources extend their reach into America due to the open-border  policies that the left seems so committed to.

It is only through maintaining the policies of this President and  strengthening deterrence that we can ensure that illegal immigrant  criminals do not continue to flood this country.

We must send a message to those around the world who want to come  here to commit harm: Our tolerance for that activity is over.

With the tools in this bill, investigators and prosecutors will be  better able to dismantle organized crime rings across America. Most  importantly, they will employ an efficient deterrent to anybody who  seeks to enter or reenter this country illegally.

It is time for the illegal immigrant criminals to know that we are  finished tolerating their presence with the illegal activity that they  engage in.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I applaud my colleague,  Representative Knott, for bringing forth this important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, if we reward illegals for breaking our laws, we cannot  be surprised when it continues to happen.

I rise today in support of H.R. 3486, the Stop Illegal Entry Act,  legislation to increase penalties for aliens who commit serious crimes,  as well as those who enter illegally more than once.

We all know under the Biden administration, illegal immigrants were  welcomed with open arms. They were given hotel rooms, cell phones,  plane tickets, and work authorization. I am glad to report those days  are over.

House Republicans are united behind President Trump's efforts to  secure our border, strengthen our immigration enforcement, and fix our  immigration system.

Earlier this year, House Republicans made a once-in-a-generation  investment in our immigration system. We gave our immigration officers  the resources they need to properly enforce our immigration laws and  carry out necessary deportations.

Today, we are building upon that work with this proposed law to  provide a strong deterrent against those coming here illegally in the  first place.

With these enhanced punishments in place, people will think twice  before breaking our laws and choosing to overwhelm our immigration  system. The harsher the punishment, the more the deterrence. That is  just common sense.

A nation that cannot control its borders cannot protect its people.  This legislation affirms the rule of law, defends American families  from dangerous criminal aliens, and restores accountability to our  immigration system.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Kansas (Mr. Schmidt).

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Oklahoma (Mrs. Bice).

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I will say that my friend from Maryland mentioned robbery, rape, and  murder. This bill's goal is to apprehend dangerous criminals before  they rob, rape, or murder Americans.

Secondly, and most importantly, referencing a farmworker, if they are  here illegally and they do not commit a felony, this bill does not  touch them. The only standard that this bill has: Do not come back into  the country a second time illegally, and do not get convicted of a  felony. How low do you think of the farmworkers that they cannot meet  that standard?

Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.  Kennedy).

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  North Carolina (Mr. Moore).

Mr. MOORE of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I had some prepared  remarks, but as I have talked about this and looked at it even more,  this is probably one of the most commonsense bills that will come  before this Congress.

This bill simply says if someone reenters or if someone commits a  felony, that this law applies. These comments from the other side to  try to confuse this issue, to misrepresent the issue, make no sense.

Surely, of all of the things in the world that we can disagree on,  perhaps we can at least agree that we should not be allowing felons in  this country, and that when someone is here illegally and commits a  felony that this law ought to apply.

Have not the events of the last recent days shown that we have enough  problems already? Why would we want to have felons from outside this  country to come in?

I think about what we were talking about a few days ago back in North  Carolina--my colleagues Mr. Knott and Mr. Harris are here--with the  senseless murder of the young Ukrainian lady on the light-rail line. It  turns out, by the way, that she and her family lived in my district.  Then, of course, there is also the senseless murder yesterday, the  assassination of Charlie Kirk, and the violence and evil that is all  around us. This is one step to try to prevent and stem even more of  that possibly happening. It is by dealing with dangerous folks, not  just folks who come across the border for the first time and are dealt  with in the normal way, but dealing with folks who are committing  serious felonies.

This should be common sense. This is the kind of bill that should get  435 votes on the floor of this House. I hope my colleagues on the other  side will reflect on this, will reconsider, and will do the right thing  and vote for this bill.

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. KNOTT. Will the gentleman yield?

Mr. KNOTT. The issue with your characterization, sir, is number one,  someone who enters illegally must be convicted of illegally entering  the country. Then they must be convicted of illegally reentering the  country to get a felony conviction. There is no compulsion to charge  the most serious layers of this offense. There is prosecutorial  discretion.

Under this law, if someone is apprehended, they can be deported  without any charging, and that is where the misconception and the  mischaracterization is.

If someone is convicted of illegal reentry and deported and they come  back, a prosecutor would have the discretion to charge the 10-year  minimum. It is not compulsory. It is within the discretion but, yes, he  would meet the element.

Mr. KNOTT. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I have heard a lot from the other side about costs,  whether it be costs to law enforcement, costs to imprison, costs to  society. I want to talk about the costs of open-border policies that is  felt in this country.

In the year 1990, roughly 5,000 Americans died because of illegal  drug use. Since the year 2000, almost 1.5 million Americans have lost  their life because of using illegal drugs. Of course, there is  involvement locally and domestically in the drug trade, but just about  all drugs--statistically, all illegal drugs--come into the country  illegally. That is just one category dealing with the cost of illegal  immigration.

Any criminal code should have three objectives:

First, it should protect Americans. It should protect American  children. It should protect American families, neighborhoods, and  businesses from the ill effects of crime.

Second, it should punish illegal activity. When someone harms another  American, there should be adequate and reciprocal punishment. It should  be efficient, and it should work, again, to protect Americans.

Thirdly, it should deter ongoing criminal conduct in that same vein,  repeat criminal offenses, or anyone who would want to copy criminal  conduct to enrich themselves.

When you look at the scale of illegal immigration, when you look at  the problems that are being inflicted upon this country across every  metric, the criminal law is failing to protect Americans.

This bill, again, aims to target the committed criminals who are here  illegally. There is no distinction under the current law for people who  commit crimes when they are here illegally versus those who commit  crimes who are citizens. That discrepancy enables hordes of illegal  immigrants to come from around the world to harm Americans.

Again, I repeat, Mr. Raskin, in good faith and with sound logic,  talked about robbery. He talked about property crimes. He talked about  rape and murder. Some of these people have been convicted of rape,  murder, property crimes after they have been deported. They return  illegally and harm Americans.

This bill aims to preempt the harm Americans feel by committed  illegal immigrant criminals.

Just this week, there was a release from the Department of Homeland  Security. A 34-year-old gang member  from Mexico had illegally entered the country 26 times. He has received  convictions for burglary, tampering with government records, government  witnesses, criminal enterprises, illegal reentry multiple times. When  you look at cases like this that are so voluminous, it is hard to  summarize. Again, the only conclusion--the only conclusion is the law  is insufficient as it is currently drafted.

We are in Congress to make laws to protect Americans. When we have  such gaping holes in our criminal justice law as it relates to illegal  immigrant criminals, not dairy workers, not those who are not  committing crimes, the conclusion is straightforward. We need to change  the law.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle candidly are twisting  themselves into circles to defend the policies of the status quo. They  want more illegal immigrants. They do not want stricter enforcement.  They are turning every opportunity to resist the changes that  Republicans and this President are trying to implement.

Again, as a Federal prosecutor in my previous career, I saw how  illegal, unchecked immigration harmed every corner of my State and the  country. When you have an open flow of illegal immigration, crime  flourishes. It is hard to quantify the cost.

Again, with this bill, for any illegal immigrant to be under its  effect, they must commit a felony and get convicted or they must  illegally reenter--not enter--reenter after deportation. That is not a  standard too high. That is not detached from logic.

Again, when you look at the goals of what all criminal laws should  achieve, protecting Americans, punishing illegal activity, and to deter  repeat offenses, this is a needed step to accompany the legitimate  approach that the President has been implementing over the past few  years.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this  legislation.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.