Economic Espionage Prevention Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690677/economic-espionage-prevention-act


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1486. This is legislation  that authorizes sanctions against any person or entity that provides  material support for Russia's military and industrial defense base.

We know that Russia uses missiles, drones, planes, and rocket  launchers to wreak havoc on Ukrainian cities and citizens. They do this  to overthrow the government, to end democracy in Ukraine, and to seize  Ukrainian territory to reconstitute a new Soviet Union, or at least a  Soviet-like sphere of influence.

Ukrainians have bravely stood up to this unprovoked, unlawful  aggression. The Ukrainian military has bravely fought back against the  much larger Russian military and has repelled this invasion for years.  The United States and its partners and allies have been critical to the  defense of Ukraine, and Congress has been instrumental in the support  we have provided.

As Russia continues to suffer heavy losses and economic hardship from  waging this illegal invasion, it has turned to China and even Iran and  North Korea for support. We absolutely should be bolstering sanctions  not just on Russia's warmongering but also on its enablers.

China has played a crucial role in supporting Russia. Though they  have not provided overt military support, they are continuing to  provide dual-use goods, like industrial tools and semiconductors.

At a minimum, given its tendencies to appease Russia rather than  pressure it, the Trump administration must maintain the current posture  of deterrence with the existing tools it already has. The better  approach is for this administration to also use the additional tools  offered by this legislation to deter further PRC shipments of dual-use  goods to Russia.

Madam Speaker, I appreciate Representative McCormick and Chairman  Mast for negotiating further changes to this bill last week. I  appreciate the bipartisan spirit that went into this legislation and  for the work that both Ranking Member Meeks and his team have done on  this legislation.

Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time  for the purpose of closing.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 1486 will authorize sanctions on any person or  entity that supports Russia's military and defense industrial base.  Russia expected to take Kyiv in a matter of days, but it has now been  years as brave Ukrainians continue to defend their country and their  sovereignty against Russia's illegal invasion.

Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative McCormick, and  others for their work on this, as Russia has now had to turn to other  nations for material support to continue that invasion, which is why  Congress must not only continue our support of Ukraine but also  authorize sanctions on those enabling Russia's war.

This is an important bill, and I am proud to support it. I hope we  can put forward other legislation like this, including a few bills  sponsored by Ranking Member Meeks that have passed with bipartisan  support in the past.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and  I yield back the balance of my time.