Falun Gong Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690646/falun-gong-protection-act


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1540.

Like H.R. 1503, the Falun Gong Protection Act also imposes sanctions  on individuals who knowingly and directly engage in or facilitate the  involuntary harvesting of organs within the People's Republic of China  while strengthening reporting requirements regarding this heinous  crime.

These steps are vital to address the forcible harvesting of organs, a  grave violation of human rights and bodily autonomy. The PRC has been  accused of forcibly harvesting organs from victims who range from  prisoners of conscience, including religious and spiritual adherents,  to ethnic minorities. Shining a spotlight on these crimes and the  people that perpetrate them while advancing accountability is  essential.

The reporting requirements in this bill will help us better  understand the scope of these terrible abuses and allow us to address  them more effectively. This reporting relies on the very offices and  experts at the State Department, the Department of Health and Human  Services, and the National Institutes of Health that are being gutted  currently by the Trump administration, a gift for traffickers and  criminals that only illustrates just how dangerous the administration's  proposed reorganization and so-called streamlining of the government  has been for United States' national security. The sanctions in this  bill may help to hold perpetrators accountable and deter the practice,  as well.

We cannot remain silent in the face of such cruelty. We must stand  with the victims, show them they are not forgotten, and ensure that  perpetrators face justice.

I thank my colleagues for their leadership on this effort and other  efforts to tackle this heinous crime.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1540 will help Congress better understand the scope  of organ harvesting and will enable the sanctioning of individuals who  knowingly engage in or facilitate this horrendous crime.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in support of this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.