Healthcare Subsidies and Rescissions


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Mr. Speaker, today marks 257 consecutive days that  this Congress has failed to take meaningful action to address the cost- of-living crisis weighing heavily on struggling American families.

Regrettably, the President and Republican leadership have made life  more difficult and less affordable for hardworking families across our  Nation through chaotic trade policies and devastating cuts to  healthcare and food programs.

The pending expiration of health insurance subsidies at the close of  this year, in particular, threatens to impose a severe and unwarranted  tax hike on the middle class.

Allowing these subsidies to lapse will cause out-of-pocket premiums  for enrolled Americans to soar by an astounding 93 percent.

This drastic reduction in subsidies will also compel many healthy  individuals to forgo insurance altogether, leaving a sicker population  behind and forcing insurers to raise premiums  across the board. As a result, even families who do not receive these  subsidies will see their premiums increase by 18 percent.

This single policy shift would strip health coverage from more than 5  million Americans, adding to the 10 million projected to lose insurance  due to President Trump's Medicaid cuts.

Those fortunate enough to retain their insurance will face a  staggering cost increase. A family of four earning just $90,000  annually could see their premiums escalate by as much as 69 percent.  That is an increase of over $3,000 per year, and that is crushing for a  working family.

The expiration of these subsidies will also inflict substantial harm  on entrepreneurs and small business owners. These are people who  comprise roughly 30 percent of marketplace enrollees.

I am deeply concerned about the chilling effect this premium hike  will have on business creation and job growth, both of which are  already under significant strain in Trump's economy.

Democrats stand ready to work collaboratively with our Republican  colleagues to fund the government in a bipartisan spirit. We are eager  to negotiate in good faith on a responsible budget that delivers for  all Americans.

Extending these vital tax subsidies is but one of many critical items  on the table.

Let me be unequivocal on one other issue. No budget proposal that  permits additional rescissions is worthy of any serious consideration.  Any long-term budget should be shielded against further rescissions  because we have already seen this administration's willingness to  rescind funds approved in a bipartisan fashion by Congress, canceling  support for foreign aid and public broadcasting programs that enjoy  broad bipartisan backing.

The administration has also announced plans to exploit a little-known  mechanism known as a pocket rescission to unilaterally cancel even more  foreign aid.

Of deep concern to myself and Marylanders, President Trump has  threatened to rescind funding that is vital to the reconstruction of  the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore, a project critical not only  to our local economy but to the Nation as a whole.

I urge my colleagues to insist that any budget we pass categorically  reject any further illegal impoundments.

The power of the purse rests solely with Congress. If the President  seeks to cut funding, he must do so through proper channels: by coming  to Congress and requesting a lawful change.

Let's be sure to remember that in the days ahead.