Maintaining American Superiority By Improving Export Control Transparency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690694/maintaining-american-superiority-by-improving-export-control-transparency-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1316. Over the past 6 years,  export controls have become a crucial tool for our national security  and foreign policy to respond to the challenges posed by Russia, China,  Iran, and others.

Our use of export controls have become more and more frequent and  more complicated, as we have started to apply novel controls in  critical technology areas such as semiconductors and AI. While this  change in U.S. export control policy has taken place, congressional  consultation and oversight has not kept up.

The bill in front of us today by Representative Jackson is an  important step toward remedying this problem by calling for the  Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security, BIS, to conduct  greater transparency around license application, information, and  conduct checks for problematic companies in arms-embargoed nations.

This bill will also enable Congress to conduct better oversight to  ensure that BIS licensing and enforcement processes are working  properly and efficiently. This bill will ensure that the Foreign  Affairs Committee is getting the information it needs on export control  policy and implementation, while protecting business proprietary  information and allowing BIS to effectively execute its core national  security mandate.

However, as we add to the list of things we are asking BIS to do, it  is also important that we equip BIS with the resources and staffing to  meet those requirements. This administration claims that it will  prioritize export controls, yet it has frozen 10 percent of BIS'  budget. That is not keeping America safe.

BIS desperately needs to revamp its outdated and inefficient IT  system, which has not been updated in over 15 years. The number of  license applications BIS receives per year has more than doubled in  that span to over 40,000 per year. I worry that without a better IT  system, reasonable requests for information like this bill will further  tax BIS' limited resources.

Representative Crow and Ranking Member Meeks are working on a bill to  fund IT modernization for BIS. I hope that as we pass good bills like  this one by Mr. Jackson and Ms. Jacobs, we will also properly equip BIS  so that it can effectively carry out its work.

I encourage my colleagues to join in supporting this measure, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, transparency is critical for effective congressional  oversight, and Mr. Jackson's bill will allow Congress greater insight  into the license application decisions and enforcement actions taken by  the Bureau of Industry and Security.

Notwithstanding the length of the title, as pointed out by the  chairman, I hope my colleagues will join me and support this bill. I  yield back the balance of my time.