Mobilizing and Enhancing Georgia's Options for Building Accountability, Resilience, and Independence Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690699/mobilizing-and-enhancing-georgias-options-for-building-accountability-resilience-and-independence-act


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 36, a bipartisan bill  designed to make sure that the United States remains committed to  Georgia's Euro-Atlantic and democratic aspirations.

I thank my friend, the gentleman from South Carolina (Mr. Wilson),  for his tireless efforts on this topic, in addition to his fervent work  to support Ukraine.

For years following the fall of Communism and particularly after the  Rose Revolution in 2003, the people of Georgia have worked to  successfully build their democracy and their economy, all while  fostering aspirations to join the EU and NATO.

The United States, along with European partners, have played an  integral role in ensuring that the path of integration was open to  Georgia and that its people had the means to implement the necessary  reforms. Georgia's story has been one of success.

Georgia, strategically located on the Black Sea, is no stranger to  larger geopolitical forces. Russia invaded Georgia in 2008 during the  Beijing Olympics and proceeded to occupy 20 percent of its territory.  Despite the persistent threat from Russia, Georgians continued to forge  forward with democratic reforms and even made significant contributions  to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as this legislation notes.

However, we know too well from the experience in other parts of  Europe and at home that democratic progress is fragile and requires  constant attention.

In February 2023, the Georgian Government introduced a foreign agents  bill in its parliament that it claimed was aimed at transparency.  However, the bill was set to impose burdensome restrictions on civil  society organizations and independent media, stigmatizing them as  foreign agents.

Following warnings from the United States and partners in Europe, as  well as waves of protests, the government withdrew the bill, only to  reintroduce it in April 2024. This time, despite massive protests, a  Presidential veto, additional rebukes from the United States Congress,  the Biden administration, and the EU, the Georgian Parliament pushed  this legislation through.

Then, in another illustration of democratic backsliding,  parliamentary elections were held in the fall of 2024 that were neither  free, nor fair, and tainted by numerous and serious electoral  violations.

This legislation is a response to the deteriorating democratic  situation in Georgia. It will let the Georgian people know that we  stand by them in their quest for democracy, respect for their rights,  and deeper integration into the Euro-Atlantic community. This also  provides a framework for appropriate cooperation with the Georgian  Government going forward.

Madam Speaker, I am pleased with the bipartisan work of this bill,  look forward to its passage, and hope that it has the desired effect to  show the people of Georgia that Congress is watching, the United States  cares, and that we want to ensure their future in Europe and NATO.

Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  Tennessee (Mr. Cohen).

Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Madam Speaker, I have no further requests for time,  and I yield myself the balance of my time for the purposes of closing.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 36 works to show the people of Georgia that the  United States remains committed to its Euro-Atlantic aspirations and  provides a framework for appropriate cooperation with the Georgian  Government in light of worrying democratic backsliding in the country.

I thank my colleagues again for their steadfast support and  leadership on this issue in support of Georgia's ambitions to join NATO  and the EU, and I hope my colleagues will join me and support this  bill.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.