Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699937/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member, the gentleman  from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill. It is a solution in  search of a problem, as the gentleman from Massachusetts just pointed  out.

My colleague pointed out earlier some polling numbers. Let me put  another polling number out there. Mr. Speaker, 90 percent of Americans  support universal background checks. If that is the standard, let's  pass a universal background check right now. Let's save lives from  senseless gun violence.

Republicans say that this bill will stop noncitizens from voting, but  as the ranking member from the Rules Committee pointed out, nonpartisan  studies have found that over 24 years and out of hundreds of millions  of votes cast, there has been proof of this happening exactly 77 times.

To be clear, voter fraud should be punished to the fullest extent of  the law. We welcome conversations to do that, but that is not what this  bill does.

Indeed, if my colleagues were serious about election integrity, we  would include protections for American voters who are overseas, like  the brave men and women of our military. We would provide free  automatic IDs. We would allow same-day voter registration for eligible  voters, and we wouldn't force married women to navigate even more  bureaucratic obstacles. We wouldn't force States to turn over their  voter rolls, and wouldn't actively discourage voting by mail.

Mr. Speaker, I have a different challenge for my colleagues from the  Republican side. They should join me in focusing on what Americans  actually need: relief from the crushing cost of living crisis in this  country. Let's stop pretending that this bill defends democracy and  start helping the people we represent.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this rule and on  this bill.