Taiwan International Solidarity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690674/taiwan-international-solidarity-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2416, the Taiwan International  Solidarity Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague, Representative  Connolly, for his work in developing this bill. As has been said on  this floor earlier, we know that he can't be with us today, and we send  our best wishes and our prayers to him and his family as he continues  his courageous battle with cancer.

Representative Connolly is among the hardest working Members of  Congress and the most dedicated public servants in the United States.  He is as tough as they come, and I know he is going to keep fighting.  Our thoughts and prayers are truly with him.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support this bipartisan measure, which  will strengthen U.S.-Taiwan ties, showcase our support for Taiwan, and  help counter Beijing's coercive influence around the world.

U.S. policy toward Taiwan remains consistent across administrations  and guided by the Taiwan Relations Act. What has changed, though, is  Beijing's increasingly aggressive international campaign to exclude  Taiwan from the international community through intimidation, coercion,  and distortion of established and well-accepted norms.

To be clear, there is no justification in the U.N. General Assembly  Resolution 2758 for Taiwan's continued exclusion from international  bodies. The resolution only established the Government of the PRC as a  representative for China at the U.N. It did nothing to define or  determine a role for Taiwan.

This bill codifies what has long been the United States' position;  that is, to oppose Beijing's actions to misinterpret and distort U.N.  Resolution 2758 and enable the United States to empower our partners to  resist Beijing's overtures to reduce or sever relations with Taiwan.

Taiwan is a friend, a vibrant democracy, and a force for good in the  world. In this Congress, on a bipartisan basis, we will continue to  push for its inclusion in global dialogue.

Mr. Speaker, by reinforcing the United States' opposition to  Beijing's misinterpretation of U.N. General Assembly Resolution 2758,  this bill sends a clear signal that the United States will not waiver  and that we will stand up for our friends when they are bullied.

Our partners should be able to rely on U.S. support in the face of  Beijing's coercion, especially its efforts to maliciously exclude the  interests of Taiwan's 24 million people in international organizations.

Taiwan is a vibrant democracy that contributes to the global  community, and it deserves to participate in fostering peace and  cooperation.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.