Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism


Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank the honorable gentleman from  Arkansas, the distinguished French Hill, chairman of the Committee on  Financial Services. It is a pleasure for me to be serving with him on  this committee.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to say before I start, before I explain to  this body why I am introducing this resolution, when I was a journalist  covering stories for Univision Network, I interviewed many people who  had lost their legs or lost their brothers or sisters in the middle of  the ocean, trying to get to Miami, and the sharks ate them up. Some of  them were eaten up alive. Others lost legs.

When they made it to Florida, I was able to interview them as a  journalist and see the horrors of what they had to go through because  they were escaping the paradise called socialism. I am going to start  with that and maybe finish with another anecdote.

The reason we are introducing this resolution is to condemn the  horrors of socialism, and I am presenting just the facts. I invite my  colleagues on the other side to vote to condemn this nefarious  ideology.

This has nothing to do with political parties. This is not a  Democratic issue. This is not a Republican issue. This is a moral vote  against an ideology that has destroyed millions and millions of  families--many of those families I serve in District 27, the heart of  the city of Miami, the heart of the Cuban exile community and now the  Venezuelan community--and murdered more than 100 million lives besides  crushing hundreds of thousands of other families and individuals.

Unfortunately, socialism and Marxism crush the human soul. It is not  just in my community in Miami. Millions of Cubans had to flee. It is  the rest of the hemisphere and the rest of the world. Just look at  Russia, look at North Korea, and look at Iran.

What a coincidence that, today, President Trump is receiving in the  White House the mayor-elect, Mr. Mamdani, from New York City. I salute  the President for receiving Mr. Mamdani because he won fair and square,  and that is the way democracy works.

Let me just tell you something. Knowing very well how Fidel worked,  how Hugo Chavez works, and how socialism works, I want to put this in  perspective. If it were to be the other way around and Trump would have  been the mayor-elect and Mamdani were to be the President of the United  States, I assure you that there is no way that Mamdani is going to  receive Trump at the White House, period.

How do I know that? Because I know exactly how they operate.  Democracy is just a tool to get to power, period. People who love  freedom, we are just useful fools to be used in order to get to the  business of power, which is all socialist, communist, whatever you want  to call it. If it is not democracy, freedom, and a free-market economy,  it is just a bad ideology. Unfortunately, that is what they do to  achieve power. They use us.

Just look at Venezuela. Oh, my God, Venezuela is in the news.  Everyone is talking about Venezuela, my God, the Caribbean.

Let me just give you the facts. Maria Corina Machado, who is the  legitimate President of Venezuela, who won 80-20 after President Biden  gave the opportunity to Maduro to do fair and square elections and  transparent elections, 2 years ago Maduro signs a document by the name  of the Barbados Agreement, and he agrees to the Biden administration  and to Juan Gonzalez, who used to be the National Security Advisor for  Latin America, that he was going to leave if he did not win the  elections. He signed that document with the Biden administration.

What did he do? He just spit on Biden's face because we believed  that, oh, my God, Biden, look what he is doing. It is good. It is a  good idea to give the opportunity to Maduro to just create and conduct  free, fair, and transparent elections with international observers, and  he was going to go. Look at where he is at now.

Maduro is not only the head of the Suns Cartel, one of the most  important drug trafficking cartels in the world, but he was also  indicted in 2020 by a Federal grand jury in this country for being one  of the major drug traffickers in the world. Not only that, he is now on  the transnational criminal organization list. Not only that, he is the  head of the Suns Cartel.

Ms. SALAZAR. As you can see, I can speak until tomorrow about  socialism.

The problem is that Venezuela is the perfect example, and the  Venezuelans would make fun of the Cubans 25 years ago, saying that it  was impossible for that to happen in Venezuela. They had the largest  reserves of oil in the world. They were a brave and strong democracy.  They were not an island. It was impossible. They have such a strong  economy.

Look, right now, the average Venezuelan weighs 15 pounds less because  of a lack of food, and the Trump administration has to come to rescue  them from what they have turned that country into.

We are at a crossroads in this country. Young Americans, 70 percent  believe that socialism is good. One in three believes that government  should control major industries. One in four says that we should  abolish private property.

It is my duty as a Representative of District 27, the heart of the  Cuban exile community, to tell this body it is time to denounce  socialism in this country because, just like it happened to the  Venezuelans, it could happen to the Americans.

Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, if there is someone who has seen the  horrors of socialism up close within the Democratic Party, and is in  the House, it is the Honorable Congresswoman Maxine Waters. And I would  love for you to support this resolution specifically because, Madam  Waters, for decades, you traveled to Cuba dozens of times to visit  Fidel Castro personally, whom you considered your friend.

Congresswoman Waters was in Havana, and she saw the destruction of  Biblical proportions that Castro caused on that island, who, at the  time, in 1960, had the highest per capita income in the Western  Hemisphere.

* * *

Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, I am asking for unanimous consent to  withdraw the violations of the rules and continue with my speech, which  is that there are many people on this floor that have--

Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, there are many people on this floor who  have seen the horrors of communism. They have been to Cuba. They have  been friends with Fidel Castro. They have seen the jails full of Cuban  prisoners. They have seen people preparing rafts to die in the middle  of the ocean, eaten by sharks.

There are many people in the Democratic Party who have witnessed that  and have not said anything.

For this reason, Mr. Speaker, I am asking some of my colleagues on  that side of the aisle, many of them who are very good friends of mine,  to understand that denouncing communism and socialism is the right  thing to do for the Democratic Party.

If some of the highest, most important Members of the Democratic  Party on that side of the aisle want to vote with us, they would be  doing a favor to their Republic. Not only that, the Democratic Party  will become the new champions for freedom in the Western Hemisphere.