Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


Ms. SALAZAR. Mr. Speaker, I am here today because I oppose this  resolution. It is fundamentally flawed. It is trying to invoke the War  Powers Resolution of 1973, which doesn't even apply in the case of  Venezuela.

The War Powers Resolution applies when there is active combat with  the United States forces. It does not include law enforcement or  counternarcotics operations against declared terrorists like Nicolas  Maduro, who happens to be the head of a major drug cartel in the  Western Hemisphere.

Therefore, we do not need this resolution because what the President  is doing is well within the law. The President does not need  congressional approval to protect Americans from terrorist attacks.

Let's see what the Constitution says. The Founding Fathers vested in  Congress the power to declare war, but they were equally clear that the  power to defend the homeland from foreign and domestic threats belongs  to the President as Commander in Chief.

Therefore, President Trump does not need congressional permission to  kill terrorists at sea who are bringing cocaine and fentanyl to the  streets of Miami, New York, or Chicago.

Let's see what international law says. The United States is waging a  noninternational armed conflict with Venezuela. What does that mean?  Our issue is not with Venezuela as a country but with Nicolas Maduro,  the narcotrafficker who hijacked that country after he stole the  elections last year. Under the Law of Armed Conflict, we can use  military force to stop his drug cartel from flooding the streets of the  United States.

According to article 29 of the Charter of the Organization of  American States, of which the United States is a member, it says that  the countries of the Western Hemisphere may take military action  against a threat that endangers the peace of the Americas.

The Maduro regime has destroyed the peace of the whole Western  Hemisphere. If not, ask anyone who lives in my district, the city of  Miami.

Now let's go back to American history, which says that Maduro is the  world's largest drug trafficker. In 2020, he was indicted by a Federal  grand jury in this country for pushing hundreds of thousands of tons of  cocaine to the streets of the United States.

Back in 1989, we had a very similar experience in Panama with Manuel  Noriega. At the time, President Bush took action in Panama to remove  Noriega. There was no need for congressional approval, but as Commander  in Chief, he did what he needed to do. Today, Panamanians are eternally  grateful to the United States.

In 1983, President Ronald Reagan ordered United States forces into  the islands of Grenada to protect the lives of American citizens. Once  again, the President did not ask approval from Congress. Reagan acted  swiftly, lawfully, and decisively.

Today, the actions taken against the cartel of the los Soles, headed  by Maduro, fall squarely into this same category--operations against  nonstate actors and criminal organizations, not a war against a  sovereign nation or a legitimate President.

This resolution presented by the Democratic Party would tie President  Trump's hands in the fight against drug-trafficking terrorists. Every  Venezuelan knows that Maduro is just a thug and a delinquent who has  been in the drug-trafficking business for 27 years since he took over  the country. They have totally destroyed the most prosperous country in  Latin America, Venezuela.

Of course, Congress has the crucial role in authorizing wars, but the  President has independent authority to defend the mainland. Panama is  thriving. Grenada is thriving.

Once Maduro is gone and order is restored to the country, it will be  the most prosperous country in Latin America, having the largest  reserves of oil in the world, which will give them enough resources not  to depend on the charity of the United States or any other country to  fix the destruction that Maduro wrought.

Mr. Speaker, for those reasons, I strongly oppose this resolution,  and I urge my colleagues to do the same.