Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''


Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose all three of these  Congressional Review Act resolutions on the floor because the reality  is that these would overhaul years of public input. They would silence  Tribal voices and erase science-based planning, all so that this  administration can hand millions of acres of our public lands over to  the fossil fuel industry for extraction.

Public lands should be our country's proudest legacy. They are our  natural heritage, a national treasure, and the agencies responsible for  stewarding them, like the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest  Service, diligently manage these resources for the future through the  careful development of these resource management plans and forest  plans.

The BLM plans, or the RMPs, are carefully crafted to establish  safeguards for wildlife, recreation areas, and watersheds, and to  identify suitable areas for energy development, as well. That also  includes grazing, logging, and other commercial activities. They have  to balance all of it in these RMPs.

It is also based on robust input from communities, stakeholders, the  public, and government-to-government consultation with the impacted  Tribes, as well.

The Republican majority has proven time and again that they don't  want any of that public process. They simply want to hand things over  to Big Oil and  Big Coal, and this week, they are right back at it.

The majority is making us vote on legislation that would turn the  management of public lands upside down, throwing it into chaos, all  just to score that quick win for their fossil fuel buddies because the  existing plans don't give away the store the way they would like to.

It doesn't matter that this might upend the system that grants land  ownership to Alaska Native veterans of the Vietnam war, which is what  one of these RMPs does, or that the Tribal governments have spent years  working in good faith with the Federal Government to develop land  management plans that both allow for energy development and protect  subsistence hunting and fishing resources.

That is what they are blowing up with these CRAs, not to mention that  if these CRAs are signed into law, the validity of every single permit,  lease, and Federal approval that has been issued based on these RMPs  would suddenly be called into question and subject to litigation.

I remind my colleagues once again that they don't have to go down  this road.

The gentleman from Colorado mentioned that the CRA has never been  used to overturn a resource management plan. There are perfectly valid  ways of achieving the same goals in the Federal Land Policy and  Management Act. It is what the Biden administration did to update these  plans, and it is what the Trump administration has already announced it  intends to do.

I certainly expect to disagree with the outcomes and the objectives  of the Trump administration's efforts to amend these RMPs. If they  followed the formal process at least, though, we would have a chance to  make our case in that process, and it wouldn't imperil existing permits  and leases. Most importantly, it would require community input and  Tribal consultation.

I strongly urge my colleagues not to continue this race to the  bottom. Republicans have already thrown so many norms out the window.  Republicans have already disregarded Democrats in all of their  legislation and have started this radical appropriations process, where  it is party line, Republican only. So many norms are being trashed, and  now, for the first time, they are going to do this using the CRA on  resource management plans.

Stop the race to the bottom. Vote against this CRA resolution  package.