Amending the Fisa Amendments Act of 2008 to Extend the Authorities of Title VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Through April 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701881/amending-the-fisa-amendments-act-of-2008-to-extend-the-authorities-of-title-vii-of-the-foreign-intelligence-surveillance-act-of-1978-through-april-2026


Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, Americans understand that every single  day there are abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. And  the reality is, a growing number of Democrats and Republicans are now  saying that a straight extension of the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Act law is absolutely unacceptable in any way, shape, or  form.

So it is clear it is time for real reforms to protect Americans from  warrantless surveillance by a government that they rightly do not  trust.

So for the last hour or so, I have been speaking to colleagues in the  other body of the House. And they have told me, unequivocally, that  this short-term extension makes reform more likely and expiration makes  reform less likely.

But make no mistake about it, opponents of reform have shown no  willingness, for years and years, to negotiate meaningful reform. And  those of us in a bipartisan, bicameral way who have insisted that this  time will be different want to emphasize that this morning.

The reality is that the country believes that security and liberty  are not mutually exclusive. We can have both. A good bill that we are  insisting on will do that. A bad bill will give us less security and  less liberty.

So I hope that opponents of reform are going to understand what is  going on in the Congress and in the country and start talking about  what is genuinely good reform and what it would look like.

I will say that I am now the longest serving member of the Senate  Intelligence Committee, and I have never seen the concern on both sides  of the aisle, that is bicameral, for real reform.

So I have talked to my colleagues in the House, and their views have  been particularly important because they have told us about their work  last night and what it means for real reform.

And we are going to be following that here every single day because  Ben Franklin said--you are going to hear me talk about that--anybody  who gives up their liberty for security doesn't deserve either.

We are going to insist on it.