Claiming Age Clarity Act


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I am announcing my intention to object to  any unanimous consent request to proceed to H.R. 5284, the Claiming Age  Clarity Act.

I support my colleagues' efforts to simplify the language the Social  Security Administration, SSA, uses related to claiming retirement  benefits. However, I am concerned that the bill's lack of  administrative funding to implement the legislation would harm the  Agency's ability to serve the American public.

According to SSA estimates in September 2025, implementing this bill  would cost between $8 and $12 million and require significant manpower  to update its rules, regulations, guidance, and other materials-- including benefit statements--both printed and online versions.

According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, Social  Security's customer service budget has dropped by 23 percent since  fiscal year 2010 after adjusting for inflation. Over the same period,  SSA is serving 17 million more Social Security beneficiaries, a 28- percent increase. Moreover, since February 2025, SSA reduced staff by  nearly 6,000 employees through encouraging retirements and voluntary  resignations, including 2,000 from frontline positions. In August 2025,  SSA diverted 2,000 field office staff away from serving customers in  the front office to answer national 800 number calls indefinitely.  Field offices, which bore the brunt of those staffing cuts, are now  forced to backfill the staffing shortages with other employees at the  expense of timely processing benefit claims and assisting seniors who  come into the field offices. Simply put, SSA is having to do more with  less resources and fewer staff.

As my colleagues know, annual statements are an effective  communication strategy to educate individuals about their earnings and  payroll tax records, estimate of earned monthly benefits, and other  information designed to help them more effectively plan for retirement.  To this end, SSA has worked diligently over the last several years to  streamline and modernize the Social Security annual statements to  increase the public's understanding of its programs. However, SSA's  funding constraints already limit SSA's ability to educate Americans  about their Social Security benefits. Section 1143 of the Social  Security Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1320b-13, SSA is required to mail Social  Security annual statements to most workers aged 25 and older who are  not currently receiving Social Security benefits. Yet, due to budgetary  constraints, SSA has suspended mailing statements to those individuals  since 2011.

Enacting this legislation without providing SSA with the necessary  resources to implement and effectively communicate this change,  including mailing annual statements, would stymie the bill's effects.  Similarly, changing terminology--even to make it clearer--would  presumably create confusion among some, resulting in increased call  volume and foot traffic in the field offices and on the national 1-800  number.

I am committed to working with the sponsors of the legislation and  our colleagues on the Committee on Appropriations to ensure that SSA  has the necessary resources to effectively implement the bill while  improving customer service for the millions of Americans who rely on  Social Security. Until then, I will object to any unanimous consent  request in relation to this legislation.