Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699115/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. WYDEN. Tomorrow is the final day for Americans to sign up for  health  insurance through the Affordable Care Act Marketplace. After that, the  doors slam shut, high premiums are locked in, and millions of families  all across the land will be unable to afford essential care.

On this side of the aisle, we have been working for more than a year  to develop bipartisan support to prevent this from happening. We told  our Republican colleagues we wanted to work with them, long before  Donald Trump was sworn in. Democrats spent the summer warning about the  dangers of higher premiums, while Republicans were forcing through the  largest cut in history.

We pressed for action before the signup period began. At every turn,  Donald Trump and congressional Republicans slammed the door in the face  of millions of Americans seeking premium relief.

This morning, it is clear why. Yesterday, the Republican Study  Committee, which constitutes a majority of the House Republican  conference, released yet another new plan to unleash another set of  harmful partisan changes to Americans' healthcare. This is being done  when millions are already reeling from the cuts that we saw to Medicaid  and the Affordable Care Act in the last bill.

The new draft plan contains yet another trillion dollars in cuts to  healthcare which, if passed, would represent a knockout blow to the  American healthcare system. It is, once again, another hacksaw to  Medicaid, targeting blue States and cities in yet another attempt to  weaponize the Federal Government against the Republicans' political  opponents. This new Republican plan would unleash insurance companies  and shady brokers to push more junk plans that I can tell you aren't  worth the paper they are written on.

Americans are fed up with high healthcare costs, and yet Republicans  now want to double down on misery and, once again, allow these Swiss  cheese health plans that don't cover healthcare like chemotherapy or  prescription drugs.

This morning, the mask is off. It is clear Republicans haven't been  serious about holding premiums down from the start. All the hemming and  hawing about healthcare premiums and taking on big insurance has been  for show, and the American people are fed up with excuses.

Today is an opportunity, finally, to do the right thing. Senator  Schumer has made it clear that extending the tax credits for middle- class healthcare is a key first step--a first step--toward moving  America toward a healthcare system that puts our families first. That  is the priority, not helping giant corporations looking to do another  stock buyback.

Unfortunately, it seems like Republicans, on healthcare, are focused  on doubling down in the wrong direction. That is what this morning's  developments say.