Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, shortly, the Senate will vote on the Paul  amendment, and I want this body to understand why I strongly oppose it. 

  The Paul amendment, in its essence, has nothing to do with the  underlying proposal responding to this enormous COVID-19 crisis. The  Paul amendment is a poison pill that essentially focuses on an old  political issue that this body has debated before and very likely is  going to debate again. I just don't believe the Paul amendment has any  place in a debate on an emergency coronavirus bill. 

  Every Member of this Senate understands our country is facing and  dealing with a national health and economic crisis. The country wants  us to focus like a laser on emergency measures that can help save lives  and keep families from falling into destitution. 

  The Paul amendment says, in effect, that immigrant families with kids  are going to pay for the emergency with their kids' well-being. These  families, like so many others, are especially vulnerable at this  moment. It is just wrong to bring misery into their homes. 

  I would just ask my colleagues to save the immigration debates for  another time when we are not in the middle of a pandemic. Today, the  focus is about that pandemic and acting in an emergency, where we come  together, both political parties, both sides of the aisle. When you are  dealing with this kind of pandemic, your focus is helping families and  workers, small businesses, and all of those people who are walking on  an economic tightrope. They are not getting paychecks, is what we are  hearing, and they are trying to figure out how to pay the rent. If they  pay the rent, do they have money for food? If they have money for food,  what do they do about out-of-pocket healthcare? Folks want our support  with those survival issues. 

  On the Finance Committee--I am very pleased to see the distinguished  President of this body working with us on the Finance Committee. What  we have tried to do is focus on modernizing unemployment insurance. I  have said to my colleagues: Let's just face it--unemployment is a  system that has been in a time warp. 

  I think we have a very important proposal that is going to help an  enormous number of people from sea to shining sea. We need to do so  much right now, particularly in terms of saving lives and getting  healthcare to our people. 

  What I hear from home is people who are following this are saying:  There is so much to do. Act now, then get on with the additional steps  that have to be taken. But for today, get on with this. Get on with  passing this bill and getting ready to move to the next bill. 

  Those in need of healthcare and citizens struggling to make it  through these unprecedented times want action now. They all realize  that there will be several additional pieces of legislation--hopefully  sooner rather than later--but our job today is to make sure we pass  this bill. 

  I urge my colleagues, when we vote on the Paul amendment very  shortly, to oppose it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT