Direct File Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701746/direct-file-act


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, it is tax day, April 15--the anti-holiday.

This tax day, in particular, is a tough one. Tax day 2026 is a  reminder that Donald Trump and Republicans will put the interests of  giant corporations ahead of the interests of typical Americans. There  is no clearer example of Trump corruption in practice than betraying  taxpayers and killing the Direct File Program as a favor to his allies.

Here is what this is all about: When it comes to taxes, Democrats  start with the proposition that for the vast majority of Americans-- wage-earning workers whose taxes really aren't complicated--filing your  taxes ought to be free and easy. Our view is you shouldn't have to pay  a penny to perform your basic civic duty.

That is why, back in 2022, after years of hard work, we passed  funding for the IRS to build a Direct File Program, a way for taxpayers  to file directly with the IRS online for free. The IRS launched a pilot  project for 2024. They expanded it in 2025. Hundreds of thousands of  people used Direct File. It was hugely popular--in effect, a beloved  program. A lot of people are skeptical that the government is still  capable of building useful things. Direct File proved the skeptics  wrong. It proved that the Federal Government can still come up with  great public services from the ground up.

Well, the tax prep giants saw it as a threat, and over the years, I  saw them spend millions to try to defend the status quo that was  failing. The prep giants unleashed a tidal wave of lobbying to try to  squash the program before it reached escape velocity. They found some  willing partners in Republicans here. Going into this year, Trump and  Republicans killed Direct File. Millions of Americans should have had  an opportunity to use it to file for free, but now, they are back at  the mercy of the tax prep companies.

The Republicans who killed Direct File say it is no big deal because  there are other free options out there, programs that partner with the  private companies. The reality is that tax prep companies have already  demonstrated they can't be trusted. The worst example was with Intuit.  When Intuit was involved with the Free File Program, it was caught  burying the free option on a website you couldn't find with a  traditional search engine. It steered users toward options that  battered them with upcharges and misleading marketing. Finally, they  quit offering Free File when they got called out on what were genuinely  underhanded tactics.

My view is, the debate over this subject isn't that complicated. The  government requires people to file and pay taxes, so the least the  government can do is to make the filing process simple and free and as  painless as possible. Donald Trump and Republicans don't agree because  they destroyed a wonderful, new public service when they shut down  Direct File.

My Finance Committee colleague Senator Warren has been a terrific  partner and a champion of Direct File. I have enjoyed working with her  over the years on this critical issue. I am behind her effort 100  percent as the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee to  revive Direct File. We are not going to let this go no matter how long  it takes, and I urge all of my colleagues here in the Senate--as it  used to be bipartisan--to support Direct File.