Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, before Senator Cardin leaves the floor, I  want to tell my colleague and friend on the Finance Committee that it  has been a pleasure to team up with him to try to deal with these  challenges in terms of getting the help out to small business people.  We know that it has been needlessly challenging, looking back at the  experience. I am just glad my colleague is going to prosecute the case  until there is justice for these small businesses                          Nomination of Michael Pack  

  Madam President, the Senate nears a vote on the nomination of Michael  Pack to head up the U.S. Agency for Global Media. This typically is a  job that doesn't get a whole lot of attention here on the Senate floor,  but this time, I believe it should. 

  This is yet another Trump nominee who appears to be covering up a  whole array of sketchy financial wheeling and self-dealing, and  apparently my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are just  looking the other way, not interested. 

  So here is the short version of the story. For more than a decade,  Mr. Pack ran two entities--a nonprofit film organization and a for- profit production company. His nonprofit raised millions of dollars  under its tax-exempt status, and it pumped that money into his for- profit production company, nowhere else. At a minimum, this looks to me  like a serious, flagrant abuse of a taxpayer subsidy. Mr. Pack made  false statements about this arrangement to the IRS. So as the ranking  Democrat on the Finance Committee, I care greatly about that matter if  one were to look at nothing else. 

  When he was first nominated in the previous Congress, Mr. Pack got  caught in these false statements by staff on the Foreign Relations  Committee. When he was renominated in this Congress and submitted new  paperwork, he made false statements about having made false statements.  Truly astounding. 

  Now there are a host of unanswered questions about Mr. Pack's murky  financial dealings. Fortunately, Ranking Member Menendez is still  trying to get to the bottom of this. Now, Ranking Member Menendez is  doing his job by the book. He is doing his job. He has been in  communication with the administration when it comes to the vetting  process for the nominees and, every step along the way, has tried to do  responsible vetting. 

  Furthermore, the financial web of Mr. Pack is under investigation by  the Attorney General of the District of Columbia. Why not wait to get  the results of that investigation? Why rush to confirm a nominee before  all the facts are before the Senate? This is a question over whether a  nominee broke the law and ripped off taxpayers. 

  When Democrats on the Senate committee of jurisdiction tried to  investigate it, Mr. Pack told everybody to just go pound sand. So once  again, we have a Trump nominee making a mockery of the Senate  constitutional responsibility, and as far as I can tell, the Senate is  just going to do nothing about it. 

  (Mr. YOUNG assumed the Chair.) 

  For my last few minutes, I just want to remind colleagues of the way  things used to be. The way it used to be is both sides of the Senate  took advice and consent seriously. For example, in 2009, Chairman  Baucus and Ranking Member Grassley held up one nominee and wrote an  exhaustive 12-page memo over a matter of $53 in local tax late fees and  some sloppy paperwork. Another 2009 nomination, Ron Kirk, to be the  U.S. Trade Representative, was held up for months over a tax matter  involving some basketball tickets and a television he donated to his  local YMCA. In 2010, another nominee was grilled in his hearing before  the Finance Committee over a tax debt of $800. 

  Senators on both sides of the aisle--both sides of the aisle--always  tried to do a thorough vetting and tried to work on it together. In all  three of these cases, which I remember as a member of the Finance  Committee, the nominees answered the Senate's questions, paid what they  owed, and that was that. The Senate did its job, and it was the right  thing to do. 

  I think as we move to the vote here in the Senate, we ought to start  talking about one question, and that is this: What has changed in the  Senate about the vetting process of these nominees? What happened to  the old bipartisan commitment to advise and consent, to fully vet  nominees? The majority has just rubberstamped and rubberstamped and  rubberstamped some more. Trump nominees show a blatant disregard and  disdain for the oversight process that historically has been central to  the bipartisan work of this body. 

  Now the President might be totally indifferent to the role and duties  of the Senate, but I don't see any reason why Senators here, Democrats  or Republicans, have to agree with that. It undermines the role of this  Senate and the Congress as a coequal branch of government. The  precedent of a bipartisan vetting process simply cannot withstand it. 

  It has been said here before that the Federal Government doesn't need  anybody so badly that the person should get a special set of rules.  That, regrettably, is the way it seems to be for this nominee--a  nominee whose finances are currently under investigation and,  apparently, with the majority's support, is going to get confirmed  because the majority has decided to essentially set aside years and  years of bipartisan work, responsible work, to thoroughly investigate  and vet those who are nominated to serve in our government. 

  I am going to oppose this nomination, and I hope my colleagues will  think about what is really at issue here, because what goes around  comes around. Is the Senate going to get serious about the way matters  used to be handled, particularly on the Senate Finance Committee, since  we have a member of our committee in the Presiding Officer's chair? The  Senate Finance Committee did it right, did it right for years, by the  books, in a bipartisan fashion. That is not being used here; in fact,  it is being tossed out the window. I think the Senate is going to  regret it. I urge my colleagues to oppose the nominee. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT