Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, on Monday, our country will celebrate  Memorial Day. It is a very special day--one that we, as Americans, set  aside each year to honor those members of the military who have given  their lives in sacrifice to their country. 

  Right now, this is typically the time when I am getting ready to  travel home and go to Southern Oregon--to Eagle Point and to Central  Point, wonderful communities to spend Memorial Day with hundreds of  veterans and members of their families. These are events that take  place each year and are inspiring and affirming and basically a time  when Oregonians, from very young to often approaching almost 100 years  old, assemble and are part of a centuries-long lineage of patriots who  have been willing to serve and sacrifice for our great Nation. 

  There are other communities that come together to remember lost  friends and loved ones, but at home in Oregon, we have always said:  Eagle Point and Central Point are the gold standard in terms of  services and programs to recognize our veterans, and members of their  family, who have made the ultimate sacrifice for our Nation. 

  I think we all know that this Memorial Day is going to be different.  There will not be the same big gatherings, and there will not be as  many parades. But one of the reasons I want to come to the floor of the  Senate today--and I will be home this weekend thinking about Eagle  Point and Central Point--is I want to make sure our country never ever  diminishes the significance of this day. 

  Never should our country take away our determination to honor those  who pay the ultimate price in service to America, and it shouldn't  cause us to forget that Memorial Day can be hard--very, very hard on  the parents and spouses and children and friends our fallen heroes left  behind. I know when I am recognized to speak in Central Point and in  Eagle Point, I look out in the crowd, and I always see family members  with a Kleenex by their eye, trying to remember and at the same time  deal with the inevitable grief. This Memorial Day, I am going to be  thinking of all of those who have come year after year to Central Point  and Eagle Point in Southern Oregon to do something very, very  important: to speak up for Oregon on the importance and appreciation we  have for those who made the ultimate sacrifice. 

  My view is, this year, on Memorial Day, it is more important than  ever to reach out and connect with those folks who are remembering  loved ones they have lost in the line of duty--to give them a call, ask  how they are holding up--because the last few months, in particular,  have been tough on everybody, and their sacrifice shouldn't be  forgotten. 

  I know when I am home in Southeast Portland this weekend, I am going  to be thinking about whom I am going to be talking to, checking in  with, and see how they are doing just for the reason I mentioned. These  have been tough times for everyone, and I think this is going to be a  very difficult Memorial Day for those Americans who are remembering  loved ones they have lost in the line of duty. 

  It is also more important than ever to remember for ourselves that as  Americans, we owe so much to so many. The parades and the services may  have to wait until Memorial Day 2021, but our deep respect and  gratitude for sacrifice does not. 

  Just on a very personal note, apropos of the respect and gratitude  for sacrifice, I think about my late father and my mother, both of whom  fled the Nazis. Not all of our family got out. My great Uncle Max was  one of the last who was gassed in Auschwitz. My father basically talked  his way into our Army because he was a fluent young man in German, and  he convinced our military that he could be part of our propaganda unit  to drop the pamphlets on the Nazis, making it clear that they could  never defeat our great troops. 

  My mother, on the other hand, was a WAC, and I look often at the  picture that is on my wall of my mother in her WAC uniform. For them,  during their lives, Memorial Day was a really special day because they  were so thrilled to be able to come to the freest and most open Nation  on Earth and to be able to serve in our military. They, in  particular, would say, if they were here today: Ron, this is a special  day for showing our deep respect and gratitude for those who made the  ultimate sacrifice, and we are never going to miss a Memorial Day  without expressing that sentiment. 

  I am going to be, this weekend, thinking about how much I want to be  back in Eagle Point and Central Point to celebrate Memorial Day, and I  am going to be thinking about how now we have to find a way to honor  and remember our fallen servicemembers a little bit differently than  before. 

  I would close--and perhaps I am the last speaker today in the Senate.  I think I can speak for every Member of the Senate that this is  especially important now to keep in our hearts all of those who have  died serving our country, and let's do right by their families who are  still with us. 

  I close my remarks by wishing all Oregonians and Americans from sea  to shining sea a healthy Memorial Day. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT