Government Accountability Office Legal Opinion


Department of Health and Human Services--          Applicability of the Congressional Review Act to Policy           on Adhering to the Text of the Administrative Procedure           Act.      File: B-337397.      Date: August 27, 2025.                                    Digest

On March 3, 2025, the U.S. Department of Health and Human       Services (HHS) published in the Federal Register a policy       statement titled, Policy on Adhering to the Text of the       Administrative Procedure Act (2025 Policy Statement or Policy       Statement). The 2025 Policy Statement rescinds a prior policy       generally requiring HHS agencies and offices to use       Administrative Procedure Act (APA) notice-and-comment       procedures for rules relating to public property, loans,       grants, benefits, or contracts and establishes a new policy       giving HHS agencies and offices discretion whether to use       notice-and-comment procedures for such rules.

The Congressional Review Act (CRA) requires that before a       rule can take effect, an agency must submit the rule to both       the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the       Comptroller General. CRA adopts the definition of ``rule''       under APA but excludes certain categories of rules from       coverage. We conclude that the 2025 Policy Statement is a       rule for purposes of CRA because it meets the APA definition       of a rule, and no CRA exception applies. Therefore, the       Policy Statement is a rule subject to CRA's submission       requirements.                                   Decision

On March 3, 2025, the U.S. Department of Health and Human       Services (HHS) published in the Federal Register a policy       statement titled, Policy on Adhering to the Text of the       Administrative Procedure Act (2025 Policy Statement or Policy       Statement). We received a request for a decision as to       whether the Policy Statement is a rule for purposes of the       Congressional Review Act (CRA). As discussed below, we       conclude that the Policy Statement is a rule subject to CRA's       submission requirements.

Our practice when rendering decisions is to contact the       relevant agencies to obtain factual information and their       legal views on the subject of the request. Accordingly, we       reached out to HHS on April 29, 2025, and received HHS's       response on June 11, 2025.                                  Background

The 2025 Policy Statement rescinds HHS's previous policy       generally requiring the use of APA notice-and-comment       rulemaking procedures for certain types of rules that APA       exempts from such procedures.      APA Notice-and-Comment Procedures

APA prescribes notice-and-comment procedures for certain       rules. For these rules, APA generally requires agencies to       publish in the Federal Register a notice of proposed       rulemaking and provide interested persons an opportunity to       participate in the rulemaking ``through submission of written       data, views, or arguments.'' The agency may promulgate a       final rule only after providing notice and opportunity for       comment.

APA exempts certain rules from these notice-and-comment       procedures, including rules involving ``matter[s] relating .       . . to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or       contracts. APA also includes a good cause exception, which       permits an agency to forgo the notice-and-comment procedures       if ``the agency for good cause finds . . . that notice and       public procedure thereon are impracticable, unnecessary, or       contrary to the public interest.''      Richardson Waiver

In 1970, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare       (the predecessor to HHS) issued a policy statement directing       agencies and offices in the department that issue rules       relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or       contracts to use APA notice-and-comment procedures       notwithstanding the exemption (Richardson Waiver). The       Richardson Waiver further stated that APA's good cause       exception should be used sparingly, such as in emergencies       and for amendments covering minor technical matters. The       Richardson Waiver explained that the new policy implemented a       recommendation by the Administrative Conference of the United       States (ACUS), and that the public benefit from greater       participation in rulemaking should outweigh any       administrative inconvenience or delay caused by using the       notice-and-comment procedures.      1982 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking

In 1982, HHS proposed, but never adopted, a rule clarifying       the policy announced in the Richardson Waiver and codifying       it in the agency's regulations. HHS reaffirmed in the       proposed rule that the agency's general policy would be to       ordinarily use notice-and-comment procedures for rules       relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or       contracts. However, HHS noted that some courts had       interpreted the Richardson Waiver to require HHS to use       notice-and-comment procedures for such rules unless HHS met       the APA's good cause exception. Believing that it was not       appropriate to hold HHS to that standard when the agency used       notice-and-comment procedures voluntarily, HHS proposed       clarifying that it could decline to use those procedures for       rules relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits,       or contracts if, in HHS's judgment, the delay from using such       procedures would impair the attainment of program objectives       or would have other disadvantages that outweighed the       benefits of receiving public comment. The proposed       regulations would also have clarified that HHS's voluntary       use of notice-and-comment procedures was not intended to       create any judicially enforceable rights.      2025 Policy Statement

The 2025 Policy Statement rescinds the Richardson Waiver       and establishes a new policy giving HHS agencies and offices       discretion whether to use notice-and-comment procedures for       matters relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits,       or contracts and not requiring such procedures unless       otherwise required by law. The Policy Statement further       states that ``the good cause exception should be used in       appropriate circumstances in accordance with'' APA       requirements rather than ``sparingly,'' as directed in the       Richardson Waiver. The Policy Statement explains that the       ``obligations of the Richardson Waiver impose[d] costs on       [HHS] and the public, [we]re contrary to the efficient       operation of [HHS], and impede[d] [HHS's] flexibility to       adapt quickly to legal and policy mandates.''      Congressional Review Act (CRA)

CRA, enacted in 1996 to strengthen congressional oversight       of agency rulemaking, requires federal agencies to submit a       report on each new rule to both houses of Congress and the       Comptroller General for review before the rule can take       effect. The report must contain a copy of the rule, ``a       concise general statement relating to the rule,'' and the       rule's proposed effective date. CRA allows Congress to review       and disapprove rules issued by federal agencies for a period       of 60 days using special procedures. If a resolution       of disapproval is enacted, then the new rule has no force or       effect.

CRA adopts the definition of ``rule'' under APA, which       states that a rule is ``the whole or a part of an agency       statement of general or particular applicability and future       effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or       policy or describing the organization, procedure, or practice       requirements of an agency.'' However, CRA excludes three       categories of APA rules from coverage: (1) rules of       particular applicability; (2) rules relating to agency       management or personnel; and (3) rules of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that do not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties.

HHS did not submit a CRA report to Congress or the       Comptroller General on the 2025 Policy Statement. In its       response to us, HHS states that although the Policy Statement       meets the APA definition of a rule, the Policy Statement is a       rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice that does       not substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-      agency parties and therefore falls within CRA's third       exception.                                  DISCUSSION

At issue here is whether the 2025 Policy Statement meets       CRA's definition of rule, which adopts APA's definition of a       rule with three exceptions. As explained below, we conclude       that it does. In addition, we conclude that the Policy       Statement does not fall within any CRA exceptions. Therefore,       the Policy Statement is a rule subject to CRA's submission       requirements.      The 2025 Policy Statement is a Rule Under APA

Applying APA's definition of ``rule,'' the 2025 Policy       Statement meets all of the required elements. First, the       Policy Statement is an agency statement as it is an official       document signed by the HHS Secretary and published by HHS in       the Federal Register.

Second, the 2025 Policy Statement is of future effect. An       agency action of future effect is one ``concerned with policy       considerations for the future rather than the evaluation of       past or present conduct.'' The Policy Statement rescinds the       Richardson Waiver ``[e]ffective immediately,'' and       establishes HHS's policy going forward with respect to using       APA notice-and-comment procedures for rules relating to       public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts.

Finally, the 2025 Policy Statement implements and       prescribes law or policy and describes agency procedure and       practice requirements. An agency statement implements,       interprets, or prescribes law or policy when the action       creates new regulations, changes regulatory requirements or       official policy, or alters how the agency will exercise its       discretion, among other things. The Policy Statement changes       HHS's official policy and alters how it will exercise its       discretion with respect to when the agency will use APA       notice-and-comment procedures for rules relating to public       property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts. The Policy       Statement also implements APA by providing that the APA       exemption waived by the Richardson Waiver now applies to HHS       rulemakings; directing HHS agencies and offices to use the       good cause exception in accordance with the requirements of       APA rather than in the more limited situations described in       the Richardson Waiver; and reaffirming that HHS will continue       to follow notice-and-comment procedures when required to do       so by APA.

An agency statement describes agency organization,       procedure, or practice requirements when the statement       discusses the internal operations of an agency, including       statements that govern the conduct of agency proceedings. The       2025 Policy Statement describes how HHS will conduct       rulemaking proceedings for rules relating to public property,       loans, grants, benefits, or contracts.

Having satisfied all the required elements, the 2025 Policy       Statement meets the APA definition of a rule.      CRA Exceptions

We must next determine whether any of CRA's three       exceptions apply. CRA provides for three types of rules that       are not subject to its requirements: (1) rules of particular       applicability; (2) rules relating to agency management or       personnel; and (3) rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice that do not substantially affect the rights or       obligations of non-agency parties.      (1) Rule of Particular Applicability

The 2025 Policy Statement is not a rule of particular       applicability. Such rules are addressed to specific,       identified persons or entities and determine actions those       persons or entities may or may not take, considering the       facts and circumstances specific to those persons or       entities. In contrast, we have concluded that procedures       governing agency proceedings are rules of general       applicability. For example, in B-329926, Sept. 10, 2018,       we concluded that certain Social Security Administration       evidentiary rules applying to all disability adjudication       proceedings at the hearing and appeal levels were rules of       general applicability.

Here, the 2025 Policy Statement is not addressed to       specific, identified persons or entities, and instead       prescribes a policy for conducting rulemaking proceedings for       all rules relating to public property, loans, grants,       benefits, or contracts. Therefore, the Policy Statement is a       rule of general applicability.      (2) Rule of Agency Management or Personnel

The 2025 Policy Statement is not a rule of agency       management or personnel. This exception applies to rules       relating to ``purely internal agency matters.'' These include       rules related to controlling, directing, or supervising       internal management issues, as well as rules related to       personnel issues like pay, leave, or benefits. The 2025       Policy Statement involves neither internal management nor       personnel issues. Rather, it changes HHS's policy regarding       public participation in certain HHS rulemakings.

This conclusion is consistent with our previous decisions       examining other rules that affected agency proceedings       involving non-agency parties, in which we determined that       those rules did not relate to agency management or personnel.       For example, in B-329916, we concluded that an Internal       Revenue Service (IRS) announcement that it would verify       health insurance coverage requirements at the time taxpayers       filed their individual tax returns rather than after their       returns were accepted did not constitute a rule relating to       agency management or personnel because the announcement did       not primarily relate to agency management or personnel, but       rather imposed different requirements on taxpayers. Similarly       here, the Policy Statement does not primarily relate to       agency management or personnel because it changes public       participation in HHS rulemakings. Therefore, it does not meet       the second exception.      (3) Rule of Agency Organization, Procedure, or Practice That           Does Not Substantially Affect Non-Aqency Parties

Lastly, the 2025 Policy Statement is not a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice that does not       substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency       parties.

We have previously explained that this exception was       modeled on the APA exception to notice-and-comment rulemaking       requirements for ``rules of agency organization, procedure,       or practice,'' which some courts have limited to rules that       do not have a substantial impact on non-agency parties. The       purpose of the APA exception is to ensure ``that agencies       retain latitude in organizing their internal operations.''       Following this interpretation in the CRA context, we have       only applied CRA's third exception to rules that primarily       focus on an agency's internal operations, including the       conduct of agency proceedings. These include rules addressing       the submission of information to an agency by non-agency       parties, rules that affect how the agency reviews that       information, and rules that affect the type or timing of       actions the agency will take based on that submission.

The 2025 Policy Statement qualifies as a rule of agency       organization, procedure, or practice. The Policy Statement       addresses HHS's rulemaking procedures for rules relating to       public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts. In       particular, the Policy Statement gives HHS agencies and       offices discretion whether to use APA notice-and-comment       procedures when promulgating those rules, in contrast to the       previous policy generally requiring such procedures.

However, the 2025 Policy Statement substantially affects       the rights or obligations of non-agency parties. To satisfy       this element of the exception, a rule must not alter the       rights or interests of non-agency parties, though it may       alter the manner in which parties present themselves or their       viewpoints to the agency.

With respect to rules affecting non-agency parties'       submission of information in an agency proceeding, our       previous decisions distinguish between rules that merely       affect the manner in which parties submit that information,       which fall within the exception, and rules that create a new       right to submit information that could affect the agency's       decision, which do not. For example, in B-329916, May 17,       2018, we examined an IRS announcement that the agency was       changing its process for reviewing tax returns for compliance       with certain statutory reporting requirements. Previously,       IRS assessed compliance after the taxpayer filed a return,       IRS processed the return, and the taxpayer paid taxes due or       received a refund. IRS announced that it would begin       verifying compliance at the time of filing and would no       longer accept noncompliant returns. We concluded that this       rule fell within the exception because it merely shifted the       timing of IRS's verification of compliance and neither       changed the substantive standards used by IRS to evaluate       compliance nor affected the rights or obligations of       taxpayers.

Similarly, in B-336217, Aug. 6, 2024, we considered a       letter issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal       Reserve System (FRB) modifying and clarifying the process by       which state member banks sought, and FRB granted, supervisory       nonobjection for certain crypto-asset-related activities.       These modifications included changes affecting the submission       of information by the banks, such as: changing the process       for certain banks that were required to notify FRB by       establishing a 30-day deadline for such notification;       clarifying the types of risk FRB would focus on in its       review; communicating that FRB might seek additional       information from banks; and clarifying that notification in       accordance with the letter would also serve as notification       required by a separate FRB letter. We concluded that while       these changes might affect the manner in which the banks       presented themselves and their viewpoints to FRB by adjusting       the timing or type of information submitted to the agency,       the changes did not substantially affect the banks' rights or       obligations because they neither impacted the banks' ability       to engage in the relevant activities nor affected       the standards by which FRB would evaluate their compliance       with applicable laws and regulations.

In contrast, in B-281575, Jan. 20, 1999, we reviewed the       Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) interim guidance for       investigating discrimination complaints related to EPA       permits. In particular, the guidance departed from existing       EPA procedures by requiring EPA to make an initial finding of       whether there were discriminatory effects associated with the       relevant permit, and, if so, notify the permit recipient and       complainant and afford the recipient an opportunity to       respond. We concluded that the guidance gave permit       ``recipients significant rights that they did not previously       possess for obtaining dismissal of [a] complaint,'' and       thereby affected the rights and duties of recipients,       complainants, and the affected population.

Courts have also considered the reverse situation--namely       when an agency revokes procedures providing non-agency       parties with notice and an opportunity to submit information       in an agency proceeding--and similarly concluded that those       changes substantially impacted the non-agency parties. For       instance, in Brown Express, the Interstate Commerce       Commission (ICC) decided to end its practice of notifying       other competing carriers when a carrier filed a petition for       emergency temporary authority to provide services to a       particular area. The court determined that the ICC's decision       risked the agency not obtaining relevant information, that       this risk could result in serious economic consequences to       those affected, and that the decision had a substantial       impact on the industry.

There are clear distinctions between the rules discussed in       these two lines of decisions. The rules in B-329916 and B-      336217 involved changes to previously established procedures       for non-agency parties to submit information in agency       proceedings. The changes affected those parties insofar as       they changed the manner in which the parties submitted that       information but did not alter their rights or obligations.       Conversely, the rules in B-281575 and Brown Express involved       the wholesale creation or termination of a non-agency party's       right to receive notice of potential agency action and to       submit information to the agency to inform the agency's       determination and potentially affect the outcome of the       proceeding. Therefore, the rules establishing or       rescinding those procedures substantially affected the       rights or obligations of the non-agency parties.

Here, the 2025 Policy Statement falls within the category       of rules not subject to the exception. The previously       applicable Richardson Waiver, like the rule at issue in B-      281575, required notice to affected non-agency parties and an       opportunity for those parties to submit information and views       to inform the agency's decision. Specifically, the Richardson       Waiver established a policy generally requiring HHS to use       APA notice-and-comment procedures for otherwise exempt rules       relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or       contracts. These procedures require an agency to publish a       notice of proposed rulemaking for such rules and provide       interested persons an opportunity to comment on the proposed       rule, thereby affording ``affected parties fair warning of       potential changes in the law and an opportunity to be heard       on those changes--and . . . afford[ing] the agency a chance       to avoid errors and make a more informed decision. Failure to       follow such procedures can result in a reviewing court       setting aside or vacating the rule. And even though APA       exempts rules covered by the Richardson Waiver from the       notice-and-comment procedures, courts have determined that       the Richardson Waiver subjected such rules to those       procedures notwithstanding the exemption.

The 2025 Policy Statement rescinds the Richardson Waiver,       meaning that the public will no longer have a judicially       enforceable right to notice and opportunity to comment on       such rules unless similar procedures are required by another       statute. Like the rule in Brown Express, the Policy Statement       eliminates non-agency parties' right to notice of agency       proceedings and opportunity to submit information that could       effect the agency's decisions--in this case, HHS rules that       could impact those non-agency parties. Accordingly, we       conclude that the Policy Statement substantially affects the       rights of non-agency parties.

In its response, HHS states that the 2025 Policy Statement       does not substantially affect the rights or obligations of       non-agency parties because APA does not confer the right to       comment on the categories of rules affected. In support, HHS       cites Azar v. Allina Health Services, in which the Supreme       Court stated that ``[w]hile the APA requires many other       agencies to offer public notice and a comment period before       adopting new regulations, it does not apply to public benefit       programs like Medicare.'' HHS further states that intervening       law has rendered the Richardson Waiver largely obsolete,       pointing to a provision in the Office of Federal Procurement       Policy Act requiring notice-and-comment rulemaking for       certain procurement rules.

HHS is correct that APA does not require agencies to       provide an opportunity for public comment for the relevant       categories of rules. But as discussed above, courts have       determined that the Richardson Waiver imposed such       requirements on HHS, and invalidated rules within those       categories when HHS failed to follow APA notice-and-comment       procedures. HHS has also contested the impact of the       Richardson Waiver in more recent litigation, but the courts       have either expressed skepticism with those assertions or       rejected them outright.

In addition, HHS's statement regarding the obsolescence of       the Richardson Waiver is belied by the 2025 Policy Statement       itself, which states that the ``obligations of the Richardson       Waiver impose[d] costs on [HHS] and the public, [we]re       contrary to the efficient operation of [HHS], and impede[d]       [HHS's] flexibility to adapt quickly to legal and policy       mandates.'' These statements indicate that the Richardson       Waiver continued to impact HHS rulemakings and these impacts       were the reason for its rescission.

Based on the foregoing, the 2025 Policy Statement does not       meet CRA's third exception.                                  CONCLUSION

The 2025 Policy Statement is a rule for purposes of CRA       because it meets the definition of a rule under APA and no       CRA exception applies. Therefore, the Policy Statement is       subject to CRA's requirement that it be submitted to Congress       and the Comptroller General before it can take effect.                                             Edda Emmanuelli Perez,      General Counsel.