Hospital At Home Program


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, last week, the Senate passed legislation to  fund the Department of Health and Human Services and other Agencies,  including a section reflecting bipartisan, bicameral negotiations on  healthcare policies in the jurisdiction of the Finance Committee. This  bill takes important steps forward on healthcare priorities like taking  on pharmaceutical middlemen, also known as pharmacy benefit managers,  and achieving mental health parity by going after insurance companies  that mislead seniors in Medicare Advantage with lists of doctors that  aren't actually available. Americans have deep concerns about the state  of their healthcare, and these reforms represent a down payment on the  effort to ensure our system benefits families over giant corporations.

This package also includes a 5-year extension of the Hospital at Home  Program, an innovative initiative championed by my friend and former  colleague Senator Thomas R. Carper. I want to take a moment to  recognize Senator Carper's leadership to advance the Hospital at Home  Program. This special initiative allows hospitals to treat patients in  their homes, rather than in-patient facilities. The program lets  patients receive healthcare services where they want, supports family  caregivers, and increases hospitals' capacity.

Through the Hospital at Home Program, hospitals are able to provide  acute care to patients in their own living rooms through a combination  of telehealth and in-person care along with home-delivered meals,  nutrition, and medication. Hospitals are able to set patients up with  equipment so they are continuously monitored from the comfort of their  own homes.

Senator Carper knows the value of providing Federal support for  solutions that help more Americans receive healthcare in the setting  they prefer: their own homes. So far, 381 hospitals across 37 States  are approved to participate in the Hospital at Home Program, and a  long-term extension of the program will give more hospitals the  certainty they need to take advantage of this opportunity to help  patients receive healthcare in their homes. It will also help  researchers evaluate whether the program is lowering out-of-pocket  healthcare costs, improving outcomes for patients, and expanding access  to services offered by rural and urban safety net hospitals. This data  will be invaluable as Congress contemplates the future of the program.

Senator Carper championed Hospital at Home up until his last days  serving the Senate because he knew of the value it delivered to his  constituents and its potential to serve Americans across the country,  especially in rural and underserved communities. In recognition of his  leadership, the Congressional Record should reflect that this extension  would not have been possible without the leadership, vision, and  persistence of Senator Carper.