Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. For the past 2 weeks, the President's defense team has  spun bizarre legal arguments, conspiracy theories, and flatout lies  that are unbecoming of the Office of the President of the United  States. 

  The country knows the facts. The President pursued his personal and  political interests in a way that harmed the national security of  America. He smeared our own Ambassador to the Ukraine. He promoted  Kremlin propaganda on 2016 election interference. He sent his personal  lawyer and willing members of his administration to trade official acts  in exchange for fabricated dirt on a political rival. He stopped $391  million dollars in aid from going to the Ukraine, and when the  Ukrainians made clear they were desperate for that aid to come through,  he made his demands--come up with dirt on the Bidens, find or invent  the server. 

  Donald Trump's defense team has claimed the President wanted to fight  corruption in Ukraine, but they have produced zero hard evidence to  support that claim. 

  Never in the history of our government has the President pursued a  policy end without generating what usually is mountains of paper, and  yet here there are no memos, no meeting records, no communiques on  anticorruption--nothing. This defense is fiction. 

  It is fiction because the President was not fighting corruption in  Ukraine. He was causing it. 

  We also know the President was telling the people around him to do  what he wanted with respect to the Ukraine. He was telling them to talk  to his personal lawyer--talk to Rudy. Because the President had  forgotten what is good for the American people, he ignored the needs of  our allies and forgiven the attacks on American democracy. 

  What the American Government under this President was after--the only  thing it was after--was a corrupt favor for the personal benefit of  Donald Trump. This favor was to get a foreign government to target an  American citizen when our own intelligence services were legally  prohibited from doing so--an action that even Trump's own Secretary of  State, Mike Pompeo, once admitted is illegal. Mike Pompeo said: ``It is  not lawful to outsource that which we cannot do.'' Yet that is what the  President was seeking. 

  And that was not the only illegal action. The GAO has said that  holding up the Ukraine aid was a violation of the Impoundment Control  Act. And when the aid eventually went through in September of last  year, it wasn't because they suddenly had a whole lot of new respect  for the constitutional powers of the Congress; it was because they got  caught. 

  When this abuse came to light, Donald Trump's response was: I pretty  much can do what I want. I am above the law. 

  On the south lawn of the White House, he confirmed that he wanted  Ukraine to smear the Bidens, smear them by announcing investigations.  He said he wanted the same thing from China. 

  In a White House press briefing, Mick Mulvaney, the Chief of Staff,  confirmed that the scheme had been politically motivated. A reporter  who was clearly stunned at the Mulvaney admission asked for some  clarification, and Mulvaney said: ``I have news for everybody: Get over  it.'' 

  And that, I would submit, is what this trial is all about, whether  the Senate and the country have to simply get over it. I know some  Senators are apparently prepared to do exactly that, but let's consider  the precedent that just ``getting over it'' sends.  

  If this ends in an acquittal, it will signal that politicians can get  away with selling out American interests to foreign coconspirators to  rig an election. What is to stop the Russians from approaching a future  President with their own proposition: Dial back your support for the  Baltic States, and we will take down your opponent. What would prevent  the Chinese Government from approaching a Senator and offering  fabricated dirt on Senators of the other party in order to smooth the  way for a sweetheart trade deal? What if the President hands the Saudis  an enemies list of political opponents to hack in exchange for military  tech and a few regiments of American soldiers in Yemen? 

  Ending in acquittal without hearing from any witnesses or getting any  new evidence will say that the President can rig impeachment trials as  well. Every impeachment trial--every one--included witness testimony.  That is just good government 101. It is what Americans expect. It is  what I heard in open-to-all townhall meetings in Oregon from counties  Donald Trump won and from counties Hillary Clinton won. The Republican  Senate majority is apparently ready to acquit the Republican President  without even going  through the motions, ignoring what the American people expect. 

  How will we sustain a functioning democracy when our leaders are  allowed to rig an election and there are no consequences? The Congress  is going to struggle to unwind that precedent. It could outlive all of  us. 

  After these long days of arguments and questioning, in my view, this  comes down to two simple questions. 

  First, the President swears an oath, just like we do, to protect and  defend our revered Constitution. Does the President's oath of office  mean anything? When a President puts his own interests first, when he  extorts fabricated dirt from a foreign government for his political  gain, he is obviously in violation of his oath. He is not protecting  the constitutional right of Americans to choose their own leaders in  free and fair elections. What he is doing is protecting himself and his  own power. 

  What does the President's oath of office mean if violating it carries  no consequences? If his oath means nothing and he cannot be charged  with a crime, then he is bound by nothing. And if we will not hold him  to his oath, are we not surrendering our own oath--our own oath to  protect and defend the Constitution? 

  The second question is, Do we believe that this is a government of  the people, by the people, and for the people? Because the President's  lawyers stood on the floor right over there and said, in short, it is  not. 

  Alan Dershowitz argued that nothing the President does to get  reelected can be impeachable as long as he believes his reelection is  in the public interest. The President's counsel continued to build on  that argument even after they claimed it was misunderstood--this from  the same administration that holds that the President cannot be charged  with a crime, that he exists on a plane--literally a plane above the  law, as it applies to everyone else. 

  If the President may commit crimes in office and cheat in an election  to stay in power, then it is no longer a government of, by, and for the  people. This is a government of, by, and for Donald Trump. The  proposition of free and fair elections in America is gone, replaced by  elections that happen on terms set by Donald Trump or on terms set by a  future President with the same sort of boost from a foreign power. 

  Putting aside whatever political fallout there may be in the days and  weeks ahead, we have to ask, how can the Senate accept this degradation  of the sanctity and security of free elections? Isn't this institution  supposed to protect our elections and defend our Constitution? 

  The President's attempt to cheat in the election and the extreme  lengths he has gone to cover it up are obviously dangerously wrong.  What he did is a violation of his oath. It is a betrayal of the system  of democratic government left for us by the Founders. And we have no  choice. He is guilty. He must be convicted. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT