Merkley, Wyden Announce Over $68 Million in Federal Homeless Assistance Funding Headed to Oregon


Oregon's U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden announced over $68 million in funding to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus outbreaks among individuals and families who are experiencing homelessness in Oregon.

This is the second allotment of the funding allocated to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, which Congress passed in March.

"Right now--as we continue to fight to protect and treat our communities in the face of a global pandemic--is the time for us to double down on our efforts to make sure that every Oregonian has access to the space and services they need to stay safe," said Merkley. "I'm glad this funding is making its way to our state so we can help individuals and families experiencing homelessness stay safe, and am committed to fighting for the long-term solutions we need to tackle our housing crisis."

"The devastating public health and economic impact of COVID-19 has landed hard on Oregonians already left hugely vulnerable without a roof over their heads," Wyden said. "I am gratified these much-needed resources will help people experiencing homelessness in the tri-county area, and I will keep battling to get all Oregonians experiencing homelessness the support they require during this crisis and beyond."

ESG funding can be used to open new emergency shelters as well as operate and improve the quality of existing shelters. In addition, the grants support essential services for shelter residents, help re-house homeless individuals and families, prevent community members from becoming homeless, and facilitate engagement with homeless individuals and families living on the street.

The grants will be distributed throughout Oregon as follows:

Location

Amount

Portland

$14,401,261

Clackamas County

$2,528,172

Washington County

$2,214,134

Oregon State Balance

$49,430,143

Total

$68,573,710