National Foster Care Month


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, each year, I look forward to National  Foster Care Month as an opportunity to honor the more than 440,000  children and youth in foster care nationwide. It is also an opportunity  to honor the foster and kinship families and child welfare workers who  support them. 

  This year, in particular, the importance of supporting the children,  youth, families and skilled workers in the foster care system has been  underscored by the devastation of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is  essential that Congress not only honor those who give and receive care  as part of this system, but also those who take meaningful action to  protect families, children, youth, and workers from the spread of the  virus. 

  In my home State of Oregon, more than 11,000 children and youth enter  foster care in a given year, and about 7,900 children and youth are  living in out-of-home placements on any given day. Oregon provides  transition services to about 1,350 young adults, but many continue to  struggle to find work, go to college, or complete technical training.  The COVID-19 virus has hit these older youth particularly hard. 

  As we consider actions to help the nation weather this pandemic, I  would like to recognize a nonprofit organization in my State that  represents a critical part of the response to COVID-19 for children and  youth in the foster care system and those who have aged out of the  system without finding a home to call their own. FosterClub is based in  a beautiful town on the Oregon coast, Seaside. FosterClub is marking  its 20th anniversary working to improve the lives of children and youth  in foster care by connecting them to resources, teaching them how to  become self advocates, and helping elevate their lived experiences and  voices to members of Congress. By doing so, they are able to inform  positive changes in our federal foster care system. 

  And that is what this month is about: honoring the strength of those  currently in and those who have exited the foster care system. It is  about listening to their experiences and their needs. 

  Over the years, I have been proud to work with my colleagues on a  bipartisan basis to craft and get across the finish line legislation to  strengthen and improve the foster care policies in Oregon and around  the country. Not too long ago, then-Chairman Orrin Hatch and I were  able to come together and pass into law the landmark Family First  Prevention Services Act, commonly known as Family First. 

  Family First was Children Defense Fund Founder Marion Wright  Edelman's vision for a better Federal  foster care system focused on helping families stay together. This  bipartisan legislation transformed the child welfare system to provide  parents the help they need to prevent the trauma that occurs when  children and youth are removed unnecessarily from their homes and  placed in foster care. I remain committed to responding to the needs of  children and youth in foster care and am dedicated to pursuing  bipartisan ways to address the challenges faced by children, youth,  families, and workers in the foster care system and especially now  during the COVID-19 public health emergency. 

  I call on my colleagues, especially those across the aisle, to  remember our Nation's foster care recipients and acknowledge the strain  our Nation's most vulnerable are facing during the COVID-19 pandemic.  As we work towards future ways to address the COVID-19 pandemic, we  must act swiftly to provide support for the children, youth, families,  and workforce involved in the foster care system and especially the  young adults who have aged out of the system without finding a forever  home. 

  I encourage my colleagues to listen carefully to the voices of  children and youth impacted by the foster care system, act quickly to  support these young people through this pandemic and help them  transition to adulthood successfully. They deserve nothing less from  their representatives in Congress.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT