Nomination of Ltg Joshua M. Rudd


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700213/nomination-of-ltg-joshua-m-rudd


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I oppose the nomination of Joshua Rudd to  be Director of the NSA. His responses to questions posed to him at his  confirmation hearing, as well as to written questions, reveal a lack of  familiarity with basic constitutional rights that is incompatible with  the position for which he has been nominated.

The NSA's surveillance authorities are vast and, if anything,  underappreciated by the American people. The Agency plays a central  role in executing the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act , but also  conducts extensive operations outside of FISA and pursuant only to  Executive order. The potential for abuse is enormous, as we saw when  the Agency secretly conducted an illegal, warrantless surveillance  program that it hid not only from the public but from Congress.

Our country faces a dangerous moment in which constitutional rights  are under attack. For example, we recently learned that the  administration secretly decided that the government doesn't need a  judicial warrant to break into a private home. In other words, the  administration is trying to invalidate the Fourth Amendment.

It was in that context that I asked General Rudd what he would do if  directed to target people in the United States for surveillance without  a judicial warrant. I offered him the opportunity to answer with a yes  or a no. I didn't get an answer. I proposed that he offer general  thoughts on the matter, but got nothing of substance. I did everything  in my power to allow him to demonstrate some understanding of the basic  guardrails of NSA's authorities and got nothing but vague assurances  about following the law.

There were other topics on which General Rudd's responses were  disappointing. He wouldn't associate himself with NSA's previous  commitment not to buy and use Americans' location data. He also refused  to say whether the government should be allowed to mandate backdoors  into encryption used by Americans.

His responses related to transparency were also troubling. In  addition to statutes and the Constitution, NSA is bound by numerous  procedures and guardrails which are publicly available. So I asked  General Rudd whether, if the NSA were to operate in violation of those  procedures and guardrails, he would inform the American people. He  refused to make that commitment. He even refused to promise to inform  the Senate Intelligence Committee.

The Director of NSA has another job, that of Commander of U.S. Cyber  Command. The demands of this job are mind-boggling. The cyber threat to  the United States cannot be overstated. And, as SALT TYPHOON  demonstrated, our adversaries have succeeded in inflicting serious  damage to U.S. national security. The Commander of CYBERCOM needs to  have a sophisticated understanding of this threat and how it has  evolved over time. He or she needs to be able to see this threat in its  geopolitical context and to fully grasp both the technical capabilities  and the policy options that might help counter the threat. General  Rudd, despite his service, does not have the background that would  allow him to immediately step into this role. He is not qualified for  this job. And, when it comes to the cybersecurity of this country,  there is simply no time for on-the-job learning. The threat is just too  urgent for that.

For these reasons, I oppose the nomination.