Notice of Intent to Object


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701153/notice-of-intent-to-object


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I give notice of my intent to object to any  unanimous consent agreement regarding Executive Calendar No. PN681-2,  PN835-2, and PN793-2, the promotions of Lieutenant Colonel Vincent J.  Noble, Lieutenant Commander Thomas P. MacNeil, and Colonel Thomas M.  Siverts.

When serving in Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan, in March 2007,  Vincent J. Noble took part in the killings of 19 Afghan civilians,  firing indiscriminately at civilian vehicles and bystanders. A military  inquiry found that in response to a suicide bomb attack, Noble's  platoon went on a rampage across a 7-mile stretch of highway,  massacring unarmed civilians on sight. An investigation revealed that  Noble asked marines to lie, that he submitted a false version of events  to his company commander, and violated an order from the commanding  officer, which explicitly directed the battalion to not operate in or  around Jalalabad, according to military records. In June 2008, the  Commander, Marine Forces Central Command, found Noble guilty, in  accordance with his plea, of violating article 133, Conduct Unbecoming  an Officer, of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Allowing marines  under an officer's command to kill civilians indiscriminately is a  serious war crime. Those who commit or allow such actions or make false  reports about those actions should be held accountable and certainly  withheld from promotions within the military.

Thomas P. MacNeil served in Mosul, Iraq, in 2017 as part of Special  Operations Chief Edward Gallagher's platoon. Gallagher stabbed to death  a wounded and captive teen boy and held him by the hair in one hand and  his knife in the other as photos were taken. MacNeil also posed in  certain pictures with the body. MacNeil was implicated in the court  martial of Gallagher when Gallagher was accused of committing war  crimes in Iraq. The Commander of the SEALs at the time, Rear Admiral  Collin Green, pushed for Chief Gallagher and others, including MacNeil,  to be stripped of their Tridents. President Trump intervened multiple  times to prevent the Navy from disciplining Gallagher, and in 2019,  then-Acting Secretary of the Navy Thomas B. Modly also intervened and  decided to drop the Navy's review of MacNeil and others. While MacNeil  was the junior member of his platoon and eventually testified against  Gallagher, he exercised poor judgement as an officer and should not be  promoted within the U.S. military.

In March 2023, Thomas M. Siverts appeared on an episode of a podcast  known as ``The Berm Pit,'' which is antisemitic and racist. Siverts's  participation in a podcast whose hosts espouse such bigotry raises  serious questions about his character and professionalism, which are  both relevant to his promotion to brigadier general. To date, the  Marine Corps has not provided me with a copy of this podcast episode to  verify the nature of his participation in this podcast, nor has Siverts  publicly apologized or expressed regret for his association with this  podcast.