Providing Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691667/providing-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


I would say to my colleague, I very much wish that I was not in this  position. This morning, I was--like Chairman Lee, I was chairman of the  committee, and I know this is a challenging process to put these  measures together.

Chairman Lee and I have worked very closely for years on these issues  and a host of others, and I look forward to having plenty of  opportunities in the future to continue our good work.

One of those bills was S. 356, the Secure Rural Schools  Reauthorization Act of 2025, that for years I have championed with my  friend and colleague from Idaho Senator Crapo.

Across the West, this legislation has had bipartisan support because  it would reauthorize a crucial lifeline--particularly for schools and  law enforcement and roads throughout the West.

I was in Grant County recently, a small community in eastern Oregon,  and they are basically hanging by a thread if they don't get the Secure  Rural Schools money restored. That is why I am here on the floor today.

I am clear that I want us to work together and to get this done as  expeditiously as possible. I am committed, as I have been over the  years, working with Chairman Lee to advance these bipartisan proposals  swiftly.

I deeply regret being out here and having to express my concerns  today and to object, and I just hope we can be back on this floor very,  very quickly to pass this good package of bills and make sure the  Secure Rural Schools legislation is included.

Mr. WYDEN. Just to briefly respond because we are hearing about  hostages and extortion and all this kind of thing. I just want my  colleague to know because he and I have worked together for years and  years and we have never had a difference of opinion that was based on  somebody trying to take hostages and these kinds of things.

This is about something that is really, in my communities, a question  of whether they are going to make it in terms of keeping the schools  open.

And throughout the West and in the Federal Government, like in my  colleague's State, the Federal Government owns much of our land. People  are waiting to see if we will work together and fix this.

I want to tell my colleague, I am happy to join him in 20 minutes if  we have worked this out, and we will be done, and if my colleague says  we will go home and say we got something else done that was  constructive.

So I want to renew my point: This is not about politics. It is  bipartisan.  I stand willing, with my staff, to  join the Lee staff right now. We can work together over the next few  minutes. We have a unanimous consent request, and we are done.