Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702132/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, it has been a year since Republicans  gutted Medicaid funding for Planned Parenthood clinics. For many women,  Planned Parenthood is their only source of primary care and prevention,  like cancer screenings and STI testing. There are 23 Planned Parenthood  clinics that have closed, and 75 percent of the clinics that have  shuttered their doors have been in rural or underserved areas. The  number of breast exam visits fell by 25 percent. Fewer women are  getting essential preventive care, heightening their risk of cancer.

All of this lifesaving care is on the chopping block if this  amendment passes. This amendment is just the Republicans' latest  attempt to strip women of the healthcare they need and depend on so  that they can go score some political points.

I urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment--to strongly oppose it.                                Point of Order

Madam President, I raise a point of order that the pending amendment  is not germane; therefore, it violates section 305(b)(2) of the  Congressional Budget Act of 1974.

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I call up my amendment No. 5336 and ask  that it be reported by number.

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, the amendment would require that the  Government Accountability Office analyze Donald Trump's agreement with  the pharmaceutical companies. He claims that he signed deals with 16  pharmaceutical companies to get Americans the lowest prescription drug  prices in the world, but the details of these so-called deals are  completely shrouded in secrecy.

Donald Trump wants Congress to put these deals into black letter law,  sight unseen. So my amendment would require the Government  Accountability Office to analyze the deals and provide a clear analysis  of the savings, if any, to taxpayers and to patients.

And for any of my Senate colleagues who are concerned about  disclosing trade secrets, this amendment protects all confidential  information.

If these Trump deals are so great, there should be nothing to hide.  This amendment would give Congress and the public the specifics for the  first time on these Trump pharmaceutical deals. I strongly urge my  colleagues to vote yes.