Recognizing the 40th Anniversary of the Goonies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689533/recognizing-the-40th-anniversary-of-the-goonies


Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, this year marks the 40th anniversary of  the release of the beloved classic film, ``The Goonies.'' With enduring  and relatable themes of adventure, acceptance, and friendship, ``The  Goonies'' has become one of the alltime great American underdog  stories. ``The Goonies'' has withstood the test of time and firmly  established its place in American culture. A large part of what makes  this film unique and impactful is its iconic setting along the stunning  Oregon coastline. Indeed, so significant is the film's location that  thousands of fans from around the globe gather each year in Astoria,  OR, for a multiday celebration to commemorate the magic that is ``The  Goonies.''

One of the reasons for the enduring success of ``The Goonies'' is the  lessons it has imparted on generations of viewers who come away  inspired to stand up to bullies, accept people who are different from  them, and ``never say die'' when it comes to fighting for their  communities and the things they believe in. As I travel to my townhalls  all over Oregon and hear the deep concerns that so many Oregonians feel  about the state of our country and the world, I hope we can all take an  important lesson or two from ``The Goonies.''

Fans from around the world will flock to Astoria this summer for  ``The Goonies'' 40th anniversary celebration. All of them will be able  to participate  in treasure hunts, costume contests, and many other Goonies-adjacent  events. In addition to Astoria, the 40th anniversary festivities will  also include a visit to Ecola State Park, home to some of Oregon's  foremost coastal views and the site of some legendary Goonies  adventures. Visitors to Astoria this summer will also be welcomed to  the Oregon Film Museum, which eagle-eyed fans may recognize as the  former Clatsop County jail, which played host to the Goonies iconic  jailbreak scene.

Just as the original Goonies fans and stars have grown and matured  since the film's release in 1985, so has Oregon's film industry. With  its magnificent and diverse natural beauty, Oregon has become a much  sought after location for film production. As the backdrop for major  television shows and box office hits alike, film production in Oregon  brings with it good-paying jobs and tourism that in turn support local  businesses and economic development across the State. Certainly all  film producers in Oregon and across the country should aspire to  achieve the remarkable success of ``The Goonies.''

Whether we are learning important life lessons from the stalwart  friendships in ``The Goonies'' or taking note of how Oregon has grown a  film industry no one could have imagined 40 years ago, what is  important is that we all recognize the power in our differences--and to  ``never say die!''