Setting Forth the Congressional Budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2026 and Setting Forth the Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2027 Through 2035


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702010/setting-forth-the-congressional-budget-for-the-united-states-government-for-fiscal-year-2026-and-setting-forth-the-appropriate-budgetary-levels-for-fiscal-years-2027-through-2035


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I rise today to request unanimous consent  to pass the Speedy Tariff Refund Act.

The bill forces the Trump administration to immediately return the  money it has stolen from American businesses under Donald Trump's  illegal tariffs. Nothing illustrates the hostility that Donald Trump  has shown toward helping Americans seek refunds better than his  comments to CNBC this morning.

Donald Trump said this morning that it would be ``brilliant'' if  companies do not seek refunds and that he will remember those who  don't. That sounds like a threat to me. The President of the United  States basically said he will remember those who don't seek a refund or  come forward.

Earlier this year, the Supreme Court struck down President Trump's  so-called ``emergency'' IEEPA tariffs. The Court's ruling was clear:  the tariffs were illegal, and the administration must refund the money  to the American importers that paid the tariffs. It has now been 2  months since the Supreme Court's decision. Not a single penny has been  paid back.

The Trump administration is deliberately delaying these refunds, even  after Trump's own lawyers claimed that they would be issued.

While Donald Trump funnels money to his vanity projects and illegal  war, his administration is doing everything it can to avoid returning  the money it stole from American companies. That is why I quoted the  President's threat this morning.

I have heard from countless small business owners who paid the  tariffs but still have no idea when or if they will ever get their  money back. This leaves businesses and workers on a financial  rollercoaster, questioning if they are going to be able to keep their  doors open.

Yesterday, Customs and Border Protection began accepting refund  requests through yet another online system, which is already riddled  with glitches and errors. But instead of paying refunds automatically,  Customs and Border Protection is requiring businesses in America to  file yet another round of paperwork to get a refund. This is just more  bureaucratic red tape, making it harder for Americans to get their  money back.

Customs and Border Protection is even excluding whole categories of  imports from the refund system for now, and they are doing it despite  the Court of International Trade's order to pay refunds of all IEEPA  tariffs.

It is as clear as Crater Lake that Oregonians can't rely on this  administration to return their money, so Congress needs to step up. My  bill requires the administration to pay tariff refunds, with interest,  within 30 days. It applies to every importer who paid IEEPA tariffs,  not just certain imports, and it makes it clear that CBP must pay the  refunds automatically without requiring additional paperwork.

I am sure my Republican colleagues are also hearing from small  businesses in their States that are desperate to get a tariff refund. I  urge them to join me, Senator Markey, Senator Shaheen, and to do it  today. The Senate can act today to put money back in the pockets of  small businesses and ensure Donald Trump no longer keeps scamming  Americans out of the tariff refunds they are owed.

4364, the Speedy Tariff Refund Act; that  the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the  motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. WYDEN. Just very briefly, as I know Senator Merkley is waiting to  speak, we are talking about CBP. If we really want to know what they  are in the process of doing, they are in the process of playing more  stall ball, making it tough for small businesses to get access to these  tariff refunds.

As I said, it is all summed up by what Donald Trump said to CNBC. I  interpret that as, point blank, a threat to people who go out and try  to advance their rights, and I think it is wrong for the President to  do it.