Stop Csam Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692908/stop-csam-act-of-2025


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, child sexual abuse materials are a toxic  plague on the internet. Congress should act as soon as possible to give  law enforcement officials the resources they need to find and prosecute  criminals responsible for exploiting children and spreading vile abuse  materials online. In addition, Congress should act as soon as possible  to provide robust resources that help prevent children from becoming  victims in the first place.

However, instead of focusing on stopping online predators, S. 1829,  the STOP CSAM Act, weakens the single strongest technology protecting  children and families online: strong encryption. The bill explicitly  allows courts to punish companies that offer strong encryption. It will  make it easier to punish sites that use encryption to secure private  conversations and personal devices. It will also encourage scanning of  content on users' phones or computers, before information is sent over  the internet, which has the same consequences as breaking encryption.

Weakening encryption is probably the best gift you could give to the  predators and creeps who want to stalk and spy on children. Sexual  predators will have a far easier time stealing and extorting  photographs of children, tracking their phones, and spying on their  private messages once encryption is breached. Doing so threatens the  privacy and security of every single law-abiding American.

Last Congress, I made progress with the bill's sponsors to address  some of these concerns. Indeed, I compromised on a version of this bill  and had agreed to remove my hold to let that version pass by unanimous  consent. It is unfortunate that the sponsors have chosen to abandon  those efforts and instead advance a dangerous bill that makes internet  users unsafe. However, I remain open to revisiting those conversations.

For these reasons, I will object to any unanimous consent agreement  to take up or pass the STOP CSAM Act of 2025.