Telecom Cybersecurity Transparency Act


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, for several years now, I have urged the  release of an unclassified report by independent cybersecurity experts  that is titled ``U.S. Telecommunications Insecurity 2022.''

Congress and the American people deserve to be able to read this  report. And I may be the only Senator who has read this report. This  report contains shocking details--let me repeat that--shocking details  about national security threats to our country's phone system that  require immediate action.

The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency permitted my  staff to read the report at their office, and this was done in 2023.  However, they have marked this unclassified report ``For Official Use  Only'' and have refused to provide copies of the report to Congress or  to make it public in response to Freedom of Information Act requests.

So I asked then-Director Easterly to release the report. When she  didn't act on my request, I wrote to President Biden--that was in  February of 2024--urging him to address the serious national security  threat posed by foreign governments exploiting U.S. phone carriers'  weak cybersecurity. The Biden administration took no action.

CISA's top telecommunications security expert was so concerned, he  actually filed a whistleblower report with the Federal Communications  Commission. He cited his access to nonpublic reports and other ``very  concerning information,'' and told the Federal Communications  Commission that ``there have been numerous incidents of successful,  unauthorized attempts to access the network user location data of  communications service providers operating in the USA.''

He added that foreign surveillance went beyond location tracking and  included ``the monitoring of voice and text messages'' and ``the  delivery of spyware to targeted devices.''

CISA's multiyear coverup of the phone companies' negligent  cybersecurity enabled foreign hackers to perpetrate one of the most  serious cases of espionage--ever--against our wonderful country. Had  this report been made public when it was first written in 2022,  Congress would have had ample time to demand mandatory cybersecurity  standards for phone companies in time to prevent the Salt Typhoon  hacks.

CISA and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have confirmed that the  Chinese Government hacked multiple phone companies and accessed vast  troves of sensitive call records. They even co-opted the system  designed for law enforcement to conduct wiretaps and accessed phone  calls of politicians and other high-value targets.

Vice President Vance said his communications and President Trump's  were compromised in this hack. The press reported that then-Leader  Schumer was also targeted. This espionage incident was the direct  result--the direct result--of phone carriers' failure to follow  cybersecurity best practices, such as installing security updates and  using multifactor authentication.

I know the Presiding Officer is very interested in this technology  area as well. This is Cybersecurity 101--101--and yet Federal Agencies  failed to hold these companies accountable.

As far as I am aware, and I touched on this, I may be the only one in  the Senate to have read this report. But the contents of the report  directly impact Congress, both regarding the security of the Senate's  communications and issues that have been the subject of prior  Congressional oversight. When Chinese Government hackers broke into the  major phone networks last year, their targets included several  Senators.

The report also directly discusses issues that have been the subject  of oversight by Senators. In 2021, I wrote to the Federal  Communications Commission, with several of our colleagues, raising  concerns about foreign companies remotely administering rural U.S.  telecommunications carriers.

Our group said:

We are also concerned by media reports suggesting that       managed service providers may be partnering with for-profit       surveillance companies, creating the possibility that these       companies could provide their authoritarian clients with       trusted access to U.S. telecommunications networks.

I am going to close with this. None of these security vulnerabilities  have been addressed--that is the bottom line--either by government or  the private sector. The Federal Government still does not even require  U.S. phone companies to meet minimum cybersecurity standards. So, in my  judgment, we are sitting here now recognizing that it is too late to  prevent the Salt Typhoon hack, but there sure is an urgency to prevent  the next horrendous incident.

2480.