Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690532/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-global-tariffs


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, before he leaves the floor, I just want to  thank Leader Schumer for all the help. We are going to be focused today  on something that really matters to people, and I thank him.

Mr. President, we are beginning, as you can tell, to discuss the  resolution to repeal the global tariff emergency.

As is becoming routine under this President, Americans were greeted  with grim economic news this morning. After 3 years of strong growth  and rising job numbers, the U.S. economy actually shrank in the first 3  months of 2025. The trade deficit hit a record $162 billion. The United  States added only half as many jobs this month as expected.

A major culprit is unquestionably Donald Trump and his senseless  global tariffs. If this continues to be our tariff policy, every major  economist and forecaster is, unfortunately, predicting recession, job  losses, and the misery that was all over our news feeds this morning.

The U.S. Senate cannot be an idle spectator in the tariff madness.  The Congress has the power to set tariffs and regulate global trade,  and Members can vote today--not do something in a month or some other  time--but Members can vote today to put an end to Trump's global  tariffs and the economic disaster they are creating.

Earlier this month, Donald Trump slapped new 10 percent taxes on  nearly everything Americans buy from overseas, 125 percent tariffs on  nearly everything from China, and he promises even higher taxes in July  on products from nearly five dozen countries. That is just the latest  plan.

I think we all understand goldfish have memories that last longer  than Donald Trump's tariff promises. Before these global tariffs, there  was the on-again, off-again trade war with China and Mexico; tariffs on  steel, aluminum, and cars; and ad hoc exemptions for things like  electronics and fertilizer. When the public outcry was so great, Donald  Trump had to backtrack.

Donald Trump imposed his global tariffs by declaring an economic  emergency under a law call IEEPA. No President has ever imposed tariffs  under this law. In my view, Trump's actions clearly go beyond what the  law allows, which is why Senators Shaheen, Kaine, and I have offered a  bill to make it clear that this law does not allow the President to  issue tariffs.

Members can vote today to repeal the so-called emergency Trump  declared and end the harmful global tariffs.

Now, I am going to talk for just a few minutes with respect to taking  stock of the economic carnage that Donald Trump's trade chaos has  already inflicted on our country. We are going to examine the  administration's own claims about what their plan is and make the case  for why every Member of this body should vote to assert the powers of  Congress to trade and to end the tariffs, and they should do it no  matter their party or which State they represent.

I already mentioned the shocking economic news this morning. By every  single forecast, by every measure, Donald Trump's self-defeating  tariffs are actively making Americans poorer, and they are doing it now  and for years to come.

Economic growth, gone. Inflation, rising. Unemployment projections,  up again.

Experts estimate Trump's tariffs will cost average families about  $4,000 a year. Many products from China won't even be available soon,  and that is thanks to the tariffs. For the products that are still  available, prices are going up--a fact that Donald Trump flails about  trying to hide.

When Amazon was rumored to list the impacts of tariffs on prices,  Donald Trump threw a fit, reportedly threatening Jeff Bezos and calling  it a hostile act. God forbid that Americans actually know what the real  costs of his tariffs are.

Meanwhile, Donald Trump and Republicans are charging ahead with plans  to go forward with their tax bill, which features more bailouts for  billionaires, paid for by kicking millions of people off their health  insurance and gutting programs that kids and families rely on to stay  safe and healthy.

Donald Trump, meanwhile, puts higher taxes on groceries, clothes, and  cars for working families, while he puts his extra time in to pass tax  cuts for the wealthy. That is his agenda.

My state knows how Donald Trump's tariff chaos is already hurting  real people, and we know how it is drying up markets for ``red, white,  and blue'' products. About one in five jobs in Oregon depends on trade,  and the trade jobs often pay better.

Speaking with small businesses and workers all over Oregon--I did it  just last week--every single one warned of damage from tariffs, and  soon.

Bob's Red Mill, for example, sells delicious flour and grains, mostly  made from wheat and other crops in Oregon. But some of their  ingredients--like coconut or tapioca, which just aren't grown here-- come from outside the country. The cost of those products goes up  because of tariffs.

Worse, foreign markets for Bob's goods are drying out. That is  because other countries put their own tariffs on Bob's flour and other  Oregon ag products in retaliation for Trump's aimless war.

Oregon grass seed growers estimate that about half of their exports-- nearly $200 million in sales--are being canceled, thanks to the global  tariffs.

Donald Trump and his advisers claim there is nothing to worry about.  They say the economists and the pundits are overreacting, and  everything is going according to plan. Secretary Bessent is on cable  news so often, trying to calm investors, that it is a wonder that he  has got any time to do a bit of negotiating.

But, as usual, it is not clear at all what the plan is, what their  tariffs are supposed to accomplish, or when, if ever, American families  and workers will see the relief.

Earlier this month, Donald Trump claimed he would have 200 deals  completed within 3 or 4 weeks. Then he said: No, that is ``physically  impossible'' to have all of the meetings needed to seal the deals. He  should have thought of that before he started a trade war against the  entire world.

Now, he claimed that he was already negotiating with China to lower  tariffs and calm trade tensions, but China and Secretary Bessent said  that talks have not even started.

This weekend, the Agriculture Secretary said 100 countries had  reached out to start trade talks, and almost at the same time,  Secretary Bessent said there are actually 18 so-called priority  countries, and those talks would take about 90 days.

If nobody in this administration can even agree on what is happening  right now, how can they negotiate smart trade deals with nearly every  nation on Earth?

Anonymous White House aides continue to say that Donald Trump is  working to deescalate his trade war, but Donald Trump doesn't sound  like he is willing to admit he got it wrong. He told Time magazine that  if tariffs are at 20 percent or even 50 percent a year from now, that  would be a ``total victory.'' So, once again, no one can tell what his  administration wants or what the end game is.

I believe it is hard to see how any foreign country right now would  make concessions to Donald Trump. That is because he has proven himself  to be both untrustworthy and incapable of sticking to a position on  tariffs for more than a few weeks at a time.

One foreign diplomat told the press that countries are worried that  any  deal they make with the Treasury or Commerce Secretaries will be  contradicted by Trump. Other trading partners said they don't want to  make a deal now only to have Trump decide on a unilateral tariff in the  future.

Donald Trump has trashed America's credibility.

He hasn't just made it unlikely for his administration to get a good  deal for American workers. My view is he has hurt every future  president who wants to strike a good trade deal.

The best way to restore our Nation's good name is for Congress to  step in and assert, finally, our constitutional authority over trade.

Article I, section 8 of the Constitution grants Congress power ``To  regulate Commerce with foreign Nations'' and ``To lay and collect  Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises.'' In other words, this is our job.  It is not always pretty, but Congress can provide stability and  certainty on trade that last beyond a single President's  administration.

This body has already signaled bipartisan support for reversing  pointless tariffs. We did that when we passed Senator Kaine's bill to  end the tariffs on Canada. Today, the Senate can take another powerful  step--a powerful step in the right direction--by voting to repeal the  global tariffs on a bipartisan basis.

I would just close by saying: Listen to your constituents. Listen to  what you are hearing from home, because what I heard was,  overwhelmingly, Oregonians and the people I ran into in airports and  the like said it is time to bring some certainty and predictability  back to making these urgently needed trade policies.

I urge this body to vote for jobs and prosperity rather than unending  trade conflict that leaves our country as a loser. I urge every Senator  to support this crucial resolution.

Mr. WYDEN.

Mr. WYDEN. Thank you, Mr. President.

Senators, the devastating economic news we got this morning should be  enough for Senators to vote yes tonight.

The only winner from the tariffs is China, which is scooping up  markets and allies Donald Trump has left in the dust.

Senators, vote yes. Reclaim American trade policy, and end its  outsourcing to Donald Trump.