Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696341/trump-administration


Mr. WYDEN. I thank my colleague very much.

I just want to make sure, from a parliamentary standpoint, would the  Senator from Oregon yield for my question?

Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President and colleagues, I want to start by  commending my partner from Oregon, who has now been on the floor for  close to 18 hours. What he is doing is ringing the alarm bells about  authoritarianism in America. It is an important public service.

Let me begin by saying, the Wyden family certainly knows a thing or  two about watching a democracy slide towards authoritarian rule. I  wrote in my book about how the courageous women in my family, in the  face of the Nazi takeover of the German republic, recognized the very  real threat of the growing authoritarianism in Germany. They pushed the  rest of the family to recognize what was happening to their democracy  when some of the men didn't want to face reality. Because of the  vigilance of women, I am standing here today in the Senate.

Now, further, on this point, as my colleague knows, during the  protests in Portland this past weekend, Federal agents dragged a 4- foot-6 blind man named Quinn across a driveway and detained him for  over an hour. Apparently, they thought he didn't move out of their way  fast enough. It is hard to imagine--it has been reported in  publications, in the Oregonian and the like--how anyone could see Quinn  as a threat.

As he put it: I think they wanted to make a point, so they picked the  weakest person they could find and made a big show about it.

What Donald Trump and the Vice President are offering us is, indeed,  an authoritarian playbook: Attack the weakest in order to intimidate  the rest of us. That is why it is the obligation of all Americans to  pay attention to all of the discussions on this topic and to speak out  and not yield. The American abolitionists told me that eternal  vigilance is the price of liberty to keep the powerful from stealing  from the many for the few.

Senator Merkley, I am interested in what you think Americans should  do to secure the benefits of liberty for themselves and their families  and future generations and what do you want Americans to take from your  speech today?

Mr. WYDEN. That is correct.

Mr. WYDEN. Senator Merkley, you have said it very well.

It seems to me America is the last bastion of liberty in the world.  There is nowhere to flee to, no mighty republic that stands if American  democracy fails.

I want to commend my partner from Oregon for taking this  exceptionally important stand. This is a message, particularly for all  of America, and it is high time it be made on the Senate floor, and I  commend my colleague.

Mr. WYDEN. I know you have to ask permission. I just want to say that  today has been an extraordinary day for Oregon and for the country. We  look forward to continuing this discussion. And would the Senator  yield?

Mr. WYDEN. Would the Senator be willing to continue this discussion  in the days ahead? Because I think this has been extraordinary. It has  begun to lay out the implications of what this is really all about in  terms of authoritarianism. It is important for our State. It is an  important debate for the country.

Would the Senator be willing to carry out further kind of  discussions? And it might not necessarily be here on the floor of the  Senate, but elsewhere as well?

Mr. WYDEN. My colleague has richly earned a few hours of sleep  tonight, but I am going to make sure that here in the Senate and across  the country, people understand that this is the beginning of further  discussion, not the end.

I want to thank my colleague for taking this time today to play out  what this is really all about in terms of this issue.