Unanimous Consent Requests


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697046/unanimous-consent-requests


Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of legislation  to strike the provision in the Federal funding package that would give  a windfall to a handful of Republican Senators who the Biden  administration investigated in connection with Trump's effort to try to  overthrow the government on January 6, 2021. This provision would give  those Senators $500,000 for every phone call appearing on a call log,  adding up to a corrupt giveaway of hundreds of millions or possibly  even billions of taxpayer dollars. One of my colleagues has already  bragged about his plans to sue the Federal Government to secure himself  a payday.

How did we get here? My staff unearthed this secret provision shortly  after the government funding bill was released. The brazenness of this  corruption kind of takes your breath away. I immediately blew the  whistle about this awful misuse of taxpayer money and alerted the  press. Once the public learned of the heist, they were outraged and  Members of Congress couldn't distance themselves from it fast enough.

Now, I am outraged over the corrupt Republican payoff, but I  completely agree that it is important to notify Senators who have been  surveilled by the government. Every American should have the right to  be told, eventually, if the government spies on them, which is why I  have authored the bipartisan Government Surveillance Transparency Act  to do just that.

Notifying Congress when Federal, State, or Local government Agencies  spy on it is essential to protecting the separation of powers and our  Constitution. The fact is that right now, the FBI, any State attorney  general, or even a local sheriff, can obtain the phone records of every  Member of Congress, and we would never find out. This poses a major  threat to the separation of powers. That is why I have called for  Senators to be notified about surveillance in response to overreach by  Trump in the past. Once Senator Heinrich's bill passes, I am committed  to working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to address the  threat of surveillance by the executive branch.

It is deeply regrettable that my colleagues took a well-intentioned  protection against government surveillance and wrapped it in an  unacceptable giveaway of Americans' tax dollars to Republican Senators.  I am committed to scrapping this provision and passing real protections  against government overreach, not just for U.S. Senators, but for every  single American.