Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I call up amendment No. 1583. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Montana for our  work on this effort, and I hope we can count on strong support from his  caucus, the Senate majority, when we vote in a little bit. 

  I rise to offer this bipartisan amendment because I think a basic  question needs to be asked at this unique time: Is it right, when  millions of law-abiding Americans are at home, for their government to  be able to spy on their internet searches and their web browsing  without its having a warrant? Should law-abiding Americans have to  worry about their government's looking over their shoulders from the  moment they wake up in the morning and turn on their computers to when  they  go to bed at night? I believe the answer is no, but that is exactly  what the government has the power to do without this bipartisan  amendment. 

  I start by reflecting for a moment on how Americans are using the  internet these days. They are helping kids with homework, checking out  prescription drug prices for a sick parent, and visiting scores of  different websites. In a pandemic, the internet may be their only  connection to the outside world. 

  So the questions we are presenting are, Don't those Americans deserve  some measure of privacy? Don't they deserve better than their  government's snooping into the websites they visit? How can this be  that the government can spy on them when they are not suspected of  doing anything wrong? Most importantly, how is this OK in America? 

  With web browsing and searches, you are talking about some of the  most intimate, some of the most personal, some of the most private  details of the lives of Americans. Every thought that can come into  people's heads can be revealed in an internet search or in a visit to a  website: their health histories, their medical fears, their political  views, their romantic lives, their religious beliefs. Collecting this  information is as close to reading minds as surveillance can get. It is  the digital mining of the personal lives of the American people. 

  Now, typical Americans may think to themselves: I have nothing to  worry about. I have done nothing wrong. The government has no reason to  suspect me of anything. Why do I need to worry? 

  Unfortunately, the question is not whether you did anything wrong.  The question is whether government agents believe they have the right  to look at your web searches. In other words, without this bipartisan  amendment, it is open season on anybody's most personal information. 

  Now, there is a simple solution: require a warrant. With this  amendment, the government can go to court and, with a warrant, collect  whatever it needs from those who actually threaten the safety of our  people. In an emergency--something I feel very strongly about and  worked for as a member of the Intelligence Committee--the Government  can use emergency provisions, collect the information immediately, and  settle up with the court later, proving once again that liberty and  security are not mutually exclusive. This type of amendment helps to  get you both.  

  Now I will give a brief explanation of how we got here. Right now the  Government can collect web browsing and internet search history without  a warrant under section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Section 215, from the  beginning, has been the most controversial and dangerous provision of  the FISA law. That is because it is so extraordinarily broad and so  vague. Under section 215, the Government can collect just about  anything, as long as the Government believes it is relevant to an  investigation. This can include the private lives of many innocent,  law-abiding Americans. As I indicated, they don't have to do anything  wrong. They don't have to be suspected of anything. They don't even  have to have been in contact with anyone suspected of anything. Their  personal information in some way just has to be connected for relevance  to what the Government is looking for. 

  Back in 2001, when Congress passed the PATRIOT Act, Americans were  rightly concerned about their Government collecting their library  borrowing records without a warrant. My colleagues and the Presiding  Officer might remember it because this was nationwide. People were up  in arms about the prospect of the Government looking at library records  of books they borrowed and the like. 

  Well, I will state that what we are talking about today--looking at  web history, browsing--it is thousands of times more invasive of  privacy than the library records Americans were concerned about years  ago. 

  There is, regrettably, a long history of abuse of section 215. A few  years ago, the Government decided it could use section 215 to justify  the collection of every American's phone records. The Government  secretly decided that phone records of millions of innocent law-abiding  Americans were, again, somehow connected, somehow relevant to something  the Government wanted. They wanted to get it without a warrant. It was  only when this abuse was publicly revealed that Congress stepped in and  began reining in the Government's phone record collection. 

  The Supreme Court did determine recently that physical tracking of  Americans as they move around requires a warrant. In this bill,  Congress is finally getting around to stopping the Government from  using section 215 to conduct warrantless collections of certain  location data. The irony is--and I say this to my colleagues because of  this unique time--that now that Americans have been asked to stay home  and not move around so as to help our country fight this unprecedented  contagion, they are more vulnerable to abusive surveillance than ever  before. I think that is wrong. 

  Whether they are in North Dakota, Washington State, Montana, Oregon,  or in any of our home States, people are at home and they are living  their lives online. Now more than ever I would say to Senators of both  political parties--because I have long felt that these issues were  fundamental to ensuring that we prove, as I stated earlier, that  liberty and security are not mutually exclusive--that smart policies  give you both, and not-so-smart policies don't give you either. During  this pandemic, Americans deserve assurances that the Government isn't  spying on them as they are home, where they think they are going to  have some measure of privacy, and, probably, until they heard this  debate, didn't know the Government could spy on them at home while they  move around the internet. 

  Americans deserve to know at this unique time that the Government  does not engage in digital tracking of their personal lives. The  warrantless collection of Americans' web browsing history offers  endless opportunities for abuse. 

  Donald Trump has called for an investigation of his political  enemies. Attorney General Barr has injected himself into investigations  that affect the personal interests of Donald Trump. All it would take  is some innocent American's web browsing history to be deemed relevant  to an investigation, and the Government is off to the races, collecting  all of that personal information. Then, it wouldn't even matter whether  that web browsing history had anything to do with the original goal of  the investigation. For any number of reasons, the web browsing history  of that innocent American could reveal, potentially, such embarrassing  information that the person would be humiliated--humiliated--for years  to come and, of course, it can be used against him or her. 

  This is not a partisan proposition. Any administration given the  direction of the law absent this amendment could be tempted to collect  the web browsing and internet search history of political enemies-- politicians activists, journalists.  

  Just before I wrap up, I am going to touch on some of the arguments  against this amendment, because having served on the Intelligence  Committee and having followed these issues closely, invariably, at some  point in this discussion, someone is going to come and say: This  bipartisan amendment is going to be pretty much the end of Western  civilization as we know it. We are not going to be safe. It is not  going to protect our liberties. It is going to set up arbitrary  policies. 

  I want to show how these arguments don't hold water. The first  argument is that the Government needs this information before it can  get a warrant. But without web browsing history, there is still plenty  of information available to the Government, even without a warrant-- phone and email data, subscription data, business records. The biggest  response to this argument is that it is Congress's responsibility to  determine when some information is so sensitive that it requires a  warrant. In this bill that was done with respect to geolocation  information. I believe that digital tracking of innocent Americans  demands the same protection. 

  Let me say, as I did earlier, when there is an emergency, something  that I have made a priority in my work on the Intelligence Committee,  the government can go get the information immediately and then come  back to the court later on and settle up. 

  The other argument that I imagine we will hear is that this amendment  will create protections for Americans that don't exist in the criminal  context. The problem with that argument is that Congress isn't  legislating on the criminal law right now, but it does have a unique  opportunity to prevent intrusive surveillance of Americans to prevent  abuses. 

  FISA requires an extra layer of protection. That is because, unlike  criminal law, FISA is secret. It is also a nonadversarial process. It  relies on Government representations that we have learned, from the  inspector general, are frequently inaccurate. When the Government uses  FISA information against Americans, there is little or no notice or  opportunity to challenge the surveillance. 

  Most of all, it is subject to something that I have come to call  ``secret law.'' It is a law that nobody knows about in a coffee shop in  Washington, North Dakota, or Montana. It is basically secretly  interpreted. As I pointed out on the floor in the past, warning the  American people about these secret interpretations, Americans sometimes  don't learn about them for years, and when they find out, they are  really unhappy. 

  So I want to touch briefly on the amendment of the Senate majority  leader, the McConnell amendment. Not only is the majority leader trying  to block the bipartisan effort that we have been talking about, but his  amendment would actually make the situation even worse. Right now the  Government can collect web browsing internet searches of Americans  without a warrant under section 215, but so far there has not been  explicit congressional authorization for the Government to do it. The  McConnell amendment would, for the first time, provide that  authorization. The McConnell amendment would, in effect, tell the  Government that Congress approves of the warrantless collection of  Americans' most private information. Wrap your arms around that one-- Congress explicitly approving of the warrantless collection of  Americans' most private information when millions of Americans are  sitting at home today in Kansas, South Dakota, and all across the  country, sitting at home believing that they have some expectation of  privacy. 

  The McConnell amendment pretends to limit the collection of this  personal information of Americans, but it is just a fake. What the  amendment really does is meaningless, since the Government cannot  collect content. But no one knows what that means when it comes to web  browsing and internet search history. There is no clarity in the  statute. There is no settled law in the courts. The Supreme Court has  not weighed in. What the McConnell amendment does is invite the  Attorney General to produce yet more secret law, yet another secret  interpretation, designed, as these things always are, to allow for the  collection of the broadest set of Americans' most private information. 

  At some point, I believe the Senate needs to focus on a little bit of  history. Section 215 was secretly interpreted and abused in the past.  The use of these authorities to spy on Americans' web browsing and  search history is a screaming alarm, warning us of future abuses. What  the American people deserve and what this amendment provides is clarity  and transparency about what the government cannot collect without a  warrant. 

  One last argument is that we have heard that, if the Senate amends  this bill, oh, my goodness, the House just will not do anything at all.  Well, there were 75 House Democrats and many Republicans--I want to  underline that, 75 House Democrats and many Republicans--who voted  against this bill because it didn't include enough privacy reform.  Adding key reforms like this amendment could only strengthen its  support in the House. 

  Americans will not tolerate warrantless Government spying on their  most private information when they find out--when they find out that  right now, during a pandemic, the Government has the authority to do  that. I can't accept that level of unchecked surveillance. 

  I am very grateful for the sponsors that we have. They were listed by  my colleague from Montana. 

  There are a great array of organizations that share our view that  liberty and security are not mutually exclusive. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I will state that I think right now, during  a unique time in American history when millions of Americans are at  home and on line, they deserve to have the U.S. Senate step up, defend  their privacy and constitutional rights, and protect them from abuses.  This is the moment to stand up for those millions of people who have to  be at home because we come together to deal with this contagion. 

  I believe the Senate ought to pass the Wyden-Daines amendment and  oppose the McConnell amendment to protect those people at home. In  wrapping up, I also want to commend our friends Senators Leahy and Lee.  As was noted, they have worked with us on a host of these efforts. I  think they have a terrific amendment to strengthen the oversight role  of the independent amici of the FISA Court. I hope Senators will also  support it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT