Data Collected By Doge


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise this morning to talk  about a very troubling concern that is taking place in Congress.

Madam Speaker, you may be aware that the so-called DOGE group, a  group of individuals that was put together by Elon Musk and President  Trump that were unvetted and unaccountable, have now gotten the data of  more than 300 million of our fellow Americans. They have taken that  data and put it in a cloud, making it vulnerable to being hacked. It is  an unsecured position by people who had no right to go into  individuals' personal data and information.

Madam Speaker, I asked Chairman Estes yesterday if he would call a  hearing on this so that we could bring the whistleblower in who made  this evident and clear that this data is being kidnapped and taken to  the cloud, which means, for those of you that don't understand this, an  unsecure place.

The Social Security Administration has no idea. When I asked my  fellow Republican colleagues if they had any idea where this data was,  they had no idea either. It is long overdue that, as an equal branch of  government, we hold the executive branch accountable when they are  taking people's personal data and Social Security information and  exposing it. There is no reason why any 24-year-old, unvetted,  unaccountable person should have access to any American's Social  Security information.

Madam Speaker, you have more than 177,000 Social Security recipients  in your own district. Is there not one Republican who will stand up and  say: We need a hearing. We demand to know where this information is. We  want to know why they need this information.

I think you know why. It is because they want to privatize Social  Security. They are dissembling Social Security from within.

Democrats are aware of this, but all citizens--whether Republican,  Democrat, or unaffiliated--ought to be concerned and shocked by the  fact that your data, your personal information, has been hacked by  people who were not vetted and are unaccountable and have placed this  in a cloud, meaning in an unsecure place, that anyone could hack into.  Imagine that the Social Security administration has no idea what they  have done with this data.

We asked Elon Musk and DOGE to come before this Committee on Ways and  Means, and they refused to come. Why? Because they believe they are  above the law. They don't believe that they are accountable to an equal  branch of government. Now they have gone in and taken the data that  they were after. Why is Elon Musk after it? Because that data contains  information about the $2.7 trillion of the people's money that is in  Social Security.

If I sound a little angry, it is because I am. Every American ought  to be angered and outraged that this is going on. We vowed to protect  their information and keep it safe and secure. This administration and  Elon Musk have sent DOGE into Social Security to take this information.  It is morally wrong. It is not legal, and it is long overdue that we  take action.