Eulogy By Sam Iacobellis for Dorothy Christiana


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to include in  the Record the Eulogy of Dorothy Christiana, delivered at her funeral  by her grandson, Sam Iacobellis. Her granddaughter Nina Bloom provided  the prayers of her passing and was followed by Sam, whose eloquence,  tone, humor, with compassionate care captured a truly remarkable woman  and the family she raised. I have had the privilege of knowing the  Christiana family for over sixty years. The farm on 1215 Silver Lane  was a magical and welcoming place made so by Dorothy's cooking and her  delightful daughters, Linda, Patty, and Karen, always the center of her  life, and the man to whom she was devoted--Carman F. Christiana. Carman  ran the iconic family farm in East Hartford, thus carrying on a  tradition and farming skill he acquired throughout his life, along with  the woman who loved and cared for him deeply.

The story of Dorothy and her family, her husband Carman, her  daughters, Linda, Patty, and Karen, is a story of love for the ages  captured with eloquence by her grandson, Sam Iacobellis.

Thank you all for being here today as we celebrate a truly       extraordinary life.

To know her was to love her. My grandmother went by many       names in her dynamic 97 years.

Dotty. Dot. Aunt Dot. Mrs. Christiana. Mother Dear. Ma.       Gram. Great Grammie.

But to me, Dorothy Christiana was always Dee Dee. Born on       the 17th Day of the 7th month in the year 1927 in Manchester,       Connecticut. She was the youngest of three children to Frank       & Letitia Irwin. A graduate of Manchester High School's Class       of 1945. Active in planning class reunions, which,       appropriately, were always at the Manchester Country Club.       Dee Dee loved her hometown.

Whether it was regaling stories about working at a local       movie theater, parading down Main Street with her family and       friends after the Allies were victorious in the Second World       War, never missing a Memorial Day parade where she would       always point out her brother Ernie's Boy Scout troop or her       long-time Sherwood Circle neighbor, Frank, behind the wheel       of an 8th Utilities District fire truck, or holding court       next to my parent's fireplace on Thanksgiving Day with the       familiar refrain of, ``There are the runners,'' as soon as       the Road Racers returned, Dee Dee just loved Manchester. That       love will be forever eternalized, as she will be laid to rest       just a few miles from where she entered the world, next to       her parents, her brother Ernie, and her beloved husband,       Carman.

It is also appropriate that we are here today, in East       Hartford, the place where my grandmother met her love,       Carman, and started a family. The divine serendipity of a       faulty bus on Silver Lane where two strangers met and set off       a series of events that led to nearly all of us being       together today. That divine serendipity also led to three       daughters: Linda, Patty, and Karen. Three       strong, gritty, accomplished, intelligent women. Women whom       my grandmother knew better than they knew themselves and saw       different parts of herself in each of them. The keenest of       maternal instincts.

The farm they called home for decades was a place for       family, friends, food, laughter, and memories made. She was a       surrogate mother for the phalanx of people who always walked       through her front door. Speaking for my cousin Nina and I, we       so wish we could have been flies on the wall at one of those       legendary gatherings.

It is said that there's a special place in heaven for the       father of three girls. I remember seeing that written on a       piece of art hung in the home of dear family friends, Ray and       Peg Ramsey's home for years. I do not dispute that claim at       all. Ray Ramsey is certainly there. As is my grandfather       Carman, a man whom Nina and I never had the honor of meeting       but have heard glorious stories about for our entire lives.

I would like to say that I firmly believe that such a       special place also exists for the mother of three girls. My       grandmother raised three extraordinary women. Simply amazing.       While my grandfather's light was extinguished far too early,       it lived on in his wife and daughters. The strength and       vibrancy of these three women are in no small part due to the       fierce determination, ironclad will, and overwhelming dignity       of my grandmother. What an example. That is simply special.

What brings a smile to my face is that this legacy lives on       dynamically as ever with her granddaughter, Nina. Nina and       her husband Orion are raising three incredible young women:       Annie, Adalin, and Noelle. Three brilliant, kind, and loving       sisters who look after one another and lift each other up.       The symmetry is undeniable. It is a blessing beyond measure       that our grandmother got to be a great-grandmother three       times over and had the opportunity to get to know these three       dynamos and watch the torch passed to another generation of       impressively wonderful Christian women. She was a matriarch       in the truest sense of the word.

Her home was always open. Food was always on the table. All       were always welcome. And a card game was never far away. She       was the fiercest of competitors at the card table. A skill       and focus that she passed to her daughter Karen, who is       probably the best card player and partner anyone could ever       have. Was often reminded by my grandmother that ``there are       no friends in cards.'' But moments later, she would tell us,       ``Oh no, it's just for fun. It's just a game.'' Mhm . . .       whether it was 9-5, set back, poker, Yahtzee, Uno, duckpin,       or Wii bowling. Nobody was going to stand in her way.

My grandmother was a prolific cook but was truly an iconic       baker. Pies: apple, blueberry, chocolate cream, banana cream,       lemon meringue, pineapple squares, Irish soda bread, cinnamon       tarts, red sauce (pretty good for an Irish woman), French       fries, clam dip, brownies with the best frosting you will       ever have, and so much more.

She loved to host backyard picnics, Christmas Eve and       morning celebrations, weekly card games with her group of       best friends, going to Shady Glen for a strawberry milkshake,       and sitting in her chair and reading the latest Janet       Evanovich book. My grandmother's talent for hosting and       making her home so warm for others lives on in her daughter       Patty. People are always comfortable under her threshold. A       tradition she proudly carries on every single day.

Dee Dee was a die-hard fan of UConn basketball, the Boston       Red Sox, the Green Bay packers, and horse racing. She loved       Elvis, Barry White, Lou Rawls, the Price is Right and murder       mysteries (whether in print or on TV). It was often a cause       of great consternation when the holiday movies bogarted the       regularly scheduled programming of Hallmark's murder mystery       roster. She had so many interests and talents and loved to       share them with all of us.

In the past few days, I have been seeking some comfort and       wisdom in processing the loss of a woman that all of us loved       so much and loved you all in return.

Two such examples have resonated with me, and I hope they       can do the same for you.

In Les Miserables, a musical adored by her daughter Linda       and rooted in sacrifice, selflessness, and dignity (all       traits that my grandmother embodied to a ``T''), the closing       lines of the show encapsulate the simple, but pure divinity       of living a life full of love. As the show comes to a close,       the hero, Jean Valjean, is welcomed to heaven after a life of       reformed selflessness and love. The bishop, who inspired the       story's hero to live a new life devoted to others, shared a       simple truth with Jean Valjean as he could finally rest:       ``And remember the truth that was once spoken . . . to love       another person is to see the face of God.'' This sentiment,       based on the divinity of humanity and the power of love, is       something I have felt loving my grandmother and something I       hope she felt loving all of us here.

Finally, in the Wizard of Oz, a film my grandmother loved       (which may have something to do with the name of the leading       lady), a love she also passed on to our entire family, the       titular wizard also shares some wisdom about love and       affection.

As the Tin Man asks him for a heart, the Wizard says,       ``Hearts can never be made practical until they can be made       unbreakable.'' The Tin Man responds, ``But I still want       one.'' After finally giving the Tin Man a garland-adorned,       ticking, heart-shaped timepiece, the Wizard concludes by       saying, ``And remember, my sentimental friend, that a heart       is not judged by how much you love, but by how much you are       loved by others.''

If the Wizard is correct, then no one had a bigger heart       than Dorothy Christiana. She was just so loved. Loved       unconditionally by so many. The compassion she showed, often       in her unique way, was the privilege of a lifetime.

In closing, it's hard to fathom how much I'll miss my       grandmother. The chats about basketball, politics, cooking,       the family. All of it. It's equally difficult to put into       words how much she loved all of the people here. But there is       a silver lining. One week ago, a bus arrived. Except this one       was not faulty this time. It was right on time. It took my       grandmother on. It took her to a table where Lil, Clara, and       Fawn were. Where Ernie & Beatty were already dealt on the       table. A blueberry pie was in the oven. Elvis was playing on       the radio. Ten duckpin bowling pins were reset. Her parents       were waiting for their little girl with arms wide open. And       her beloved Carman, smiling. Finally reunited. Showered with       love. What a life well lived.

I love you so much.