Preeminent Antipoverty Program for Elderly and Children


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak  directly about the Nation's preeminent antipoverty program for the  elderly and the Nation's preeminent antipoverty program for children.  This is something that Congress and the administration need to focus  on.

My colleagues can imagine how many Americans, whether they are here  today or listening at home, reacted when they heard over the weekend  that Elon Musk, the wealthiest man in the world, the billionaire, said  that Social Security is a scam and a Ponzi scheme.

That Ponzi scheme that assists over 70 million Americans is hardly a  Ponzi scheme, nor is it a scam. The real scam  is to tell the American people that you need $2 trillion and assign  that to a billionaire who has no accountability, did not have to go  through Senate approval, is not a government employee, and isn't even a  volunteer. Yet, he is placing his will on a Republican-led Congress in  both the House and Senate.

All that is needed is three Republicans to stand up and say: No. Wait  a minute. This is not what the Nation needs. We do not need to cut  Social Security benefits. We need to enhance them.

Mr. Speaker, as my colleagues are aware, in the Speaker's district  alone, there are 189,000 Social Security recipients who haven't  received an increase in benefits in more than 50 years. There are  147,000 retirees, 20,000 disabled workers, 8,700 widows, 3,700 spouses,  and over 9,000 children who are depending upon Congress to fulfill its  responsibility and job.

Furthermore, a fact that most Members don't realize is that, in the  Speaker's district in Minnesota, $325 million per month goes to those  Social Security recipients. It hasn't been adjusted in more than 50  years.

It is long overdue for Congress and for the citizens of this country  to demand of their Congress that they take a vote to let the people  know where they stand. Members should let the people know whether they  are going to stand with them and the Nation's number one antipoverty  program for the elderly and children or stand with Elon Musk and Trump  to make sure that $2 trillion is cut so that it can make way for  further tax cuts for the Nation's wealthiest 1 percent.

At over $500 billion, I would think Mr. Musk might say: Do you know  what? This is a great Nation that has provided me these great  opportunities. How about we care for them the same way this Nation has  cared for us?

He won't lose a moment of sleep at night. For more than 40 million  Americans, Social Security is the only benefit that they have. Whether  it is in Minnesota or Connecticut, they will be losing sleep over the  fact that they are worried about whether or not they are going to be  able to get their benefits, the thing they rely on to put food on their  table and to heat and cool their homes.

This is no extravagant item that people are asking for. This is  something that they have earned and paid for. Their government  continues to not act and respond the way that they should do.

Mr. Speaker, we need a vote. The Speaker owes it to his people. We  owe it to ours. Let's have a vote and give these individuals the Social  Security benefits that they need.