Republicans Plan to Cut Social Security


Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam Speaker, I rise to first and  foremost submit an article by--I hope everyone gets to read it. We will  be circulating it to all Members--about the Trump plan to go after our  university system and destroy the research that goes on at our  universities and massive cuts. As Mr. Zakaria points out, this would  decimate our economy, and I think every Member of Congress needs to  know.

Madam Speaker, I also heard Representative John Kasich on television,  just before I came here, talking about how Democrats don't have a plan;  they don't have a plan that they are going to utilize. I have great  respect for John, but I will say yes, under Hakeem Jeffries, we do have  a plan, especially as it relates to Social Security.

Our colleagues on the other side do not have a plan, or the plan that  they have proposed is to cut benefits to Social Security.

Madam Speaker, I don't know if you realize how many Social Security  recipients you have in your district, but there are over 170,000 of  them, including 134,000 retirees, including 18,000 disabled workers,  8,000 widows, 3,000 spouses, and 9,000 children.

Madam Speaker, here is the most important thing. Most Members of  Congress don't realize this. Do you know how much money comes into your  district monthly to those recipients? That is $318 million that Mr.  Trump and Republican leadership want to cut.

A 20 percent cut across the board to Social Security would decimate  people across all districts, including Iowa and Connecticut and every  other district.

We have a plan. Here is our plan. Social Security--and the American  people, especially the people in our audience today ought to  understand--hasn't been enhanced by Congress since 1971. Richard Nixon  was President of the United States. There are more than 70 million  Americans who rely on Social Security. Of those 70 million, for over 30  million of them, this is the only retirement benefit that they have.

Madam Speaker, we want to make sure that there is an across-the-board  increase. Under the leadership of Hakeem Jeffries, that is what you  will see, an across-the-board increase, a tax cut proposal for people  who have to work out of necessity who would end up having to pay taxes  on their Social Security. We pay for it to make sure that it doesn't  impact the trust fund.

We also pay for the repeal of WEP and GPO because that is vitally  important as well. We also make sure that there is no longer a waiting  period for disability where we see that so many people have died  waiting to receive their disability payment.

It is long overdue for the number one antipoverty program for the  elderly  and for children of this country. More disability goes out to veterans  from Social Security than goes out from the VA.

Congress needs to act. I would hope it would be bipartisan, but we  can't even get a hearing, let alone pass a bill.

What is there to be afraid of? Every constituent listening to this  ought to demand of their Member of Congress--if you disagree, if you  have got a better plan, for God's sake, put it forward. How much longer  do the American people have to wait to receive the benefits that they  paid for?

This is an earned benefit. This is no entitlement like the other side  calls it. People paid for it, and you can check it out right on your  paycheck. It says FICA, Federal insurance contribution. Whose? Yours.  You have paid for this benefit. Your government, your Congress, has let  you down. They have not addressed this since 1971. It is long overdue  that we not only address this but enhance this so that Americans get  what they richly deserve, especially those in Iowa.