Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688038/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for yielding me time.

Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the House's fiscal year 2025  budget resolution, which is a critical step needed to unlock a  reconciliation bill that is going to help secure our border and  revitalize our military. It is going to unleash American energy  independence and extend tax cuts for American families and small  businesses.

Simply put, this budget delivers on all of President Trump's America  First  agenda by prioritizing the economic and national security of  hardworking Americans. Failure to act on this budget resolution, our  House Republican budget, risks trillions in tax increases on Missouri  farmers, small businesses, and families.

Mr. Chairman, as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am  pleased to see that the budget directs an investment of $100 billion  for our national defense after years of underinvestment.

As chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, we  are ready to do our part to produce a bill that fulfills President  Trump's border security agenda by providing funding for the United  States Coast Guard for drug and migrant interdiction.

The Coast Guard has been underfunded for years. However, this  administration recognizes that the Coast Guard is the workhorse when it  comes to securing our maritime border. I am grateful for the  President's focus on providing robust resources to the service to do  even more, and I know that the men and women in the Coast Guard are  very much up to the task.

Despite delivering these robust investments, this budget still  requires the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to generate at  least $10 billion in savings overall. Committee Republicans have been  hard at work to make sure that we are prepared to support the Coast  Guard while also being good stewards of taxpayer dollars by responsibly  offsetting our investments.

Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this budget resolution.