Recognizing Mary Miller


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688717/recognizing-mary-miller


Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to recognize Mary Miller,  who is retiring after more than four decades of distinguished service  as a well-respected and remarkable advocate for the general aviation  industry.

Mary's forty-four-year career in general aviation has been spent  mostly on the ground supporting those who do fly. Those contributions  to her industry have been recognized by the high honors of the  industry's ``Distinguished Service'' award and its ``Distinguished  Stateswoman in Aviation'' award.

Mary's contributions are aptly described as ``the wise, trusted  relational bridge to many and varied aspects of the aviation  community.'' The bridges Mary has built have been used for decades by  industry leaders, government officials, and organizations to refine  policy aims, regulatory enforcement, and market conditions in which the  general aviation industry and her specific company operate. On any  given day, her functional activities could be as diverse as FAA  Temporary Flight Restrictions, novel electric vertical takeoff and  landing aircraft (eVTOL) certifications, promoting new sustainable  fuels, right down to real-time advice to a pilot at a distant Signature  Aviation base on how to unsnag a challenge clearing customs.

For so many years, we have seen Mary on the bustling ramps at Super  Bowls, Oshkosh, Tarkio, presidential inaugurations, and other major  general aviation events. However, from my conversations with Mary, her  effort to restore activity to the barren general aviation ramp at  Reagan Washington National after the terrorist attacks of 9/11 gave her  the most satisfaction. Politely but stubbornly, she refused to accept  the notion that 9/11 would permanently close the Nation's capital  airport to general aviation landings. Eventually, that seven-year  effort of Mary and her many colleagues led to the airport's successful  reopening through the DCA Access Standard Security Program (DASSP).

Mary has been an unfailingly genuine, wise, and shrewd contributor to  the interests of the general aviation community and a friend to all.

As Mary prepares to retire from Signature Aviation, I wish her well  in all her endeavors and thank her for her service to the aviation  community and the Nation. I am confident she will continue to be an  influential advocate for General Aviation (GA).