Rotorcraft Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700111/rotorcraft-operations-transparency-and-oversight-reform-act


Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (S. 2503) to require all aircraft to be equipped with Automatic  Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast In, to improve aviation safety, and  for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 2503

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Rotorcraft Operations       Transparency and Oversight Reform Act'' or the ``ROTOR Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the       Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.

(2) ADS-B in.--The term ``ADS-B In'' means onboard avionics       equipment that receives and processes Automatic Dependent       Surveillance-Broadcast transmissions that are broadcast in       accordance with sections 91.225 and 91.227 of title 14, Code       of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulations), and       other aviation advisory information from ground stations,       that provides the aircraft with awareness to the location of       other aircraft and traffic advisories.

(3) ADS-B out.--The term ``ADS-B Out''--

(A) has the meaning given such term in section 91.227 of       title 14, Code of Federal Regulations; and

(B) broadcasts information from the aircraft in accordance       with sections 91.225 and 91.227 of such title 14 (or any       successor regulations).

(4) Affected aircraft.--The term ``affected aircraft''       means any aircraft that is required to operate in accordance       with section 91.225 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations,       or any successor regulation.

(5) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House       of Representatives.

(6) Cabinet member.--The term ``Cabinet Member'' means an       individual who is the head (including an acting head) of the       Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the       Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the       Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human       Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department       of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of the       Interior, the Department of Justice, the Department of Labor,       the Department of State, the Department of Transportation,       the Department of the Treasury, or the Department of Veterans       Affairs, or any other individual who occupies a position       designated by the President as a Cabinet-level position.

(7) FAA.--The term ``FAA'' means the Federal Aviation       Administration.

(8) National capital region; ncr.--The terms ``National       Capital Region'' and ``NCR'' mean the geographic area located       within the boundaries of--

(A) the District of Columbia;

(B) Montgomery and Prince Georges Counties in the State of       Maryland;

(C) Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William       Counties and the City of Alexandria in the Commonwealth of       Virginia; and

(D) all cities and other units of government within the       geographic areas described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).

(9) Powered-lift.--The term ``powered-lift''--

(A) has the meaning given such term in section 1.1 of title       14, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor       regulation); and

(B) includes vertical-lift flight mode and wing-borne       flight mode, as such terms are defined in section 194.103 of       title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor       regulation).

(10) Rotorcraft.--The term ``rotorcraft'' has the meaning       given such term in section 1.1 of title 14, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulation).

(11) Transport airplane.--The term ``transport airplane''       has the meaning given such term in section 44741(i) of title       49, United States Code.

(12) Unmanned aircraft system.--The term ``unmanned       aircraft system'' has the meaning given such term in section       44801 of title 49, United States Code.       SEC. 3. REVISION TO EXCEPTION FOR ADS-B OUT TRANSMISSION.

(a) ADS-B Out Reforms.--

(1) In general.--

(A) Sensitive government mission.--Beginning on the date of       enactment of this section, in applying section 91.225(f)(1)       of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, the term       ``sensitive government mission'' shall be narrowly construed       and shall not include routine flights, non-classified       flights, proficiency flights, or flights of Federal officials       below the rank of Cabinet Member or the Chairman of the Joint       Chiefs of Staff.

(B) Notification.--For the purposes of interpreting section       91.225(f)(1) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, the       operating agency shall--

(i) when operating a sensitive government mission during       which the aircraft will not be transmitting ADS-B Out, notify       Air Traffic Control; and

(ii) notify the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation and the Committee on the Armed Services of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       and the Committee on the Armed Services of the House of       Representatives on a monthly basis regarding each sensitive       government mission within Class B airspace operated during       such month.

(2) Rulemaking and administrative action.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this section, the Administrator shall--

(i) issue or revise regulations to update section 91.225(f)       of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, to comply with the       requirements of this section; and

(ii) revise any memorandum of agreement between the FAA and       any other Federal, State, local, or Tribal agency to conform       with the revised regulations described in clause (i),       including any agreement pursuant to section 1046 of the John       S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year       2019 (49 U.S.C. 40101 note).

(B) Report.--If the Administrator fails to issue or revise       regulations pursuant to subparagraph (A) or revise any       memorandum of agreement between the FAA and any other agency       pursuant to such subparagraph, the Administrator shall,       within 30 days, submit to the appropriate committees of       Congress a report on the status of such regulations,       including the reasons that the Administrator has failed to       issue or revise such regulations within the period required       under such subparagraph.

(b) GAO Review and Report.--Not later than the date that is       2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the       Comptroller General of the United States shall--

(1) review the utilization of exceptions under section       91.225(f) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or any       successor regulation), as revised under subsection (a), to       determine--

(A) whether the Department of Defense and other relevant       Federal agencies or other applicable operators have utilized       such exceptions in accordance with relevant laws and       regulations; and

(B) the extent of such utilization;

(2) compare the utilization of exceptions specified in such       section 91.225(f) before and after the issuance of revised       regulations under subsection (a); and

(3) submit to the Administrator and the appropriate       committees of Congress a report on the findings of the review       conducted under paragraph (1) and the comparison conducted       under paragraph (2).

(c) FAA Review of Non-compliant Operators.--Upon submission       of the report under subsection (b)(3), the Administrator       shall--

(1) determine whether any Federal agency or other       applicable operator that has been found to have not utilized       the exceptions under section 91.225(f) of title 14, Code of       Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), as revised       under subsection (a), in accordance with relevant laws and       regulations shall be permitted to continue to utilize such       exceptions; and

(2) not later than 30 days after the date on which the       Comptroller General submits the report under subsection       (b)(3), brief the appropriate committees of Congress on such       determination.

(d) Reports.--

(1) To the administrator.--Not later than 90 days after the       date of enactment of this section, and on a quarterly basis       thereafter, each Federal, State, local, and Tribal agency       that performs sensitive government missions as described in       section 91.225(f)(1) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations       (or any successor regulation), as revised under subsection       (a), shall submit to the Administrator a report that       includes--

(A) an attestation that such operations are regularly       transmitting ADS-B Out and are conducted with proper       consideration to aviation safety;

(B) a list of operations delineated by flight in which the       ADS-B Out equipment is not in transmit mode because the       aircraft was performing a sensitive government mission,       including the airport, airspace location, date, time,       duration, and mission type of each such operation; and

(C) with respect to any classified operation, a classified       annex.

(2) To congress.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this section, and biannually thereafter, the       Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of       Congress a report on the frequency and nature of the ADS-B       Out exceptions granted to Federal, State, local, and Tribal       agencies under section 91.225(f)(1) of title 14, Code of       Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), as revised       under subsection (a). Such report--

(i) shall include--

(I) aggregated data on the operations in which ADS-B Out       equipment is not in transmit mode by each agency described in       paragraph (1); and

(II) a determination from the Administrator as to whether       each operation described in paragraph (1)(B) jeopardizes       aviation safety; and

(ii) may include a classified annex.

(B) Special notification.--If an agency described in       paragraph (1) operates a flight using an exception granted       under section 91.225(f)(1) of title 14, Code of Federal       Regulations (or any successor regulation), as revised under       subsection (a), 5 or more times in a calendar month, or fails       to provide to the Administrator the attestation required       under paragraph (1)(A), the Administrator shall notify the       appropriate committees of Congress of such use within 14 days       of being notified of such use. For the purposes of this       subparagraph, a flight shall be interpreted as the period       beginning when an aircraft moves under its own power for the       purpose of flight and ending when the aircraft lands.

(e) Annual Inspector General Audits.--

(1) In general.--Beginning on the date that is 3 years       after the date of enactment of this section, the Inspector       General of the Department of Transportation (in this section       referred to as the ``Inspector General'') shall conduct an       annual audit of FAA oversight of all operations that utilize       an exception under section 91.225(f) of title 14, Code of       Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), as revised       under subsection (a), including Federal agency operations.

(2) Considerations.--In conducting an audit under paragraph       (1), the Inspector General shall assess the efficacy of FAA       oversight related to the following:

(A) Ensuring exceptions under such section 91.225(f)(1) (or       any successor regulation) are strictly utilized by operators       in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.

(B) Ensuring exceptions under such section 91.225(f)(1) (or       any successor regulation) are not routinely used by       operators.

(C) Identifying and engaging with any operator not in       compliance with relevant laws and regulations relating to       exceptions under such section 91.225(f)(1) (or any successor       regulation).

(D) Any other factor determined appropriate by the       Inspector General.

(3) Briefings to congress.--The Inspector General shall       brief the appropriate committees of Congress on an annual       basis after the completion of each annual audit.       SEC. 4. ADS-B IN REQUIREMENTS.

(a) Requirement for ADS-B In Operation.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this section, the Administrator shall issue a       final rule in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United       States Code, to require any person operating an aircraft       (other than an unmanned aircraft, as defined in section 44801       of title 49, United States Code) required to be equipped with       ADS-B Out in accordance with section 91.225 of title 14, Code       of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), to be       equipped with and operating with ADS-B In equipment that       provides the aircraft with awareness to the location of other       aircraft and traffic advisories, unless otherwise authorized       by air traffic control.

(2) Compliance deadlines.--In issuing a final rule under       paragraph (1), the Administrator shall--

(A) include an effective date of not later than 60 days       after the date on which such final rule is published in the       Federal Register; and

(B) require aircraft described in paragraph (1) to be       equipped with ADS-B In not later than December 31, 2031.

(3) Final regulation requirements.--In issuing a final rule       under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall, at a minimum,       do the following:

(A) Performance standards.--The Administrator shall       establish appropriate performance requirements for ADS-B In       equipment to provide integrated safety-enhancing capabilities       for a pilot or other flight crew, including by increasing       situational awareness to the location of other aircraft and       providing traffic advisories with alerting sufficient to       provide traffic advisory indications while airborne and on       the airport surface, such as visual and aural advisories.

(B) Alternative equipment or technology.--With respect to       aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of less       than 12,500 pounds when operating under part 91 of title 14,       Code of Federal Regulations, and qualifying military aircraft       as specified by the Administrator in consultation with the       Secretary of Defense, the Administrator shall establish       performance requirements for       alternative equipment or technology that the Administrator       determines acceptable in satisfying the ADS-B In requirement.       The performance requirements shall, at a minimum--

(i) provide similar or improved situational awareness to       the location of other airborne traffic, as well as traffic       advisory information; and

(ii) leverage the use of portable ADS-B In receivers or       equipment that allow display on an existing or future       electronic flight bag or panel mounted display, provided that       the installation or use of such equipment does not adversely       affect other required avionics or the airworthiness of the       aircraft.

(C) Required briefing.--The Administrator shall brief the       appropriate committees of Congress, the Committee on Armed       Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services       of the House of Representatives, on at least a monthly basis,       regarding the alternative equipment or technology for       qualifying military aircraft prior to determining that such       equipment or technology is acceptable to satisfy the ADS-B In       requirement.

(D) Guidance.--The Administrator shall issue relevant       guidance for aircraft operators and other appropriate       stakeholders regarding the types of equipment that satisfy       the performance requirements described in this paragraph.

(4) Other requirements.--In issuing a final rule under       paragraph (1), the Administrator shall include--

(A) requirements for ADS-B In equipment and the use of such       equipment;

(B) technical assistance to facilitating ADS-B In equipage       across the entire fleet of affected aircraft, including, as       appropriate, guidance under part 26 of title 14, Code of       Federal Regulations, to provide support for affected       transport airplane operators in complying with the       requirements of this section;

(C) any other associated guidance necessary to assist       operators and other stakeholders in identifying equipment       that satisfies the ADS-B In performance standards described       in paragraph (3) prior to the compliance deadline described       in paragraph (2)(B);

(D) a determination of alternative equipment or technology       described in subsection (e); and

(E) a presumption, absent clear and compelling evidence to       the contrary, that ADS-B In equipment is cost beneficial and       improves aviation safety.

(5) Congressional briefings.--Not later than 180 days after       the date of enactment of this section, and every 90 days       thereafter, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate       committees of Congress, as well as publish a publicly       available report, on the status of--

(A) the ADS-B In rulemaking required under paragraph (1);       and

(B) after the compliance deadline described in paragraph       (2)(A), the implementation and oversight of such ADS-B In       requirement.

(b) Negotiated Rulemaking Committee.--

(1) Committee.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this section, the Administrator may establish a       negotiated rulemaking committee (in this section referred to       as the ``committee'') pursuant to section 565 of title 5,       United States Code, to negotiate proposed regulations to       implement the requirements described in subsection (a).

(B) Membership.--If the Administrator elects to establish a       committee under this subsection, the committee shall be       composed of--

(i) representatives of--

(I) the FAA;

(II) air carriers;

(III) avionics manufacturers;

(IV) aircraft manufacturers; and

(V) general aviation organizations;

(ii) the exclusive bargaining representative of air traffic       controllers of the FAA certified under section 7511 of title       5, United States Code;

(iii) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots, including the       principal organization representing the largest certified       collective bargaining representative of airline pilots;

(iv) aviation safety experts outside of the FAA; and

(v) any other representatives determined appropriate by the       Administrator.

(C) Required consultation.--In establishing a committee       under this subsection, the Administrator--

(i) shall consult with the Secretary of Defense and the       Secretary of Homeland Security; and

(ii) may consult with other Federal agencies as       appropriate.

(2) Requirements.--If the Administrator elects to establish       a committee under this subsection, the Administrator shall do       the following:

(A) In general.--The Administrator shall direct the       committee to make recommendations relating to--

(i) ADS-B In equipment and its use;

(ii) ADS-B In equipment performance standards pursuant to       subsection (a)(3);

(iii) the consideration of effective approaches to       facilitating ADS-B In equipage across the entire fleet of       affected aircraft, including requirements under part 26 of       title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, to provide support for       affected transport category airplane operators in complying       with the requirements of this section; and

(iv) with respect to aircraft with a maximum certificated       takeoff weight of less than 12,500 pounds when operating       under part 91 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, a       recommendation for low cost alternative equipment or       technology in accordance with subsection (e).

(B) Lack of committee consensus.--In the event the       committee does not reach a consensus regarding a       recommendation for low cost alternative equipment or       technology under subparagraph (A)(iv), the Administrator       shall, after the submission of the committee under paragraph       (3), consider prescribing a low cost alternative that       includes the criteria described in subsection (e).

(3) Submission to the administrator.--If the Administrator       elects to establish a committee under this subsection, not       later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this       section, the committee shall submit to the Administrator--

(A) a consensus proposal of regulations to implement the       requirement described in subsection (a)(1); or

(B) in the event the committee does not reach a consensus,       a report identifying any points of agreement and disagreement       with respect to such proposed regulations.

(4) Proposed rule.--If the Administrator elects to       establish a committee under this subsection, not later than       180 days after receiving the submission of the committee       under paragraph (3), the Administrator shall issue a proposed       rule, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United       States Code, that either--

(A) to the maximum extent possible consistent with the       legal obligations of the FAA, uses the consensus proposal of       the committee under paragraph (3)(A) as the basis for the       proposed rule for notice and comment, including with respect       to any standards or requirements described in subsection       (a)(3); or

(B) in the event the committee does not reach a consensus,       considers the points of agreement and disagreement submitted       by the committee under paragraph (3)(B).

(c) Consultation Required Without Negotiated Rulemaking       Committee.--If the Administrator does not establish a       committee under subsection (b), prior to issuing a final       rule, the Administrator shall consult with appropriate       stakeholders in conducting the rulemaking required under       subsection (a)(1), including at a minimum the representatives       described in subsection (b)(1)(B).

(d) Phased-in Retrofit.--

(1) In general.--In issuing a final rule under subsection       (a)(1), the Administrator shall--

(A) establish a process by which the operator of an       affected aircraft, in service as of the date on which the       final rule under subsection (a)(1) is published in the       Federal Register in accordance with subsection (a)(2)(A), may       apply to the Administrator to request additional time, not to       exceed a period of 1 year after the deadline described in       subsection (a)(2)(B), to finalize equipage of its fleet and       make ADS-B In operational, provided that--

(i) an aircraft operator, owner, or their agent submits an       application deemed acceptable to the Administrator for       additional time for compliance, including a justification for       such request and an attestation of actions to date       demonstrating progress toward achieving compliance;

(ii) the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary       of Transportation, determines additional time is required to       mitigate a significant disruption to air transportation; and

(iii) the Administrator determines the aircraft operator or       owner does not have any uncorrected violations of subchapters       F and G of chapter I of title 14, Code of Federal       Regulations; and

(B) notify the appropriate committees of Congress not later       than 14 days after making a determination under clause (ii)       or (iii) of subparagraph (A).

(2) Special rule for agents.--With the exception of an       agent representing an owner or operator of transport       airplanes, for the purposes of this subsection, an agent may       represent more than 1 aircraft operator or owner of the same       type, model, or manufacturer and may submit 1 or more       applications under paragraph (1)(A)(i), each of which may       contain multiple aircraft operators or owners.

(e) Low Cost Alternative Method of Compliance.--In issuing       a final rule under subsection (a)(1), the Administrator shall       determine low cost equipment or technologies that provide       similar or improved situational awareness to the location of       other airborne traffic, as well as traffic advisory       information, that satisfy the ADS-B In equipage requirement       for aircraft with a maximum certificated takeoff weight of       less than 12,500 pounds when operated under part 91 of title       14, Code of Federal Regulations. In making such a       determination, the Administrator shall consider the use of--

(1) portable ADS-B In receivers; and

(2) equipment that allows display on an existing or future       electronic flight bag or panel mounted display, provided the       installation or use does not adversely affect other required       avionics or the airworthiness of the aircraft.

(f) Proactive Equipage.--With respect to any aircraft for       which ADS-B In equipment is available and complies with the       requirements of the final rule issued under subsection       (a)(1), the operator of any such aircraft shall take all       appropriate actions necessary to equip such aircraft with       ADS-B In prior to the compliance deadline described in       subsection (a)(2).

(g) Separation Standards; Relevant Controller Training.--

(1) Rulemaking.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the       effective date of the final rule described in subsection (a),       the Administrator shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking       to establish separation standards, as appropriate, that       leverage ADS-B Out or ADS-B In equipment, and all other       available technological capabilities in the air traffic       control system, to achieve safety and efficiency benefits       throughout the national airspace system, including on an       airport surface and within Class E airspace (as defined in       section 71.71 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, or       any successor regulation).

(B) Consultation.--In conducting the rulemaking under this       subsection, the Administrator shall consult with appropriate       stakeholders, including, at a minimum--

(i) representatives of--

(I) air carriers;

(II) original equipment manufacturers; and

(III) general aviation organizations;

(ii) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots, including the       principal organization representing the largest certified       collective bargaining representative of airline pilots;

(iii) the exclusive bargaining representative of air       traffic controllers of the FAA certified under section 7111       of title 5, United States Code;

(iv) aviation safety experts from outside the FAA; and

(v) any other stakeholder deemed appropriate by the       Administrator.

(2) Required updates to faa orders.--Not later than 18       months after the issuance of the notice of proposed       rulemaking under paragraph (1)(A), the Administrator shall       complete revisions, as appropriate, to FAA Order 7110.65 and       other relevant FAA Orders, to increase safety and efficiency       benefits in the national airspace system.

(3) Relevant controller training.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the compliance       deadline described in subsection (a)(2), the Administrator       shall revise initial and recurrent air traffic controller       training, as appropriate, in accordance with FAA Orders       3000.22 and 3120.4 and revise associated orders and       directives, as appropriate, to ensure such controllers are       trained to apply any new separation standards and procedures.

(B) Requirements.--In revising training under subparagraph       (A), the Administrator shall--

(i) consider human factors impacts, appropriate phraseology       adjustments, and surface movement applications; and

(ii) consult with the exclusive bargaining representative       of air traffic controllers of the FAA certified under section       7111 of title 5, United States Code.

(h) ACAS-X Action Plan.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       enactment of this section, the Administrator shall submit to       the appropriate committees of Congress an action plan for       advancing the deployment of the Airborne Collision Avoidance       System-X (in this section referred to as ``ACAS-X''), or any       variant or successor technology, in the national airspace       system. The Administrator shall publish the action plan in a       publicly available format not later than 10 days after       submitting such action plan to Congress.

(2) Contents.--In developing the action plan under       paragraph (1), the Administrator shall include--

(A) a strategic roadmap for the deployment of ACAS-X       technology, including steps required for widespread adoption       among aircraft operators (including rotorcraft operators);

(B) actions and funding necessary to complete any       applicable research, development, testing, evaluation, and       standards development needed to support the certification of       such technology;

(C) plans for engagement with appropriate stakeholders,       including--

(i) aircraft operators, including those in the Department       of Defense;

(ii) aviation safety experts outside the FAA;

(iii) avionics manufacturers;

(iv) aircraft manufacturers;

(v) general aviation organizations;

(vi) the exclusive bargaining representative of air traffic       controllers of the FAA certified under section 7511 of title       5, United States Code;

(vii) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots, including the       principal organization representing the largest certified       collective bargaining representative of airline pilots; and

(viii) any other stakeholders determined appropriate by the       Administrator;

(D) engagement with foreign civil aviation authorities to       harmonize international standards for certification of such       technology;

(E) ACAS-X interoperability considerations for aircraft       operators (including rotorcraft operators) equipped with ADS-      B Out and ADS-B In equipment;

(F) an assessment of safety benefits for aircraft operators       equipping with such technology, including civil and military       operators; and

(G) any recommendations for administrative or legislative       action, as determined appropriate by the Administrator, to       advance such technology deployment.

(3) Implementation.--The Administrator may take actions, as       appropriate, to implement the action plan developed under       paragraph (1).

(4) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date on       which the Administrator submits the action plan under       paragraph (1), the Administrator shall brief the appropriate       committees of Congress on the contents of such action plan       and any prospective actions to implement such plan.

(i) ARAC Tasking.--

(1) In general.--The Administrator shall task the Aviation       Rulemaking Advisory Committee (in this section referred to as       the ``ARAC'') with reviewing and assessing the need for       aircraft operating in Class D airspace to be equipped with       ADS-B Out and ADS-B In equipment.

(2) Report and recommendations.--Not later than 1 year       after initiating the review and assessment under this       section, the ARAC shall submit to the Administrator--

(A) a report on the findings of the review and assessment       under paragraph (1); and

(B) any recommendations for legislative or regulatory       action the ARAC determines appropriate.

(3) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date on       which the ARAC submits the report under paragraph (2), the       Administrator shall brief the appropriate committees of       Congress on--

(A) the findings and recommendations included in such       report; and

(B) any plan to implement such recommendations, including a       justification for any recommendations the Administrator       determines should not be implemented.       SEC. 5. REPEAL OF MANNED ROTARY WING AIRCRAFT SAFETY                     PROVISIONS.

Section 373(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act       for Fiscal Year 2026 is repealed, and Chapter 157 of title       10, United States Code, shall be applied as if the amendments       made by such section had not been enacted.       SEC. 6. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE ARMY AUDIT.

(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       enactment of this section, the Inspector General of the Army       shall initiate an audit to evaluate the Army's coordination       with the FAA, pilot training, and qualification standards,       and the Army's use of ADS-B Out and whether it adheres to       Army policy, regulation, and law.

(b) Assessment.--In conducting the audit required by       subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Army shall       assess practices and recommendations for the Army,       including--

(1) whether Army policy and United States law was adhered       to, and the Army's coordination with the FAA, during National       Capital Region (``NCR'') operations of pilot training and       qualifications standards in the NCR;

(2) the Army's policy on ADS-B Out equipage, usage, and       activation;

(3) maintenance protocols for UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters       operated by the 12th Army Aviation Brigade including, but not       limited to, the calibration of any system that transmits       altitude and position information outside the aircraft and       the calibration of systems that send altitude and position       information to the pilots inside the aircraft, and the       frequency with which such maintenance protocols occur;

(4) compliance with the September 29, 2021, Letter of       Agreement executed between the Pentagon Heliport Air Traffic       Control Tower and the Ronald Reagan Washington National       Airport Air Traffic Control Tower regarding flight operations       in the NCR; and

(5) the Army's review of loss of separation incidents       involving its rotorcraft in the NCR along with possible       mitigations to prevent future mishaps.

(c) Public Disclosure.--Not later than 14 days after the       audit required by subsection (a) is concluded, the Secretary       of the Army shall--

(1) transmit a report on the results of the audit, without       redactions, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and       Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the       Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure       and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of       Representatives; and

(2) publicly release the report without redactions, except       to the extent required for national security reasons.

(d) Interim Reporting.--Not later than 180 days after       initiating the audit required by subsection (a), and every       180 days thereafter until such audit is concluded, the       Inspector General of the Army shall brief the committees of       Congress described in subsection (c)(1) regarding the       progress of such audit.       SEC. 7. SAFETY REVIEWS OF AIRSPACE.

(a) FAA-DOD Coordination.--Not later than 30 days after the       date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall       establish or designate an office within the FAA as the       ``Office of FAA-DOD Coordination'' (in this section referred       to as the ``Office''), which shall--

(1) coordinate airspace usage of military aircraft and       rotorcraft with relevant FAA lines of business, including the       Air Traffic Organization;

(2) coordinate with the Office of Audit and Evaluation of       the FAA to ensure employee complaints and whistleblower       protections are considered;

(3) consider opportunities to improve management and       consolidation of aviation safety information system databases       to enhance       civil and military aviation incident reporting; and

(4) carry out the safety review required by subsection (b).

(b) Safety Reviews.--

(1) Review of ronald reagan washington national airport.--

(A) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on       which the Office is established or designated, the       Administrator shall initiate a safety review of all military,       law enforcement, and civilian rotary wing, powered lift,       fixed wing, and unmanned aircraft system flight operations       and flight routes in the Washington D.C. Metropolitan Area       Special Flight Rules Area, including but not limited to       flight operations conducted by the Department of Defense,       emergency response providers, and air medical transport       operators, to evaluate any associated safety risk to       commercial transport airplane operations at Ronald Reagan       Washington National Airport.

(B) Consultation.--In conducting a safety review under       subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall consult with--

(i) the Secretary of Defense;

(ii) Federal, State, and local agencies;

(iii) law enforcement agencies;

(iv) emergency response providers, including air medical       transport operators;

(v) air carriers;

(vi) aviation labor organizations, including, at a       minimum--

(I) the exclusive bargaining representative of air traffic       controllers of the FAA certified under section 7511 of title       5, United States Code; and

(II) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots, including the       principal organization representing the largest certified       collective bargaining representative of airline pilots; and

(vii) other stakeholders determined appropriate by the       Administrator.

(2) Other airport reviews.--

(A) In general.--The Administrator shall conduct safety       reviews of all military, law enforcement and civilian rotary       wing, powered lift, fixed wing, and unmanned aircraft system       flight operations and flight routes at other Class B airports       (as listed in section 1 of Appendix D to part 91 of title 14,       Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation))       and within the lateral boundary of Class B airspace, at       commercial service Class C airports (as listed in FAA Order       JO 7400.11J (or any successor order)) and within the lateral       boundary of Class C airspace in the national airspace system,       and at Class D airports that provide passenger service under       part 121 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, determined       to meet the risk criteria set forth in subparagraph (C),       including flight operations conducted by the Department of       Defense, emergency response providers, and air medical       transport operators, to evaluate any associated safety risk       to commercial transport airplane operations.

(B) Consultation.--In conducting a safety review under       subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall consult with--

(i) the Secretary of Defense;

(ii) Federal, State, local, and Tribal agencies;

(iii) law enforcement agencies;

(iv) emergency response providers;

(v) air carriers;

(vi) aviation labor organizations, including, at a       minimum--

(I) the exclusive bargaining representative of air traffic       controllers of the FAA certified under section 7511 of title       5, United States Code; and

(II) organizations representing certified collective       bargaining representatives of airline pilots, including the       principal organization representing the largest certified       collective bargaining representative of airline pilots; and

(vii) other stakeholders determined appropriate by the       Administrator.

(C) Prioritization and risk criteria.--In prioritizing the       safety reviews of Class B, Class C, and Class D airports       described in subparagraph (A) and conducting the safety       reviews pursuant to subparagraph (A), the Administrator       shall, at a minimum, consider the following risk criteria:

(i) The type of airspace the airport is located in and the       type of tower at the airport.

(ii) Whether the airport has radar on the field.

(iii) The total number of air traffic operations at the       airport per calendar year, as reported in the Operations       Network (OPSNET) data of the FAA, and the rate of growth       measured over a 20-year period prior to the initiation of a       safety review under this section.

(iv) The Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS)       resolution advisory rates at the airport compared to the       number of arrivals at the airport.

(v) The presence of parallel runways.

(vi) The presence of visual flights (in this subparagraph       referred to as ``VFR'') corridors in proximity to the       airport.

(vii) The presence of a helicopter corridor in proximity to       the airport or nearby helicopter operations.

(viii) The presence of dense VFR operations at the airport.

(ix) The presence of complex VFR procedures at the airport       or in the adjacent airspace.

(D) Deadline of initiation of reviews.--The Administrator       shall initiate the reviews under this paragraph by the       following deadlines:

(i) Class b airports.--With respect to Class B airports,       not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this       section.

(ii) Class c airports.--With respect to Class C airports,       not later than 90 days after the initiation date of the Class       B airport reviews.

(iii) Class d airports.--With respect to Class D airports,       not later than 90 days after the initiation date of the Class       C airport reviews.

(3) Requirements.--In conducting the safety reviews       required by paragraphs (1) and (2), the Office shall do the       following:

(A) Analyze air traffic and airspace management.

(B) Evaluate the level of coordination the Administrator       exercises with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of any       other Federal agencies, and emergency response providers as       appropriate, to inform the designation and approval of       airspace use and flight routes for non-transport airplane       operations.

(C) Assess any risks posed to transport airplanes from       military aircraft and rotorcraft, civil rotorcraft, powered       lift aircraft, and unmanned aircraft systems operating in       Class B, Class C, or Class D airspace in proximity to Class       B, Class C, or Class D airports.

(D) Review relevant incidents submitted to the       Administrator through Air Traffic Mandatory Occurrence       reports (as documented via FAA Form 7210-13), Aviation Safety       Reporting System reports, and Aviation Safety Action Program       reports, and relevant reports submitted to the Administrator       of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration through       the Aviation Safety Reporting System, to identify any safety       trends regarding the operation of military aircraft and       rotorcraft, civil rotorcraft, powered lift aircraft, and       unmanned aircraft systems in Class B, Class C, or Class D       airspace near Class B, Class C, or Class D airports.

(4) Deadlines for completion of safety reviews.--

(A) Ronald reagan washington national airport.--The       Administrator shall complete the safety review required by       paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the date on which       such review is initiated.

(B) Other airports.--The Administrator shall complete a       safety review required by paragraph (2) not later than 180       days after such review is initiated.

(5) Reports.--

(A) Review of ronald reagan washington national airport.--      Not later than 60 days after completing the safety review       required by paragraph (1), the Administrator shall submit to       the appropriate committees of Congress a report detailing the       analyses and results of such review, together with relevant       findings and recommendations, including any corrective action       plans to address any risks identified, and recommendations       for legislative or administrative action determined       appropriate by the Administrator.

(B) Other airport reviews.--Not later than 6 months after       the date of enactment of this section, and every 6 months       thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate       committees of Congress a report detailing the analyses and       results of the safety reviews completed pursuant to paragraph       (2) since the preceding report under this subparagraph (or,       in the case of the first such report, since such date of       enactment), together with relevant findings and       recommendations, including any corrective action plans to       address any risks identified, and recommendations for       legislative or administrative actions determined appropriate       by the Administrator.

(6) Designation.--The Administrator shall designate a       person within the Senior Executive Service of the FAA to be       directly responsible for the completion of the requirements       of this subsection.

(7) Staffing.--The Administrator shall ensure adequate       staffing to conduct the safety reviews within the deadlines       specified in this section.       SEC. 8. FAA-DOD SAFETY INFORMATION SHARING.

(a) MOU With the Department of the Army.--Not later than 60       days after the date of enactment of this section, the       Administrator shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding       with the Secretary of the Army to permit, as appropriate, the       sharing of information from the Army's Safety Management       Information System with the FAA, as well as the sharing of       information from the FAA's Aviation Safety Information       Analysis and Sharing System, Operational Analysis Reporting       System, Safety Trend Analytics Dashboard, Aviation Risk       Identification and Assessment Program, Comprehensive       Electronic Data Analysis and Reporting Tool, and Falcon tool       with the Army, to facilitate communications and analysis of       any applicable impacts to the safety and efficiency of civil       aviation operations and to mitigate risk in the national       airspace system.

(b) Other DOD MOUs.--Not later than 90 days after the date       of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall enter       into a Memorandum of Understanding with the following       military departments to permit, as appropriate, the sharing       of information from applicable aviation safety information       systems to facilitate communications and analysis of any       applicable impacts to the safety and efficiency of civil       aviation operations and to mitigate risk in the national       airspace system:

(1) The Department of the Navy.

(2) The Department of the Air Force.

(3) The Coast Guard.

(c) Congressional Notification.--Not later than 7 days       after the date on which the       Administrator enters into any Memorandum of Understanding       under subsection (a) or (b), the Administrator shall notify       the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and       the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the       Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the       Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.       SEC. 9. TREATMENT OF MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN                     DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND FEDERAL AVIATION                     ADMINISTRATION.

(a) In General.--For purposes of subsection (b) of section       1046 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act       for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 49 U.S.C. 40101       note), the Memorandum of Agreement Between the Department of       Defense and the FAA entered into on May 10, 2024, is deemed       to be notice jointly submitted to the appropriate       congressional committees for purposes of such subsection and       subsection (a) of such section shall cease to be effective as       of such date.

(b) Update and Effect of Memorandum of Agreement.--

(1) Update.--The Secretary of Transportation and the       Secretary of Defense shall update the memorandum of       understanding described in subsection (a) consistent with       regulations issued by the Administrator of the Federal       Aviation Administration pursuant to section 3(a)(2).

(2) Effect of memorandum of agreement.--The memorandum of       agreement described in subsection (a) shall remain in force       subject to--

(A) any modifications made jointly by the Secretary of       Transportation and the Secretary of Defense;

(B) termination by either such Secretary; or

(C) modification or termination by law.

Mr. GRAVES.  2503.

Mr. Speaker, aviation has been in my blood for my entire life, and it  continues to be something that I love very much.

In the middle of my family farm in Tarkio, Missouri, is the Gould  Peterson Municipal Airport, which is named after my uncle. Growing up,  when my brother and I weren't doing chores on the farm, we would do  anything we could at the airport just to mooch a ride. That love of  aviation and being a professional pilot has never left me.

When I came to Congress in 2001, I joined the Transportation  Committee to work on these issues, and it has been extremely rewarding.  Being a pilot has provided me with an invaluable insight into these  issues.

Throughout the years, I have worked on several pieces of legislation  that addressed safety gaps following unimaginable tragedies. Every  aviation accident typically has multiple contributing factors. Too  often, I have seen Congress act prematurely and in a way that fails to  address multilayered causes of accidents in a comprehensive and  consensus-driven manner, in some instances to the detriment of  fostering sound safety policy that prevents unintended consequences.

That is why I have long believed that the best way to honor victims  of aviation accidents is for Congress to wait until the NTSB completes  its investigation so that Congress first has all the facts.

On January 29, 2025, an Army helicopter collided with an American  Airlines flight while on final approach to Ronald Reagan Washington  National Airport. The fatal collision claimed the lives of all 67  passengers and crew in both aircraft.

The NTSB, along with their Federal partners and law enforcement  agencies, jumped into action that cold January night. Over the last  year, the NTSB carried out one of the most impressive and comprehensive  investigations that I have seen, and I thank the NTSB for their  dedicated work over the past year.

The NTSB officially concluded its investigation and issued its final  report last week, including numerous findings, the probable cause, and  50 recommendations to ensure that this doesn't occur again.

It is my deeply rooted respect for the NTSB's investigations and  processes that has led me to believe that S. 2503 does not sufficiently  or properly address the findings and recommendations of the Board.

That is why, last Friday, I joined together with Transportation  Committee Ranking Member Rick Larsen, Armed Services Committee Chairman  Rogers, and Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Smith to introduce  the ALERT Act.

The ALERT Act is a comprehensive package of improvements that  addresses all 50 safety recommendations issued by the NTSB. Unlike the  bill before us today, the ALERT Act tackles all the identified root  causes that led to this deadly crash.

Unfortunately, the ROTOR Act, or this piece of legislation, touches  on only two of the NTSB's 50 recommendations and provides an overly  prescriptive approach to mandating a specific technology, which is  still largely under development, in a manner that can prove burdensome  to some operators and create burdens to its adoption.

Mr. Speaker, I remind my colleagues that we have been down this road  before. We have been in this position before. Congress mandated the  exact technology prescribed in the ROTOR Act in 2012. Due to the lack  of maturity of the technology and scalable applications that can  benefit a broad range of operators, the mandate proved to be so  unworkable that the body had to repeal that mandate in 2018.

Sadly, many of the considerations that led Congress to repeal that  mandate still exist today. Don't just take my word for it. Listen to  the words of an NTSB Board member, who said in their final report:  ``While we laud ADS-B systems as an emerging technology in commercial  fixed-wing and rotorcraft aviation that could have prevented this  accident, it is still exactly that, an emerging technology. There are  still technological barriers to implementing ADS-B In into the 5,500  commercial aircraft that are in the skies at any given moment.''

Mr. Speaker, let me be extremely clear. As a pilot myself, I  unequivocally support the adoption of safety enhancement technologies,  and I want to get this right. Ultimately, any successful directive or  mandate from Congress will be calculated, scalable, and future-proof,  not a blanket mandate that limits the aviation community to one  technology. We tried this before, and it failed, leading to no tangible  safety benefit.

Mr. Speaker, my greatest fear is that passage of this legislation  today in its current form will unintentionally lead to an operational  crisis in 2031 and force future Congresses to have the same debate on  the need to repeal another unworkable government mandate.

It is that concern that informed the approach that we took in the  bipartisan ALERT Act. By implementing a performance-based and  technology-agnostic approach, aircraft would be able to be equipped  with the appropriate collision mitigation system, thereby enhancing  awareness for all.

Mr. Speaker, while I rise in opposition to this bill, I know that all  Members of this body across the Capitol have a shared priority, and  that is commitment to aviation safety. It was that shared priority that  brought us together last Congress to pass the FAA Reauthorization Act  of 2024, which was a landmark piece of legislation that is improving  aviation safety and providing benefits to the flying public.

Here in the House, we will continue our legislative effort around the  bipartisan ALERT Act to ensure that all NTSB recommendations are  addressed, and that is coming.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, may I again inquire about how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, I have to ask the question: Why are we here?

With something this important, with something that has so much  consequence, why hasn't the House been given any opportunity to be a  part of this bill?

You have to ask the question, Mr. Speaker: Why are we running this on  suspension where it can't be amended or it can't be made better? It  makes absolutely no sense that with something this important that the  House doesn't have any input whatsoever. I can't stress enough just how  wrong that is.

As I noted before, I live and breathe aviation.

I have seen what happens when aviation goes wrong. I have lost  several very close friends to accidents over the years, most recently  at the Wings Over Dallas midair collision that occurred in 2022.

Throughout my congressional career, I have always believed in  fostering sound policy with a carefully deliberative and consensus- driven approach. That approach is critical to getting the safety  outcomes that we all desire.

Aviation policy is enormously complex and deserves the full  deliberation of Congress to ensure that we get it right. It certainly  deserves some House input into the legislation.

I am extremely disappointed that the House has been denied any  opportunity to express its will on such a consequential piece of  legislation. I am going to say it again: There has been no House input.  I fear this will set a terrible precedent that the will of the House  and the expertise of our committees will not be allowed an opportunity  for meaningful input.

For these reasons and the reasons I stated previously, I will,  regretfully, be voting against this legislation. I cannot say this  enough: This is not a vote against safety. I continue to pray for the  victims and their families, and I understand that they are motivated to  prevent anyone else from having to experience what they are going  through.

I simply want to get this right, and I believe that we can absolutely  do that by allowing the House and Senate to work together to ensure a  tragedy like this never happens again.

Mr. GRAVES. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.