Providing for Consideration of H.R. Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. American Entrepreneurs First Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague from  Massachusetts for the time and for offering this bill, which is simple.  It would block any budget reconciliation language in the House or  Senate that reduces Medicaid or SNAP benefits. In other words, it would  block any legislation that would unnecessarily increase human suffering  and that would harm fellow Americans.

Mr. Speaker, this is day No. 152 of the 119th Congress, and American  families have seen no relief. Instead, this Republican majority is  poised to make things worse through the reconciliation process.

In pushing $300 billion in cuts to food support, congressional  Republicans will make groceries even more expensive for the 42 million  families already struggling to put food on the table every day.

Mr. Speaker, 80 percent of these households include a child, a  senior, a disabled person, or a veteran. Let that sink in.

SNAP provides $6 a day in food assistance to hungry Americans. It is  a small amount, but it is enough, Mr. Speaker, to lift millions of  Americans out of poverty and to create a foundation of health and well- being. Just $6 a  day can create a pathway to opportunity.

Republicans want to take food away from hungry people, not to balance  the budget. We know the bill actually increases the deficit by nearly  $3 trillion, and they are not doing it to better serve our veterans.  The bill actually reduces funding for our vets, too.

Republicans are doing this to fund tax breaks for the wealthiest of  individuals and big corporations. If that is not enough, the House  Republican bill slashes nearly every bit of Medicaid funding needed, $1  trillion, taking away healthcare from 14 million Americans, including  children, mothers, seniors, and low-income families. Many will die.

While a Senate colleague correctly pointed out this week that, yes,  death is inevitable, we should not actively work to expedite it. I  would hope and pray that we can all agree on that point.

We are public servants. We are called to lead with compassion, to  feed the hungry, and to care for the sick.

Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Mr. Speaker, there isn't a single Member of Congress  who doesn't represent families who rely on SNAP or Medicaid to make  ends meet. It is simple. These cuts will lead to suffering, and we must  stop them.

I urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question so that we can  bring this important legislation to the floor.