Solidify Iran Sanctions Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1800, the Solidify Iran  Sanctions Act of 2025. For nearly 30 years, Congress and the executive  branch have utilized the Iran Sanctions Act, or ISA, to constrict  Iran's energy sector, denying the Iranian regime needed funds to grow  its nefarious nuclear program and carry out state-sponsored terror  activities.

Originally passed into law in 1996, the ISA has been the key  statutory element undergirding our sanctions infrastructure against  Iran. The ISA provides secondary sanctions authority to hold third- party firms accountable for their investments in Iran, as well.

Since 1996, Congress has built upon this legislation multiple times  and has expanded the list of transactions that are considered  violations of the ISA.

These sanctions, combined with additional sanctions on Iran's  financial system and petroleum transactions, as well as aggressive  American diplomacy, are what drove Iran to the negotiation table to  finalize the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action in 2015, a deal that  effectively prevented Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon before it  was torn up by President Trump in 2018.

Today, Iran is closer to obtaining a nuclear weapon than ever before.  The Iranian regime, through its backing of terrorist organizations like  Hamas and Hezbollah, continues to wreak havoc throughout the Middle  East.

We must ask ourselves: Under what circumstances can Congress envision  abandoning our sanctions infrastructure while this Iranian regime is in  power? What indications have we had since 1996 that this regime is  interested in changing its nature and becoming a productive and  peaceful member of the international community?

While it is exceedingly rare that Congress should waive sunsets, and  I would support an extended authorization, the failure of Iran to  change for decades speaks for itself.

The ISA is the only major Iran sanctions statute that contains a  sunset provision. In general, sunset provisions have value, forcing  Congress to reevaluate and reconsider sanctions to adjust to new  situations. However, even in the instance a new Iran deal is reached  and successfully implemented, I believe we would want this sanctions  infrastructure still in place, just as it was under the JCPOA, so that  Iran and the international community know what awaits them if progress  is not made or promises are not kept.

Repealing the sunset provision of the ISA is also an issue of checks  and balances. Losing congressional authority  of this critical sanctions infrastructure would effectively cede more  authority to the executive branch, which has already proven to be more  than willing to act unilaterally and without congressional oversight in  carrying out executive actions.

Passing the Solidify Iran Sanctions Act of 2025 would send an  important message about Congress' role in the conduct of U.S. foreign  policy toward Iran and, in sum, serves American national security  interests.

Mr. Speaker, this bill sends a clear signal that the United States  will continue to use every tool at its disposal necessary to prevent  Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, deter it from carrying out state- sponsored terrorist activities, and defend American interests and that  of our allies and partners in the Middle East.

Preserving Congress' ability to ensure sanctions against Iran is  critical to maintaining congressional sanction authorities and  protecting U.S. national security.

Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me and support this bill,  and I yield back the balance of my time.