Voters Sent Us to Congress to Lower Costs


Mr. OLSZEWSKI. Mr. Speaker, in November, the American people sent us  all here to Congress with one clear mandate: to lower costs, to make  life easier for working families, and to ensure that no one in this  country has to choose between putting food on the table and keeping the  lights on.

I came to this floor 49 days ago with a similar poster. Now, here we  are again, 81 days into this session of Congress, and I return with the  exact same message. Nearly 3 months in, and what do we have to show for  our work? Not one vote, not one serious effort from the Republican  leadership of this House to tackle rising costs for struggling  families, nothing to lower grocery prices, bring down the cost of gas  or prescription drugs, help parents afford childcare, or support  seniors who are worried about their retirement.

President Trump promised to lower costs on day one. He has now failed  to deliver on his day-one promise for 64 consecutive days. Making  matters worse, costs are anything but lower. Instead, the reality is  grocery prices are rising, inflation is up, and the stock market is  unstable. In fact, rather than lowering costs, the Trump administration  is actively promoting policies that are poised to drive up costs even  higher.

The Trump tariffs alone will increase costs for the average family by  as much as $2,000 per year, simply to buy essentials like gas and  groceries. God forbid your family needs a new car or a home renovation  in the near future.

Making matters even worse, as prices go up, safety nets for our most  vulnerable families are poised to be slashed under this reckless  Republican budget. I voted ``no'' because it cuts hundreds of billions  of dollars in funding for SNAP and Medicaid, which means children will  go hungry, seniors will lose care, and people with disabilities will be  left behind, period.

You don't have to take my word for it. The Congressional Budget  Office issued a letter on March 5 where they reinforced that the math  is conclusive: Major cuts are the only way to meet the requirements of  the Republican House budget resolution.

The American people are tired of the political theater. They are  simply asking for solutions. However, this administration and extreme  Republicans have offered no real plans, no real solutions, just more  empty promises with painful cuts and a whopping Federal deficit  increase looming on the horizon.

That is why I have been tracking congressional inaction day after day  after day on my social media, because families in Maryland and across  the country cannot afford to waste any more time.

Here we are, on the House floor once again, calling on House  leadership to bring real legislation to this floor that will start  delivering results for our constituents.

The good news is, there is no shortage of legislative proposals that  will help accomplish this. For example, I am proud to have cosponsored  bills that will provide immediate relief by strengthening and  modernizing the child and earned income tax credits, expanding paid  leave, providing penalty-free retirement withdrawals, and giving  Americans more financial flexibility in these tough times.

These aren't partisan bills. These are commonsense solutions. Yet,  House leadership refuses to bring a single one forward for a vote.

Mr. Speaker, I will not stop calling for action. Families in Maryland  and across the country demand it, and they deserve it. I will not stop  until we do what we were sent here to do: lower costs and build a  better future for every American.