Aces Act


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 530) to provide for a study by the National Academies of  Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on the prevalence and mortality of  cancer among individuals who served as Active Duty aircrew in the Armed  Forces, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 530

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``ACES Act''.       SEC. 2. NATIONAL ACADEMIES STUDY ON PREVALENCE AND MORTALITY                     OF CANCER AMONG INDIVIDUALS WHO SERVED AS                     ACTIVE DUTY AIRCREW IN THE ARMED FORCES.

(a) Agreement.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs       shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National       Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (in this       section referred to as the ``National Academies''), under       which the National Academies shall conduct a study on the       prevalence and mortality of cancers among covered       individuals.

(2) Deadline.--

(A) Date.--The Secretary shall finalize the agreement under       paragraph (1) by not later than 60 days after the date on       which the Secretary enters negotiations with the National       Academies with respect to such agreement.

(B) Report; briefings.--If the Secretary fails to satisfy       the requirement under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall--

(i) submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the       House of Representatives and the Senate a report that       includes--

(I) an explanation of the reasons the Secretary failed to       satisfy such requirement; and

(II) an estimate of the date on which the Secretary will       finalize the agreement under paragraph (1); and

(ii) not less frequently than once every 60 days after the       date on which the Secretary failed to satisfy such       requirement, provide to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs       of the House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing on       the progress of the Secretary toward finalizing such       agreement.

(b) Study.--The study required under subsection (a) shall--

(1) identify exposures associated with military occupations       of covered individuals, including relating to chemicals,       compounds, agents, and other phenomena;

(2) review the literature to determine associations between       exposures referred to in paragraph (1) and the incidence or       prevalence of overall cancer morbidity, overall cancer       mortality, and increased incidence or prevalence of--

(A) brain cancer;

(B) colon and rectal cancers;

(C) kidney cancer;

(D) lung cancer;

(E) melanoma skin cancer;

(F) non-Hodgkin lymphoma;

(G) pancreatic cancer;

(H) prostate cancer;

(I) testiscular cancer;

(J) thyroid cancer;

(K) urinary bladder cancer; and

(L) other cancers as determined appropriate by the       Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the       National Academies; and

(3) determine, to the extent possible, the prevalence of       and mortality from the cancers specified in paragraph (2)       among covered individuals by using available sources of data,       which may include--

(A) health care and other administrative databases of the       Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense,       and the individual Services, respectively;

(B) the national death index maintained by the National       Center for Health Statistics of the Centers for Disease       Control and Prevention; and

(C) the study conducted under section 750 of the William M.       (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for       Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283; 134 Stat. 3716).

(c) Report.--At the conclusion of the study required under       subsection (a), the National Academies shall submit to the       Secretary and to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the       House of Representatives and the Senate a report containing       the results of the study described in subsection (b).

(d) Covered Individual Defined.--In this section, the term       ``covered individual'' means an individual who served on       active duty in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps as       an aircrew member of a fixed-wing aircraft, including as a       pilot, navigator, weapons systems operator, aircraft system       operator, or any other crew member who regularly flew in a       fixed-wing aircraft.       SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN LIMITS ON PAYMENTS OF PENSION.

Section 5503(d)(7) of title 38, United States Code, is       amended by striking ``November 30, 2031'' and inserting       ``December 31, 2031''.

Mr. BERGMAN.  530, as amended.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 530, as amended. The  bill was introduced by my friend and fellow veteran, Representative  Pfluger. This bill would ensure there is trusted medical research  available to pave the way for toxic-exposed military pilots and air  crew to assess their VA disability compensation benefits.

As someone who served as a helicopter pilot in Vietnam, I am troubled  by how many times I have heard from my fellow aviators that military  pilots  and air crewmen appear to be diagnosed with cancer at much higher rates  than civilians.

Colonel Andrew Shurtleff, who testified before the House Veterans'  Affairs Committee in March, is one of those veterans. He served our  country as an Air Force fighter pilot, and he started fighting stage IV  cancer in 2019 when he was just 41 years old. My prayers are with him  as he continues to battle cancer, and I wish him the very best.

Military pilots and air crewmen across the service branches, like  Colonel Shurtleff, are exposed to chemicals and toxic fumes in confined  spaces every time they fly a mission. However, there is not enough  medical research available for VA to simply presume that their cancers  are related to those exposures. That makes it much harder for them to  access their earned VA benefits. Each one of those veterans has to  prove to the VA that chemicals and toxins caused their cancer.

Many have had to fight the VA system for years before they received  any disability compensation, and many others never received their  earned benefits before they passed away.

H.R. 530, as amended, would ensure that the National Academies of  Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine conducts a study on whether the  cancers suffered by military pilots and their air crew are related to  their chemical and toxic exposures.

The VA needs robust medical research to streamline military air crew  veterans' access to disability compensation, and VA needs it fast, for  today and tomorrow's veterans. My friend from Texas' bill would ensure  that research gets done and that our military pilots and air crewmen  get the answers they deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to  support this legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.