Recognizing the Achievements of the Alpena Community College Remotely Operated Vehicle Team


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary  achievements of the Alpena Community College which is remotely operated  and located in Alpena, Michigan, in the lower peninsula on the Sunrise  Coast. The college's team is known as the Aquajacks. It is a great  name, and it tells us right there what they are about.

The Alpena Community College remotely operated vehicle team, the  Aquajacks, proudly represented Michigan's First Congressional District  at the 2025 Marine Advanced Technology Education ROV World Championship  hosted in Alpena, Michigan.

I will digress for just a couple of seconds here on what this team  actually accomplished. For those who don't know the geography of  Michigan, as I put my hands up, to those looking at me, this hand is  the upper peninsula of Michigan. This hand is the lower peninsula of  Michigan. Alpena is located right down here in the lower peninsula on  the shores of Lake Huron.

Michigan's First District, which I am blessed to represent,  encompasses 48.1 percent of the landmass of Michigan and more  freshwater and deepwater shoreline than any other district in the  United States. The only singular district that has a larger big water  shoreline is Alaska, but that is all saltwater. That is the difference.  We catch different kinds of fish in those two different kinds of  waters.

What we have in Michigan surrounding the lower peninsula and capping  the northern border of the upper peninsula before it transitions into  Canada is some of the world's, if not the world's, finest, freshest,  deepest, and clearest water that is available on the face of the Earth.

We use it for good. We fish in it. We farm in it. We experiment in  it. We advance our country and also other countries in the world  through research and development, especially when it comes to  underwater activities, whether it is mapping the bottom of the ocean or  looking at cables and pipelines that go from continent to continent.  All of that education and training on the front end is what is  happening at Alpena Community College in my district.

We see all the smiles and happy faces of the team here. They were  excited by not only competing but also winning such a prestigious  award. These talented students, who both live and study in northern  Michigan, showcased remarkable ingenuity, teamwork, and technical  skills. They earned an impressive third-place finish against nearly 80  teams from 22 States and 18 countries.

After months of design and testing, their ROV successfully completed  complex tasks, while the team impressed judges with their professional  presentations and real-time strategic thinking.

Their performance is a testament to Alpena Community College's  commitment to hands-on STEM education. I commend their mentor, David  Cummins, and their entire faculty for fostering such excellence.

Mr. Speaker, it is with great pride that I recognize the Alpena  Community College Aquajacks. These students not only represent the  future of my district but also highlight the critical role that skilled  innovators play in strengthening our Nation's infrastructure and  advancing our national security.