Recognizing Mr. Michael Tarr on Being Named Marquette County Veteran of the Year


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Mr. Michael A.  Tarr for being named the 2025 Marquette County Veteran of the Year.  This well-deserved honor reflects his steadfast dedication to his  fellow Servicemembers, the communities throughout the Upper Peninsula,  and our Nation.

Mr. Tarr faithfully served 26 years in the U.S. Army, earning  numerous military decorations including, but not limited to, the Army  Commendation Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, NATO Medal, Army Service  Ribbon, and Overseas Service Ribbon. These honors stand as a testament  to Mr. Tarr's unwavering dedication to his fellow Servicemembers and  our great Nation.

After retiring from the U.S. Army, Mr. Tarr continued to serve his  community, fellow Veterans, and country as a member of numerous Veteran  organizations. Serving as a National Committee Member and Volunteer  Director for Wish for Our Heroes (W4OH) since 2012, he has invested  innumerable hours in helping Servicemembers and Veterans who are facing  financial hardships. Playing a key role in fundraising for W4OH, he has  been essential in raising over $15 million and granting over 20,000  wishes across our country. Mr. Tarr also serves as Executive Director  for Walk Among Heroes, leading operations to return WWII Veterans to  battlefields they once fought on by coordinating all travel, lodging,  and transportation. In addition to helping share the stories of WWII  Veterans, he has had the distinct honor of leading battlefield walks  for Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans.

Mr. Tarr has demonstrated a steadfast commitment to ensuring that the  sacrifices of our Nation's heroes are not forgotten by future  generations. In 2025, he launched the Walk Among Heroes Youth  Ambassador Program where high school students walk the grounds of  historic battlefields while learning from WWII Veterans.

Mr. Speaker, let us all join in recognizing Michael A. Tarr for  receiving the prestigious honor of being named the 2025 Marquette  County Veteran of the Year. I thank him for his enduring commitment to  Veterans, his community, and our great country.