Veteran Fraud Reimbursement Act of 2025


Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1912) to amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the  repayment by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of benefits misused by a  fiduciary, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1912

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Fraud Reimbursement       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENT TO REPAYMENT BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS                     AFFAIRS OF CERTAIN MISUSED BENEFITS.

Section 6107 of title 38, United States Code, is amended to       read as follows:       ``Sec. 6107. Reissuance of benefits

``(a) Reissuance of Misused Benefits.--(1) In any case in       which a fiduciary misuses all or part of an individual's       benefit paid to such fiduciary, the Secretary shall pay to       the beneficiary or the beneficiary's successor fiduciary an       amount equal to the amount of such benefit so misused.

``(2) In any case in which the Secretary reissues a benefit       payment (in whole or in part) under paragraph (1), the       Secretary shall make a good faith effort to obtain recoupment       from the fiduciary to whom the payment was originally made.

``(3) In any case in which the Secretary obtains recoupment       from a fiduciary who has misused benefits, the Secretary       shall promptly remit payment of the recouped amounts to the       beneficiary or the beneficiary's successor fiduciary, as the       case may be, to the extent that such amounts have not been       paid under paragraph (1).

``(b) Reissuance of Amounts in the Case of a Deceased       Beneficiary.--(1) If a beneficiary described in subsection       (a)(1) predeceases a payment under such subsection, the       Secretary shall pay such amount, subject to paragraph (2), to       an individual or entity in accordance with section 5121 of       this title.

``(2) The Secretary may not make a payment under this       subsection to a fiduciary who misused benefits of the       beneficiary.

``(c) Limitation on Total Amount Paid.--The total of the       amounts paid to a beneficiary or the beneficiary's successor       fiduciary under this section may not exceed the total benefit       amount misused by the fiduciary with respect to that       beneficiary.

``(d) Oversight of Negligence.--(1) The Secretary shall       establish methods and timing with respect to determining       whether an instance of misuse by a fiduciary, of all or part       of an individual's benefit paid to such fiduciary, is the       result of negligence by the Secretary.

``(2) The Secretary may not withhold the reissuing of a       benefit payment under subsection (a)(1) by reason of a       pending determination under paragraph (1).

``(3) The Secretary is not required to make a determination       under paragraph (1) for each instance of misuse by a       fiduciary, of all or part of an individual's benefit paid to       such fiduciary.''

Mr. BERGMAN.  1912.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1912 introduced by my  colleague from Virginia (Mr. Connolly). My prayers are with him and his  family as he once again battles cancer.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the leadership teams, especially Leader Scalise  and his staff, for agreeing to move this bill forward in his absence.

Representative Connolly's bill would ensure that the VA's fiduciary  program is improved so that our Nation's most vulnerable veterans  receive the benefits that they have earned. Let me say that again: our  most vulnerable veterans.

The VA appoints fiduciaries for veterans who are unable to manage  their VA financial benefits. These fiduciaries are required to use a  veteran's VA benefits for the veteran's care and welfare. The VA  periodically reviews fiduciary activities to ensure that fiduciaries  are not misusing a veteran's VA benefits.

When a fiduciary misuses a veteran's benefit, current law does not  allow the veteran to be made financially whole until after the VA  determines whether the misuse was the result of VA negligence.

These determinations of negligence amount to bureaucratic red tape  that have caused long delays before veterans could recoup their misused  benefits. Some veterans have passed away before their misused benefits  are returned.

We must ensure that the VA's fiduciary program is streamlined. This  bill would get rid of red tape preventing victims of misuse from  promptly recouping their VA benefits. It would prohibit the VA from  withholding repayment of misused benefits while the VA is still working  on a negligence determination.

It would also require the VA to implement methods to ensure that  negligence determinations are made in a timely manner. Veterans deserve  to have access to their benefits without bureaucratic hurdles and  unnecessary delays.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 1912, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage all Members to  support this legislation and send our colleague, Mr. Connolly, our best  wishes and prayers.