50th Anniversary of Earth Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, while the Senate was out of session, the  American people celebrated the 50th anniversary of Earth Day. I would  like to take a moment to acknowledge that historic anniversary. 

  We first celebrated Earth Day in 1970 when then-Senator Gaylord  Nelson brought more than 20 million Americans together to mobilize in  defense of our planet. In the half-century since, our Nation has  benefitted from a passionate environmental movement that has pushed  lawmakers, businesses, and communities to foster a healthier Earth.  While this movement has yielded significant progress, we nonetheless  must do more to address the gravest threat to our environment: climate  change. 

  I recognize that, in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, it might be  difficult to wrap our heads around a second crisis, but we have an  important opportunity here to learn from one global emergency about how  to navigate another. 

  The first lesson from the COVID-19 pandemic: We must listen to  experts. Public health experts have long forecast the risk of a viral  pandemic. Still, our leaders failed to prepare for COVID-19 and even  denied the magnitude of the threat we faced when it was at our  doorstep. The novel coronavirus has now claimed over 72,000 lives in  the United States, a death toll higher than any other country. 

  We are witnessing a parallel problem with climate change. For  decades, experts have warned that human-caused climate change is  heating the Earth. Ninety-seven percent of the world's scientists agree  on this. Scientists are no longer just predicting the future  implications of this crisis; they are pointing out the very real  consequences of climate change that have already arrived. 

  These include the rise in extreme weather events like floods,  hurricanes, and wildfires that we have experienced across the United  States in recent years. In Maryland, we have seen communities like  Ellicott City devastated by flash flooding from increased rainfall. Our  State's many miles of low-lying coast make us particularly vulnerable  to high tide flooding and storm surge. The longer we wait to address  climate change, the more natural disasters we will face.  

  Nevertheless, many of our Nation's leaders continue to ignore and  deny the science of climate change. President Trump has nominated  several individuals to oversee environmental regulations, despite their  alarming lack of expertise. Federal agencies like the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service and U.S. Department of Agriculture have suppressed  climate science while carrying out crucial environmental research. And  the Trump administration has advanced a policy agenda that unravels  critical environmental protections. 

  Right now, we need to be doing everything possible to protect our  planet, not make it more vulnerable. 

  Experts tell us that we have a short and critical window for action  before the climate crisis becomes far more dire. According to the  United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, we have 10  years to reduce global carbon emissions by 45 percent, or the Earth's  ecosystems will likely begin to collapse. That will mean even greater  sea-level rise, more high tide flooding, more devastating hurricanes,  more and faster-spreading wildfires, and more global infectious  diseases. 

  It is vital that we listen to experts and take steps to curb the  development of climate change before it is too late. 

  The second lesson: We must work with the international community to  tackle this crisis. Much of President Trump's foreign policy seems to  rest on the assumption that the United States can become stronger  through isolation. But the spread of COVID-19 makes it painfully clear  that we are part of a global community and that there are certain  threats that we will either overcome together or succumb to together. 

  Climate change is one such threat. The United States is the second- largest emitter of greenhouse gas. Our failure to improve our  environmental practices will have enormous impact on the rest of the  world. Likewise, America's long-term security depends on other  countries' efforts to protect the environment. 

  For example, as climate change continues, the number and severity of  natural disasters in the United States will increase, which will take a  substantial toll on our economy. A report that I requested from the  Government Accountability Office shows that the 14 climate disasters in  2018 cost the U.S. at least $91 billion in damage. And today, taxpayer  spending on Federal disaster relief in the U.S. is almost ten times  what it was three decades ago. 

  We need help from our friends around the world in order to avoid  these repercussions of climate change. And if we ask for help, we had  better be prepared to do our part, too. 

  It is, therefore, extremely disappointing that President Trump is  finalizing the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris  Agreement, which we joined alongside more than 190 other countries in  2016. Parties to the agreement committed to lowering carbon emissions  with investment in clean and renewable energy sources, placing them at  the forefront of the fight against climate change. Our Nation's retreat  from this agreement undermines our global credibility and leadership  and threatens devastating environmental consequences. 

  I led the U.S. congressional delegation to the conference where the  parties originally adopted the Paris Agreement; therefore, I could not  stand by and watch that important work be undone. So I introduced a  bipartisan resolution expressing support for the agreement and calling  on the U.S. to continue working with the global community to address  the causes and effects of climate change. It will be up to leaders at  the local, State, and national level to ensure that the United States  pulls our weight in this worldwide effort. 

  The third lesson: Meaningful progress is within reach if Americans  commit to urgent and bold action. Though it pains me to see the  suffering that the COVID-19 pandemic is causing, I have been proud to  watch communities across the country make the adjustments required to  slow the spread of the virus and keep each other safe. People are  staying home, teleworking, helping their kids learn remotely, and  isolating from friends and family. Health workers, first responders,  and other essential employees are inspiring us with their bravery and  dedication. And in Congress, we are working in a bipartisan fashion to  pass major legislation that will help us weather this storm. 

  The resilience of the American people in the face of this public  health emergency gives me faith that we can similarly pull together to  combat climate change if we recognize it for the life-threatening  emergency that it is. After all, the World Health Organization predicts  that climate change will kill an additional 241,000 people per year by  2030, and the World Bank estimates that, by 2050, it will force more  than 140 million people out of their homes. 

  The good news is that, unlike with COVID-19, the adaptations that  will help us tackle climate change will also create jobs and stimulate  our economy. The U.S. clean energy economy employs more than 3.3  million workers, a number that has been on the rise for the last 5  years. Furthermore, producing renewable energy is cheaper in the long  run than continuing to rely on coal. By 2025, almost every existing  coal plant in the country will cost more to operate than building  replacement wind and solar plants nearby. And crucially, energy  efficient infrastructure will strengthen communities by lowering the  cost of utilities, improving residents' health, and increasing economic  development. 

  For my part, I will keep working as a member of the Senate  Environment and Public Works Committee to advocate for laws that  protect Americans by protecting our planet. This Congress, I was able  to get the first ever climate title included in the surface  transportation reauthorization bill in order to reduce vehicular  emissions, the single largest source of U.S. carbon pollution. I have  also cosponsored bills that will lessen our dependence on fossil fuels  and increase the development of renewable energy technologies by  supporting the wind and solar industries. 

  As always, I will continue to defend the vital wetlands and marshes  of the Chesapeake Bay. As climate change causes severe weather patterns  to increase, these ecosystems will act as pollution filters and buffers  from storm surge and flooding, minimizing the damage to Marylanders'  homes and businesses. The Chesapeake Bay restoration program is a model  for the local, State, and Federal cooperation that we need to reach our  environmental goals. I am confident that we can address the climate  crisis as a whole in an equally collaborative manner. 

  Now is the time for an ``all hands on deck'' approach. Just as we  have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, Americans must urgently work  together, on Earth Day and every day, to slow the causes and  consequences of climate change. If we do things right, then perhaps on  the 100th anniversary of Earth Day, someone will be standing here,  thanking her predecessors for protecting the Earth and looking forward  to many more golden anniversaries on our beautiful home planet.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT