55th Anniversary of ``Bloody Sunday''


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, this past weekend marked the 55th  anniversary of Bloody Sunday, one of the darkest moments in our  democracy. On March 7, 1965, Alabama law enforcement officers brutally  attacked hundreds of peaceful demonstrators marching from Selma to  Montgomery to demand full civil rights for African Americans. These  brave protesters put their safety and liberty on the line to build an  America that lives up to its ideals of freedom, justice, and equality.  It is thanks to their heroism--and the heroism of many civil rights  activists before and since--that our country has made great strides  towards those ideals. However, in order to fully honor their struggle,  we must also recognize that much of the hatred and discrimination which  they fought to root out persists, although perhaps in less overt or  easily recognized forms. 

  One of the strongest, most disheartening examples of this phenomenon  is the ongoing assault on the right of minorities to vote. This is not  ancient history. States all over the country continue to ``modernize''  strategies developed a century ago to suppress African-American voting  power. Some of these strategies are blatant and recognizable, like mass  purges of voter rolls; the gerrymandering of districts with ``surgical  precision,'' according to one court; and intimidation of voters of  color. Some of the strategies are disguised behind excuses or fear  tactics, like obstructive voter ID laws, felony disenfranchisement, and  closures of polling sites in heavily minority-populated areas. 

  So long as we allow these sorts of practices to continue, we are  denying American citizens the right to vote promised to them by our  Constitution, and we are undermining the integrity of our democracy.  This is a problem on principle, of course--until we guarantee the right  to vote regardless of race, we fall short of the unique promise and  potential of the United States of America. But it is also a problem for  broader practical reasons--when we exclude people from fully  participating in our democracy, we prevent them from achieving the  social, economic, and civic reforms they need to strengthen their  communities. 

  So, what are we going to do about that? I know what I will do: I will  fight for laws that will guarantee every American a voice in our  democracy. That is why I have introduced bills like the Democracy  Restoration Act, S.1068, to restore the Federal right to vote to ex- offenders, and the Deceptive Practices and Voter Intimidation and  Suppression Act, S.1834, to penalize the voter suppression efforts so  frequently aimed at minority communities. 

  It is also why I am a fervent supporter of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights  Advancement Act. This bill, which was passed by the House of  Representatives at the end of last year, would remedy the Supreme  Court's 2013 decision decimating section 5 of the Voting Rights Act and  thereby strengthen our ability to prevent discriminatory changes to  State voting laws and procedures. I thank Senator Leahy for championing  this bill and call on Leader McConnell and Chairman Graham to urgently  bring H.R. 4 for consideration in Committee and in the Senate. 

  Let's honor all of those whose struggles for freedom and equality  throughout our Nation's history have been met with violence and hatred.  Let's carry on their torch and help make their dreams a reality. Let's  fulfill the right to vote.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT