Cardin, Barrasso Lead Senate Recognition of US-Australian Firefighting Cooperation


U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) introduced a bipartisan resolution (S. Res. 527) Wednesday lauding the more than 100 years of firefighting cooperation and security assistance between the United States and Australia. The Senate resolution comes the same week the last brushfires were extinguished in New South Wales, the worst hit jurisdiction of the 2019-2020 Australian brush fire season.

Over the course of a grueling and destructive 240 days, more than 300 American firefighters, including 15 from Wyoming, were deployed to Australia on behalf of multiple federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior and the USDA Forest Service through the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC). The resolution specifically honors three American firefighters, including a member of the Wyoming National Guard, who lost their lives in the crash of a Large Air Tanker in Australia on Jan. 23, 2020.

"America and Australia have been helping each other through the most difficult of times for generations. Our close relationship crosscuts so many areas of cooperation and mutual support," said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Senate Environment & Public Works and Senate Foreign Relations committees. "Regrettably, three American firefighters lost their lives while assisting in this latest collaboration. The Senate honors their sacrifice and the dedication of all those who have risked their lives to keep Americans and Australians safe from harm."

"The United States and Australia have built a strong alliance. During difficult times, our two nations have supported each other with critical firefighting resources. I'm so proud and grateful for the 15 Wyoming firefighters who recently answered the call to help Australia fight the brushfires ravaging their country," said Senator Barrasso. "These brave men and women routinely risk their lives to protect others. That was made startlingly clear when three Americans--including a member of the Wyoming National Guard--lost their lives in January fighting the Australian fires. This resolution honors their sacrifice. It also supports the continued partnership between the United States and Australia on sharing resources, research and best practices related to wildfire mitigation and suppression."