Cardin, Democratic Senators Call on SEC to Rewrite Disclosure Rule for Oil, Gas and Mining Sector


U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), a member of the Senate Finance Committee and co-author of the Cardin-Lugar Energy Security Through Transparency provision (Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act), led a group of 10 senators in writing to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Jay Clayton regarding the latest draft rule to enforce the 1504 reporting provisions for the oil, gas and mining industry. Section 1504 requires extractive companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges to disclose, in their SEC filings, payments made to governments for oil, gas and mining. The lawmakers, including Senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), submitted their concerns during the current, official rulemaking comment period.

"We write today to urge the Commission to strengthen the rule in key respects to ensure the final rule is an effective tool for combating corruption and fulfills the Commission's statutory directive," they wrote.

"We commend the Commission for the work that it has done on this rule over the years, despite litigation challenges and other challenges from Section 1504 opponents in Congress. We are concerned, however, that the current proposed rule is inconsistent with the transparency, accountability and investor protection goals Congress intended in enacting Section 1504  In order to restore US leadership on transparency and combating corruption, it is essential that the final rule align closely with the existing international standard to fulfill Section 1504's directive to promote international transparency efforts.

"While the resolution of disapproval in February 2017 vacated the Commission's 2016 Rule, it did not repeal Section 1504 nor did it change the Commission's legal obligation to promulgate a rule that is fully compliant with the text of Section 1504 and the anti-corruption, transparency and investor protection goals Congress intended.

In addition, to detailing errors in the SEC's latest attempt to write an adequate rule to enforce Section 1504, the lawmakers requested a 30-day extension of the comment period. The request for additional time is based on the "dramatic changes in market realities around the world since the last rulemaking and the 2017 vote on the resolution of disapproval, which are not reflected in the draft rule."