Cares Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I take this time to go over with my  colleagues the status of where we are in regard to the provisions in  the CARES Act that relate to small businesses. 

  First, I want to make it clear that our top priority for America's  businesses, whether they be small businesses or large businesses, is to  get this COVID-19 behind us, to stop the spread of this deadly disease,  and to give confidence back to the American people that it is safe to  pursue their economic desires and therefore to have businesses be able  to go back to a situation where they have customers and they can be  open for business. We have appropriated significant resources in order  to make sure we do what is right financially to deal with this deadly  disease, and we have provided the tools to protect our economy. 

  Let me talk a little bit about the attention to small business. I am  pleased and proud to be the ranking Democrat on the Small Business and  Entrepreneurship Committee. I serve with Senator Rubio, who is the  chairman of the committee. We have worked together, Democrats and  Republicans, in order to help small businesses during this pandemic. We  did that because we understand that small businesses do not have the  same degree of financial resiliency that larger companies have. When  they are going through an emergency situation, when they are going  through a pandemic, they don't have the same capacity to get credit and  to get the cash they need that larger companies have. 

  We also understand that small business is where the job creation  mostly will take place in our country. Most jobs are created through  smaller companies. We also understand that smaller companies are more  innovative. They come up with new and creative ways in order to build  our economy. But we recognized that we had to do something to make sure  they could survive through the pandemic, and that is where the CARES  Act came in. 

  On a bipartisan basis, we crafted new tools under the Small Business  Administration to help small businesses. I was proud to work with  Senator Rubio, Senator Shaheen, and Senator Collins. The four of us got  together well before the CARES Act was brought to the floor of the U.S.  Senate in order to deal with what is necessary to keep small businesses  afloat during the pandemic. New tools were created, and the CARES Act  enacted tools that can help small businesses survive this pandemic. 

  The program that is getting the most attention is the Paycheck  Protection Program, the PPP program. In the original CARES Act, we  authorized and appropriated $349 billion for that program, and then we  replenished in a second round an additional $310 billion, for a total  of $659 billion for the PPP program. 

  It is a program in which small businesses go to their financial  institution and take out a 7(a) loan, which is a loan that is provided  for under the Small Business Act, but there are private lenders that  lend the money to the small businesses. But we made special provisions  in this law to provide 100 percent Federal guarantee so that there is  no risk to the borrower. We made it easier for companies to be able to  get those 7(a) loans and provided additional lenders for other  communities. We expanded the 7(a) program to include not only  conventional, for-profit small businesses but also nonprofit  businesses, as well as individual proprietors. 

  To date, the program has been very successful. Over 4 million 7(a)  loans have been made under the Paycheck Protection Program. But we have  concerns. Let me talk a little bit about the concerns we have. 

  One of our concerns is that it has been difficult for the underserved  community, the underbanked community, to be able to get these 7(a)  loans as a priority. We failed them in the first round. It was the  larger companies that had established relationships with their banks  that got priority on the processing of these loans, so that minority  businesses, women-owned businesses, businesses located in rural  communities, and veteran-owned businesses did not receive the same  attention as the larger businesses did. 

  So our first priority is to find out exactly how the program is  working. We need to get the data. We need to know where these loans  were made. We need to know what industries got the different loans. We  need to know the location of these loans. We need to know the size by  dollar value and by number of employees. 

  We also need to know how the different provisions of the PPP program  have been allocated by loans. For example, we made exceptions on the  500-employee limit for those companies that come under the NAICS code  72--this is our hospitality industry--and for good reason: They are  really hurting during this time. 

  We need to know how many hotels and how many restaurants qualified  under the NAICS code exception. We need to know how many franchisees  have been able to get loans. We need to know how much went to the  nonprofit community and how much went to the self-employed community.  For that reason, I have introduced legislation with Senator Shaheen and  Senator Schumer to require the SBA to make  that information available to us on a very regular basis. We need to  get that information in order to properly carry out our oversight  function. 

  Today, the Small Business Committee in the Senate had a briefing with  Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Carranza, and we talked about one  of the problems we have in administering this law. There is a self- certification; that is, the business makes the certification that they  meet the standards and need under the act. We are concerned that there  may have been abuses. But until we see the information, it is difficult  for us to do our respective oversight. 

  We don't know if we still have adequate funding. To date, there has  been somewhere around--over $500 billion, closer to $600 billion has  already been lent out; $550-some billion has already been lent out  under this program. Are we going to need more money? Until we get this  information, we don't know what the future funding needs are going to  be. So we need to be able to get that information so we can provide  adequate resources. 

  I must tell you that I think every Member of the Senate has been  approached with ways this program can be made better. There are  questions as to why certain groups are eligible and others are not.  There is going to be a need for modification in this program, and it  will be difficult for us to make those modifications unless we get the  data we need to understand where the loans have been made. 

  There is a second program that was created under the CARES Act and  expanded under the CARES Act, and that is the EIDL Program, the  Economic Injury Disaster Loan Program, and we added a grant program to  that. The initial CARES Act provided $10 billion. When we went through  the second round of funding, we put another $60 billion into this  program. Why did we do that? Because the loan program under EIDL, which  is an emergency program for businesses that have suffered disasters,  and COVID-19 qualifies as that, gives relief beyond just the 8 weeks of  payroll and the other expenses covered under the PPP program. So small  businesses need help with working capital. They can get that help under  the EIDL Loan Program. A small business might need an immediate influx  of cash. They can get that under the grant program under EIDL, up to  $10,000. 

  Yes, when the programs were announced, they were overprescribed. We  had over 1 million small businesses make immediate applications for  these funds, and the Small Business Administration was overwhelmed.  That is why we provided, in addition to the original $10 billion for  the grant program, another $10 billion. And in addition to the loaning  capacity, we put another $50 billion into that program so they could  execute $300 billion worth of loans. 

  But it has been very slow at the SBA, which is a concern of ours.  Only about 50,000 loans have been successfully processed under EIDL. We  just got that information today. Yes, there have been over 1 million  grants given out. Most of them have been under $10,000, whereas the  maximum we thought most small businesses would get is a $10,000 grant. 

  There needs to be better coordination between the PPP program and the  EIDL Program, and we must make sure that the window remains open. But,  today, a non-agricultural business that applies for an EIDL loan is  told that they can't process that loan, that the window is basically  closed. That is not the intent of Congress. We want to make sure those  windows are open. 

  So I come here today to tell you that the first priority is that we  need to get the facts, and we need to fix the program to make sure it  works well. But I want to qualify that by saying how proud we are of  the men and women at the SBA and Treasury. They are implementing this  new program literally overnight and working 24 hours a day in order to  make sure this program can work. We recognize that, and we recognize  this is a major challenge, but we need to make sure the program works  right. 

  We need oversight and accountability, and we can't do that oversight  and accountability unless we get all of the facts and unless we get the  information. Those who abuse the program need to be held accountable. I  was pleased to hear Secretary Mnuchin talk about that today in the  briefing to our committee. We have to have oversight as to the program  working efficiently. We also have to make sure that we take care of the  problems that we have seen in the program with the underserved  community. We can do a better job in reaching those businesses that are  traditionally underserved.  

  We specifically allocated $60 billion of PPP to smaller financial  institutions. We now need to make sure they really get to the  institutions that can serve minority small businesses, that can serve  those smaller of the small businesses, that can serve women-owned  businesses and veteran-owned businesses and businesses located in rural  communities. 

  I would suggest that we need to make sure that the CDFIs and minority  depository institutions get their fair share of allocations under the  PPP program in order to reach these hard-to-serve small businesses. 

  Yes, we do need to look at how we can modify the program to make it  work even better. We recognize that when we crafted the program, we  thought that 8 weeks would be enough. We now know that our economy in  most of the country is not going to be up and running within that 8- week period. How do we improve that program? 

  I want to tell you that we all recognize that the Paycheck Protection  Program may not be enough. Even in conjunction with the EIDL program,  it may not be enough because businesses are not returning to normal  within the next few weeks. We need to design a program that provides  the next level of relief to those small businesses that really need it,  those that have had significant revenue losses, those small businesses  that are really small businesses, like the mom-and-pop-type businesses,  and, yes, those small businesses that have traditionally been left  out--the minority-owned businesses, and women-owned businesses, and  businesses in smaller, rural communities, and veteran-owned businesses. 

  The success of the PPP program and the success of the EIDL program  were because Democrats and Republicans worked together in a strong  bipartisan manner. We are continuing to do that in the Small Business  Committee. 

  I applaud our leader, Senator Rubio, for reaching out to work  together between Democrats and Republicans. We need to continue to work  together and enact the type of oversight that is necessary for the  programs that are currently existing and make the modifications so  these programs can work effectively and well. 

  We heard today about the inflexibility of the 8-week period and how  we need to deal with that. We need to work together to improve the  program and to make sure that the next level of help for small  businesses is targeted to those small businesses that really need the  help so that we can continue to have an economy that can grow, that can  create jobs, that can be innovative, and that protects the ability of  small business owners to be able to participate in our economy. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT