CNN "The Situation Room" - Transcript: Interview With Sen. Ben Cardin


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

BLITZER: Jim Acosta reporting from Davos, Switzerland, where the president will be heading later tonight.

Let's bring in one of the U.S. senators serving on the impeachment court.

We're joined by Senator Ben Cardin, Democrat of Maryland.

Senator, thanks so much for joining us.

And you have heard the breaking news, CNN has now seen this actual resolution laying out the proposed format for the trial, with each side given up to 24 hours over two days each to present their case.

So that could amount to some very, very long days and nights for you and your Senate colleagues. Are you comfortable with this format?

SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD): Wolf, first, it's good to be with you.

No, I'm not comfortable, from what I have heard so far. Look, I don't mind long nights. I don't mind us trying to get our work done in a timely manner.

But it is critically important that the Senate conduct a fair trial. I have had a chance over the weekend to read the managers of the House, their brief, and I have also looked at the president's reply.

And there are factual differences in how they interpret how the Ukrainians were responding to the president. And we need to hear from the key witnesses to see whether, in fact, the president was using the power of his office to deny Ukraine the aid that they needed in the presidential meeting in exchange for doing political favors.

[18:10:17]

The White House counsel said that was not the case. We have seen testimonies from some witnesses that, in fact, that was. But the key witnesses, those that know the president's -- what the president was doing, were denied access to the House through the president.

We need to hear them in the impeachment trial in the Senate. We need to see the documents. So, I think the key is not so much the time, how much time everyone gets or how long the days.

Will we have a fair trial and hear the key witnesses and see the documents that can tell us what the president's involvement was in regards to the use of his office and these investigations?

BLITZER: Well, we don't know if the Senate will vote to have witnesses.

But this resolution, the rules resolution that Mitch McConnell and the Republicans released says that any witnesses will first have to be deposed before the Senate can decide whether they will actually testify.

What do you think is behind that strategy?

CARDIN: Well, I think that's a normal process for a witness coming to a trial. You normally have a deposition.

Those depositions should have been taken a long time ago. They should have been done in the House. But the president denied the House the opportunity to hear from those witnesses. So that may make it a little bit longer before we actually get the live testimony or the transcripts from the deposition.

But that's fine, as long as we can get under oath the key witnesses testifying and have access to that testimony and those documents. That's what the American people should be demanding, and the Senate should be demanding this.

This is not a partisan matter. It's a matter of, what is a fair trial? And how can you have a fair trial if you don't hear the witnesses that have direct knowledge of the key facts as to whether the president was using the power of his office, withholding foreign aid, and withholding a presidential visit to do a political favor for himself?

That's what we need to find out.

BLITZER: But are you willing to wait to hear opening arguments from the -- first from the House managers, 24 hours over two days, then from the president's legal team, 24 hours, if they want it, over two days?

Are you willing to hear those opening arguments before you consider the issue of witnesses?

CARDIN: No, I think we should consider the witnesses from the beginning. We should know that we're going to have an opportunity to hear these witnesses.

And I hope that, when we have votes as early as tomorrow, that we can get 51 senators who recognize a fair trial must include these witnesses and documents.

I hope we can get that from the beginning. I hope we will have an opportunity to vote on that as early as tomorrow. We should have that. And, Wolf, it doesn't seem possible that you could go through 24 hours of argument in a short period of time as they're talking about in 24 -- in two days.

I think one of the purposes here is that Mitch McConnell is trying to saturate the hours, so people don't pay attention, and trying to get this over quickly, rather than allowing a fair trial to take place.

BLITZER: During the Bill Clinton impeachment trial, they had 24 hours, each side, but over four days.

Mitch McConnell now wants it over two days each.

The Senate Minority Leader, Chuck Schumer, says he's prepared to force votes for witnesses right away.

But here's a question, hypothetical. What if Republicans say, yes, you can have your witnesses, you can have John Bolton, you can have Mick Mulvaney, but only if the Republicans can call their witnesses at the same time, like Hunter Biden or Adam Schiff, the whistle-blower?

How would you vote for a resolution like that where both sides could call witnesses?

CARDIN: Sure.

I think both sides should be able to request to have witnesses. That doesn't concern me at all, but they should show the relevancy. I think we can show the relevancy of the witnesses that Senator Schumer has talked about. I'm not sure you can show the relevancy on some of the witnesses that you're mentioning.

But if there's a relevant reason in dispute, and that we need to get those factual circumstances from a witness, that's perfectly acceptable.

But don't try to equate the importance of the witnesses that Senator Schumer has requested that have direct knowledge of the president's involvement on the aid and on the conversations with the Ukrainian president with what they're asking.

BLITZER: But what if that's the compromise? What if that's the deal, you get what you want, but they get what they want?

CARDIN: Well, we're going to need -- I'm all for trying to reconcile the differences.

I think the Democrats and Republicans should have a common set of rules moving forward. I'm disappointed that that effort has not been made prior to tomorrow.

But, yes, I'm all for trying to work out a fair compromise, a fair agreement, a fair way that we can proceed, hearing the key witnesses that know the president's actions in regards to the factual issues in the articles of impeachment.

[18:15:12]

BLITZER: All right, so you're supposed to start this debate, to debate the resolution that's been released just now, tomorrow, but the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, didn't put this resolution out publicly for quite a while.

He sent this resolution to Senate offices. CNN obtained a copy of the text. What does that tell you?

CARDIN: Well, it tells me that Mitch McConnell is following through what he said he was going to do. He's working with the president's lawyers. He's not working with both sides.

He's certainly not trying to develop a bipartisan process to move forward. Every previous impeachment process, the Democratic leader, Republican leaders have gotten together to at least agree on the rules of process.

There has been no effort made by Leader McConnell to engage Leader Schumer and to work out a process to move forward. It would have been in the best interests of the United States Senate, it would have been in the best interest to a fair trial if we could have a consensus resolution on how we proceed.

We should be able to do that. That's not so difficult. But there was no effort made. And, as you said, we didn't even see -- I haven't seen it yet, but as you did breaking news, it's just being released now, and we're going to be asked to vote on it as early as 1:00 tomorrow afternoon with no effort to try to bring about a consensus process to move forward.

BLITZER: Senator Ben Cardin, thanks, as usual, for joining us.

CARDIN: Thank you. Thank you, Wolf.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT