CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Interview with Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD)


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

I'm joined now by Democratic Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland. He's also a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and of course will be voting today as well.

Senator, thanks so much for taking the time.

SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD): Jim, it's good to be with you.

SCIUTTO: Senator Manchin, he had interesting comments and he had criticism not just for the president at the State of the Union, last night. He also said that Pelosi ripping up the president's speech was, in his words, "very bad." I wonder if you agree that the speaker dove into sort of Trumpian-style politics there.

CARDIN: Well, this is the State of the Union. And this is an opportunity for the president to address our nation, to bring us together. And it was like we were at a campaign rally. I mean, there's been enough Trump campaign rallies in 2019 and before, we didn't need to use the State of the Union address for a campaign rally. I think Speaker Pelosi was frustrated by the use of the president of this forum, for political purposes. SCIUTTO: OK. Senate impeachment trial, not to be forgotten. This

afternoon, there will be a vote on the Senate floor to remove or acquit sitting president of the United States -- and by the way, there's Senator Lamar Alexander, your Republican colleague, who's speaking now, his final words on this.

The president, barring remarkable events, will be acquitted this afternoon. I'm just wondering, in the final analysis, did the Democrats lose this battle?

CARDIN: Well, Jim, it's an important question to ask, but I don't think we had any choice. The Constitution requires us to hold the president accountable when he goes across the line. We know that Department of Justice will not hold him responsible for criminal charges, so really, the only option is to pursue an impeachment case.

It doesn't mean it's going to help you politically, but that's something you have to do under the Constitution, and the House made those determinations. Once it came to the Senate, we had to try the case. And unfortunately, the Senate failed in allowing a fair trial by excluding testimony and evidence under oath. So it was a circumstance that I think we had to deal with, the politics of it is certainly uncertain.

SCIUTTO: Take a quick moment here, because I want to listen in to what Senator Alexander is saying here and get your reaction. Take a moment, have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. LAMAR ALEXANDER (R-TN): -- simply for actions that are inappropriate. The United States Constitution says a president may be convicted only for treason, bribery and other high crimes and misdemeanors. President Trump's actions regarding Ukraine are a far cry from that.

Plus, I said, unlike the Nixon impeachment, when almost all Republicans voted to initiate an impeachment inquiry, not one single Republican voted to initiate this impeachment inquiry against President Trump.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SCIUTTO: OK, Senator Cardin, back to you there. Because he's making two arguments here. First, on the argument that this did not meet the standard, the president's behavior in Ukraine. Senator Lamar Alexander did call it inappropriate there. Your response to that argument?

CARDIN: We debated this. Abuse of power, which is an abuse of trust, is clearly an impeachable offense. If not, you have the Dershowitz conclusions, that the president could do -- use any power in his office he wanted to, for political purposes to get re-elected. As long as he didn't break a law, he could do that and it wouldn't be held accountable. And many examples were given.

That's absurd. The framers of our Constitution wanted the Congress to be able to contain the power of the president from abuse of trust, and no branch of government, no person is above the law.

SCIUTTO: His other argument you heard there -- and we heard this repeatedly -- is that unless it's bipartisan, it can't happen. Which is kind of, by definition, preventing impeachment. If a party just says, we're not going to impeach, then you can't have the impeachment because it wouldn't be bipartisan. What's your response to that argument?

CARDIN: Well, Jim, I thank you for answering my question. The point is that the House of Representatives has the sole power on impeachment. They have to make that judgment, as to how serious the offenses are, how much consensus they can get, that's a sole -- solely within the House of Representatives.

The Senate needs to try those articles of impeachment, and the Senate failed here by giving a fair trial. How can you discover the truth if you can't hear from witnesses under cross-examination under oath?

SCIUTTO: Senator Alexander there, other Republicans as well have granted the premise, they've granted the facts of the allegation here, that the president pressured a U.S. ally in return for a political favor here. And yet they acquitted him.

You know this president, the way he operates. I wonder, do you believe he's been given license now to seek or accept foreign help for the November election this year?

CARDIN: Yes. Well, that's our major concern. If you look at the Mueller investigation, which clearly found that there was many cases where the president was obstructing the investigation, and yet the president claimed he was exonerated, and it looks like he will continue to do the same thing.

[10:45:10]

Over and over again, the president's repeated his conduct. So, yes, we are concerned that with an acquittal this afternoon, that the president will say he's been exonerated, and he'll continue to do what he did before, even though there's so many senators -- including Republican senators -- who said what he did was wrong, the president will say it was right because that's the way he talks --

SCIUTTO: Yes.

CARDIN: -- and he'll continue that behavior.

SCIUTTO: Yes, you might put a $5 bet on a total exoneration tweet, following the vote this afternoon.

Before we go, 2020, you have -- let's set aside the delay in voting for a moment here. But the results of this show a very divided Democratic field. And upstart in Pete Buttigieg, a disappointing performance for the former vice president, Joe Biden.

I know your focus -- as the focus of many Democrats -- is beating Donald Trump. After this kind of result, are Democrats more or less likely to be able to do that?

CARDIN: Well, it's a long time between now and November. We have excellent people who are running for our nomination. But the golden rule must be that the objective here is to beat Donald Trump, so let's make sure that the way we conduct our primaries, our caucuses, that we as advocates of the Democratic Party stay united to the November victory.

SCIUTTO: Senator Ben Cardin, we know you have a big duty to undertake this afternoon. We appreciate you joining the program.

CARDIN: Thanks, Jim.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT