CNN "Anderson Cooper 360 Degrees" - Transcript: Interview With Senator Ben Cardin


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

All right. With me now is Senator Ben Cardin. He is a Democrat from Maryland and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Senator Cardin -- thanks so much for being with me.

So during the President's opening defense --

SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD): Fredricka, it's good to be here.

WHITFIELD: Thank you so much. During the President's team's opening defense, you know his attorneys accused Democrats of trying to interfere with the election and then tried to make the case the President did nothing wrong, and that he is the real victim.

So what's your reaction to what was heard yesterday in roughly two and a half hours, and if that's a prelude of what's to come?

CARDIN: Well first, I thought the President's counsel, when he said that in order to get to the truth you have to be able to cross-examine witnesses. And the fact that they are disputing some of the allegations that have been made as far as intent is concerned, made the case that the Senate, in order to carry out its constitutional responsibilities to try an impeachment article, that we need to hear from the witnesses who have direct knowledge and ability to cross- examine those witnesses. So I think the key takeaway is that --

(CROSSTALKING)

WHITFIELD: But you'll hear it from the team again -- you'll hear form the team again that House Democrats had their opportunity, that they squandered that opportunity, and it's simply too late.

CARDIN: The Senate's responsibility is to try the case. We are not bound by the House record. In every previous impeachment, the Senate made it clear it would not be bound by the House record. We have our own independent responsibility to try the case.

[14:09:58]

CARDIN: To try a case, you must have witnesses, you must have testimony and documents. And those documents were not made available in the House. That was a strategy by the President in the House proceedings.

But now it's up to the trial in the Senate. And we should get access to that information before reaching a judgment.

WHITFIELD: The House manager Adam Schiff, made that case as did his team over and over again during the last week, but trying to change the minds or influence the minds of senators -- that's the key. Do you believe that they effectively were able to do that, especially on that point of new witnesses that need to testify?

CARDIN: Well, I think this is an important point but that's why the President's counsel -- when the President's counsel talked about the fact that the President, according to the counsel, did not have the effective ability to cross-examine witnesses in the House and that's how you get to the truth, then it seems to me he's making the case for the Senate to carry out our responsibility to be able to see the witnesses -- particularly those who didn't testify in the House and have direct knowledge -- and to cross-examine those witnesses if this is going to be a trial.

So I thought the President's counsel made the case, and I hope my colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, understand that, that we have our own constitutional responsibilities regardless of what your preconceived thoughts might be about the President's conduct. We need to carry out a fair trial and I hope we'll have the votes to open this up for those witnesses.

WHITFIELD: And do you believe that perhaps an impetus for the President tweeting out, you know, these insults against Adam Schiff and, you know, insulting his intent that perhaps the President is feeling some heat from Adam Schiff and others' best arguments?

CARDIN: Well, what the President does to try to intimidate people who speak -- say things he doesn't want to hear about, he's known to be a bully, he's known to strike out against anyone who criticizes him. And obviously in this impeachment trial, he's doing that tactic.

It's not what the President of the United States should be doing. And it's certainly an impeachment trial to try to intimidate the person presenting the evidence. It's wrong, and certainly he should be called out for that.

WHITFIELD: Let me ask you this now, Senator -- about some of this new video recording involving the President talking with indicted Rudy Giuliani associate Lev Parnas as the President talks about taking out former Ukraine U.S. Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch. Listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PARNAS: She's still left over from the Clinton administration.

TRUMP: What? The ambassador to Ukraine?

PARNAS: Yes, and she's basically walking around telling everybody, wait, he's going get impeached, just wait.

It's incredible.

TRUMP: Get rid of her. Get her out tomorrow. I don't care. Get her out tomorrow. Take her out. Ok.

Do it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD: What are your thoughts about this recording and how do you believe it might impact the days moving forward in this Senate trial?

CARDIN: Well, remember, the House managers made a strong case that the removal of the American ambassador was a key part of the scheme in order to help the corrupt prosecutor in Ukraine. That was one of the preconditions in order for the Ukrainians to investigate, do the political investigations that the President wanted.

So that's an important recording and testimony. And again, it underscores the point we need to hear from the witnesses directly and ability to cross-examine to understand what the President was attempting to do and whether it's part of a scheme.

WHITFIELD: And, quickly, with new information such as this videotape even, you know, John Bolton saying he's willing to testify, other testimony or interviews coming from Lev Parnas. Do you think this now obviates that big argument of trying to get more witnesses forward when now the general public is hearing, you know, from the horses' mouths, so to speak, on these very issues?

CARDIN: No, we clearly have to hear from, for example, Mr. Mulvaney, his direct testimony. He was carrying out the orders of the President. He knows directly about each part of this process. We need to be able to ask him questions in order to get to the truth.

I think Ambassador Bolton is an important witness to hear from directly. There is a lot of missing blanks here that would be helpful if we could have the direct testimony in order to complete the record.

WHITFIELD: Senator Ben Cardin from Baltimore -- thank you so much. Appreciate it.

CARDIN: Thank you.

WHITFIELD: All right, President Trump has tweeted or retweeted more than 300 times now in the past five days. So what is going through the President's mind as his impeachment trial moves forward? We talked to two people who know him well.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT