CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Interview with Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD)


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Maryland is one of states where health insurers are being ordered to waive costs for Coronavirus testing. Governor Larry Hogan issued that directive Friday as part of a state of emergency that he declared. And with us now is Democratic Senator Ben Cardin, who represents Maryland. Senator, you visited the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Vaccine Research Center just yesterday. Tell us about the work they're doing there.

SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD): Well, Ana, it's good to be with you. And we're very proud of the work that's being done at NIH in Maryland. They are well along on their research of Coronaviruses. But, before this outbroke, as a result, they will have a record pace on going to clinical trials on a vaccine.

Now, it will not be available this year, but they will accelerate the process quite dramatically and have a vaccine, hopefully, in 2021. They're also working on therapeutic drugs, for those who are infected, and that's also in trial.

So, they're moving along very aggressively to -- on a very fast pace, to give the type of help that this nation needs, and, quite frankly, leading in the international community.

CABRERA: At least three people in your home state of Maryland have tested positive for Coronavirus. What can you tell us about them and how are they doing?

CARDIN: Well, the three that were infected were on a cruise ship. So, it was -- it was because of travel that they contracted the virus. They are being isolated. They are -- they are quarantined at home. We understand they're doing well. Expect to recover. But, obviously, there's a privacy issue. So, I don't have the complete update information, but we believe they'll recover.

CABRERA: Sending best wishes to them, of course.

You had some kind words for Vice President Mike Pence this week on Tuesday. You said that you had confidence he was surrounding himself with the right people, the right experts, and that was he energizing the private sector to provide what's needed. But the messaging from the administration has been inconsistent, at best. Here is just some of what we heard yesterday.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LARRY KUDLOW, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL ECEONOMIC COUNCIL: Regarding the containment issue, I would still argue to you that this is contained.

KELLYANNE CONWAY, COUNSELOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP: It is being contained. And do you not think it's being contained?

DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Anybody that wants a test can get a test. Anybody that needs a test gets a test. We -- they're there. They have the tests. And the tests are beautiful.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CABRERA: Senator, let's be clear, the coronavirus is not contained. A number of cases and deaths is growing almost by the hour. The vice president said, just a couple of days ago, there aren't enough test kits yet to keep up with the demand. They still say that is coming. There are plans of actions. But what is the impact of this sort of misinformation?

CARDIN: Well, it -- clearly, the president's comments are not helpful. It's extremely important that we let the American people know the facts. And they'll handle the facts. But if you tell them things that are just not accurate, that doesn't help.

No, it's not contained. It's still spreading. We have community transmission, as we know.

[17:15:00]

CARDIN: No, not everyone can get a test today. We know that. We are -- we are late in getting those kits out. They are getting out. We are developing a private lab capacity, but it's going to take some time.

So, it's good to get the right information out to the public and not to mislead the public. And we've seen, from the Trump administration, time and time again, where the president says things that are just not accurate. CABRERA: Do you believe the president knows the facts and is

intentionally misleading?

CARDIN: You know, I never want to try and say why the president says what he says. I can tell you that, in speaking to the medical experts, I have a pretty firm grip as to the nature of this virus and how it spreads. And the fact that we have community transmission, and we're likely to have more community transmission.

We have to be smart. Those who are vulnerable have to take particular precaution. But all of us have to be smart to try to contain the spread of this virus. And that's what we need to say. We need to underscore that message.

CABRERA: Let me talk about that issue, precautions. There are more than 400 cases of Coronavirus across 29 states now in the U.S. And we are starting to see state and local officials taking more of these precautionary measures. As we've reported, universities are moving classes online. Sporting events are happening without fans. Big festivals and conferences have now been canceled.

And, yet, we're in the heart of the campaign, right, season. We still have these rallies for candidates on both sides of the aisle, jam- packed with people in tight places. Where do you stand, right now, on whether those type of political events should be canceled?

CARDIN: Well, I think in communities where you don't have community transaction -- transmission of the disease, where it's not an international gathering where you have a pretty good understanding as to who's in the audience, I think there's a minimal risk there of the infection.

Having said that, I think everyone has to exercise their own judgment. And, clearly, if you are vulnerable, if you have a serious medical respiratory issue, you've got to be particularly cautious. We have to be very cautious about our nursing homes and our assisted living facilities. So, I think we have to exercise caution, but I don't think we can just put a bubble over our lives. We have to continue to live our lives but do it in a smart way.

CABRERA: Senator Ben Cardin, I really appreciate your time. Thanks for bringing us the facts and your additional information and your learning, given the resources you have. Thank you.

CARDIN: Thank you, Ana.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT