Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I am pleased that we are ready to act and  we will be able to pass legislation in a few moments that will help  deal with this pandemic. Like my colleagues, I have been in  teleconferences with different groups in Maryland, and I have seen the  pain caused by the coronavirus. In Maryland, we are losing around 30  citizens every day to the coronavirus. Over the last week, our Nation  has lost over 15,000 to the coronavirus. This pandemic is with us in a  very serious way, and we need to respond. 

  I am pleased that, this afternoon, we will be providing additional  resources to our healthcare providers, particularly those that are on  the frontlines, in dealing with the coronavirus and that we will be  passing legislation to establish a national strategy on testing,  working with our States to make sure all communities have adequate  testing so that, when we reopen our society, we can do so in a safe  manner. 

  I am also pleased that we are acting on the small business  provisions. The programs that we passed in the CARES Act that provide  help to small businesses was very popular and was oversubscribed. I am  particularly pleased that we are able to pass today provisions that are  greatly improved from when I was last on the floor a little over 1 week  ago when the majority leader made the unanimous consent request that  would have included only additional money for the Paycheck Protection  Program,--$250 billion--and would not have dealt with the healthcare  issues or the challenges that I expressed on the floor at that time in  regards to the small business provisions. The reason that we now have a  bill that we can be very proud of is because this has been negotiated  with all Members of the Senate being involved through a bipartisan  process, rather than just being brought to the floor by the majority. 

  We saw that happen on the CARES Act originally. The original bill  that was brought to the floor by the majority leader that he attempted  to pass did not include major help for our State and local governments,  did not include major help for our healthcare institutions, did not  provide funds for many of our programs that are critically important to  our local communities. We were able to improve that program because we  worked together. Democrats and Republicans have produced a bill that we  can be proud of. 

  As I said when I was last on the floor in regards to the small  business provisions, we have a bipartisan process.  Senator Rubio and I have been working closely together to develop the  tools for small businesses. Yes, I do acknowledge the work with Senator  Collins and Senator Shaheen because we have come together to try to put  together a package that could work. 

  What I had mentioned on the floor when the last UC was made was that  there were problems with the original request made by the majority  leader, and I pointed that out. Underserved communities have not been  able to get in, in the same number as those larger small businesses who  have relations with banking institutions. I pointed that out to the  Secretary of the Treasury and to the Small Business Administrator on  April 7 by a letter I authored along with Senator Schumer and the  Democratic members of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship  Committee. We pointed this out 2 days before we had the original UC  request. 

  Quoting from that letter to the Secretary and the Administrator:  

       We believe that more can be done to reach out to and       authorize those lenders, such as Community Development       Financial Institutions, Minority Depository Institutions, and       mission-based non-profit lenders, which are best positioned       to bridge the trust gap between many underserved communities       and the traditional financial sector. For example, a survey       conducted by the Association for Enterprise Opportunity found       that more than half of Black respondents indicated they felt       unfairly treated by financial institutions, compared to only       26 [percent] of White respondents.  

  We knew we had to do something to bridge that gap. When the request  was made 10 days ago, it did not include any help for these minority  businesses or the rural areas or women-owned businesses that have been  shut out in great numbers to the first requests under the Paycheck  Protection Program. 

  What this bill that we now have on the floor does corrects that. It  corrects that by providing $60 billion, in addition to the $250  billion. We are now up to $310 billion more going into the Paycheck  Protection Program; but $60 billion is dedicated to dealing with  minority communities, rural communities, and women-owned businesses by  having more funds going out to the community banking institutions and  minority banking institutions and mission-based nonprofit lenders so  that we can get more of the funds into the hands of those small  businesses that are in desperate need: the smaller small businesses. 

  I have numerous examples. I will just use one, if I might, from a  business in Maryland, e-End Frederick, that writes to us and says that  thanks to this program--this employer has 20 employees. This is a small  business, 20 employees. What he says basically is: I was looking to how  I could transition my employees to unemployment because I couldn't  afford to continue to keep them on payroll, but now, thanks to the  Paycheck Protection Program, I am able to keep my employees on the  payroll. He says, ``That's the best thing about the PPP.'' 

  I couldn't agree more. That is what we are trying to do. It is  paycheck protection--keep workers employed so small businesses don't  have to go back out when this virus is over and try to find a workforce  in order to be competitive. They can keep their workforce in place and,  by the way, keeping the pressure off our unemployment compensation  system. 

  We were able, through the change we were able to make--and I applaud  Senator Schumer and Speaker Pelosi for sticking to the principle that  all small businesses needed to be included, and as a result, this  package now includes these allocations that will get to our minority  and underserved communities. 

  There is a second issue I raised on the floor 10 days ago, and that  is the Economic Injury Disaster Loans, the EIDL loans. It ran out of  money before the PPP program ran out of money. It was not part of the  unanimous consent request by the majority leader, as well as the grant  program that was created under CARES. 

  Smaller small businesses use these disaster loans. Why? Because it  gives them working capital so they can stay in business. PPP covers  payroll, but they need more than payroll. These are longer-term loans  with no payments during the first year so that businesses can stay  afloat after a disaster, and we qualify the coronavirus as one of those  disasters. This is a critically important program in our State and in  our Nation. We added to it by providing a grant program up to $10,000  in grants, not loans, to small businesses. 

  In my State of Maryland, we had 12,000 small businesses that applied  for that grant. We had 26,000 apply for the PPP. I am just pointing out  how popular this program is. The grant program is $10 billion. The PPP  program is $349 billion. It ran out of money before the PPP grant  program. We need to put more money in that grant program. The unanimous  consent agreement didn't do that. Thanks to the negotiations of Senator  Schumer and the Democrats, we were able to get $50 billion put into the  EIDL, the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, which will be able to  leverage about $300 billion of additional loans under that program that  will help the smaller of the small businesses. We were able to get $10  billion put into the EIDL grant program so that they can open, once  again, applications from small businesses that want to get the cash  grant from the Small Business Administration. These loans and grants  are made by SBA, not by financial institutions, so all small businesses  have access. 

  I did some rough calculations, and if my math is correct, in  Maryland, the average size of the business that qualified for the EIDL  grant was between four and five employees. These are really the  smallest of small businesses, and that is the group I hope we would  want to help. The original UC did not have that. We now have funds in  it. This package is much better to reach those small businesses that  desperately need help. 

  I brought this to the attention of Secretary Mnuchin shortly after  our conversations on the floor last time, and I want to thank Secretary  Mnuchin. When I explained to him the EIDL program and I explained to  him how these programs work for smaller small businesses, he showed  interest, and I am glad that we were able to negotiate with him the  additional $60 billion going into those programs. It is a better  package thanks to the bipartisan process. 

  I do want to mention one additional issue that we need to deal with,  and that is accountability. We need to get information on how these  programs are working, and I would hope we would get bipartisan support  for that. 

  On April 17, I authored a letter with Senators Schumer, Wyden, and  Shaheen to Secretary Mnuchin and Administrator Carranza in which we  asked for the PPP to give us the numbers and amount of loans disbursed  to small businesses, including a breakout of loans by State,  demographics, industry, and loan size; the number and amount of loans  disbursed to businesses under the NAICS 72 exception--that is the one  for restaurants and the hospitality field; including a breakout of  loans by State, demographics, and loan size. Give us a number of loans  provided to nonprofits--nonprofits were for the first time eligible for  these 7(a) loans--and religious institutions, including a breakout of  the loans by State, industry, and loan size; and the number of loans  disbursed by lending institutions, so we could find out what the  concentration is of these loans. We asked for similar information in  regards to the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, the numbers, et  cetera, giving us that information, including those who received the  grants. 

  Lastly, we ask for information about the loan forgiveness program  because there is another program under the CARES Act that allows for a  6-month forgiveness of repayment of existing 7(a) or 504 loans, and we  need information on that in order to carry out our responsibility of  accountability. We have a responsibility to make sure the money is  getting to the right places. 

  I had a communication with Senator Rubio this week in which we both  agreed that we are concerned that we might be seeing some large chains  getting more money than we think we intended under the act. We intended  there would be a $10 million cap; yet we see reports where certain  businesses were able to find a way to get more than $10 million. We  also had self-certification that there is need. You have to show that  you were damaged by the coronavirus. We think we should examine whether  there was any false certification.  

  The first thing we want to do on the Small Business and  Entrepreneurship Committee on a bipartisan basis is do our oversight to  make sure that, if there is abuse, that we put a spotlight on it and  correct it to make sure that the moneys go to the small businesses that  we intended to receive help. 

  We need now to work on the next stimulus package. I was glad to hear  the President talk about this. Senator Schumer talked about it. Yes,  our first priority should be the health and welfare of the American  people in dealing with the coronavirus itself, and we need to do more.  We clearly need to do more with State and local governments. That is  going to be a critical part of the next package. But we also need to  look at improvements in the small business package. We know that,  through this 8-week period for repayment, many of us have heard that  they need additional flexibility. After all, how do they predict when  they can reopen if government has told them they have to stay closed?  We need to give some degree of flexibility in the 8-week period. 

  We have different small businesses that want us to consider their  eligibility. What happens after 8 weeks? If we are still seeing our  economy not up to full speed, we need to talk about how we transition  after 8 weeks to make sure these small businesses can succeed. 

  The lessons learned on the CARES Act, the lesson learned on this  legislation we are taking up this afternoon is, when we work together,  when we negotiate together, when we do a bipartisan package which the  American people expect us to do during this national emergency, we get  a better product, and we can do it quicker. I urge us all, as we move  on to the fourth stimulus package, let's start from the beginning in a  bipartisan way so that we can get the very best product for the  American people and deal with this national crisis. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT