Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today to highlight the heroes of my  home State of Maryland who are working on the frontlines to fight  COVID-19. 

  On January 21, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  announced the first confirmed case of COVID-19 in the United States.  Since then, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the United States  has ballooned to over 1.2 million cases and over 72,000 Americans have  died. 

  The CDC has designated the Baltimore-Washington corridor as a  hotspot, as cases continue to rise in the region. As of May 6, there  have been 28,163 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 1,290 confirmed deaths  in the State of Maryland. These are trying, unprecedented times for all  communities in America, and Maryland is no different in this regard. 

  Fred Rogers once said that in times of crisis, times like these, we  should ``look for the helpers.'' I would like to take this time to  recognize some of the heroes who are helping communities in Maryland. 

  I am very proud of our State's hospitals, distilleries,  manufacturers, and biomedical and pharmaceutical companies that have  come together to perform their own testing, manufactured personal  protective equipment and hand sanitizers, and are at the forefront of  developing a vaccine. 

  Maryland is home to some of the world's premier academic medical  systems, including the University of Maryland Medical System and Johns  Hopkins University, which have been critical in preparing our State for  the pandemic. 

  I am particularly proud of Johns Hopkins' coronavirus tracking  system, which public health officials worldwide have come to rely on  for up-to-date, accurate information. I applaud Johns  Hopkins officials and staff creating the vital public health tool,  which has already proven itself critical to fighting this disease. 

  Lord Kelvin stated so long ago:  

       When you can measure what you are speaking about, and       express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when       you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers,       your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory kind.  

  In the early days of the pandemic in Maryland, our State officials,  like officials in most States, were desperately searching for ways to  increase testing capacity. Johns Hopkins developed its own coronavirus  test to help meet demand. 

  The university has been especially helpful in Maryland's effort to  combat the virus in nursing homes. Johns Hopkins has closely  collaborated with local nursing homes to train their employees and test  residents to protect our most vulnerable populations. 

  I commend Johns Hopkins' ingenuity, which has been critical to  efforts to identify those afflicted with COVID-19 and to prevent the  spread of the virus. 

  The University of Maryland Medical System has stepped up to lead  efforts to address the devastating impact of COVID-19 in our State's  minority communities, which is likely due to the underlying healthcare  disparities. The university has assembled a team of public health  experts to execute the proposed Maryland Health Equity COVID-19  Consortium. The consortium will be critical to the developing of  strategies that inform our State's response efforts to protect our  communities of color, who are more susceptible to COVID-19. 

  Despite the immense burden Maryland's small businesses are facing,  they have stepped up to help local hospitals, nursing homes, and other  frontline workers. 

  Sagamore Spirits Distillery in Baltimore is one such small business.  Sagamore has completely converted its operation to distill corn ethanol  to produce hand sanitizers. The distillery is sourcing its corn from  Maryland farmers. 

  Hardwire, an armor company on the Eastern Shore in Pocomoke City, now  produces sustainable face shields that can last up to 6 months. By the  end of this week, Hardwire will have shipped out 1 million face shields  to healthcare workers, first responders, and others on the frontline in  the fight against COVID-19. The demand for Hardwire's face shield is so  great that it has hired 115 new employees, providing much needed  economic relief to communities on the Eastern Shore. 

  In addition, Maryland's world-leading biomedical and pharmaceutical  companies are working tirelessly to find a vaccine for COVID-19. 

  AstraZeneca, a pharmaceutical and life sciences company with research  and development facilities in Gaithersburg and Frederick, has partnered  with the University of Oxford on a potential vaccine that has already  entered phase 1 clinical trials. 

  Emergent BioSolutions in Rockville is collaborating with Johnson &  Johnson on its lead COVID-19 vaccine candidate. Emergent BioSolutions  will be providing contract development and manufacturing services in  Maryland to support Johnson & Johnson's recently announced commitment  to supply 1 billion vaccines worldwide. 

  I would be remiss if I did not also thank Maryland's frontline  healthcare workers who risk their lives every day to care for those  with COVID-19. These physicians, physician assistants, nurses, lab  technicians, EMT personnel, and many others go to work day after day  facing the unimaginable strain of caring for patients who are fighting  this deadly virus and comforting their families. 

  These examples are by no means exhaustive. There are countless other  healthcare providers, law enforcement agencies, nonprofits, small  businesses, higher education institutions, and individual Marylanders  pitching in to defeat COVID-19. 

  Marylanders are stocking grocery shelves, driving buses, delivering  groceries to elderly neighbors, hosting virtual events to keep families  and young children entertained as they continue to practice social  distancing, and they are making homemade face coverings for those who  need them. I have seen my neighbors come together to make lunch packs  for families in need. 

  The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., said, ``Everybody can be  great because anybody can serve.'' The COVID-19 pandemic is not testing  our character; it is revealing it.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT