Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, at the end of fiscal year 2021, the 5-year  authorization for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, our  Nation's foundational prekindergarten through 12th grade law, is due to  expire. 

  While I understand that previous reauthorizations took 13 years and  allowed an entire generation of students to matriculate through school  systems around our Nation, I am here today to stress that our kids  can't wait for the needed transformational changes to our Nation's  Federal, State, and local education policies and additional funding  investments. 

  To provide a stronger Federal partnership to States and local  communities that have worked together to support transformational  change that will ensure educational equity and quality for all public  school students, I introduced the TRUE EQUITY Act. It stands for the  Transformational Reforms and Updates to Ensure Educational Quality and  Urgent Investments in Today's Youth Act. 

  My home State of Maryland has been long recognized as having one of  the best public school systems in the country, according to the  independent newspaper Education Week. This ranges from having entire  county-based local school systems ranked as near the top in the Nation  to individual schools producing national leaders in academic  achievement. In addition, Maryland was one of the first States to offer  half-day preschool for 4-year-olds, has broad access to Advanced  Placement courses for high schoolers, and pays for dual-enrollment  courses for high school students at our local community colleges. 

  I am proud of these accomplishments. However, not all of our students  have found success. 

  In 2016, the Maryland General Assembly and the Governor of Maryland  established the Maryland Commission on Innovation and Excellence in  Education, chaired by the former chancellor of the University System of  Maryland, William ``Brit'' Kirwan, to identify the policies and  practices so that Maryland's schools perform at the level of the  world's highest performing school system. The commission was charged  with a number of tasks, including a review of the current funding  formulas and accountability measures utilized to ensure educational  equity and equality, how Maryland schools prepare students for  postsecondary education in the workforce, and to make recommendations  for the State on needed funding improvements across the State and local  school districts. 

  These reviews are necessary to support growing populations of  children with disabilities, how to improve and expand programs  supporting postsecondary credential attainment, and  other policy changes to address the academic achievement gap that has  persisted along racial, ethnic, and income levels of students of color  and low-income students compared to their higher income and White  peers. 

  To meet this expansive charge, the commission included stakeholders  from across our State, including representatives of the Maryland  General Assembly, including our now speaker of the Maryland House  Delegates and our now State Senate president, the Governor's office,  county elected leaders, education leaders, including State and local  school board representatives, our State and local superintendents,  leader of our State's public university system, teachers, business  leaders, and leading education advocacy organizations, such as the  Maryland State Education Association, Maryland Parent Teacher  Association, and Maryland Family Network. 

  In addition to the members of the commission, the commission actively  sought input from the public with numerous meetings soliciting public  comment held across our State. In January 2019, the commission  unanimously released their interim report that found Maryland students  scored in the middle of the pack on the National Assessment of  Educational Progress, known as the ``Nation's report card,'' which is  given to representative samples of 4th, 8th, and 12th graders in every  State. 

  The gaps in achievement between socioeconomic, racial, and children  with disabilities were far too large in a State like Maryland that has  committed resources and established policies that are meant to provide  a world-class public education system. 

  The commission also reported that less than half of kindergartners  entering our school system were ready to learn, and fewer than 40  percent of students who are graduating from high school truly are  ``college or career ready.'' This is in spite of the estimates that by  2022 nearly two-thirds of the jobs in Maryland will require at least  postsecondary credentials, whether they be nationally recognized  industry certificates or 2-year or 4-year college degrees. 

  For instance, in 2017, just under half of all students across  Maryland high schools received a proficient score on their English 10  exam. That exam helps evaluate the students' readiness for college or  career. Disaggregated data shows the continued struggle to close  academic achievement gaps among racial and socioeconomic groups. Along  racial lines, 77 percent of Asian students and 67 percent of White  students were proficient. However, only 34 percent of Hispanic students  and 29 percent of African-American students earned proficiency scores. 

  The commission's interim report highlighted that despite Maryland  being ranked as one of the top five States with the highest household  median income, a large number of Maryland students are living in  poverty. Forty-three percent of Maryland students are low income and  eligible for free or reduced-price school meals, meaning that they come  from families at or below 185 percent of the Federal poverty line. For  every 10 public schools across our State, there is a concentration of  poverty where enrollment consists of at least 55 percent of students  living in poverty. These schools are in all of our subdivisions except  one. 

  In 15 percent of Maryland schools, at least 80 percent of children  are low income. Students attending schools with a concentration of  poverty receive less funding per pupil than other school districts. For  example, 53 percent of African-American students attend schools with  concentrations of poverty, while only 8 percent of White students  attend these schools. 

  The academic achievement gap between Maryland students with means and  our low-income students is stark. On the English 10 exam, 62 percent of  economically advantaged students earned a passing score, while 28  percent of those students who are on free and reduced-price meals were  deemed proficient. These statistics are stark. We know we have a  problem. We have to deal with it. 

  The commission reported that these academic achievement disparities  continued into college enrollment, with fewer students of color and  low-income students enrolling in college than their higher income and  White peers. 

  We will find similar numbers throughout our Nation. We need to do  something about this. Concerns about the state of education in Maryland  was not limited to student performance. The commission's interim report  also found that students face a rotating carousel of teachers  throughout their time in schools. With the average salary for teachers  in Maryland approximately 25 percent less than professionals with  comparable levels of education, it is difficult to attract to the  profession. Sixty percent of our new teachers are recruited from  outside our State each year. This is a common problem we have  throughout the country. 

  Once those individuals arrive in the classroom, 47 percent will leave  by the start of their third year. The turnover is tremendous. It is  salary issues. It is working conditions. It makes it difficult to get  the true professionalism and commitments that we need in education.  This difficulty in recruiting individuals and the constant churn leaves  Maryland students and local education systems facing shortages in  critical need areas, such as special education, language, and the STEM  fields.  

  In order to address these inequities in education, the commission  unanimously agreed on a proposal with five transformative policy  recommendations in their interim report that would provide significant,  additional investments in Federal, State, and local funding and modify  policies for Maryland's prekindergarten through 12th grade education  system. 

  The five main policy recommendations would first invest in high- quality early childhood education and care through a significant  expansion of full-day preschool, to be free for all low-income, 3- and  4-year-olds, so that children have the opportunity to begin  kindergarten ready to learn. 

  Second is to invest in teachers and school leaders by elevating the  standard and status of the teaching profession, including a  performance-based career ladder and salaries comparable to other fields  with similar educational requirements. 

  Third, it creates a world-class instructional system with an  international benchmark curriculum that enables most students to  achieve ``college or career ready'' status by the 10th grade and then  pursue pathways to include early college, Advanced Placement courses,  or a rigorous technical education leading to industry-recognized  credentials and higher paid jobs. 

  Fourth, it provides support to students who need it the most, with  broad and sustained support for schools serving high concentrations of  poverty, with after-school and summer academic programs and student  access to needed health and social services. 

  Finally, it ensures excellence for all through an accountability  oversight board that has the authority to ensure that transformative  education system recommendations are successfully implemented and  produce the desired improvements in student achievement. 

  These reforms would be implemented over a 10-year period, creating a  sustained and coordinated effort to transform Maryland's public  education system into a world-class system, elevating the teaching  profession, and eliminating educational inequities. An independent  analysis conducted in November 2019 confirms that the cost to implement  the commission's recommendations will pay for themselves shortly after  the 10-year implementation period. 

  Last year, the Maryland General Assembly recognized that our children  could not wait to implement the commission's recommendations and  established the Blueprint for Maryland's Future to lay the groundwork  for the implementation of the commission's recommendations. 

  Starting this year, the Blueprint for Maryland's Future is assisting  low-income families' access to expanded services and early childhood  education, including free prekindergarten for 3- and 4-year-olds from  low-income families. 

  The Blueprint for Maryland's Future is assisting in the recruitment  of new teachers to the profession through increased teacher pay and  career ladders for exiting teachers to help train the next generation.  A newly established career readiness standard will allow Maryland high  school students to succeed in dual-enrollment courses offered by local  community colleges. 

  The ``Blueprint'' addresses Maryland's education formulas to better  target resources to students who need additional assistance, including  children with disabilities, English learners, and students in schools  with high concentration of poverty. This is all done while increasing  accountability to ensure that the additional investments are properly  implemented and help our students succeed. 

  That is the path that we are on. I agree with advocates and elected  leaders who understand our kids cannot wait for adoption of these  recommendations at some point in the future. We need to act now. We  need to implement these recommendations now and view them as a national  model for other States to aspire to. Without transformative change, we  will continue to hope for significantly different results with only  incremental changes, or we can be bold and change the future of our  children and our country and every child with the high-quality  education skills training that they need to be successful and climb out  of poverty. 

  I reject the arguments from those who would claim that the  recommendations are too costly to implement. Without the full  implementation of the commission's recommendations, we are failing in  our primary goal in government of providing a better future for our  children, allowing them to slip behind their national and international  peers. 

  These arguments also fail to see that the investments in our children  can lead to a lifetime of reduced costs in public safety and healthcare  costs, as children can grow and support themselves and their future  families through the education they receive in public schools. These  investments will pay back dividends in a stronger economy that will  benefit all of us.  

  I believe we should not allow States and local communities to make  these transformative changes on their own. The Federal Government  should be a strong Federal partner in ensuring accountability and in  addressing educational inequities for our children. 

  That is why I introduced the TRUE EQUITY Act. This legislation, which  is purposely modeled after the commission's recommendation, establishes  four new, supplemental Federal grant opportunities for State and local  school districts that are committed to addressing educational  inequities while holding States and local school districts accountable  for failing to properly support their students. 

  In strengthening the Federal Government's commitment as a partner in  education, the four new TRUE EQUITY grants would provide an additional  $1 of Federal funds for every $2 of State and local funds that are  committed to education beyond their fiscal year 2019 spending levels. 

  State and local school districts that receive grants would be  required to meet a maintenance of effort to ensure that the State and  local educational spending is maintained and would not allow the  Federal Government's funding to backfill reductions in State and local  commitments to educational funding. 

  As a requirement to receiving one of the four new TRUE EQUITY grants,  a State would be required to have an independent oversight board to  ensure that the State and local districts would be meeting their State- designated educational equity goals, and the oversight board would have  the ability to hold the State and local school districts accountable  for not meeting their targeted goals. 

  These grants are flexible to allow local communities to meet their  needs over a several-year period, whether it be through the  establishment of a college and career readiness pathway to support a  high school student's dual enrollment at a local community college and  provide a jump-start on college; additional funding to expand the  number of early learning hubs in the State--in Maryland, these are  known as Judy Centers--or training for teachers on how to address the  needs of our children with disabilities. 

  As Congress begins to look at the next reauthorization of the  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, I urge my colleagues to listen  to the voices of the Marylanders across our State who know that our  kids can't wait for the implementation of these recommendations and  support the TRUE EQUITY Act. 

  I congratulate the members of the commission who thoughtfully  researched and crafted this national model for States to be able to see  transformative change and raise their educational systems to that of a  world-class school system. We owe our children nothing less than to  provide them with the best possible outcome in our Nation's public  schools. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT