Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I take this time to urge my colleagues to  support S.J. Res. 68, which, as I understand, we will be voting on  tomorrow. It is a resolution that was introduced by Senator Kaine. I  acknowledge Senator Kaine's longstanding commitment to the U.S.  Senate's and Congress's carrying out our constitutional  responsibilities as they relate to the authorization for use of  military force, which rests solely with the Congress of the United  States, and we have a responsibility to speak as to that authority. 

  In the last Congress, with Senator Flake, there were efforts in the  Senate Committee on Foreign Relations to try to bring us together in  regard to the passage of an AUMF, the authorization for use of military  force, because we had seen successive administrations using our  military without their having authorization from Congress. 

  S.J. Res. 68 is aimed at one specific conflict for which we can come  together, and I am optimistic that we will be able to act on this  resolution. It deals with the use of force in Iran. It is very specific  as to say that, unless explicitly authorized by a declaration of war or  a specific authorization for use of military force against Iran, there  is no authority to use our military against Iran. 

  Now, certainly, for legitimate reasons, the President can use force  to defend us from an imminent attack. That is, certainly, how I think  all of us perceive the authorization for use of military force from  Congress needs to be qualified. In the case of an urgent situation, the  President can, in fact, act. 

  Why do we need this resolution passed now? 

  I need not tell my colleagues that there is a heightened sense of  tension between the United States and Iran. It has been building for  some time--certainly, with the U.S. military action in which General  Soleimani was killed. He was the leader of the Quds Force in Iran, and  he was taken out by our U.S. military. That has presented a heightened  tension between the United States and Iran. 

  Congress has the sole responsibility to commit our troops to combat.  It is in article I, section 8 of the Constitution that Congress has the  power to declare war. This is not a decision made  by the President; it is a decision made by Congress. Our Founders were  very concerned about having the appropriate balance between the  executive branch and the legislative branch. It is called checks and  balances. We did not want a monarchy. We wanted to make sure that there  was sufficient support before war was declared; that it was in our  national security interest; that the Congress and the President and the  American people were all together in the effort if we were going to  initiate war against another country; that the use of the military  should always be a matter of last resort; and that we should always  exhaust diplomacy--that we should always exhaust other means before  America initiates war against another country or the use of military  force. 

  This authority that rests in Congress was tested in the Vietnam war.  The Gulf of Tonkin Resolution was passed by Congress at the early  stages during the Vietnam conflict to give the President the authority  to use force to defend our military against attacks coming from  Vietnam. It was never intended to lead us into an act of prolonged war,  but, as we know, it was used by successive administrations for  maintaining a prolonged war in Vietnam. I think historians would agree  that this was an abuse of the interpretation of authorization and that  the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution was never intended for offensive military  operations in Vietnam. Yet it was used for that purpose. 

  In 1973, Congress took action to make sure this would never happen  again. It passed what is known as the War Powers Act. Now, the War  Powers Act was passed in a strong bipartisan vote by both the House and  Senate, and it was vetoed. Congress overrode the President's veto  because we knew that it was our responsibility to commit our troops to  battle. 

  What does the War Powers Act require? 

  First, it requires consultation by the President with Congress, in  every possible instance, before our committing troops to war. That is  the exact language in the War Powers Act. There are consultation  requirements. Then there has to be reporting within 48 hours of  American troops being sent into hostilities or into situations in which  imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the  circumstances. Third, the War Powers Act requires an end to foreign  military action after 60 days unless Congress provides a declaration of  war or an authorization for the operation to continue an authorization  for use of military force, an AUMF. 

  Why do we need S.J. Res. 68 if we have the War Powers Act? 

  Like Vietnam, now in Iran, the President is usurping the  constitutional powers of Congress by saying he has certain authorities  that go well beyond what was intended in the Constitution or in the War  Powers Act. 

  Let me get to General Soleimani for one moment. He was killed on  January 2, 2020, in Baghdad. There is no sorrow over his loss. He was  an evil person who caused the death of so many different people. He was  clearly a person who is not missed in this world. That is absolutely  accurate. 

  But President Trump's actions violated all three of the provisions of  the War Powers Act that was passed in 1973 to try to prevent this type  of circumstance that happened in Vietnam from happening again. 

  Now, why do I say all three? Well, first, was there an imminent  threat that allowed the President to make this decision without  congressional authorization? 

  Well, we have been through a classified briefing, and I am not going  to talk about what was presented in that classified briefing, but I  think it is fair to say that we were not presented with the  documentation at all that there was an immediate threat against  America. 

  The President has not made that case, and we have heard public  comments that have been made by administration officials that they did  not know about specific threats at that particular time. 

  So, one, the War Powers Act was violated because there was not an  imminent threat before the President used military action. 

  No. 2, we now know that this had been planned for some time as one of  the potential operations that could have been given to the President to  respond to Iranian action; that is, taking out General Soleimani. So  there was plenty of time to consult with Congress, but yet, before the  military action, there was no prior consultation with Congress--a  second violation of the War Powers Act. 

  Then, third, congressional notification and removal of troops within  60 days. The President has not submitted nor does he intend to submit  to Congress an authorization for use of military force or a declaration  of war against Iran. He clearly does not intend to do it, but he has  made it clear by his own statements that he will use force again  against Iran if he believes it is justified, and his determination of  justification is not what Congress intended when it passed the War  Powers Act in 1973. 

  Even more urgent, the President claims that he has authorization from  Congress. So the President, through his lawyers, has said: Well, OK,  maybe we don't have the inherent power, but we have specific  authorization that has been previously passed by Congress that allows  us to use military action against Iran. 

  So let me go through the two authorizations that are still active and  used by Presidents. 

  First, we had the authorization to use military force that was passed  in 2002. This is the authorization that was passed to go after Iraq. 

  Now, I must tell you I voted against this authorization. I thought  that there was no evidence that Iraq was involved in the attack on our  country on September 11, 2001. I didn't think there was evidence of  that so I opposed that resolution in the House of Representatives when  I was a Member of the House of Representatives. That resolution says  the use of force to defend the national security of the United States  against the continuing threat posed by Iraq. We are talking about Iran,  not Iraq. How could the President conceivably use the 2002  authorization to claim that he had authority to go after an Iranian  general? I don't understand that. I can't figure that out for the life  of me, but that argument has been made. 

  Then we have the old fallback of the 2001 AUMF that was passed  immediately after the attack on our country on September 11, 2001. That  authorization was passed ``to use all necessary and appropriate force  against those nations, organizations, or persons that planned,  authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attack that occurred on  September 11, 2001.'' 

  Now, this has been used by many administrations so it goes back well  before President Trump in the misuse of the 2001 authorization. 

  Iran was not involved in the attack on our country in 2001, 9/11. So  how do you use this authorization to say you have authorization now to  take out a general in Iran or use force in Iran? It is clear to me that  that is a total misreading of the authority of Congress. Congress never  intended, when they voted for that authorization now 19 years ago-- almost 19 years--that it intended that it would be used as it is being  used today. That is a total misuse of the authorization by Congress. 

  So in regard to Iran today, there is no AUMF; we have not passed  authorization for Iran; the President has already shown that he will  act and will not comply with the War Powers Act; and he is likely to  use force again that could lead to a lengthy military engagement with  Iran. That is a possibility. 

  So we need to pass S.J. Res. 68 because it is specific--it is  specific to Iran--that there is no congressional authorization. 

  And just as importantly, if the President wants to use the military,  he must seek prior authorization from Congress as is envisioned in the  Constitution of the United States. It gives the President the power to  protect us against imminent threat. 

  So for good reason, Congress has the constitutional powers here. My  generation paid a very heavy price because of the Vietnam war in the  way that we got into the Vietnam war without the voice of the U.S.  Congress giving the specific authorization. Let us not cede our  responsibility under the Constitution or allow the President to exceed  his. 

  I urge my colleagues to support and vote for S.J. Res. 68.  

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT