Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, first, let me thank Senator Schumer for  bringing this issue to the floor at this time. Senator Schumer has been  a great leader on what we need to do to help respond to COVID-19. He  recognized from the beginning that we needed a balanced program to deal  with the health pandemic, with the Marshall Plan, to deal with the help  to our State and local governments, and to deal with the economic  consequences of COVID-19. 

  Senator Schumer helped us develop a balanced approach to deal with  the economic challenges while, yes, helping the individual through  unemployment insurance and direct checks from the IRS but also helping  our businesses. For small businesses we created new tools; for larger  businesses we had loans. 

  I was proud to be part of a task force that was charged with  developing the tools for small business. I want to thank my partner  Senator Shaheen for her incredible help and leadership in crafting the  programs of the Paycheck Protection Program while also dealing with the  economic disaster loan program, which was new and a loan forgiveness  program. 

  We did this working with Senators Rubio and Collins. It was truly  bipartisan. We did it in a matter of literally a few days--a week or  so, and we were able to get this program crafted in a way that it  provided incredible relief to the small businesses of our country. 

  So today, what is the record? There are 4.4 million loans that have  been issued under the Paycheck Protection Program, and $510 billion has  been made available to small businesses in this country. It literally  has been a lifeline allowing small companies to continue to exist. You  see, with small companies, we get more job growth than bigger  companies. We get ideas on how to deal with economic challenges. But in  economic downturns they don't have the liquidity and resilience that  larger companies have. That is why we had to pass this type of help. We  did that in March, and when we passed those bills in March, quite  frankly we thought that by now the economy would be in a much better  shape than it is and that small businesses would be able to return to  somewhat of a normal economy. Well, that is not the case. 

  We recognize that certain businesses--such as those in the  hospitality field, health clubs, caterers, museums, and the list goes  on and on--have virtually not been able to open at all yet, and they  are going to need more help than just the 8 weeks that was planned in  the Paycheck Protection Program. That is why the legislation that  passed the House was part of this bipartisan, bicameral effort to give  additional flexibility for those who had the paycheck protection plan  loans. We recognize now that 8 weeks is not long enough, and that is  why this legislation would change that 8 weeks to 24 weeks, giving  small businesses a greater opportunity to qualify for a maximum amount  of loan forgiveness and giving small businesses more flexibility on how  they allocate those funds between payroll and nonpayroll expenses. 

  As we heard today in our first oversight hearing in the Small  Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, small businesses are  different. Maybe 8 weeks works for some, but maybe it doesn't work for  others. Maybe 75 percent of payroll works for one but doesn't work for  another. We need a program that can fit the vast majority of small  businesses, and the changes represented in the House bill represents  those changes that if we had recognized in March that this pandemic  would have continuing impact on our economy well beyond 8 weeks, would  have certainly been considered during that period of time. 

  Now is the time to pass this. I just want to underscore this point.  The 8 weeks will expire for the first loans that were issued under the  PPP program next week. Small businesses need predictability. They need  to know whether this is going to be the law or not before they apply  for their forgiveness. So we don't have any extra time. We need to pass  this right now. It is a bipartisan effort and is a bipartisan bill. 

  What Senator Schumer said is absolutely correct. We will have other  opportunities to deal with other provisions to help small businesses.  We are not finished. We recognize that there are small businesses that  may need additional help, particularly those who have seen dramatic  reductions in their revenues and the smaller of the small businesses  and those underserved communities. We need to pay attention to do  something about that. But let's get this program working right today.  Let's give the notices to small businesses and get this passed through  the Senate today so that small businesses can plan on how to deal with  the next several months. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. If the Senator would yield, he has mentioned several  different issues. I appreciate the fact that we are trying to get this  done today and that he is indicating we have a path forward to get this  completed this afternoon and the House bill to the President, which is  our objective, so that small business owners understand--24 weeks  before their loans expire and understand the additional flexibility on  how they can spend the money because they are making those decisions,  literally, today. 

  The Senator mentioned several different issues that he is concerned  about, but it appears that the one area in which he is seeking  consensus here deals with the authority to issue a loan under the PPP  program through June of this year, which is what the law is, and I  don't believe it is changed by the House bill. Is that the issue for  which you are seeking to get consensus from the ranking member and  chairman? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. I am just trying to figure out what I am supposed to be  signing as ranking member of the committee. If I understand--because  the Senator had mentioned problems with the 60 percent---- 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. I just want to make sure we have---- 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I rise today as the United States of  America, again, faces the enormous challenge and responsibility of  striving to live up to the preamble of the Constitution of the United  States. 

  The preamble provides: ``We the People of the United States, in Order  to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic  Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general  Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our  Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United  States of America.'' 

  I note that our Founders, who were far from perfect when it came to  racial issues, thought that justice was more important than domestic  tranquility. They listed justice first. 

  Today, America is grieving over the brutal and unnecessary death of  George Floyd in Minneapolis on May 25. Both State and Federal law  enforcement officers are moving quickly to bring the police officers in  this case to justice and hold them accountable for their actions, as  Mr. Floyd's cries of ``I can't breathe'' went unanswered as the life  drained out of him. 

  Video taken by several witnesses show that George Floyd--who was  Black and was unarmed--was handcuffed and pinned to the ground by a  police officer who held his knee against Mr. Floyd's neck as he pleaded  for his life. Mr. Floyd was on the ground, repeatedly telling the  officer that he could not breathe. And despite the fact that bystanders  are all heard on video begging the officer to relent, he did not remove  his knee from Mr. Floyd's neck until after an ambulance arrived. 

  Eventually Mr. Floyd lost consciousness. He was pronounced dead after  being transported to a local hospital. 

  As leaders, regardless of party, we cannot stay silent about George  Floyd's death. Black lives matter. George Floyd was a father, a son,  and a brother. His life mattered. He did not need to die. He and his  family deserve justice. How many other Black men and women have died at  the hands of law enforcement or vigilante civilians due to the color of  their skin but have not been caught on video? Those victims deserve  justice too. 

  We must act, working together, to fundamentally reform the ways  police across this Nation interact with the communities they serve. 

  On Monday night, President Trump once again failed to lead this  Nation in a time of crisis, and he has forfeited his moral authority as  President. Spraying tear gas at peaceful protesters to clear a path for  a photo op is opposite of American values and basic human rights. It  violates civil and human rights under any circumstances. 

  President Trump fans the flames of racism and seeks to divide  Americans for political purposes, just as he did in Charlottesville and  far too many places since. He seems willfully blind to the reason  people are protesting in the first place--to end systematic racism in  the repeated and tragic targeting of Blacks by law enforcement. 

  Congress, finally, must act to pass a comprehensive plan to reform  police community relations, improve training and hiring of police  officers, and hold police accountable for misconduct and use of  excessive force. We must rebuild trust between the police and the  communities they serve. 

  For those who are asking ``Why did it take so long?'' the answer is  ``We have been trying.'' It should not have taken so long, but year  after year too many of my colleagues have put partisanship before  justice and equality. 

  As both the House and Senate prepare to hold hearings on police  reform and racial profiling issues, I want to bring to my colleagues'  attention two pieces of legislation that I have filed: The End Racial  and Religious Profiling Act and the Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity  Act. If enacted, these two bills could make an enormous difference and  constitute a giant step forward in reforming police departments in  America and rebuilding trust between police officers and the  communities they are sworn to protect and serve. 

  The End Racial and Religious Profiling Act is designed to enforce the  constitutional right to equal protection under the law by eliminating  racial profiling at all levels of law enforcement by changing the  policies and procedures underlying the practice. 

  First, the bill provides a prohibition on racial profiling,  enforceable by declaratory or injunctive relief. It creates a standard  definition of racial profiling, which now includes religion, gender,  and other protected categories for Federal, State, and local law  enforcement, enforcing criminal, civil, and immigration laws. 

  Can law enforcement still provide a detailed description of a suspect  that includes race? The answer is yes. But the bill prohibits blanket  targeting solely based on race or one of the other protected  categories. 

  This bill also mandates training on racial profiling issues as part  of Federal law enforcement training, the collection of data on all  routine and spontaneous investigatory activities, and the creation of  procedures for receiving, investigating, and responding meaningfully to  complaints alleging racial profiling by law enforcement. 

  Systematic racism will not disappear overnight. We must engage all  law enforcement in aggressive training and then have data to show where  there is progress and where challenges remain. Our bill authorizes the  Department of Justice grants for the development and implementation of  best policing practices. 

  The second bill is the Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act that I  have filed. The Law Enforcement Trust and Integrity Act takes a  comprehensive approach at addressing the issue of police accountability  and building trust between police departments and their communities. 

  This legislation provides incentives for local police organizations  to voluntarily adopt performance-based standards to ensure that  instances of misconduct will be minimized through appropriate  management, training, and oversight protocols. The bill provides that  if such incidents do occur, they will be properly investigated. 

  The bill provides police officers--the vast majority of whom perform  their job professionally, putting their lives on the line daily,  protecting their communities--with the tools necessary to improve  community relations and enhance their professional growth and  education. 

  It authorizes $25 million for additional expenses related to the  enforcement of civil rights statutes, including compliance with consent  decrees or judgments regarding police misconduct brought by the  Department of Justice. 

  In Baltimore City, for example, the Baltimore Police Department  voluntarily entered into a consent decree in 2017 with the U.S.  Department of Justice to overhaul the police department. An earlier  Department of Justice report had found a widespread pattern and  practice of illegal and unconstitutional conduct by the Baltimore  Police Department through targeting African-American residents for  disproportionate and disparate treatment. 

  The legislation I have authored also authorizes appropriations for  additional expenses related to conflict resolution, including programs  managed by the Department of Justice's Community Relations Services  within the Civil Rights Division. 

  I am pleased that, to date, the protests in Baltimore have been  largely peaceful, especially compared to 2015 after the death of  Freddie Gray in Baltimore Police Department custody. 

  I do hope my fellow Americans look to Baltimore in 2020 as an example  for how to peacefully protest and petition the government for redress  of grievances, as Baltimore has willingly agreed to work with the U.S.  Department of Justice to overhaul its entire police force so that  policing its citizens is both fair and effective. 

  As many of my colleagues have said before, ``Civil Rights is still  the unfinished business of America.'' Prejudice, discrimination, and  outright racism continues to limit the lives of the large number of our  people. We must continue the struggle today in order to make urgent  progress. 

  As I close, I am reminded of my dear friend, the late Representative  Elijah Cummings, who died last year. He was a fellow Baltimorean and  fellow graduate of the University of Maryland Law School. He gave the  eulogy for Freddie Gray in 2015, who died after being arrested and  taken into police department custody. 

  During the church service, he closed with a quote from the Book of  Amos:  

       I want justice, oceans of it. I want fairness, rivers of       it. That's what I want. That's all I want.  

  Elijah also asked a pointed question of those of us at the funeral  that day, as well as to the news cameras that were broadcasting the  event nationally and around the world. Elijah asked: ``Did anyone  recognize Freddie when he was alive . . . did anyone see him?'' 

  Elijah asked whether society had done all that it could have done  when Gray was ``struggling to simply be all God meant for him to be?'' 

  Today, I ask my fellow Americans to ask that question when it comes  to the lives of not only George Floyd but Tony McDade, Sean Reed,  Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery. I say here today to Black Americans:  I see you. I hear you. You are men and women. You have families. You  have the same rights as every other individual in this country. 

  In a 2019 interview with ``60 Minutes,'' Steve Kroft noted as  follows:  

       Cummings is not a patient man. It's a lesson he learned       from his late grandmother, who imparted her mindset shortly       before she died. White people, she told him, had been telling       African Americans to wait--and he shouldn't. 

       She says, ``Your daddy, he been waiting and waiting and       waiting for a better day,'' Cummings recalled. She said,       ``He's going to wait, and he's going to die.'' She said,       ``Don't you wait.''  

  Then, in his late sixties, Elijah Cummings said that when he looks  into the future, he also reflects on his life. ``I realized that with  African American people, where we've been blocked from being all that  God meant for us to be, I don't have time to be patient.'' 

  Yes, Elijah often said of America that ``we are better than this.''  Let's prove Elijah right. I urge the Senate not to be patient any  longer and wait for the next death of an African American in police  custody before taking action. Let us hold our hearings and then  expeditiously take up and pass legislation, including the two bills I  have explained on the floor today, as the next  steps in establishing justice in our still imperfect Union. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT