Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I know that we are all looking forward  to trying to finish our legislative work this week. The majority leader  has announced that next week the Senate will be in recess for the  traditional Memorial Day recess. 

  Let me just urge our colleagues that before we leave for the recess,  we need to act on the challenges that COVID-19 is imposing on our State  and local governments. To me, it would be irresponsible for us to leave  and go into recess recognizing that our State and local governments are  so much impacted by COVID-19. 

  They are making decisions now. They have to put their budgets  together. They have to adjust this year's budget and plan for next  year's budget. What is in the balance? Well, it is our municipalities,  it is law enforcement, it is police, it is fire, it is emergency  rescue. For our counties, it is our schools and funding of our schools.  It also deals with public health for our State. It is public health and  so many other different issues that are dependent upon the State having  the resources in order to respond to the needs of their citizens--our  constituents--as well as to deal with the challenges of COVID-19. 

  I will give you one example on that. This week, by teleconference  with representatives of our higher education, University of Maryland-- they depend very much on the revenues they get from the State and the  revenues they get from their students. Both are very much in jeopardy  today. The least we can do is to make sure that the States have the  resources to continue these critical missions. They just don't have it. 

  Let me give you some of the numbers so that my colleagues are aware  of it. For the State of Maryland, in the revenue projections for the  current fiscal year that ends June 30, the revenues will be off by as  much as $925 million to $1.25 billion. Those are revenue losses. On top  of that, their fiscal year 2022 revenue projection is another loss of  $2.1 to $2.4 billion. That is for the State of Maryland. Those are not  our subdivisions. 

  Baltimore City is projecting a reduction in revenues by $141 million  this year. That is going to require layoffs. They have already talked  about layoffs and not hiring additional police officers. Those police  officers are needed in order to keep Baltimore safe. We know the  challenges we have in our municipal centers, and Baltimore City is  under a consent order decree. That is being jeopardized by the  inability of Baltimore to deal with these costs. They have to balance  their budget. 

  The State of Maryland has to balance its budget. Baltimore City has  to balance its budget. It doesn't have the leeway we have in order to  respond to a crisis by pumping money at a problem. 

  Baltimore County has a $172 million revenue projection. That is a 22- percent reduction in this year's budget in regard to income tax  revenues alone. They have a 70-percent reduction in motel and hotel tax  revenues. 

  For Montgomery County, our neighbor that borders DC, there is a $250  million projected revenue loss for this year. Prince George's County  has a $134 million revenue loss for this year, and that includes a  reduction of $886 million in income tax revenues. Anne Arundel County  anticipates a $63 million loss of revenue. They have frozen all  positions. Howard County projects a $30 to $40 million loss of revenue.  They normally have a growth of $25 million. That is a swing of $55  million to $65 million for a county that wasn't large enough to get  direct help under the CARES Act. 

  I mention the CARES Act because it was an important bill. When we  first took it up, it did not include a robust provision for State and  local. We put that in on the Senate floor, and we are pleased we were  able to do that. It is limited. It is limited because the money that we  made available under the CARES Act provided help to State and local  governments on their direct costs associated with COVID-19. That money  has been used for direct costs associated with COVID-19.  

  I have already pointed out the revenue losses in the State of  Maryland and in our subdivisions. The CARES Act doesn't provide any  help in regard to making up for the revenue losses. The CARES Act went  only to jurisdictions of 500,000 or more--over 500,000. 

  Only a few of our counties were eligible for help in my State. Most  of our counties were not eligible for help directly. They had to apply  through the State, but they were not eligible for direct help. 

  Let me give you one county: Wicomico County, Eastern Shore of  Maryland. That is where the poultry processing plants are located. That  is where the problems of COVID-19 needed to be contained. We did not  provide any direct help to Wicomico County in regard to stabilization  funds. That was wrong. 

  As we all know, we treated our host jurisdiction here, the District  of Columbia, wrongly by not allowing them to get the same minimum  distribution as a State. The CARES Act helped, but it didn't deal with  the current crisis that we now find at State and local governments. 

  The Governors have issued a bipartisan plea. Governor Hogan, who is  the chair of the National Governors Association, the Republican  Governor from Maryland, and Governor Cuomo, the Democratic Governor  from New York, have joined with all of our Governors in saying that  they need help now from the Federal Government in order to maintain  critical missions of public safety, of public health, of education and,  yes, to meet the direct needs related to COVID-19. They need help now.  Yes, we need to respond. 

  I am pleased that there is a bipartisan group of Senators who have  filed the SMART Act. The Governors say they need $500 billion in order  to get through this immediate crisis--$500 billion more. Well, the  SMART Act provides $500 billion. Two-thirds would go to the State and  one-third to the local governments. That is an important start, but we  could do better than that. 

  The HEROES Act, the bill that passed the House of Representatives,  provides $875 billion, and 57 percent goes to the States, meeting what  the States need; that is, basically the States' needs. And 42 percent  goes to local governments, half to the counties, half to municipalities  over 50,000. That would go a long way to meeting the needs of our local  first responders, our police, our fire, our emergency rescue, our  schools. Those types of issues could be addressed under that need. 

  We have to respond. We just can't go home and say that this is not  our problem. These are our constituents. They depend upon local police  and fire. They depend upon our schools being prepared to educate their  children. They depend upon sanitation being collected. They depend upon  the public health capacities. That is where they get those services. If  we don't provide the wherewithal under the balanced budget rules, they  are not going to be able to provide those essential services. 

  My plea is that before we go into recess, let us take up at least the  issues affecting State and local governments and do something to help  so that they can continue to provide essential services to our  constituents and they can deal with the direct costs associated with  COVID-19 in their communities. 

  As we are beginning to reopen our communities, we need to make sure  our State and local governments have the resources to respond to the  challenges when more people are getting together. We also need to  respond if we are going to get our economy back on track. It is not  going to get back on track if our State and local governments are  laying off their workers. We need to respond in a positive way, and we  need to do that now. 

  I urge my colleagues to take up legislation before we go into recess  in order to help the people of our Nation through our State and local  governments. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT