Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, as the ranking Democrat on the Small  Business and Entrepreneurship Committee of the U.S. Senate, I take this  time to update my colleagues on the implementation of the CARES Act. 

  I think all of us know that the CARES Act contained major, new  provisions to help small businesses, and I was proud to be part of a  bipartisan working group, with Senator Rubio, Senator Shaheen, and  Senator Collins, that helped to craft three new programs to help small  businesses as a result of COVID-19. 

  We recognize the importance of small businesses to our economy, to  job growth, to innovation, but we also recognize that small businesses  are more vulnerable to an economic downturn. They don't have the  resiliency. They don't have the deep pockets. They don't have the  liquidity that larger companies have. If we are going to get our  economy back on track, we have to preserve small businesses and their  workforces. 

  We suggested and the Congress passed three new programs to help small  businesses--the Paycheck Protection Program, the Economic Injury  Disaster Loan Grant Program, and a loan forgiveness program for  existing and new loans taken out under 7(a), 504, or microloans. 

  We recognize that all three of these tools were important. They were  not exclusive. They worked together. PPP provides help to keep payrolls  together. It buys 8 weeks of payroll. The EIDL Loan Program provides  working capital for small businesses. The grant program provides  immediate cash, and the forgiveness program allows a business to be  able to get through these next 6 months without the burdens of having  to pay their loans. All of that works together to keep small businesses  viable in our community. 

  Let me first talk about the Paycheck Protection Program because that  has certainly gotten the most attention. It provided 8 weeks of payroll  relief, plus other expenses, for small businesses in this country. It  has been very, very popular. In fact, the original amount of money that  we authorized for loans--about $349 billion--was quickly used up, and  we authorized an additional $310 billion of loan authority. There have  been 4.4 million loans issued under the PPP program for a total of $510  billion. These loans were issued rather quickly considering the  standing up of a new program and the volume of interest. 

  I acknowledge the hard work of the Small Business Administration and  its workers, as well as of the Treasury, in standing up this program  and getting the money out quickly to save many, many small businesses  in our communities. 

  When we passed the PPP program, we would have hoped that 8 weeks  later our economy would have been in a position in which small  businesses, in large number, would not have needed additional help or  that the program's parameters would have been adequate. That was not  the case. 

  Yesterday, this Chamber acted in a responsible way with legislation  that Senator Rubio and I and others recommended, along with our House  colleagues who had recommended this to our colleagues, that would give  small businesses that have existing PPP loans the discretion to use  those funds over a 24-week period rather than an 8-week period,  recognizing that many of these businesses could not get up to full  payroll during this 8-week period. We also gave greater flexibility on  the allocation of the funds. 

  Even with these changes, there have been major challenges in bringing  forward the PPP program. First and foremost, we found--as we had,  unfortunately, thought might happen--that the underserved and  underbanked communities would have a much more difficult time in  getting access to 7(a) loans under the PPP program. Quite frankly, we  put language in the CARES Act so that the SBA would give special  attention to the underserved and underbanked communities. 

  Quite frankly, the SBA did not follow our direction. The SBA's IG  said that the Small Business Administration did not fully align with  the congressional intent to help the underserved and rural markets. So  we responded. We replenished the PPP funds, and we allocated a certain  amount of those funds directly to smaller lending institutions,  recognizing that they have greater contact with the underserved  communities, and it did help. 

  Now, at our request, the Treasury has allocated an additional $10  billion to the CDFIs, the community development financial institutions,  that have better ties to the underserved community. Each one of these  steps helped. Allocating funds to smaller lenders and allocating funds  to the CDFI will help us get to minority small businesses. It will help  us get to women-owned small businesses. It will help us get to veteran- owned small businesses. It will help us get to the smaller of the small  businesses. It will also help us get to rural small businesses, but we  need to do more.  

  That is why I have authored legislation with Senator Booker. We have  put out a plan on what needs to be done through a discussion document,  and it recognizes that we have to provide greater help for businesses  in underserved communities for startup capital, for technical training,  and for mentorship. All that will help so that, when we come out of  COVID-19 and when we have the next economic downturn, we will have the  financial institutions and knowledge in all of our communities to be  able to take advantage of the tools that we make available in a timely  way. 

  Yesterday, we had our first oversight hearing with regard to COVID-19  and the tools of the Small Business Administration. That hearing was  outside of private sector witnesses. Next week, we will have the  Secretary of the Treasury as well as the SBA Administrator before us.  What we heard from one of our witnesses yesterday, Connie Evans, of the  Association for Enterprise Opportunity, was about COVID-19. Its  economic consequences are projected to erase decades of minority  enterprise growth in underserved markets. 

  She continued:  

       To prevent this, we believe policymakers must acknowledge       the existing disparities in our small business ecosystem and       take the necessary steps to create equitable legislation to       ensure that vulnerable businesses survive and thrive in the       years ahead.  

  I couldn't agree more. That is why Senator Booker and I have issued  our discussion document that includes many ways in which we can bring  about systematic changes to really help in the underserved communities. 

  We saw, tragically, 2 weeks ago or close to 2 weeks ago, the tragic  death in Minnesota. We have all talked about how we are going to help  to make sure this country gives equal opportunity to all of our  citizens, including under our criminal justice system. We also need to  recognize that, if we are going to deal with the wealth gap in America,  we have to deal with entrepreneurship, and this is one way we can do  it--by building up these types of opportunities. 

  Now, there is some good news in my State of Maryland that I want to  share with my colleagues. Maryland had a very active women's business  center. As you know, our resource partners are critically important in  helping underserved and underbanked communities. Women-owned businesses  are clearly in that category. We have a very effective women's business  center that is headquartered in Rockville that helps serve Montgomery  and Prince George's Counties and Frederick. It is doing a great job on  behalf of women-owned businesses.  

  Maryland, though, is a big State, and we needed more help. So I thank  the Small Business Administration in its announcement of two additional  small business centers in the State of Maryland. One will be in  Baltimore. It will be housed at Morgan State University, a historic  HBCU. That will provide, I think, tremendous help for women-owned  businesses and minority women-owned businesses. We are also opening up  a center in Salisbury, on the Eastern Shore of Maryland--rural  Maryland--to help women's businesses. This is critically important in  dealing with the gap in our communities. Resource partners are of  critical need. 

  So, as we applaud the work we have done with the PPP program and as  we recognize we need to improve it, let's also recognize we need to  deal with making sure there is a fair opportunity for all businesses to  qualify. We are also going to need additional help for small businesses  in addition to the PPP initial grant. There needs to be a second round,  and let me tell you why. 

  We thought 8 weeks would be enough with the PPP program, but we know  that for some of the original small business loans that were taken out  under the PPP program that, within the next 2 weeks, the 8-week period  will expire, but we know that businesses are not yet open at full  capacity. Restaurants cannot open at full capacity. Catering  establishments cannot open at full capacity. Health clubs cannot open  at full capacity. Entertainment centers cannot open at full capacity.  We know that museums are still very much hurt, so we are going to need  additional help. 

  Yesterday, we heard from a small business owner whose company was  helped by the PPP loan. He told us there will be additional need for  bridge funding for small businesses experiencing unanticipated costs  during the phased-in reopening. I agree with him. I think we are going  to have to do more to help the small businesses in our communities. 

  I have been working with Senator Shaheen and Senator Coons and others  to say, on the second round, let's try to target the relief to those  companies that really need it. The first round--get the money out  quickly. We were very successful in doing that. There was a minimal  amount of underwriting requirements by the small businesses or the  banks. We got the money out quickly.  

  On the second round, we need to be more discerning. We need to focus  those funds on those small businesses that really need it, those in the  underserved communities--the smaller of the small businesses. We heard  that yesterday during our oversight hearings. Those businesses have had  a dramatic loss of revenue. If we do that, the resources are there; we  can help those small businesses survive, and we can do it in a way that  will keep our economy going. 

  We need to do that immediately. We shouldn't wait 2 more weeks after  the program for many small businesses has already ended. We need to  provide the help as soon as possible. That is another reason it is  important that we take up the next stimulus package during this work  period and not wait until businesses have to lay off their workers and  may not be able to reopen. 

  The PPP was only one of three tools. The second tool we provided was  a new initiative under the EIDL Program, the Economic Injury Disaster  Loan Program, for grants. It provides for immediate cash, which is what  businesses need during a disaster--cash. The proposal allowed for a  $10,000 grant to be made. We anticipated that grant would be made  within 3 days. We put that in the statute. 

  As complimentary as I have been about the SBA starting up the PPP  program, I am extremely disappointed in the manner in which the EIDL  Program has been handled. They did not get the money out quickly. They  did not get $10,000 out; instead, the average grant was between $4,000  and $5,000. And there is $10 billion still left in the coffers that  could have gotten out to small businesses that desperately needed the  cash, and they didn't do it in the timeframe Congress anticipated. 

  The existing loan program, which existed before COVID-19, where SBA  issues loans during a disaster, called the Economic Injury Disaster  Loans, provides working capital. It works with PPP. PPP is not enough  help for a small business to get the working capital and inventory they  need. That is why we have the EIDL loans. The SBA has been very slow in  getting the loans out. The numbers are extremely disappointing. 

  Now they have set up new rules. They closed the window for  nonagricultural small businesses. Why? I have no idea. They seem to be  limiting loans to $150,000, although the loan provides for a $2 million  cap. Why are they doing that? 

  If the programs are going to work together, they have to implement  this program. Congress specifically intended COVID-19 to be a disaster  covered by EIDL. We did that in our earlier stimulus package. Well, we  are disappointed that we haven't had greater success in the EIDL  Program, because we know it works so much closer with the PPP program,  and it is particularly useful for smaller small businesses and those  that are more vulnerable. 

  We had a witness yesterday, Nick Rudolph of Maryland Capital  Enterprises, who testified and said:  

       The EIDL loan is a particularly impactful product . . .       because of its low interest, long terms, eased credit       requirements and the fact that collateral is not required. In       a perfect world, all approved applicants would receive the       full grant portion regardless of number of employees.  

  What Mr. Rudolph is saying is they limited the grant to $1,000 per  worker, and, therefore, if you had 10 or fewer workers, the most  vulnerable of small businesses, you were not able to take advantage of  the $10,000. We hope that will be corrected. 

  There is a third tool. That is loan forgiveness for existing 7(a) and  504 loans and microloans and for loans taken out during the 6-month  period after the adoption of the bill through the end of the year. This  gives 6 months of debt relief for loans that can really help small  businesses. I would like to report on how that is working, but I don't  have a lot of numbers on that, which leads me to the need for data. If  we are going to carry out our oversight function, if we are going to be  able to enact legislation going forward, we need to know how the  programs are working today, and we haven't gotten the information we  need. 

  Earlier I authored a letter to Senators Schumer and Wyden, asking the  SBA to make that information available. Most recently, I joined Senator  Rubio in a similar request asking the Small Business Administration to  make this information available. I introduced legislation with Senator  Shaheen on this issue. We need to get that data if we are going to do  our oversight. 

  This week we had the private sector witnesses; next week we have  Administrator Carranza, Administrator of the SBA, and Secretary  Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury, to ask specifically about these  points. It will be a very, very important hearing. 

  In closing, let me say that we have to continue to work together as  we have in the past to help America's small businesses. They are  literally the growth engine of our economy. They are the innovators of  our economy, and they are the most vulnerable. 

  The CARES Act provided incredibly important help, but we are going to  have to pay additional attention to help our small businesses. So let's  continue this bipartisan effort not only to help small businesses but  to help our economy and to help our country. In doing that we will  truly perform as we should during this national emergency. 

  So I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on both  sides of the aisle to pay attention to what we have already done for  small businesses and give them the additional attention that they need. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT