Hastings Leads Congressional Delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's Winter Meeting


Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), in his role as Chairman of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (the Helsinki Commission), last week led a bicameral, bipartisan congressional delegation to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly's (OSCE PA) 19th Winter Meeting in Vienna, Austria. At the meeting, Hastings and other members of the delegation engaged with OSCE officials, delegations from other OSCE participating States, and diplomats to advance U.S. interests while assuring friends, allies, and potential adversaries of the U.S. commitment to security and cooperation in Europe.  

The 11-Member delegation was among the largest U.S. delegations ever to attend the annual gathering, which attracted more than 300 parliamentarians from 53 OSCE participating States. Chairman Hastings, a former president of the OSCE PA, was joined in Austria by Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman Sen. Roger Wicker (MS), Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02), and Helsinki Commissioners Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Rep. Robert Aderholt (AL-04), and Rep. Richard Hudson (NC-08). Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-05), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), and Rep. Andy Harris (MD-01) also joined the delegation, which benefited from the active support of Ambassador James Gilmore, the U.S. Representative to the OSCE. 

In the Standing Committee, which oversees the OSCE PA's work, Hastings highlighted recommendations resulting from a seminar for young parliamentarians on "Future Leadership for Political Inclusion in the OSCE Region," hosted in Washington in early February by the Helsinki Commission and the OSCE PA.

"We brought together some 35 young parliamentarians from 19 OSCE participating States and three partner States to learn from each other and incubate the solutions of the future," said Hastings. "As I called on all of you at our last meeting in Marrakech, we must counter the economic and social despair afflicting our youth and we all have a role." 

At the same committee, Wicker, who serves as a vice president of the assembly, shared his recent experience at the Munich Security Conference.  The committee also reviewed a written report submitted by former Helsinki Commissioner Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04), OSCE PA Special Representative on Human Trafficking Issues.

In the committee focused on security issues, Hudson condemned Russia's violations of Helsinki principles related to its aggression against Ukraine, while in the committee focusing on economic issues Harris cautioned Europe regarding the growing Chinese presence in the region.  

During a special debate on confronting anti-Semitism and other forms of intolerance in the OSCE region, Cardin, who serves as the OSCE PA Special Representative on Anti-Semitism, Racism and Intolerance, delivered introductory remarks by video.

"It is our responsibility to safeguard our democracies by speaking out and using our tools and voices as legislators against those who would divide our societies," Cardin said.

Later in the debate, Cohen urged participating States "to teach Holocaust history, which a fourth of the people in Europe or more don't understand or remember, and teach it so that the most horrific crime against humanity will be remembered so that it will not be repeated."

Cleaver linked anti-Semitism to broader trends of intolerance in society, and called OSCE participating States to action, stating, "There are many scary things in our world, but there is nothing quite able to generate fright like prejudice inspired by ignorance and nationalism manufactured by fear."

Hudson chaired a meeting of the OSCE PA Ad Hoc Committee on Countering Terrorism, and Moore participated in a similar meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee on Migration.

On the margins of the Winter Meeting's official sessions, Members of Congress met with the Ukrainian delegation to the OSCE PA to discuss U.S. support for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in the face of unrelenting Russian aggression. Delegation members also met with OSCE Secretary General Thomas Greminger, Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights Director Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, Special Representative and Coordinator for Combatting Trafficking in Human Beings Valiant Richey, and High Commissioner for National Minorities Lamberto Zannier.

Congressman Alcee L. Hastings serves as Vice-Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Chairman of the U.S. Helsinki Commission, and Co-Chairman of the Florida Delegation.