Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, constitutional experts will be debating  President Trump's misconduct for generations to come, but I think they  will reach consensus as to the misconduct of the Senate in the Trump  impeachment. This is the first time in the history of impeachment that  no witnesses and documents were allowed to be called by the U.S.  Senate. It violates the Constitution in the impeachment trial of Donald  Trump by its failure to hold a constitutionally fair trial. 

  At one time, I had the opportunity to present as a House manager an  impeachment case here in the U.S. Senate on a district court judge by  the name of Nixon. I remember, when I appeared before the Senate, I was  cautioned immediately, even though Judge Nixon had been convicted of a  bribery type of an offense in a criminal court, that it was incumbent  for us to present the witnesses and documents in the U.S. Senate and  that the Senate would conduct its own record in regard to the  proceedings. Yet, here, we are not having witnesses in the President's  impeachment trial. 

  We had some help from the Supreme Court on this. In Nixon v. United  States, 1993, pertaining to Judge Nixon's trial, Justice Byron White  had a concurring opinion. Justice White said that the term ``try,'' as  used in article I, section 3, clause 6, meant that the Senate should  conduct a proceeding in a manner that a reasonable judge would deem a  trial. 

  We failed to conduct a constitutionally fair trial here in the U.S.  Senate, and we can look to the President's own counsel here for help in  evaluating our own conduct of this trial. The President's counsel,  Philbin, said that you need to cross-examine witnesses in order to get  to the truth. We had no witnesses under oath and no witnesses cross- examined. The tragedy here is, if the President is acquitted, there  will always be a question as to whether this was a legitimate trial  here in the U.S. Senate. 

  Let me just spend a moment comparing the impeachment proceedings of  President Clinton's versus those of President Trump's. 

  With President Clinton, there was a trial in the Senate. It was  acknowledged to be fair. Witnesses were called. President Clinton and  his administration officials had testified under oath and had been  subject to cross-examination. President Clinton showed remorse for his  conduct and apologized for his misconduct, and President Clinton's  misconduct was personal in nature. 

  Compare that to President Trump. He blocked all witnesses and  documents and then, through counsel, prevented the Senate trial from  calling any witnesses or producing any documents. He has never shown  any remorse. Even though most Senators here know that what he did was  wrong, he has shown no remorse whatsoever, and his misconduct was that  of abusing his office for personal gain--getting a foreign power to  help in his election campaign. 

  Let me briefly go through article I. 

  Article I states that he solicited a foreign government, Ukraine, to  interfere in the 2020 elections by its publicly announcing  investigations that would benefit his reelection, conditioned on  official U.S. Government acts of significant value to Ukraine. The  House managers have submitted a voluminous amount of information that  supports that, and I refer to that in my attached statement, so I will  not spend the time here to go through that. 

  Yet, even though there is enough in the full record to establish the  charges, there are other issues that add to the President's committing  these acts. 

  First, as I mentioned before, the President issued a blanket  obstruction for any witness with firsthand knowledge of the President's  conduct to provide testimony on these articles here in the U.S. Senate.  Yes, we can infer that, if the President had exculpatory witnesses, he  would have produced those exculpatory witnesses. 

  Secondly, the President's impeachment attorney, Mr. Sekulow, said  that you cannot view this case in a vacuum. I agree. The President has  consistently  misrepresented the facts and defamed anyone who challenges him. 

  Let me just give you one concrete example: the Mueller investigation,  which has been cited in this impeachment trial. The President denies  Russia's initial involvement in our elections. He resisted efforts to  hold Russia accountable. He defamed the reputation of the special  counsel. He willfully impeded the investigation. He attacked the  integrity of our intelligence and law enforcement agencies. He also  wrongfully claimed that the investigation exonerated him. He has done  that over and over again. The findings in the report speak to a  contrary conclusion. It says Russia interfered in our 2016 elections in  a sweeping and systematic fashion. It reads: ``If we had confidence  that the president clearly did not commit a crime, we would have said  so.'' 

  There are numerous instances in which the President may have  obstructed justice, but we left the further pursuit of that to Congress  or to a prosecutor after he leaves office. 

  Since he has taken office, the President's pattern has been to  mislead and misstate facts and to act as a bully against those who have  had anything to say against him that he has not liked. It makes it  easier for us to understand how the illegal scheme in article I  unfolded. 

  I have one additional fact of why this points to establishing the  facts. 

  The President has consistently shown no remorse. He continuously  tells us that the summary of the July 25 call shows a perfect call. We  know how controversial that call was. It was far from perfect. 

  The next hurdle was, is this an impeachable offense? I concluded that  it was. It is an abuse of power, which is an abuse of trust, which is  clearly what our Founders intended as being a high crime and  misdemeanor while in office. 

  The President's own analysis of this leads to the only conclusion,  that being that abuse of power must be an impeachable offense. I say  that because we had the President's counsel--once again, Professor  Dershowitz--who told us that it was not an abuse of power and that it  was not an impeachable offense. Professor Dershowitz said that if your  election is in the public interest--if a President does something which  he believes will help him get elected in the public interest--that it  cannot be the kind of quid pro quo that results in impeachment. 

  Well, that is an absurd situation if you adopt the logic of the  President's counsel that abuse of power is not an impeachable offense.  It is clearly an impeachable offense. The President's conduct has  jeopardized America's global leadership in promoting our values. Our  values are our strength. 

  I thought it was very telling, the conversation of Ambassador Volker  with Mr. Yermak, who is the principal counsel to President Zelensky of  Ukraine. 

  Ambassador Volker said: Don't start an investigation in Ukraine on  your opponent in your election because that will sow division in your  community. 

  Mr. Yermak responded: Do you mean like asking us to investigate  Clinton and Biden? 

  President Trump's conduct has endangered our national security, our  global leadership, and American values. 

  Article II is a lot easier--obstruction of Congress--because the  facts clearly establish that the President's blanket obstruction, which  he orchestrated, denied any access to individuals or to documents in  order to facilitate a coverup of what was uncovered under article I of  the Articles of Impeachment. 

  It is essential for Congress to carry out our responsibilities and to  be able to get that type of information from the President. It is  exactly what the Framers of our Constitution intended when they  developed the checks and balances in our system--that there would be no  branch that would have absolute power. We do not have a Monarch. 

  President Trump has crossed the line with his personal interests over  the country's interests. He used the power of his office for his own  personal benefit. No one is above the law. We must act to protect the  Constitution and our democratic system of government. It is with a  heavy heart that I will support both Articles of Impeachment. 

  Senators have a grave responsibility when it comes to the power of  impeachment, particularly when it involves the President of the United  States. This is a very profound responsibility in which Senators have  to do what is right for our country. Our decision here will affect not  only this President but the future of the Presidency itself. 

  The Constitution leaves to the Senate ``the sole power to try all  impeachments.'' The Constitution clearly requires the Senate to conduct  a trial. The Supreme Court, the ultimate interpreter of the  Constitution, has given the Senate some guidance in carrying out its  responsibility to conduct impeachment trials. Supreme Court Justice  Byron White, in a concurring opinion in Nixon v. United States, 506  U.S. 224 (1993), found that the Framers of the U.S. Constitution  clearly intended ``that the term `try' as used in article I, section 3,  clause 6 meant that the Senate should conduct its proceeding in a  manner that a ``reasonable judge'' would deem a trial. Justice White  acknowledged that the Senate ``has very wide discretion in specifying  impeachment trial procedures,'' but stated that the Senate ``would  abuse its discretion'' if it were to ``insist on a procedure that could  not be deemed a trial by reasonable judges.'' Justice Blackmun  concurred in Justice White's opinion. 

  The Senate has the sole power to ``try'' impeachments. Yet how can  the Senate hold an actual ``trial'' without hearing direct evidence  from witnesses? The Senate chose not to hear additional relevant  evidence and key witnesses with firsthand knowledge of the President's  conduct. However, the Senate is not bound solely to the House record  when conducting an impeachment trial. The Senate should have heard new  and relevant evidence that bore directly on the Articles of  Impeachment, including testimony from former White House National  Security Advisor John Bolton, Acting White House Chief of Staff and  Acting OMB Director Mick Mulvaney, as well as various other OMB and DOD  officials. The Senate should have demanded additional documents from  the White House, State Department, OMB, and DOD that bore directly on  the Articles of Impeachment. The Senate should have been able to  receive further evidence before concluding its trial in this case,  whether or not the additional evidence was incriminating or  exculpatory. As one of President Trump's counsel Mr. Philbin said  during the trial, the best way to find out the truth is for witnesses  under oath to be subject to cross-examination. The Senate therefore  failed in its responsibility when it did not conduct a constitutionally  fair trial. I suspect that Justice White in the Nixon case would have  concluded that no ``reasonable judge'' would conclude these proceedings  constitute such a trial. 

  The evident deficiencies of the Senate trial has made it more  difficult for me to carry out my responsibility, and if the Senate  fails to convict, that acquittal will always be questioned because of  the absence of a fair trial. This process is not fair to the House,  Senate, American people, or the President. 

  Now, in regards to the specific Articles of Impeachment, article I  alleges ``abuse of power'' by the President, stating: ``Using the  powers of his high office, President Trump solicited the interference  of a foreign government, Ukraine, in the 2020 United States  Presidential election. He did so through a scheme or course of conduct  that included soliciting the Government of Ukraine to publicly announce  investigations that would benefit his reelection, harm the election  prospects of a political opponent, and influence the 2020 United States  Presidential election to his advantage. President Trump also sought to  pressure the Government of Ukraine to take these steps by conditioning  official United States Government acts of significant value to Ukraine  on its public announcement of the investigations. President Trump  engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in  pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Trump  used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the  national security of the United States and undermined the integrity of  the United States democratic process. He thus ignored and injured the  interests of the Nation.'' 

  I reluctantly conclude that the President has indeed engaged in the  conduct  alleged. I come to this conclusion based first on the record during  this impeachment trial. 

  In weighing the facts and evidence in this case, I have listened  carefully to all of the trial proceedings and taken extensive notes,  including during the managers' presentations and Senators' questioning  period. Let me highlight a few key facts and pieces of evidence that  were determinative for my thinking, with the understanding that this is  not an exhaustive list. 

  First, President Trump indicated his strong interest in having  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky open a political investigation  into the Bidens, in a July 26, 2019, phone call between the President  and U.S. Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland. 

  Second, Acting Chief of Staff and Office of Management and Budget  Director Mick Mulvaney admitted that a quid pro quo existed in terms of  tying the release of U.S. funding to Ukraine to the opening of a  political investigation to help President Trump. 

  Third, there are numerous examples in the record of direct pressure  on the Ukrainian Government to open political investigations for the  personal benefit of President Trump, including a September 1, 2019,  Warsaw meeting between Ambassador Sondland and Andriy Yermak, a top  adviser to the Ukrainian President, which directly tied U.S. military  assistance to Ukraine to the opening of political investigations to  hurt President Trump's political rivals. These accounts were later  confirmed in testimony by other U.S. diplomats, and on September 7,  Ambassador Sondland reiterated these themes following discussions with  President Trump. 

  Fourth, before the July 25 phone call between Presidents Trump and  Zelensky, former U.S. Special Envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker communicates  with Yermak and conditions a White House visit to the launching of a  political investigation against the President's rivals in Ukraine. 

  Fifth, on July 10, 2019, the White House held a series of meetings  with high-level Ukrainian defense officials, which conditioned a White  House visit from the Ukrainian President with the opening of political  investigations in Ukraine sought by President Trump. Notably, former  National Security Advisor John Bolton refused to be part of any ``drug  deal'' and asked his staff to report these meetings to National  Security Council lawyers. It was explained by National Security Council  Member Fiona Hill that, by ``drug deal,'' Ambassador Bolton was  referring to conditioning a White House meeting for the President of  Ukraine with the Ukrainians starting the political investigations  desired by the President. 

  Mr. Bolton should have testified before the Senate, and we should not  have to wait for his book release, after this Senate trial concludes,  to get a full accounting of firsthand conversations here that bear  directly on the impeachment charges against the President. Press  reports indicate that, in his upcoming book, Bolton will state that the  President explicitly told him that he did not want to release $391  million in aid to Ukraine until it announced investigations into his  Democratic rivals, including former Vice President Joe Biden. Also, the  President specifically asked Bolton to arrange a meeting for President  Trump's personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, with President Zelensky to  further the illegal scheme. Notably, the former White House Chief of  Staff at the time, John Kelly, believes Bolton's account. 

  Sixth, the language used in the July 25, 2019, phone call between  Presidents Trump and Zelensky was a direct solicitation of foreign  interference (a ``favor'') by using a political investigation to help  President Trump's campaign and hurt his Democratic rivals. 

  Seventh, why did the Administration keep secret its hold on  assistance to Ukraine in order to allegedly combat corruption? The U.S.  has generally notified countries, Congress, and the public when it is  withholding foreign aid in order to change the country's behavior and  let them know what steps they need to take to resolve the hold. 

  As the ranking member of the Helsinki Commission and as a senior  member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I know the importance  of promoting American values in foreign policy. The President's conduct  has weakened America's global leadership in fighting corruption,  promoting democracy, and strengthening the rule of law. 

  President Trump's corrupt use of his foreign policy power compromised  America's ability to help shape the global community that protects  American values. 

  The record shows that Ambassador Volker tried to discourage Mr.  Yermak and the Ukrainian Government from trying to prosecute the  country's previous President. Ambassador Volker says he warned it would  sow deep societal divisions. Ambassador Volker says that Mr. Yermak  quipped in response, ``You mean like asking us to investigate Clinton  and Biden?'' 

  In addition to the record, I am supported in my conclusions by three  other considerations. First, why hasn't the President presented to the  impeachment trial the testimony of the witnesses that have direct  knowledge concerning the factual allegations in the Articles of  Impeachment? I draw from the absence of such testimony that it would  only corroborate the record presented by the House Managers. Secondly,  counsel to President Mr. Sekulow acknowledged ``you cannot view this  case in a vacuum.'' I agree. President Trump, during his Presidency,  has consistently misrepresented the facts and defamed anyone who has  challenged him. 

  One clear and relevant example of this is how he tried to obstruct  the Mueller investigation and how, to this date, he mischaracterizes  its conclusion. The President was not exonerated by the Mueller report,  which found that Russia interfered in our 2016 Presidential election in  a ``sweeping and systematic fashion.'' President Trump consistently  took steps to deny Russia's involvement in tampering in our elections,  resisted efforts to hold Russia accountable, besmirched the reputation  of the special counsel while trying to dismiss him or willfully impeded  his investigation, and repeatedly attacked the integrity of our  intelligence and law enforcement agencies. 

  Indeed, the Mueller report stated: ``If we had confidence after a  thorough investigation of the facts that the President clearly did not  commit obstruction of justice, we would so state. Based on the facts  and applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that  judgment.'' At a press conference, Special Counsel Mueller reiterated:  ``If we had had confidence that the president clearly did not commit a  crime, we would have said so.'' The report detailed numerous instances  in which the President may have obstructed justice, but left further  pursuit of the matter to Congress or future prosecutors once the  President leaves office. 

  With such a track record, it is easier to understand how the facts  presented by the House managers tie together supporting an illegal  scheme, orchestrated by the President, to get Ukraine involved in our  2020 elections to help Mr. Trump's reelection. 

  Third, the President has consistently failed to show any remorse for  his conduct, leading to the conclusion that he will continue to violate  the sacred trust of the office. 

  Having been satisfied that the President did commit the offenses in  the first Article of Impeachment, the next hurdle is whether these  constitute impeachable offenses. I conclude they do. President Trump is  not a King or Monarch. The Founding Fathers wisely created a system of  separation of powers and checks and balances so as not to concentrate  power in only one office or department of government. The Senate must  reject President Trump's statement on July 23, 2019, that his right  under article II of the Constitution is ``to do whatever I want as  president.'' 

  As noted in the House Judiciary Committee report on constitutional  grounds for Presidential impeachment (December, 2019), President  Trump's claim here ``is wrong, and profoundly so, because our  Constitution rejects pretensions to monarchy and binds Presidents with  law. That is true even of powers vested exclusively in the chief  executive. If those powers are invoked for corrupt reasons, or wielded  in an abusive manner harming the constitutional system, the President  is subject to impeachment for `high crimes and misdemeanors.' This is a  core premise of the impeachment power.'' I agree.  

  The President's counsel notes that abuse of power could become too  subjective a standard for Presidential impeachments. But as  Representative William Cohen remarked in President Nixon's case, ``It  has also been said to me that even if Mr. Nixon did commit these  offenses, every other President . . . has engaged in some of the same  conduct, at least to some degree, but the answer I think is that  democracy, that solid rock of our system, may be eroded away by degree  and its survival will be determined by the degree to which we will  tolerate those silent and subtle subversions that absorb it slowly into  the rule of a few.'' 

  The premise that abuse of power being a too subjective standard  belies common sense and could lead to the absurd conclusion given by  Professor Dershowitz--one of President Trump's impeachment counsel-- during the trial. He stated: ``Your election is in the public interest.  And if a president does something which he believes will help him get  elected in the public interest, that cannot be the kind of quid pro quo  that results in impeachment.'' Abuse of power, as used by President  Trump, to further a scheme to get Ukraine to help in President Trump's  campaign must be an impeachable offense if we believe our Constitution  guarantees that no one, including the President of the United States,  is above the law. 

  The President's counsel also observes that, when initiating Articles  of Impeachment, the House should only proceed if there is bipartisan  support, but that decision is left solely to the House. Once the House  has acted, the Senate shall proceed to trial and must render a decision  based upon the case presented. 

  There are clear distinctions between the Clinton and Trump  impeachments. In Clinton, the trial was acknowledged to be fair;  witnesses testified before the Senate; President Clinton and members of  his administration testified under oath; and documents were produced  for review by the President. President Clinton showed remorse for his  conduct and apologized. His misconduct was personal in nature. 

  In contrast, President Trump blocked all witnesses and documents, and  the Senate called no witnesses to testify under oath. President Trump  has shown no remorse, continuing to say that the controversial call  with President Zelensky was ``perfect.'' Unlike President Clinton's  misconduct, President Trump has abused the power of his office for  personal gain. 

  Turning to the second Article of Impeachment, Obstruction of  Congress, the House alleges, that, in response to their impeachment  inquiry, President Trump ``directed the unprecedented, categorical, and  indiscriminate defiance of subpoenas issued by the House of  Representatives . . . without lawful cause or excuse, President Trump  directed Executive branch agencies, offices, and officials not to  comply with those subpoenas. President Trump thus interposed the powers  of the Presidency against the lawful subpoenas of the House of  Representatives, and assumed to himself functions and judgments  necessary to exercise of the `sole power of impeachment' vested by the  Constitution in the House of Representatives.'' 

  In particular, the second article alleges that the President: No. 1,  directed the White House to defy a lawful subpoena by withholding the  production of documents; No. 2, directed other executive branch  agencies and offices to defy lawful subpoenas and withhold the  production of documents, including OMB and the Departments of State,  Defense, and Energy; and No. 3, directed current and former executive  branch officials not to cooperate with the investigating committees,  including Mick Mulvaney and numerous other officials. 

  After reviewing the evidence, I believe that the Senate record  supports conviction under article II as an impeachable offense. 

  President Trump carried out an extraordinary and unprecedented  campaign of obstruction of Congress. Note that President Clinton  provided evidence that was requested by the House and Senate during  impeachment proceedings, and allowed multiple White House aides to  testify in the underlying investigation. President Nixon cooperated to  an extent in his investigation, allowing numerous White House officials  to testify and providing substantial evidence to Congress in its  inquiry. By contrast, President Trump issued an edict directing his  administration to refuse to ``participate'' in all aspects of the  House's impeachment inquiry. In particular, the October 8, 2019, letter  from the White House Counsel did not even attempt to assert any  specific privileges. 

  This trial has been very difficult for the Senate and our Nation, but  each Senator must in his or her own judgment carry out the oaths we  have taken as Senators to support the Constitution as well as our  special oath to do ``impartial justice'' as participants in this Senate  impeachment trial, with Chief Justice Roberts presiding over the  Senate. 

  Weighing the credibility of President Trump, I find a clear pattern  of misconduct in office. President Trump's obstruction of Congress  shows a deep and abiding disrespect for Congress and lack of  appreciation for the separation of powers and system of checks and  balances in our government. 

  As the President and Commander in Chief, President Trump used his  power to compromise and corrupt America's values. Our values are our  strength. In particular, President Trump has undermined the rule of  law, weakened our efforts to fight corruption both at home and abroad,  damaged our national security, and helped our adversary, Russia. 

  President Trump's conduct clearly crossed the line when he put his  own personal interests over the country's interests, using the power of  his office for his own personal benefit. 

  No one is above the law. We must act to protect the Constitution and  our democratic system of government. It is with a heavy heart that I  support both Articles of Impeachment, requiring the removal of the  President from office as well as the disqualification to hold and enjoy  any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United States. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT