International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I rise to mark the start of LGBT  Pride Month with reflections on the recent International Day against  Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia--IDAHOBIT. For more than 50 years,  Pride Month has been a reminder that, despite recent progress, every  day, millions of people around the world face social stigmatization,  legal prosecution, and even violence based on their sexual orientation  or because of their gender identity. COVID-19 is necessitating  adjustments to how this month is celebrated, with organizers moving  large-scale parades from the streets of towns and cities to the  internet, where a 24-hour online Global Pride celebration is planned  for later this month. 

  Two short weeks ago was the annual commemoration of the International  Day against Homophobia, Transphobia  and Biphobia--IDAHOBIT. Started on May 17, 2004, IDAHOBIT was  established by LGBTQ activists in 2004 to commemorate the World Health  Organization's historic decision in 1990 to remove homosexuality from  the International Classification of Diseases. As in the United States,  despite the progress we have made since 1990, around the world,  homophobia, transphobia, and biphobia continue to flourish in many  parts of the world. 

  The theme of this year's International Day against Homophobia,  Transphobia and Biphobia was ``Breaking the Silence.'' Millions of  LGBTQ individuals around the world continue to be forced to hide their  identities because of who they are or whom they love. They struggle to  achieve the most basic of human rights, let alone respect and  visibility. The International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and  Intersex Association--ILGA--lists 70 countries in which same-sex  activities are outlawed, and penalties range from 8 years' imprisonment  to the death penalty. Even in countries that do not criminalize  homosexuality, many still have laws on the books that make living  openly next to impossible. Only five countries, of which the United  States is not one, ban the damaging practice of conversion therapy. 

  This type of discrimination has only been compounded by the global  outbreak of COVID-19. In addition to the widespread health and economic  hardship that this pandemic is creating, it is producing new risks and  forms of persecution for the LGBTQ community. 

  In Uganda, security forces stormed an LGBTQ shelter, binding the  occupants' hands with rope before marching them to a nearby police  station on charges of disobeying social distancing rules. In Latin  America, transgender, nonbinary, and queer people who present as  gender-nonconforming are being detained or fined for going to the  grocery store on days designated by the government as ``men-only'' or  ``women-only.'' Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has used the  pandemic as an excuse to move legislation that will ban the legal  recognition of transgender citizens. Meanwhile, in South Korea, there  is a disturbing rise in online hate speech blaming the LGBTQ community  for spreading the coronavirus. A number of religious leaders around the  world have cruelly attributed the spread of COVID-19 to divine  retribution for recognition of same-sex marriages. 

  The COVID-19 pandemic will eventually fade, but the abuse of LGBTQ  people will continue unless we come together as a global community to  put an end to it. Historically, the United States has been a strong  international leader on issues of human rights like this one. However,  the current administration's neglect of LGBTQ rights, both at home and  abroad, has hurt our credibility and diminished our power to make  positive change. 

  Within the United States, the Trump administration has issued rules  sanctioning employment, housing, medical, and other forms of  discrimination based on gender identity. It has also repeatedly used  religious liberty as a shield to enable discrimination on the basis of  sexual orientation. On a global scale, the administration has attempted  to undermine internationally recognized definitions of human rights  through the U.S. State Department's Commission on Inalienable Rights  and turned a blind eye to the persecution of LGBTQ people in other  countries. It is said that you can measure the strength of a democracy  by the rights it affords to marginalized communities, these actions do  not reflect the strong democracy that we strive to be. 

  Looking at the state of the world today, it is clear that we need  more champions for LGBTQ rights on the international stage. We need  more leaders to break the silence and speak up for everyone's right to  live truly as themselves. This Pride Month, I am hopeful that the  United States will once again be one of those voices. For my part, I  will keep fighting to protect LGBTQ rights at home and around the  globe, so that all people can pursue happiness and love without fear.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT