Letter to Larry Hogan, Governor of Maryland - Van Hollen, Maryland Delegation Members Urge Transparency from State on Covid-19 Testing Plan


Dear Governor Hogan,We are working at the federal level to provide funding and resources to Maryland to bolster thestate and local responses to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. We arepleased that the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act, signed intolaw on April 24, 2020, included $11 billion for states, localities, territories, and tribes fornecessary expenses to develop, purchase, administer, process, and analyze COVID-19 tests. TheState of Maryland is receiving approximately $205 million from this funding. As you are aware,each state receiving funds must submit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)its plan for COVID-19 testing, including goals for the remainder of calendar year 2020. As partof this plan, we urge you to outline how you will target testing resources to the hardest hitcommunities in Maryland, particularly communities of color that have been disproportionatelyimpacted by COVID-19. Additionally, we urge you to make your plan submission public soMarylanders have a full understanding of the State's testing goals and how these federalresources will be put to use.In the plan required by CDC, the State must outline month-by-month figures of the number oftests needed and month-by-month estimates of laboratory and testing capacity (including relatedto workforce, equipment and supplies, and available tests). Additionally, it must include adescription of how the resources will be used for testing, including easing any COVID-19community mitigation policies. The purpose of the funding is to support state efforts in meetingthe testing goals laid out in their COVID-19 testing plans, including purchasing testing supplies.Testing, in addition to robust contact tracing and effective isolation of individuals exposed to thevirus, are critical components of a safe reopening. While the State is making progress to expandtesting capacity, we are still hearing from localities that more testing capacity is needed, whichwill be particularly important as the state continues to move forward with reopening.We are also still seeing disturbing racial and ethnic disparities in our state's COVID-19 infectionand mortality rates, which we believe necessitates an aggressive, targeted strategy. For theCOVID-19 cases that have race and ethnicity data available, Black Marylanders comprise morethan 35% of COVID-19 cases and over 40% of deaths, despite only making up 30% of thepopulation. Hispanics make up 10% of Maryland's population and represent 30% of cases. The$205 million in federal funds provide our state with important resources to develop acomprehensive testing strategy to address this serious problem.Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. We will continue to work at the federallevel to secure resources for the State of Maryland, and we look forward to working with you toexpand our state's testing capacity.