Letter to Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State, and John Barsa, Acting Administrator USAID  - Senator Markey and Rep. Titus Lead Colleagues in Urging State Department, USAID to Protect Global LGBTQI Population During Coronavirus Pandemic


Dear Mr. Secretary and Acting Administrator Barsa:

Evidence suggests the COVID-19 pandemic is having disproportionate impacts on marginalizedpopulations around the globe. How our government responds will be seen as a test of ourcountry's commitment to the protection of human rights and American values of fairnessand equality. As members of Congress concerned with the plight of lesbian, gay, bisexual,transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI) individuals abroad, we ask the Administration to takethe following steps, on an urgent basis, to reaffirm American support for the protection of humanrights worldwide as our country responds to the crisis:

1. Intervene at senior levels with governments that are using the COVID-19 crisisto persecute or discriminate against LGBTQI and other marginalizedcommunities. Many governments are using the pandemic as an excuse to restrictfundamental human rights. We trust that you and other officials will express concernabout these problematic exercises of government power. In that context, we ask thatyou specifically note instances in which COVID-19 restrictions are being used tofurther marginalize and criminalize LGBTQI individuals and communities. Forexample, Ugandan authorities raided a homeless youth shelter in March, arresting 19LGBTQI people and charging them with "a negligent act likely to spread infection ofdisease" simply for living in a shelter; and those arrested have been denied access tolegal services. We understand that this case, documented by Human Rights Watch andother non-profit organizations, has been shared with your Assistant Secretary forDemocracy, Human Rights and Labor (DRL). We ask that you urge foreign ministersand other officials to ensure that their COVID-19-related responses respect individualliberties and democratic rights.

2. Guarantee the inclusion of LGBTQI populations in short- and long-termresponse and recovery programming and urge international partners to adopt aparallel approach. Due to stigma, discrimination, and harassment, many LGBTQIindividuals and other vulnerable populations are forced to support themselves andtheir families through the informal economy. Restrictions aimed at preventing thespread of COVID-19 have placed a large burden on those in the informal economy,cutting off income streams and preventing them from obtaining food or secure shelter. As a result, the pandemic has heightened the vulnerability of LGBTQI and othermarginalized populations to poverty, food insecurity, and homelessness. At the sametime, some governments, as documented in Panama and in Bogotá, Colombia, areusing gender to determine when citizens are allowed to leave their homes for essentialservices such as shopping for food, resulting in arbitrary arrests of trans and gendernon-conforming people and harassment and discrimination by police, security guards,and private businesses. We ask that you encourage Ambassadors, in their dialoguewith host governments, to raise the importance of ensuring that all segments of societyare considered in efforts to respond to this global pandemic, and that policies includeclear statements of non-discrimination.

3. Support measures to ensure safe, healthy, and sustained access to health services,including treatment for HIV and other COVID-exacerbating conditions, as wellas other necessary healthcare services, including sexual and reproductive health.Globally, LGBTQI people face higher rates of underlying health conditions that havebeen shown to exacerbate the mortality rate of COVID-19. Gay and bisexual men andtransgender women also face higher rates of HIV, requiring long-term treatment andcare. In many cases, restrictions on movement and the reduction of publictransportation in countries around the world have limited access to HIV treatment andprevention services and other necessary health services, including sexual andreproductive health care. Criminalization of HIV transmission, including in Polandwhere additional criminal sanctions were recently added for HIV transmission as partof a COVID response, also inhibit people from seeking critical care. In addition tothese barriers, LGBTQI people and other vulnerable populations face stigma anddiscrimination in obtaining healthcare services, especially in countries where samesex sexual conduct or non-normative gender expression is criminalized. This hindersaccess to lifesaving healthcare services and puts their lives at even greater risk duringthis pandemic. We ask that you ensure that U.S.-provided global health programming,including delivery of health-related goods and services, is carried out in a nondiscriminatory manner promoting respect for the most vulnerable, including LGBTQIpeople; and that State Department and USAID representatives actively encourageforeign counterparts to do the same.

We appreciate the attention of the Department and USAID to the unprecedented challenge aheadof us, and we urge you to seize this critical moment to reaffirm inclusive U.S. values.

Sincerely,