Letter to Bruce Caswell, President and Chief Executive Officer of Maximus Inc. - Booker Leads Colleagues in Pressing Federal Government's Largest Call Center Contractor on Workplace Safety Efforts During Coronavirus Pandemic


Dear Mr. Caswell:We write to express our concern that Maximus, the largest call center contractor for the federalgovernment, has not taken the necessary steps to protect its workforce from Coronavirus.Between 2008 and 2018, Maximus received nearly $2 billion in government contracts toadminister health care services and cash-benefit programs. Yet, while Maximus's call centeremployees work with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the Centers forDisease Control and Prevention (CDC), and state governments across the country to mitigate theimpact of the COVID-19 outbreak and to relay CDC guidance to concerned callers, they arethemselves asked to work in an environment that fails to adhere to CDC guidance.Specifically, we are concerned by recent reports that Maximus held a training for 70 employeesin a facility that was not large enough to allow for social distancing. Allegedly, attendees wereprovided a single bottle of sanitizer to share, and were asked to sanitize their workstationsthemselves. Outside the training, Maximus call center employees have reportedly been asked towork in close proximity to one another, at times even having to share desks and equipment.The working environment has led to the closure of several of their call centers for suspected orconfirmed coronavirus outbreaks. In light of these closures, it is even more concerning thatMaximus has yet to create a telework infrastructure to allow all workers to perform their jobssafely at home. Adding to our concern is Maximus's paid sick leave policy, which leavesapproval to management's discretion, and does not provide paid leave to many workers when aworksite is closed due to a COVID-19 outbreak. We are also concerned that, at some of its callcenters, Maximus has implemented premium pay that is contingent on working a minimumnumber of hours each week. Accessing that pay increase may create a financial incentive forworkers to come to work while sick--thus increasing the risk of workplace transmission.The concerns raised in this letter reflect the concerns of many Maximus employees. Weunderstand that the call centers that Maximus operates are critical to the health and safety ofmillions of American families. It is equally critical that the health and safety of Maximus's callCompany communication to employees in Phoenix on April 8, 2020. On file at CWA.center employees remain paramount.We ask that you provide a written response to the concerns raised in this letter, and to thequestions listed below, no later than May 20.* Will senior leadership at Maximus agree to meet with the workers' organizing committeeto address concerns around workplace safety?* What steps has Maximus taken to ensure its workers are able to maintain socialdistancing while at work?* What is the timeline for Maximus creating a telework infrastructure to allow its workersto work remotely?* Will Maximus provide premium pay to all of its workers, not just those who meet thethreshold of hours worked?