National Women's History Month


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, this Women's History Month, we have the  opportunity to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the ratification of  the 19th Amendment of the Constitution, which gave women the right to  vote. 

  We recognize the countless women who have put their own safety and  comfort on the line in order to make this country more just,  democratic, and inclusive. These include heroes like Margaret Brent, a  daughter of Maryland who was the first to demand a vote for women in  the colonial legislature, and Sojourner Truth, who advocated for a more  diverse and intersectional women's suffrage movement. Thanks to their  bravery and that of many other activists, our Nation witnessed the  largest expansion of suffrage in its history. 

  A century later, we ought to celebrate that monumental achievement.  The ability to vote has empowered women to demand a government that  represents them and their interests, and they have taken their power  seriously. Women have voted in higher numbers than men in every  national election for the last 55 years. In 2018, we saw the results  that can happen when women raise their voices and fight for a more  inclusive democracy as a record 117 women won elections to Congress  across the United States. 

  We cannot overstate how dramatically the adoption of the 19th  Amendment has changed our country for the better, but it is also  incumbent upon us to take stock of the progress that still needs to be  made. 

  Just a few years after women won the right to vote, a suffragette  named Alice Paul introduced another critically important constitutional  amendment, one that would go even further in guaranteeing the equal  status of women. It was called the Equal Rights Amendment, or the ERA,  which reads as follows: ``Equality of rights under the law shall not be  denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of  sex.'' That is it. It is just 24 words. Yet those 24 words have the  power to correct a 250-year silence in our Constitution when it comes  to recognizing and protecting women's equality. 

  The ERA was ratified by the U.S. Congress in 1972, and with  Virginia's ratification this past January, enough States have adopted  the amendment to meet the threshold for it to be added to the  Constitution. So what is the holdup? Why isn't it a part of the  Constitution yet? When Congress ratified the Equal Rights Amendment, it  imposed a deadline for State legislatures to ratify. That deadline has  passed. 

  There should never be a deadline on equality. The Constitution does  not call for time limits for the ratification of amendments, and there  is precedent for amendments being added to the Constitution as many as  200 years after having first been proposed. 

  Most importantly, just as Congress had the power to impose and extend  the deadline by resolution, we have the power to remove it through the  same means. That is why I have introduced a resolution with Senator  Murkowski to remove the ratification deadline for the Equal Rights  Amendment. Representative Jackie Speier introduced a companion  resolution that has already been passed by the House of  Representatives. We are closer than ever to making the Equal Rights  Amendment a reality. 

  This measure has historically enjoyed bipartisan support. The vast  majority of Americans--94 percent of them--is in favor of a  constitutional equality amendment. Perhaps it is because they  understand that this is an issue not of politics but of basic human  rights. If you have any doubt about that, just look at the rest of the  modern world. Every constitution written around the globe since World  War II recognizes the equal stature of men and women. Ours does not.  That is shameful. 

  Among those who are hesitant to support the ERA, one of their most  common arguments is that it is not necessary. People argue that women  already enjoy equal rights and protections in our society, so what is  the need to write it down? To them, I say think again. Although the  wage gap between men and women has narrowed over time, it still exists  today. In 2019, women earned only 79 percent as much as their male  counterparts for similar work. This disparity is even worse for women  of color. It affects women their entire lives, and it affects their  retirements. Recent data show that women over 65 are twice as likely as  men to live below the poverty line. We owe it to America's women--to  our mothers, daughters, sisters, friends, and selves--to remedy this  societal failure. 

  Furthermore, as it stands, women in the United States have no Federal  recourse for gender-based violence. Because of that, the courts have  allowed police officers to refuse to defend victims of domestic abuse  and have even struck down the protections offered by the Violence  Against Women Act. The Equal Rights Amendment would require the Federal  Government to prohibit and penalize this type of discrimination. 

  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg once said that, if she could choose an  amendment to add to the Constitution, it would be the Equal Rights  Amendment because she would like her granddaughters, when they pick up  the Constitution, to see that notion--that women and men are persons of  equal stature--as being a basic principle of our society. As a  grandfather of two granddaughters myself, I couldn't agree more. I want  them to know that, in America, they will enjoy the same protections and  opportunities as anyone else. 

  I want every young person to grow up understanding that her dreams  are within reach, that her autonomy is respected, and that her life is  significant. In order to make that a reality, women need more than the  right to vote, as fundamental as that is; they need a promise that they  will be free from all forms of discrimination and injustice. That is  why men, women, Republicans, and Democrats must come together in order  to correct that silence in our Constitution--a silence that speaks  volumes. We must all unite to support the Equal Rights Amendment. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT