National Public Works Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I am pleased that earlier this week the  Senate passed S. Res. 586, a bipartisan resolution designating this  week National Public Works Week. National Public Works Week celebrates  the profound impact our public works professionals have on our safety  and quality of life. Public works are the shared assets that make up  the backbone of our Nation. Public service professionals build, manage  and operate our nation's most essential services. 

  Many of us take for granted work that goes into the services we rely  on every day. This week provides an opportunity to reflect on the men  and women behind those services. Let us consider the way our daily life  is powered by public service professionals: We wake up in the morning  to turn the tap on and expect water to come out. We place our trash  bins on the street and expect it is collected in timely manner. Some of  us may drive over bridges built to last generations and follow traffic  signals that were carefully planned to keep us safe. 

  The work of public service professionals has a tangible impact on our  lives every single day. Consider the employee who replaced the aging  pipe that brings water to your home or the scientist that ensured that  water is safe to drink. Consider also the sanitation worker who keeps  your street clean and healthy. We can also think of the engineer who  designed the bridge and the construction worker who started the workday  before dawn to ensure the construction minimally impacted your routine.  National Public Works Week gives us a formal opportunity to humanize  these services and say thank you to the people working behind the  scenes to keep our communities running. 

  There is no more important time than now to recognize these  individuals. The COVID-19 pandemic has challenged our communities in  ways previously unimaginable. However, we can count on public works  employees to rise to the occasion. Public works employees are often on  the frontlines, risking their own health to ensure that services are  delivered. While much of public life has come to a standstill, the  rhythm of public services continues. Water mains break and require  repair and garbage must still be collected. 

  The pandemic has thrust millions of Americans into financial  uncertainty, unsure how they will pay for basic services. Many public  works agencies, like the Baltimore Department of Public Works are  continuing to offer discounted water rates as the pandemic continues. 

  Public works also offer hope for our Nation's economic recovery. From  the Great Depression came a formative era in the history of public  works in America. President Franklin D. Roosevelt understood the power  of transformative projects to jumpstart America's economy and provide a  higher quality life than previously known. The New Deal made an  indelible impact on the structure of our government and trajectory of  America's financial recovery. The projects themselves now stand as a  physical representation of our young Nation's capacity to overcome  adversity with ingenuity and grit. 

  The economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our Nation is  profound. However, our Nation is ripe for investment in public works  projects that will put people back to work and stimulate our economy,  as was done with the New Deal. As the ranking member of the  Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee of the Senate Committee  on Environment and Public Works, I understand the urgent need to  address our Nation's aging infrastructure. That is why I am proud that  the Committee reported favorably, on a bipartisan basis, a surface  transportation reauthorization bill last year, America's Transportation  Infrastructure Act, S. 2303, which authorizes billions of dollars to  State and local governments to invest in roads, bridges, and highways,  and why I hope my colleagues in the Senate will come together and  follow through with important infrastructure legislation. There is no  better time than now to invest in our Nation's infrastructure and  employ a new class of public works professionals. Public works are  central to the American story of resiliency and fortitude, even in the  face of despair. This week, and always, we should look to public works  professionals with gratitude for their contributions to our lives.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT