National Police Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I rise today to honor the bravery and  dedication of our Nation's law enforcement personnel. Even under normal  circumstances, police officers put their lives on the line every day to  defend our communities; now, as our country struggles through an  unprecedented public health crisis, policemen and women are taking on  even more personal risk to keep Americans safe. They deserve our  wholehearted gratitude and respect. 

  I am proud to cosponsor Senator Feinstein and Senator Graham's  resolution designating May 10 through May 16 as National Police Week  and emphasizing our support for the law enforcement officers across the  United States who work to preserve our safety and security. The  resolution also pays respect to the many police officers who  tragically fell in the line of duty in the last year, including Officer  Kyle David Olinger of the Montgomery County, MD, Police Department. 

  Officer Olinger served with the Montgomery County Police Department  for 2 years and had previously served with the Reading Police  Department for 6 years. On April 18, 2019, Officer Olinger succumbed to  complications of a gunshot wound he sustained on August 13, 2003, while  making a traffic stop at the intersection of Second Avenue and Spring  Street in Silver Spring. He observed one of the passengers in vehicle  attempting to conceal a handgun underneath the seat. He ordered the man  to drop the weapon before a struggle ensued. The man shot Officer  Olinger in the neck, injuring his spinal column. The subject and the  three other occupants drove away but were all apprehended a short time  later. The man who shot him was convicted of attempted murder and  subsequently sentenced to life in prison. Officer Olinger was paralyzed  below his chest because of the shooting. He was married and had two  sons. We will not forget his courage and the courage of his brothers  and sisters on the force. 

  Police officers around the country have devoted their lives to  protecting us, and we must do everything within our power to protect  them, too. During the COVID-19 pandemic, that means ensuring that all  law enforcement officers have the equipment, training, and resources  they need to stay safe while they continue their duties. Even though  there is an extremely contagious and dangerous virus spreading all over  the U.S., police forces cannot simply stop responding to crimes and  emergencies. Policewomen and men, like healthcare providers and other  essential workers, face a higher risk of contracting the coronavirus so  that the rest of us can be safe and healthy. As of May 11, 2020, 101  officers have died from COVID-19. The least we can do is try to  mitigate the risk that they face and save as many law enforcement lives  as possible. 

  There are concrete steps that we can and must take to safeguard our  Nation's police officers during this epidemic. First and foremost, it  is critical that we make the required personal protective equipment-- PPE--and testing universally available to the police. I have heard  heartwarming stories about communities in Maryland donating PPE to  their local police stations, but the bottom line is that public  citizens should not need to take on that responsibility. The government  should ensure that law enforcement agencies have the tools and  equipment they need to perform their duties safely, especially during a  period of increased risk like this one. I hope that we will  significantly expand funding to State and local governments in upcoming  coronavirus legislation so that they have the means to do so. 

  Unfortunately, even with added protective measures, there will still  be law enforcement officers who contract COVID-19 in the line of duty.  We owe those brave men and women support to recover medically and  financially from this disease. That means that we need to make workers  compensation and comprehensive healthcare, both physical and mental,  fully accessible to police officers and men whom COVID-19 has affected.  We also need to recognize that serving as a police officer is much more  dangerous now than it was 6 months ago, and it should be compensated  accordingly; law enforcement officers deserve hazard pay for putting  themselves in harm's way during this pandemic in order to keep our  communities safe. 

  Of course, we need to work not just during National Police Week and  not just during this health crisis but year-round to show law  enforcement officers our gratitude. We must do everything we can to  protect them in the line of duty and care for them when their service  causes them harm. I will continue fighting to support the heroes who  bravely risk their own security to make this country a safer place for  all of us. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT