Senate Resolution 569--Expressing the Sense of the Senate That, During Public Service Recognition Week, Public Servants Should Be Commended for Their Dedication and Continued Service to the United States


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, in honor of Public Service Recognition  Week, I rise to express my gratitude and appreciation for the millions  of men and women who serve as Federal, State, county, and local  government employees across the United States of America. Since 1985,  Public Service Recognition Week has brought communities together to  give tribute to our Nation's public servants on the first week of May.  I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the annual Senate resolution marking  this occasion each year, and I thank Senators Sinema and Lankford for  their leadership in introducing this year's edition, which the Senate  will pass momentarily. 

  We must never take for granted that public servants are committed to  serving the public. In a time of unprecedented crisis, with millions  working from home and the real risk of falling victim to disease by  going into the workplace, public servants work for us. In more ordinary  times, with people less concerned but still dependent on essential  public goods such as clean water, schools, and a safe community, public  servants work for us. The COVID-19 pandemic only makes more apparent  what has always been true: we owe so much, from the daily operations of  our society to the rapid relief to emergencies, to the men and women  who form our public service. 

  Now more than ever, public servants are working on the front lines,  often times potentially putting themselves at risk, to continue those  daily operations of our society and provide critical rapid relief to  this immense national crisis. At the Federal level, they have dutifully  taken on the responsibilities charged upon them by Congress through the  CARES Act. Thousands of workers at the Department of Treasury and Small  Business Administration, making due with insufficient staff and  resources, are playing an instrumental role in responding to the  economic downturn by distributing billions of dollars in stimulus  payments to individuals and loans to small businesses. At the state  level, workers of State unemployment insurance agencies now face truly  historic demands of their abilities as the unemployment rate approaches  levels not seen since the end of the Second World War. Despite the  stress, despite the technical challenges, and indeed despite the system  infrastructure that makes it exceedingly difficult for applicants to  receive benefits in the first place, these workers are doing everything  they can to make the system work for people. And at the county and  local levels, public servants are striving to ensure compliance with  special quarantine orders and offering testing and other emergency  services. 

  The United States will undoubtedly overcome this pandemic. But we  must recognize that it would not happen without our public servants. We  have the example of Nancy Sullivan, resident of Bethesda, Maryland and  an employee at the National Institutes of Health, honored this year as  a finalist for the Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medals for  developing a highly effective medical treatment for the deadly Ebola  virus that ravaged Africa between 2014 and 2016. I have no doubt that  we today enjoy the service of brave public servants who will contribute  similarly in finding a breakthrough for COVID-19. Or for that matter,  the innumerable public servants across our Nation, across countless  fields and areas of expertise, from senior executives to call center  workers, each in their own way working for the public interest of  America. 

  Public Service Recognition Week therefore bears a special  significance in 2020. It is my hope that amidst the pandemic, we are  able to reflect on the absolutely essential role our public servants  play, and that this does not go forgotten once we emerge from this  crisis. The men and women who make up our public service are fighting  for us every day, just as they were before the crisis, and just as they  will be afterward. Either we can take their work for granted or,  perhaps, we can remember to fight for them, too.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT