SFRC Dems Raise Alarm in New Letter to Sec. Pompeo amid Surge in Reports of Americans Stranded Abroad by Coronavirus


Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.) today joined Ranking Member Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) and Senate Foreign Relations Committee Democrats in sending a letter to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo raising serious concerns about Americans struggling to return home after being stranded abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Requesting the Secretary immediately update Congress and step up efforts to assist Americans stuck in pandemic-affected countries, the Senators' letter follows a substantial increase in calls for help from constituents and concerned families who have reported they are unable to secure flights home to the U.S., and in some cases, have had difficulty contacting U.S. Embassies.

"Providing support and assistance to Americans abroad and ensuring their safety and wellbeing are among the Department's most fundamental responsibilities," wrote the senators, citing particular concern with Americans in Honduras, Morocco, Peru, and Tunisia that have recently reported they are encountering major difficulties in obtaining support from U.S. Embassies and consulates.

Additional signatories included Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), and Cory Booker (D-N.J.).

"Americans overseas should have full confidence that the State Department will support them when abroad and facilitate their efforts to return to the United States if they are seeking to evacuate from areas affected by COVID-19," added the Senators. With an increase in flight cutbacks and travel restrictions across the world in response to the coronavirus, a state department spokesperson reportedly told a reporter that Americans shouldn't count on the U.S. government to get them home.

The Senators asked Secretary Pompeo to provide a detailed description of all efforts he is currently taking to help facilitate the safe return of American citizens, including clarification on conflicting reports surrounding the State Department offering charter flights and existing travel advisories that don't seem to account for the spread of coronavirus. They also requested the Department notify Congress immediately if additional resources or authorities are needed.

"We recognize these are extraordinary times for the nation and the world. Yet this crisis calls for creative measures. We look forward to an immediate briefing on all steps the Department is taking, including working with foreign governments, commercial airlines, U.S. military, and other agencies to ensure that every American can be safely returned home. If the Department needs additional tools or resources to facilitate these returns, we request you inform Congress immediately," concluded the Senators.