The Clean Economy Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I rise to discuss solutions to the  climate crisis, which threatens the health and well-being of my  constituents in Maryland and Americans across the Nation. 

  The urgency of climate change asks us to be our most cooperative and  collaborative selves and to seek policy solutions that far outlast our  legacies in office. As the threat of climate change becomes more and  more visible to the American public, people are demanding action from  their Federal Government. This year, we have seen an unprecedented  level of interest from Americans of all ages and walks of life on real  solutions to this complex problem. A variety of comprehensive solutions  have been proposed, some that represent a departure from how the  Federal Government has addressed climate change in the past, while  others utilize existing Federal frameworks to drive climate action. 

  History tells us that our Federal agencies have an incredible  capacity to evolve to meet the threats of their time. In previous  administrations, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has been a  dynamic steward of domestic environmental law throughout the last half- century and is well-practiced in addressing environmental concerns as  they emerge. Unfortunately, Congress and the President have failed to  provide the EPA with the direction and funding it needs to address the  issue of climate change in earnest. I support Senator Carper's Clean  Economy Act for this very reason. The Clean Economy Act understands  that the EPA lies at the center of America's climate future and  empowers it to address climate change proactively. 

  The Clean Economy Act provides the agency with the clear goal of net- zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 to match the urgency to reduce  warming global temperatures. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate  Change's--IPCC--October 2018 Special Report on climate warns that  warming above 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels will have  a catastrophic impact on our global systems. The United States reaching  net-zero is an essential component to keep global temperature warming  below the 1.5 degrees Celsius cap. 

  Many of this administration's nominees are fond of pointing out that  they are not scientists, implying that they are not qualified to make  decisions related to climate change. I will point out that most of us  are not economists  either, but that doesn't stop us from making decisions that affect the  economy. We have a responsibility to make informed decisions affecting  our climate, environment, and natural resources, which are at the heart  of our ability to maintain a healthy sustainable economy. There are  some tough decisions to make in the face of climate change that  reasonable people will disagree about, but the basic science should not  be ignored. Whether to accept the facts of the matter should not be a  partisan debate. 

  Fortunately, the IPCC, to which the U.S. Government and scientific  community is a leading contributor, continues to provide a well- documented guide for what we need to do to respond to the climate  crisis. According to the IPCC's landmark Special Report on Global  Warming of 1.5 deg.C, the model pathways that would enable us to limit  global warming to the critical benchmark of 1.5 deg.C above pre- industrial levels reach net zero global net anthropogenic CO2 emissions  by approximately 2050.This bill is based on the science that  demonstrates the importance and value of reaching net-zero greenhouse  gas emissions by not later than 2050. 

  We can do this, and making the necessary investments to do so will  strengthen our economy, create jobs, and protect our public health and  national security. The most expensive and unrealistic course of action  is to ignore the mounting costs of climate change and fail to respond. 

  The legislation ensures that the EPA's plan incorporates greenhouse  gas reduction, while expanding opportunities for the U.S. labor force.  After all, any conversation about a new U.S. energy future without the  participation of working people is incomplete. The Clean Economy Act  ensures the EPA has the power to invest in the development and  deployment of low- and zero-greenhouse gas emitting technologies and  that the U.S. workforce reaps the benefits of an equitable transition  away from fossil fuels. The support of the Blue Green Alliance, a  coalition of labor unions like the United Steelworkers and the Utility  Workers Union of America and environmental organizations like the  League of Conservation Voters and Natural Resources Defense Council  demonstrates that a diverse collection of interests see a net-zero  future for our country. 

  This legislation builds off bipartisan progress we have made this  Congress using existing Federal frameworks to reduce emissions and  prepare for the effects of climate change that are already here. In  November 2018, the Fourth National Climate Assessment concluded that  climate change is affecting the natural environment, agriculture,  energy production and use, land and water resources, transportation,  and human health and welfare across the U.S. and its territories.'' The  Senate Environment and Public Works Committee favorably reported the  American's Transportation Infrastructure Act in July 2019 that for the  first time included a Climate Title. The Federal assistance in it will  help the transportation sector lower emissions through infrastructure  for electric and alternatively fueled vehicles. The bill also supports  States and local agencies preparing our Nation's roads and bridges to  withstand climate impacts. 

  I encourage my colleagues across committees to work together to enact  both pieces of legislation to prepare all sectors of the clean economy  for the climate reality before us today. 

  One of the most critical climate change impacts that we must take  immediate action on is the threat to our water infrastructure. This  week, GAO is releasing a report on water infrastructure and climate  change in response to a request I made with my colleague Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island. We asked the GAO to study what is  known about the effects of climate change on the Nation's domestic  water systems and the potential fiscal risks posed by those effects and  evaluate Federal actions that may be taken to reduce such risks. 

  Therein, EPA estimates that drinking water and wastewater utilities  need to invest almost $744 billion to repair and replace their existing  infrastructure over the next 20 years. GAO finds climate change is  increasing these costs. In 2017, it cost the Federal Government over  $300 billion to repair damage resulting from climate- and weather- related events, including damage to drinking water and wastewater  infrastructure, according to NOAA. 

  The faster we act to make our water infrastructure resilient to  climate change impacts, as well as address the root cause of climate  change through legislation such as the Clean Economy Act, the better we  can reduce the risks and control the costs. Our drinking water and  wastewater treatment systems are at great risk from climate change  impacts such as heavy rainfall, sea level rise, and flooding that local  managers are experiencing today. 

  The GAO report shows a path toward minimizing future damage. This  study documents the need for the Federal Government to work with States  and local utilities to strengthen the resilience of water  infrastructure to climate impacts and makes practical suggestions that  we should implement immediately through incorporating climate effects  into infrastructure planning and providing enhanced technical and  financial assistance. 

  My colleague Senator Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and I  introduced S. 2636, the Clean Water Infrastructure Resilience and  Sustainability Act to prepare our publicly owned wastewater treatment  facilities for the impacts of climate change. These efforts will work  in tandem with the goals of the Clean Economy Act to seek net-zero  emissions while preventing further damage to our national  infrastructure by the extreme weather events we are already seeing. 

  The Clean Economy Act directs the EPA to coordinate with other  Federal agencies to encourage the restoration of ecosystems such as  forests and wetlands that sequester carbon and improve climate  resilience, particularly on Federal and Tribal land. 

  The fight to reduce the greenhouse gases that cause climate change is  not unlike the challenge we face in cleaning up and restoring water  quality in the Chesapeake Bay and its rivers and streams. Many of the  solutions, such as restoring natural carbons sinks like wetlands, are  the same. Wetlands act like natural sponges, storing excess carbon in  soils, as well as soaking up stormwater and trapping pollutants before  they reach rivers, streams, and the Chesapeake Bay. 

  The original Chesapeake Bay Agreement was a simple, one-page pledge  signed in 1983 recognizing that a cooperative approach was necessary to  address the bay's pollution problems. The 1987 Chesapeake Bay Agreement  set the first numeric goals to reduce pollution and restore the bay  ecosystem. Today, the EPA-led Chesapeake Bay Program partnership  engages dozens of agencies and organizations in the effort to restore  the bay and its rivers. I am encouraged to see a number of the agencies  named in section 2 of the Clean Economy Act are Federal agency  partners, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration--NOAA--U.S. Department of Defense--DOD--and U.S.  Department of the Interior--DOI. 

  This body recently unanimously passed proposals I authored that will  benefit the Chesapeake Bay watershed and wetlands nationwide. Foremost  was a provision increasing the EPA Chesapeake Bay Program  Reauthorization to a historic $92 million. The bills were part of a  bipartisan package of wildlife conservation legislation, the America's  Conservation Enhancement--ACE--Act. The ACE Act served as a substitute  amendment for the North America Wetlands Conservation Extension Act-- NAWCA--which provides grants to protect wetlands. 

  We have demonstrated our ability to respond legislatively to  challenges that seemed insurmountable 30 years ago. I urge all of my  colleagues to cosponsor this new consensus bill.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT