Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, let me just clarify some of the issues the  majority leader pointed out. I am afraid that this unanimous consent is  basically a political stunt because it will not address the immediate  need of small businesses in the legislation that we have passed, and  let me clarify that. 

  The majority leader indicated that the PPP, the Paycheck Protection  Plan, is running out of money. It hasn't. Thirty percent hasn't been  committed. It hasn't been yet released. But there are programs under  the CARES Act that have run out of money. The EIDL program, the  emergency disaster relief loan program which provides funds for  businesses--we have allowed businesses that have been affected by the  coronavirus to file those claims--that has run out of money, and I will  give you the numbers in a few moments. And the grant program that is  included in the CARES at up to $10,000, where a small business can get  a grant from the Small Business Administration, is out of funds. They  need money today in order to process applications. 

  The SBA doesn't need money today to process the Paycheck Protection  Program. The Paycheck Protection Program was negotiated in good faith  by Senator Rubio, Senator Collins, Senator Shaheen, and myself, and we  are very proud of that program. It is working very well. It is a good  program. We strongly support it. It is bipartisan. 

  But this unanimous consent request was not negotiated. There was no  effort made to follow the process that we could get this done, so it  won't get done. It is not going to be enacted, and the majority leader  knows that. So what Democrats are prepared to make clear--every small  business that is eligible to receive the Paycheck Protection Plan, we  are going to support their applications being received, processed, and  fully funded. We will put as much money as needed to make sure that  every small business can participate that is eligible in that program.  The UC does not affect that today, but what the UC leaves out is where  small businesses need help today from the U.S. Congress. 

  Yesterday, we had an opportunity to find out the numbers--and as the  majority leader pointed out, we have got to get this right. There are  6.6 million more uninsured today, as we learned from the current  numbers. We have to protect small businesses to protect their payroll,  and that is what our plans do. 

  Yesterday, we were informed by the SBA, as the majority leader  indicated, that we have about $100 billion that has been processed.  Now, that has not been distributed yesterday. It hasn't been  distributed in large numbers because of documentation problems and know  your customer rules have prevented some of these funds--a lot of these  funds, the majority of these funds--to be released. 

  Today, applications are being processed. Tomorrow, applications are  going to be processed. The day after that, applications are going to be  processed because we provided $350 billion. At this moment, we are at  about $100 billion. We are going to have to probably provide more  money, and we are all for that. 

  But where is the urgency, as far as the small businesses are  concerned? So let me go over those. One, the emergency grant program-- this is a program where grants are offered by the Small Business  Administration. You don't have to have a banking relationship with a  commercial bank in order to get these loans. It is very, very popular-- 3.8 million requests have come in, in regards to these loans--3.8  million, representing $372 billion of loans. 

  But here is the problem: We have only authorized $7.3 billion of  loans under the program. That is why we are suggesting, if you add  another $50 billion--you can authorize another $300 billion of loans  under the emergency disaster relief program. Today, if you have  requested that loan today and you requested the average amount that is  being requested--and you have to show need in this program--you have  got to document the need that the disaster has affected your viability  as a business. The average loan is $200,000. That is what they are  requesting. 

  Guess how much money the SBA can issue today? It is $15,000. That is  an urgent need that we should deal with today, and we are prepared to  deal with it. There is a second program for small--by the way, smaller  businesses participate in these programs more so than the PPP program. 

  There is a second program. It is a grant program up to $10,000. Our  working bipartisan group recognized that there are some businesses that  are in desperate need of cash immediately. These loans are processed  within 3 days. We have had--so far requests for the grant program, 3.5  million small businesses have requested funds, totaling a request for  $11 billion on a sliding scale. It doesn't even give every small  business $10,000. 

  How much money did we appropriate? $10 billion. SBA cannot release  those funds in 3 days because they don't have the money to do it. The  UC by the majority leader does not provide that money so that those  small businesses can get that cash. That is not provided.  

  Now, we got that information yesterday, and maybe the majority leader  didn't have it, but we can tell you they can't issue those grants, and  that is under the CARES Act, and that is out of money. 

  I am also going to tell you some stories we have heard in Maryland,  and we have heard it all over the country. I have heard from small  businesses that went to their bank in order to participate in the PPP  loan, and they were told that they didn't have a credit card, so the  bank wasn't going to write the loan, or they hadn't had a previous loan  with that bank, so the bank is not going to write the loan. 

  We have heard from some community banks that they can only handle  existing customers; they can't do additional customers at this point.  We have heard from rural small businesses; they can't find lenders who  will write these notes. We have to do a better job. 

  What did we find out yesterday? Of the total 7(a) lenders that are  out there today, about 90 percent were certified before the CARES Act.  We have only increased their numbers by about 10 percent. That is not  enough. We can't reach these underserved communities. We have to do a  better job in reaching these underserved communities so that a small  business that doesn't have that type of relationship with a bank can  still participate in the Paycheck Protection Plan. This UC does nothing  at all about that issue--nothing at all about that. 

  The urgent issues are not dealt with in this UC. That is why the  process of negotiating--allowing us to come together and figure out  what is the best way to move forward--will result in us actually  getting something done to help the small business community. There are  other urgent needs. My colleague, Senator Van Hollen, is going to talk  about some of these. 

  The healthcare issues, my colleague and I have participated in  numerous conference calls over the last 2 weeks. I am sure my other  colleagues have done the same. We have heard from our healthcare  providers, that they are ready to close the doors. They need immediate  help and a lot more than the $100 billion that has been provided. 

  We talked to our Governor yesterday. He is the head of the National  Governors Association. They requested $500 billion. They need money.  Their revenues are down. We know we didn't do right for the District of  Columbia. We know we didn't do right for smaller communities. We need  to correct that now because they can't stay in business today. It is  urgent, and the UC does nothing to help in that regard. 

  So, Mr. President, if I could, I would like to allow my colleague  from Maryland, whom I believe has a reservation also, and then he has a  UC request of his own. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT