Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, let me thank Leader Schumer for  initiating this discussion. I am very pleased Senator Shaheen is also  on the floor. The two of us worked on the Democratic side, with Senator  Rubio and Senator Collins on the Republican side. We are very proud of  the tools we made available to small business. These are important  tools to keep small businesses alive during COVID-19. 

  The Paycheck Protection Program got money out quickly and helped  small businesses stay afloat. We have provided $660 billion under the  Paycheck Protection Program. The economic disaster loan program, the  loan and grant program--we have now provided $70 billion for that  program. But here is the issue. We had to adjust both of those programs  without even knowing all the specifics on how the first amount of money  was distributed. We are hearing that we are going to be running out of  money again soon and that Congress is going to be asked to make  additional changes in these programs, and we still don't know the  specifics on how this money was distributed. 

  We are all frustrated here. I really appreciate the leadership. I  know my chairman is on the floor. He has been demanding this  information and has been unable to get it. We are going to be asked to  act again without having the specific information. 

  Senator Schumer is absolutely right. We know in the first round that  those who had preferred relationships with banking institutions got  priority. That we know. But we don't know how much. We don't know how  many loans the big banks have issued and what size they have issued,  what their compensation has been, and how those loan decisions were  made. We need to know that because we are relying on the private  banking institutions to make the 7(a) loans in all communities. 

  We expanded this program to nonprofits. That was a good thing. But we  don't know how many of the nonprofits have received help under this  program--the specific dollar amounts, the specific loans, the specific  locations. 

  Here is the challenge. I got a call yesterday where they wanted to  expand eligibility under this program. We know there are some  difficulties in the programs themselves that need attention. There is  now a desire to expand eligibility. They are also being asked what  comes next. 

  Restaurants are still ordered to be closed in my State. They are  going to need additional help. How do we go about crafting what we need  to do if we don't know what has been done already? 

  We have been asking for this information over and over again. We  haven't been able to get it. It is our responsibility to oversight  these programs. 

  Now I am quoting from my chairman. He said--and I agree with him--it  is our responsibility to oversight. But if we don't have the  information, how can we oversight? I am concerned about underbanked and  underserved communities getting their fair share of this help, and yet  we don't have the specifics on the number of minority small businesses,  the number of women-owned small businesses, the number of veteran-owned  small businesses. We don't know about rural small businesses and how  well they have done. 

  We need to have that information in order to make the next judgments  in this Congress. And yes, we do need transparency because we have even  heard from this administration that there may very well have been small  businesses that didn't qualify for this loan that have gotten help or  had their own ability to handle this crisis but yet still asked the  government for these funds or may have violated the size standards that  are in this legislation. 

  We need to have that transparency for oversight. It is our  responsibility. That is why we do need to act as a Senate. The  legislation that we are going to bring forward is very common sense. It  just tells the Small Business Administration to make available the  information on the PPP loans, on the EIDL loans and grants, so that we  can analyze this, know how these loans have been made and make the  proper oversight and adjustment that we may need to make in these  programs in order to make sure small businesses get through COVID-19. 

  I urge my colleagues, let's get this done and continue to work in a  bipartisan way to make sure small businesses in this country are  protected. 

  I see Senator Shaheen is on the floor. I will yield the floor so  Senator Shaheen can be recognized 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT