Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 1


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I want to thank Senator Udall for his  leadership on the For the People Act, and I want to thank Senator  Merkley for his leadership on this bill. 

  This bill contains many provisions that deal with the fundamental  values of this country. I also am proud of my colleague in the House of  Representatives, Congressman Sarbanes, who is the lead sponsor of H.R.  1, which is the For the People Act. It passed the House of  Representatives over a year ago, and there has been no action on the  floor of the Senate as a result of the majority leader's decision not  to bring these bills to the floor. 

  As I said, it includes a lot of different bills that all deal with  America's values. These are the values that are the strength of this  Nation--free and fair elections. That is what we promote globally  because we know that is key to a stable democratic society. Yet when  you look at the way we conduct elections in this country, we are not  setting a very high example. Look at how much money is involved in  elections in this country. From the President of the United States to  our local offices, too much money speaks to who is going to be able to  get the attention of the voters. We need to change that. 

  We know that suppression of voters has been institutionalized as a  strategy to win office. That should have no place in America. We should  want the maximum amount of voters to participate in our political  process, not try to prevent people from exercising their right to vote. 

  The For the People Act brings about meaningful change so that  America, which is the shining example of democracy, can lead the world  by the way we conduct our own elections. Let me mention two provisions  that I am particularly pleased are included in the For the People Act.  One is democracy restoration; that is, to allow those who have been  convicted of crime, after they have served their penalty, to be able to  participate in elections. We are one of only a few western democracies  that permanently disenfranchise an individual who has been convicted of  a felony. There are 6.1 million adults who currently are  disenfranchised as a result of that provision, yet only 22 percent of  those individuals are incarcerated. The other 78 percent have paid  their penalty, have done their time, and are now reintegrated into  society. It is in our interest to have them participate in our  democratic system. It reduces recidivism. And, quite frankly, it is  targeted at people of color. They are who have been most  disenfranchised as a result of this provision. Thirty-four States still  have restrictions, and 12 have lifetime restrictions on those convicted  of a felony. The Democracy Restoration Act would remedy that situation. 

  The second bill I am going to refer to very briefly is the Deceptive  Practices and Voter Prevention Act that targets primarily minority  voters to suppress their vote. It is the modern Jim Crow laws in which  we find we are using modern technology. We have campaign strategies  aimed at minority communities to give them misinformation about how  they can vote or whether they are eligible to vote or where they can  vote. That is being used today. We have to make sure that doesn't  happen in the American election system.  

  For the People provides meaningful changes so that we don't allow  suppression of votes to be an institutionalized strategy to try to win  an election, so that we have the maximum participation of voters in our  process, and it deals with the ever-flowing increase in the amount of  dollars that are put into American elections. 

  The U.S. Senate should not be a graveyard. Majority Leader McConnell  has prevented hundreds of bills--bipartisan bills--from coming to the  floor of the U.S. Senate. It has been a year since we have had the For  the People Act passed by the House of Representatives. It is well past  time for the Senate to take up this legislation so that we can show the  American people we support the values that have made America the great  democracy in our country. 

  Thank you very much. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT