Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I am sure all of us are hearing a common  question from our constituents, and that is, As we are starting to  reopen our States, is it safe? Does our State have all it needs to  safely reopen? It is now clear, as 50 States are starting to reopen,  that they are doing so without having a vaccine in place--because a  vaccine, at the earliest, will be available next year--and without  therapeutic drugs that can minimize the healthcare risk of COVID-19. We  are starting to reopen. So the question is: How do we safely reopen? 

  Yes, we have the CDC guidelines, and we should be looking at the  number of new infections in our States, at the number of deaths, and at  the number of hospitalizations and be on a trend line that shows that  the virus is under control before we reopen. Yet then there is a second  element to safely reopening, and that is having adequate testing  available in our communities. We need to have adequate testing so that  we know where the COVID-19 virus is at any given time and so that we  can trace those who come down with new infections in order that we  don't have a massive communal spread of COVID-19, which would cause a  second wave of misery for our communities and for our Nation. 

  So these questions are being asked of me by people in Maryland: Can  we safely reopen our businesses, and how will we go about doing that?  Can we send our children to school? How about summer activities for our  children? How about reopening places of worship? 

  In each one of these cases, they have to be able to know whether  there is an infection in their places of business, in their schools,  and in their places of worship. That requires testing. The challenge  today is that we do not have a national strategy on testing. The  Federal Government and the Trump administration have not acted to set  up as to the need. How much testing do we need to have to safely reopen  our communities, and how do we develop that capacity? How do we  determine priorities? 

  I was pleased to see that, in the bill she recently released, Speaker  Pelosi has recognized this and has provided additional Federal support  to establish a national strategy on testing and will implement that  strategy by having an adequate supply so that what we say we can do in  testing, in fact, we can do. 

  Despite the claims of President Trump, the United States does not  lead the world in testing. This has been a failure of the Trump  administration. America is not ahead of the curve in testing. We have a  hard time even justifying being in the middle of the curve. Yet America  usually leads and helps to bend that curve so that we can provide the  global leadership to help all people, including those in the United  States. Instead, under the Trump administration, we have abandoned our  international involvement and U.S. leadership, which is not only  hurting the global effort, it is hurting the American effort. 

  We need a detailed strategy on testing. We need to know that we have  that strategy in place and implement it so that we can reopen safely.  We need to have adequate supplies, and we must reverse the attitude  that we have seen under the Trump administration that each State is on  its own. We need to have a national strategy. 

  Maryland, like many States in the United States, has struggled to  procure all of the components that are needed to perform diagnostic  COVID-19 tests: nasal swabs, viral transport media, and chemical  reagents. A lab must have all components in order to test properly, but  due to unreliable supply chains, States do not have all of the needed  components at one time. For example, a lab may have 8,000 nasal swabs,  6,000 viral transport media, and 2,000 chemical reagents. The amount of  testing that lab can perform is limited to the number of reagents, and  it has to run the diagnostic tests. 

  So, as we look to be able to have the capacity to do what we need, we  need to make sure that we have all three elements that are necessary  for these tests. States' attempts to increase testing have been further  hindered because there has been no action from the Federal Government  to coordinate the supply chain. This week, President Trump announced  that the Federal Government would provide States with 12.9 million  swabs and almost 10 million tubes of viral transport media to help  States test at least 2 percent of their population. That is a first  step, but what about the reagents needed to analyze the patient's viral  sample to determine if she is COVID-19 positive? Again, the States will  be unable to perform substantial testing without all of the components.  The Trump administration must not shirk from its responsibilities and  leave the States to fend for themselves.  

  For example, only the executive branch can solve the underlying  problems of coordination in the supply chain to help States,  businesses, and healthcare providers prepare for and respond to the  trajectory of this pandemic. 

  Testing is critical. In order to reopen businesses and schools, it is  imperative  for States to understand the extent of COVID-19 circulating in their  communities. True testing capacity means the ability to test all  infected people and any close contacts that they may have. 

  One measure of whether the United States has enough testing capacity  is the ratio of tests that come back positive. Roughly 15 percent of  U.S. tests are positive for the virus. The World Health Organization  has stated that a positive rate below 10 percent reflects adequate  testing. If the rate is higher, this means the United States is missing  many active infections. For example, in countries such as South Korea  that have virtually eliminated their coronavirus outbreak, the test- positive rates are below 2 percent. 

  For the past 7 days, the United States has averaged around 291,000  tests performed each day, for a total of 9.3 million tests performed to  date. Many public health experts estimate that the United States would  need to double or triple that number of tests performed each day to  ensure that the country can effectively test people with symptoms and  their close contacts and conduct ongoing surveillance to detect new  clusters of infection. 

  The lack of any Federal plan not only mars the Nation's public health  response but also hinders any economic recovery. The unemployment rate  has surged to a level unseen since the Great Depression, the Labor  Department announced last Friday. Only about one-half of American  adults have a job, the lowest number of the population employed since  measurements began in 1948. 

  Data shows that the economic turmoil is driven not primarily by State  and local governments' shelter-in-place policies but by Americans'  fears that going outside would result in illness. Weekly surveys of  thousands of Americans by the Democracy Fund and UCLA Nationscape  project have found that a majority of Americans will not eat in a  restaurant, go to the movies, or return to a shopping mall even if they  were told they could. Our concern is that the Federal Government must  partner with the States to increase this country's testing capacity in  order to not only be able to reopen our economy safely but also to have  Americans feel safe again. 

  How do we do this? Well, we first need a national strategy on testing  so that we can reopen safely. To date, we still do not have that. We  need the protocols for testing. Yes, we do test people who have  symptoms, but we also have to have enough testing done so that we know  where the virus is in our community, because many people do not have  symptoms and are infected by COVID-19. 

  We need to have a national supply chain of the supplies necessary to  conduct these tests. We need a game plan to get there. Yes, the Defense  Production Act was passed by Congress for the purpose of national  security. As President Trump said, we are at war. Let's use the Defense  Production Act in order to have the domestic production of supplies we  need to have adequate testing in our community. If we do all that,  then, Americans indeed will feel safe that the plans that are being  implemented by our Governors to reopen are backed not only by sound  public health recommendations but by the support in our community to  keep them safe. 

  I urge my colleagues to do everything we need to make sure America  has the testing capacity it needs, so that the American people  understand that and we can get beyond COVID-19. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT