Van Hollen, Cardin, Ruppersberger, Pittman Announce $113 Million in Federal Funding to Re-Build Meade High


Senators Chris Van Hollen and Ben Cardin, along with Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) and Anne Arundel County Executive Steuart Pittman, today announced a $113.7 million federal grant to modernize and construct new facilities at Meade High School. Anne Arundel County is contributing $28.5 million in matching grant funding for a total investment of $142.2 million.

The federal funding, provided by the Department of Defense' Office of Economic Adjustment and awarded to the Anne Arundel County Board of Education, is part of a larger effort to address capacity and facility condition deficiencies at public schools located on military installations. Once completed, up to 2,538 students will be supported at Meade High, which serves both students living on-base at Fort Meade as well as the surrounding communities. 

Built in 1977, the school was last renovated in 2008 and is expected to be overcrowded by 2024 due to growth on-base in nearby. Nearly 17 percent of all Meade High students are military-connected with one or both parents in the military. In addition, Meade High serves a high percentage of low-income students and has one of the highest transient populations of students in Anne Arundel County, with many students attending but not finishing due to parental military transfers or moves to other schools within Anne Arundel County.  

"Meade High School is in desperate need of renovation, and these federal resources will go a long way to improving the facilities and ensuring a better learning experience for its students. This funding is not only an investment in the school's infrastructure but will ultimately strengthen the Fort Meade and NSA communities and provide more opportunity to the students in surrounding areas. I will continue working to make sure Maryland schools have the tools they need to support our students' success," said Senator Van Hollen.

"We want the very best for every student in every public school district in our state. This significant investment by the Department of Defense recognizes the need to transform Meade High School into a 21st Century learning center and address the serious capacity and facility condition deficiencies," Senator Cardin said. "This transformation will provide our military connected students, as well as students from the surrounding community, with a quality school they are proud to attend."  

"All students deserve to learn in clean and modern classrooms, especially the children of our nation's brave troops," Congressman Ruppersberger said. "The Department of Defense identified Meade High as in need of drastic improvements back in 2011 and this funding will ensure the military families in our community have a school they can be proud of -- just as we are proud of them."

"This funding could not have come at a better time for the students, the parents, and the staff of the Meade  High School feeder system," County Executive Steuart Pittman said. "We look forward to getting started on this much-needed renovation, and working in partnership with our federal partners to make this a flagship of the Anne Arundel County Public School system."

"The Meade High School community is grateful to receive this much needed federal funding," said Maryland Senator Pam Beidle, District 32. "We have been advocating for these federal renovation dollars for over a decade. The beautiful design plans have already been approved by our Board of Education."