Women's Suffrage


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, in this time of renewed interest for  fairness and equality for all men and women and nationwide and  worldwide protests, I urge my colleagues to think about what we can do  to create a more just society. Indeed, one of the founding documents of  our country, the Declaration of Independence, provides that ``all men  are created equal,'' in the famous words of Thomas Jefferson. 

  But let me remind my colleagues about our history here as the  Continental Congress met to debate independence of the United States  from Great Britain. In a letter dated March 31, 1776, Abigail Adams  wrote to her husband, the future President John Adams, urging him and  the other Members of the Continental Congress not to forget about the  Nation's women when fighting for America's freedom. 

  The future First Lady wrote in part, ``I long to hear that you have  declared an independency. And, by the way, in the new code of laws  which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make, I desire you  would remember the ladies and be more generous and favorable to them  than our ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of  the husbands. Remember, all men would be tyrants if they could. If  particular care and attention is not paid to the ladies, we are  determined to foment a rebellion, and will not hold ourselves bound by  any laws in which we have no voice or representation.'' 

  Well, women of the United States would indeed have to wait a long  time just to get the right to vote in America. Indeed, even after the  Civil War, which almost tore this country apart over slavery, the  Fifteenth Amendment ratified by Congress and the States in 1870  provided that ``the right of citizens of the United States to vote  shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on  account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.'' Women had  tried again to include the right to vote in the Constitution but were  rebuffed. 

  But the women of this country did not give up. So they kept agitating  and lobbying for the right to vote, and they were ultimately  successful, when Congress and the States ratified the 19th Amendment in  1920, which states: ``The right of citizens of the United States to  vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any  State on account of sex. Congress shall have power to enforce this  article by appropriate legislation.'' 

  However, while women in American gained the right to vote in 1920, we  all know that women are still not treated equally under the law and  that civil rights are the great unfinished business of America. 

  Our fight for the Equal Rights Amendment, ERA, officially began  shortly after passage of the 19th Amendment, the culmination of the  long-running women's suffrage movement that guaranteed women the right  to vote.  

  Alice Paul, leader of the National Women's Party, recognized the need  for further laws in order to provide full legal equality to women in  all activities, not just voting. Her proposal for an amendment for  equal treatment under the law regardless of sex marked the first  iteration of the ERA. U.S. Senator Charles Curtis would introduce this  proposal for the first time in October 1921. Over the years, both the  Democratic Party and the Republican Party would include the ERA in  their platforms. Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy both indicated their  support for the ERA. Needless to say, the ERA has a long history, and  throughout that time, it enjoyed the notable bipartisan support. 

  The ERA has been able to count on such support precisely because of  the widespread need recognized by both sides of the aisle for equal  treatment under the law. What is at stake here is simply the issue of  putting women on an even playing field with men. This is not about  empowering one demographic group over another, but ensuring that  discrimination on the basis of sex is no longer an obstacle to prevent  women from enjoying the same rights and protections that men enjoy. 

  As the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia articulated:  ``Certainly the Constitution does not require discrimination on the  basis of sex. The only issue is whether it prohibits it. It doesn't.''  The fight for the ERA aims to fill this gap in the law. 

  When Congresswoman Martha Griffiths introduced her ERA in Congress in  the 92nd Congress, the House of Representatives passed the measure by a  vote of 354 yeas to 24 nays. Five months later, the Senate passed it by  a vote of 84 yeas to 8 nays. It received an immediate endorsement from  President Richard Nixon upon its passage. While the ERA would in time  become ratified by most States, it fell just three short of the three- fourths requirement of 38 by the measure's deadline of March 22, 1979. 

  When Senator Murkowski and I came together to introduce S.J. Res. 6  on January 26, 2019, we committed ourselves to advancing this nearly  century-long fight for equality between men and women. Our measure  would remove the deadline for ratification. 

  Remember that the Constitution contains no deadline for the  ratification of constitutional amendments, and in 1992 Congress  declared the 27th Amendment ratified after more than 200 years, which  prohibits Congress from changing its own pay before an intervening  election. And the States have recently woken up when it comes to the  ERA, with Illinois, Nevada, and, most recently, Virginia ratifying the  ERA, reaching the number of 38 State ratifications, or three-quarters  of the States. 

  I would note that our companion House resolution introduced by  Congresswoman Jackie Speier was passed by the House earlier this year,  and so this issue is awaiting final action in the Senate. 

  As Congress looks to what it can do to create a more just society,  ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment, ERA, would finally give  women the legal protection consistent with ideals of our Nation. I am  therefore proud to have partnered with Republican Senator Lisa  Murkowski of Alaska in introducing a joint resolution that would remove  the deadline for ratification of this crucial amendment. 

  And we picked this historic day to discuss it, as the Senate approved  the women's suffrage amendment--the 19th Amendment to our  Constitution--on June 4, 1919. 

   25, 2019]            It's Time to Finally pass the Equal Rights Amendment                     (By Ben Cardin and Lisa Murkowski)  

       Men and women should be treated equally under the law. It       seems pretty basic, right? 

       As we approach the 100th anniversary of women's suffrage,       it comes as a shock to so many that the U.S. Constitution       does not guarantee women the same rights and protections as       men. 

       We come from different ends of the political spectrum, but       we agree that this needs to change. Women compose a majority       of the American population but continue to be       underrepresented in government, elected office, the courts       and business world. A level playing field should not be a       euphemism but rather a reality for women (and men) from       Anchorage to Annapolis and everywhere in between. 

       ``Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or       abridged by the United States or by any State on account of       sex.'' 

       This is the full substance of the Equal Rights Amendment.       It's a little less than a tweet, but it will make a positive       difference in the lives of millions of women. 

       Why is this still necessary? During a 2011 interview,       Justice Antonin Scalia summed up the need for an Equal Rights       Amendment. He said: ``Certainly the Constitution does not       require discrimination on the basis of sex. The only issue is       whether it prohibits it. It doesn't.'' 

       On the other side of the spectrum, Justice Ruth Bader       Ginsburg laid out the rationale for the ERA in simple terms:       ``Every constitution written since the end of World War II       includes a provision that men and women are citizens of equal       stature. Ours does not.'' 

       Why has it taken this long? Per the Constitution, an       amendment must be ratified by three-fourths of the states to       be enacted. While most amendments are put forward without a       time limit, this one came with a seven-year deadline. The       original was extended to 10 years, but still, only 35 States       had ratified the ERA by 1982. 

       While the clock stood frozen at the federal level, today,       nearly half of the States--including Maryland and Alaska--      have a version of the ERA written into their constitutions.       Gender-based equality represents the present-day views of the       vast majority of people across the United States, and is the       spirit that underpins our bipartisan legislation. 

       The deadline passed in 1982, so isn't this effort futile?       Not at all. 

       Nationally, momentum began to shift about two years ago, as       women across the country began to raise their voices again in       calls for solidarity and equality. The ERA had never gone       away, but the #Me Too movement gave it a jolt of energy and a       new spotlight for inequalities in U.S. law. 

       In March 2017, 45 years to the day after Congress       overwhelmingly approved the ERA, Nevada became the 36th state       to ratify the amendment. And then, in May 2018, Illinois       became the 37th. 

       What had for years been referred to as a three-state plan--      working to have Congress remove the ratification deadline so       that three more states could ratify the ERA, and it would       become enshrined in our constitution--had suddenly become a       one-state plan. 

       Earlier this month, Virginia started the ratification       process in their state legislature. Alabama, Arizona,       Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri,       North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah could also       become state No. 38. Congress can do its part by explicitly       removing the deadline it once set. 

       Article V of the Constitution contains no time limits for       ratification of amendments. The states finally ratified the       27th Amendment in 1992 regarding congressional pay raises       more than 200 years after Congress proposed it in 1789 as       part of the Bill of Rights. 

       The original deadline for ERA ratification was not in the       amendment itself but only in the text of the joint resolution       proposing the amendment. This is to say the amendment itself       has no arbitrary deadline attached. 

       Whether on purpose or not, Congress handcuffed itself at       the time it passed the ERA. But this Congress can and should       easily amend that language to remove the deadline for       ratification. 

       We are proud to work together on a bipartisan basis to move       this essential legislation over the finish line and finally       make the ERA part of the Constitution--guaranteeing equality       under the law for women. 

       Women should not be held back or provided less opportunity,       respect or protections under the law because of their gender.       This is not a partisan issue but one of universal human       rights. Gender equality should be an explicit, basic       principle of our society. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT