World Press Freedom Day


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I rise to commemorate World Press  Freedom Day, which was this past Sunday, and to celebrate the brave  journalists all over the world who safeguard the values of truth,  democracy, transparency, and justice through their work. Every year, we  set aside this day to reaffirm our commitment to the free press. This  year, however, is a little bit different. This year, we are in the  midst of a brutal global public health crisis. One of the reasons that  the COVID-19 pandemic has wreaked so much havoc--taking hundreds of  thousands of lives and devastating the economy--is that people with  power have propagated misinformation about the virus. In the words of  the World Health Organization, we are witnessing an ``info-demic.''  Now, more than ever, it is vital that the public receives the truth,  and that means protecting the  free press. We are relying on the press to bring us crucial, often  life-saving, information about testing sites, shelter-in-place orders,  school closures, government aid, and how to keep ourselves and our  loved ones safe. That is why many States, Maryland among them, have  designated local news outlets as ``essential businesses'' that are  allowed to keep operating despite social distancing policies. 

  In a noble effort to keep the public informed, many local media  outlets have removed their paywalls for COVID-19-related news,  forfeiting desperately needed revenue. Meanwhile, COVID-19 continues to  place immense economic pressure on local news outlets and jeopardize  their ability to function at all. Dozens of local publications have had  to furlough reporters, reduce their publication frequency, or drop  their print editions completely. This financial nightmare comes on the  heels of more than a decade of hardship for local news. 

  Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic is not the only threat facing  journalists today. All around the globe, reporters face harassment and  persecution for their attempts to spread the truth and hold leaders  accountable. Reporters Without Borders has determined that at least 229  journalists worldwide currently are imprisoned for their work.  According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, at least 25  journalists were killed around the world in 2019, and at least six  journalists and media professionals have been killed in the first 4  months of 2020 alone. Corrupt and powerful governments and individuals  understand that free expression is a mighty tool against injustice, so  they go to horrible lengths to stifle it. 

  One courageous reporter who was murdered for pursuing the truth was  Washington Post journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi. The  Central Intelligence Agency concluded with high confidence and the  Senate unanimously approved a resolution stating that Saudi Government  officials executed and dismembered Mr. Khashoggi in 2018 at the behest  of Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman. To this day,  however, justice for this crime remains elusive. The Global Magnitsky  Act, which I authored with the late Senator John McCain to combat human  rights violations like this one, requires the U.S. administration to  declassify its findings regarding who was responsible for Mr.  Khashoggi's death and to impose additional sanctions on the culpable  parties. President Trump has refused to do so. 

  This failure to stand up for an American journalist an authoritarian  regime silenced is just one example of how the Trump administration has  turned its back on the freedom of the press. The President and his  supporters have continuously tried to demonize and delegitimize news  outlets whose reporting upsets them, to the point of labeling the media  an ``enemy of the American people.'' As the illustrious journalist  Edward R. Murrow so famously noted 66 years ago in responding to then- Senator Joe McCarthy's vile smear tactics and intimidation:  

       We must not confuse dissent with disloyalty. We must       remember always that accusation is not proof and that       conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law. We       will not walk in fear, one of another. We will not be driven       by fear into an age of unreason, if we dig deep in our       history and our doctrine, and remember that we are not       descended from fearful men--not from men who feared to write,       to speak, to associate, and to defend causes that were, for       the moment, unpopular.  

  When the leader of the United States, a country devoted to principles  of liberty and democracy, flouts the truth in this way, it reverberates  all across the world to the detriment of free expression everywhere.  Between 2016 and 2019, the number of journalists imprisoned on spurious  charges of disseminating so-called fake news more than tripled  globally. 

  We Americans feel the impact of this vilification of the press much  closer to home, too. I will never forget learning about the fatal  shooting at the Capital Gazette in Annapolis, MD, almost 2 years ago.  In the most deadly newsroom shooting in American history, a man who was  angry that the newspaper accurately and merely reported his guilty plea  in a criminal harassment case stormed into the Gazette office with a  gun and killed five people. Those individuals--Gerald Fishman, Rob  Hiaasen, John McNamara, Rebecca Smith, and Wendi Winters--died  defending one of the most sacred institutions in our country. They died  protecting every American's right to know the truth. But they and  hundreds of other journalists worldwide should not have to die in the  line of duty. 

  For the sake of our democracy and global human rights, we must do  everything we can to eliminate the violence and repression news media  face. The United States can help lead this effort by loudly voicing our  support for the free press as a key component of an informed civil  society and a government accountable to its people. That is why I am  proud to cosponsor Senator Menendez's resolution in honor of World  Press Freedom Day declaring the need for a truly free press and  condemning threats to the freedom of expression around the world. The  resolution applauds the bravery of journalists and media workers and  remembers those who have lost their lives in the course of their  duties. 

  We can also demonstrate our commitment to a free press by remembering  those journalists and media professionals who have lost their lives in  the course of their duties. To that end, Senator Portman and I have  introduced a bill, S. 1969, to authorize a national memorial to fallen  journalists. The National Capital Region has numerous monuments and  memorials to honor those individuals who have helped make our country  stronger since its founding days. Currently missing from that honor  roll is a memorial to reporters and other journalists, such as those at  the Capital Gazette, who have sacrificed everything to protect the  free, open, and transparent society that all people deserve. My hope is  that Congress will pass the Fallen Journalists Memorial Act soon. Once  we establish this memorial, we will have a visible reminder to pay  tribute to these heroes not just once a year, but every day.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT