Motion to Discharge--S. Res. 195


Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I rise during Police Week to honor the  brave men and women in North Carolina and across the Nation who serve  in law enforcement. Thousands of officers and their families come to  our Nation's Capital every year to pay tribute to those who paid the  ultimate sacrifice to protect our communities.

Each name added to the memorial wall represents a story of courage,  selflessness, and sacrifice. Unfortunately, North Carolinians know all  too well about that kind of sacrifice. Today, I want to honor three  heroes who we lost in North Carolina since last year's Police Week in  May 2024.

Last September, North Carolina was hit by Hurricane Helene, one of  the worst natural disasters in the State's history. The historic  flooding and devastation caused by Helene required an all-out effort by  first responders, who were working around the clock.

One of those first responders was Court Officer James Lau. Officer  Lau's vehicle was swept away by unexpected floodwaters from a river, in  the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Helene. Officer Lau was a Vietnam  veteran, and his law enforcement career spanned nearly four decades  across 3 States. In fact, Officer Lau was 75 years old. He was already  fully retired, but he continued to serve his community as a security  officer at the Macon County Courthouse. He is survived by his wife,  five children, and four grandchildren.

We also remember Major Michelle Lynn Quintero of the Madison County  Sheriff's Office, who was only 48 years old. She was tragically killed  by the same storm and fast-moving floodwaters caused by a dam that had  overflowed and took down all the power, radio communication, and phone  service. Major Quintero was swept downhill and was hit by a tree  careening in the fast-moving water.

She served more than 17 years with the Madison County Sheriff's  Office. Major Quintero is survived by her husband, who also works in  law enforcement, and she is survived by her two children, both of whom  work for the Madison County Sheriff's Office.

Late December of last year, on the day before Christmas Eve,  Greensboro Police Officer Michael Horan was shot and killed while  responding to a call about a man with a firearm in a grocery store. The  murderer fled the scene and led law enforcement on a multicounty chase.  The brave men from multiple law enforcement agencies apprehended the  suspect on Interstate 40.

Officer Horan was a reservist in the U.S. Coast Guard, where he  earned multiple awards, including the Coast Guard Enlisted Person of  the Year award in 2015 and 2019. He was posthumously promoted to the  rank of chief warrant officer, earlier this year.

Officer Horan served with the Greensboro Police Department for 7  years. He was only 44 years old and is survived by his wife and  children.

While we can't stop natural disasters or accidents, lawmakers can  play a role  in helping to reduce the intentional targeting of law enforcement. That  is why I continue to push for the passage of the Protect and Serve Act.  This is legislation that I introduced that makes it a Federal crime to  intentionally harm or attempt to harm a law enforcement officer. It  also gives prosecutors new tools to penalize criminals who target law  enforcement.

Officers go to work every day prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice  for their communities, and they need our support now more than ever.

I had a colleague of mine in the Judiciary Committee today make a  great point. That uniform now includes a bulletproof vest. They know  what they have signed up for. They wear that as a matter of procedure  because every single day they go out there, they assume they may be  shot at.

I am asking my colleagues to consider the importance of this  legislation and encourage them to take a stand on behalf of law  enforcement officers who are no longer with us. There is a reason the  Protect and Serve Act is supported by law enforcement groups across the  Nation: the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of  Police Organizations, the Police Officers' Defense Coalition, the North  Carolina Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs' Association,  and the Major County Sheriffs association.

Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why it is hard for any Member of  the U.S. Senate to get behind this bill. It simply says that we are  going to raise the stakes for anybody who would knowingly do harm to a  police officer.

To every officer serving today: Thank you for your courage. You have  earned my unending gratitude.

By supporting this bill, Members of the U.S. Senate can demonstrate  their enduring gratitude to law enforcement.

By not supporting it--I don't know what that says, but I know it is  something that in North Carolina and among law enforcement agencies, it  is not good.

To the families of the fallen: Your loss is shared by a grateful  nation. We will never forget your loved ones' service, nor their  sacrifice. God bless them. God bless law enforcement. And may God bless  the United States of America.