Human Trafficking Awareness Month


Mr. LUTTRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Human  Trafficking Awareness Month and to speak about the serious threat human  trafficking represents here and globally.

Human trafficking is the second largest criminal enterprise in the  world, second to only that of drug trafficking. Human trafficking  generates an estimated $150 billion a year and enslaves nearly 50  million people. The most vulnerable are our children and young adults.  They are being targeted and exploited through their phones, through  their computer systems, through gaming systems, and through social  media. Every 30 seconds a child is sold into slavery. Every 30 seconds  another child is sold into slavery.

Human trafficking is not just a distant overseas problem. The issue  is here. It is in our communities. It is in our small towns. It is in  our big cities.

I am from Texas and Texas being a border State, we are a hot spot for  human trafficking. We lead the country in that issue. I asked our  elected officials and I asked our law enforcement officials: How do we  combat this? How do we defeat this mechanism? These cartels and these  gangs move these people every day.

It starts with community awareness. You have to be willing to  recognize the problem. You have to be willing to watch. We have the  FIFA World Cup and we have the Super Bowl coming up. This will swarm  our country even more so than now with this issue.

I have talked to school board members. I have talked to parents. I  have spoken to young men and women who have been trafficked, and it is  hard to speak about. A lot of the young ladies like to keep that to  themselves, but we have to look past that.

We in Congress have to legislate forcefully. We have to go after  these bastards who are taking advantage of our babies every single day.  If we don't, this problem will continue to exist. I asked law  enforcement: What do you need? They need technology. They need us to  listen. They need funding. They need our help.

This is an American problem. It will not go away. With the  advancements of technology that we are seeing today, they will reach  out and touch every single person they possibly can because it makes  them money.

This is like cancer, unfortunately. If cancer does not touch you or  your family, you don't want to recognize it. You will not address it  until it lands on the house. Mr. Speaker, this issue is here. These  babies cannot protect themselves. It is our responsibility to watch  over them. We have to do that. Enough is enough.

In 2021, the estimated report again was 50 million people are sold  into slavery, 50 million people. This is a problem the United States  and the globe should not have. This is not a red or blue issue. This is  a red, white, and blue issue.

I talk to my colleagues in Texas on a daily basis. They are just as  engaged as we are, but I talk to the American people and I say to you:  We need your help. We have to Facebook this thing. It has to spread  like a wave. Do not be shy about this issue, Mr. Speaker. Our babies  depend on us to watch over them.

I have two beautiful sons, and I give them the latitude they need,  but I watch over them every single day because I am one county away  from the worst county in the country when it comes to human  trafficking. Honestly, Mr. Speaker, I am embarrassed to have to say  that, but we have to fix that here. We have to fix that in every single  State in the country, and we can do that if we just activate and show  the bad actors that we will tolerate this no more.