Dhs Restrictions on Confucius Institutes and Chinese Entities of Concern Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690824/dhs-restrictions-on-confucius-institutes-and-chinese-entities-of-concern-act


Ms. CHU. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Congressional Asian Pacific  American Caucus, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 881. This bill  would block Department of Homeland Security funding from colleges and  universities with a Confucius Institute, which is known to have CCP  ties, but it expands the prohibition to any institution that has a  relationship with a Chinese entity of concern.

What is a Chinese entity of concern? Because a bill defines such  entities so broadly, that list could potentially include every single  college in China.

Because this is a new definition that is not shared with any other  Federal agency, universities would be required to independently verify  that their Chinese counterpart institutions do not meet this broad  definition just to cooperate on activities as simple as study abroad  programs. The University of California has said they do not have an  intelligence agency within their structure that can do this.

This is a completely unreasonable expectation of universities, and  that is because the real goal of the legislation is to completely sever  academic relations with institutions in China.

Ending study abroad programs, student exchanges, and every research  agreement will do nothing to make America safer. In fact, the only  improvement that this bill makes over the version that Republicans  advanced last year is giving the Secretary of Homeland Security the  authority to grant waivers. That means universities are expected to ask  for a waiver from the same administration that is continually  threatening their Federal funding and their tax-exempt status.

This is a harmful bill that would only serve to weaken America and  give the Trump administration yet another weapon to attack the American  institutions that they deem are insufficiently loyal to President  Trump.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill.