Investing in Main Street Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687919/investing-in-main-street-act-of-2025


Ms. CHU. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R. 754,  the Investing in Main Street Act of 2025, which would spur innovation,  entrepreneurship, and growth in our small businesses nationwide.

Currently, banking rules allow financial institutions to invest up to  15 percent of their capital and surplus in SBICs. Small business  investing rules cap these same investments far lower at just 5 percent  of capital and surplus.

The Investing in Main Street Act of 2025 simply amends this outdated  law to align these caps by allowing banks to invest a full 15 percent  in SBICs. Raising this cap would dramatically increase the amount of  investment capital available to our country's small businesses for whom  even small investments can mean so much.

Already SBICs have helped marquee American companies like Costco,  Apple, and Intel get off the ground, back when they were just starting  out. SBICs fill a gap in the investment ecosystem and level the playing  field for the smallest businesses which often face the highest barriers  to securing investments from traditional private investors.

The nearly 319 certified SBICs in operation today have invested or  committed over $38 billion in small businesses nationwide. In 2023  alone, SBICs provided $7.2 billion in funding to 1,142 small businesses  and startups.

By raising the investment cap from 5 percent to 15 percent, we could  potentially triple those numbers in the years to come and drive  revitalization in communities across the country.

I thank Representatives Finstad, McIver, and Garbarino for their  partnership in this legislation and Chairman Williams and Ranking  Member Velazquez for their strong support.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill and  for the Senate to expeditiously take it up so we can unlock more of the  potential of American entrepreneurs.