Marking Anniversary of Los Angeles Fire


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698642/marking-anniversary-of-los-angeles-fire


Ms. CHU. Mr. Speaker, 1 year ago today, the communities of Altadena  and Pasadena that I represent in California were struck by tragedy. In  just a matter of hours, the Eaton fire, driven by hurricane-force winds  reaching 90 miles an hour, forever changed the communities my  constituents have called home for generations.

The fire destroyed over 9,000 structures, most of them single-family  homes. It scorched over 14,000 acres, decimating entire neighborhoods  and turning places of worship, schools, restaurants, and community  institutions to rubble.

Most tragically, it took the lives of 19 of our loved ones,  neighbors, and friends. We have recently learned that 440 additional  people across southern California died in the month following the fire  due to delays in medical care and exposure to toxic elements.

The Eaton fire was the second most destructive wildfire in  California's history. Those we lost helped to shape the fabric of their  communities, and their absence has left a void that cannot be filled.  They are in our thoughts on this 1-year anniversary of the fire.

We remember Anthony Mitchell, Sr., a 68-year-old father, grandfather,  and great-grandfather who brought everybody together, and we remember  his son, Justin, who was born with cerebral palsy and was known for his  infectious smile. Anthony and Justin both died waiting for help that  they would never receive.

We remember Victor Shaw, who resided in his beloved Altadena home for  60 years and who died with a garden hose in his hand, fighting to save  his property.

These are just a few of the stories of those we lost, all of whom  were taken far too soon. That is why, today, I have introduced a  resolution with Representative Sherman and Senators Schiff and Padilla  to commemorate and honor all the lives that we lost in these fires.

Even in our darkest days and every day since, survivors have shown  extraordinary resilience and strength. First responders put their lives  on the line to save others. Neighbors opened their doors to offer  shelter to those who had nowhere to go. Organizations big and small  came together to make sure our neighbors who had just lost everything  had a warm meal, a roof over their heads, and a shoulder to cry on.

Federal, State, and local governments mobilized to get families the  help they needed, help that has made a tremendous impact on our road to  recovery and rebuilding. Emergency operation hubs were propped up in a  matter of hours. Recovery centers were created at an amazingly rapid  speed so that survivors could access free individualized guidance and  assistance when they needed it most.

On top of that, FEMA approved over $150 million in housing and other  emergency assistance. SBA approved over $3 billion in loans for small  businesses, homeowners, and renters. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  did an amazingly fast residential wildfire cleanup. It was the fastest  in our Nation's history.

These efforts saved lives and laid the groundwork for recovery, but  the work is nowhere close to being complete. Every day that Congress  and the Trump administration continue to delay, recovery becomes harder  and more expensive. Families have already waited 1 year while  rebuilding costs rise, housing shortages deepen, and displacement  assistance expires.

Disaster aid is not a favor. It is a responsibility. Today, 70  percent of Eaton fire survivors have not yet returned home, and the  majority have not even begun the arduous process of rebuilding. Almost  one-half of survivors still reside in either temporary or unstable  housing. Families are exhausting their savings, taking on debt,  skipping medical care, and making impossible choices just to get by.

Small businesses are struggling to reopen. Families whose homes are  still standing but are contaminated with dangerous toxins are being  forced to decide between a place to sleep and their health.

Survivors need our help, and they need it right now. That is why I  say something very important: President Trump and congressional  Republicans must fulfill their responsibility to help communities  impacted by disaster and  fully deliver Governor Newsom's $34 billion disaster supplemental  request with no strings attached.

I have joined Democrats and Republicans across California in urging  the administration to act immediately. Families can't afford further  delay. We do not abandon people after a disaster.