Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act


Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr. Chair, I thank Representative Scholten  for yielding time.

Mr. Chair, I rise today to oppose the dirty water act. This bill will  make it more difficult to keep our water clean and will, ironically,  add more uncertainty to the permitting process, just the opposite of  what we need to have happen. This bill guts Federal, State, Tribal, and  local authority and resources to attain clean water and protect locally  important water bodies.

First, this bill significantly restricts Federal oversight and  regulatory authorities under the Clean Water Act. The current  administration has already acted to slash Federal funding for clean  water and eliminate agency staff. This bill compounds those efforts and  will leave Federal agencies powerless to fulfill their responsibilities  under the Clean Water Act.

Second, the bill undermines the partnership that the Federal  Government has with States and Tribes to prevent pollution, weakening  States' and Tribes' ability to better protect their own water. The  result will be more pollution in our Nation's rivers, streams, and  lakes, thanks to loopholes, legal shields, and limited oversight of  polluters.

Third, this bill will end up slowing projects by increasing  regulatory uncertainty and delay. Democrats want to pass bills that  invest in infrastructure and get projects done faster. That is why we  passed the bipartisan infrastructure law. It invested in all types of  infrastructure for communities nationwide. Fully funding projects and  the Federal agencies charged with approving them is the quickest way to  get this infrastructure built.

Instead, this bill, when paired with efforts to cut funding, as well  as other Federal water infrastructure programs, will slow down  investments in cleaner, greener, safer, and more accessible State and  local projects.

Under this bill, communities of all sizes will end up with dirtier  water and be left with the cost of cleanup. This will hurt rural  communities and minority communities. It will hurt them especially  hard, as well as other communities struggling financially under the  policies of the current administration.

This bill shifts the cost of pollution from polluters to American  families who will have to spend more for safe drinking water and access  to water-related recreational areas if such resources are even still  available.

Members of this committee on a bipartisan basis have supported  predictability in regulating clean water, and there is another way. We  don't have to choose between clean water and a robust economy. We can  have both. My State is a great example. It is defined by its clean  water, including the Puget Sound and hundreds of lakes and thousands of  miles of rivers and streams throughout Washington.

We all know that rivers, streams, and wetlands are intrinsically  connected. The health of the waters in my State and its water-related  economy depend upon a strong partnership with the Federal Government  and a level playing field among its upstream users and downstream  neighbors, including local Tribal communities.

During the consideration of this bill in the committee, my Democratic  colleagues offered several amendments to fix the loopholes, liability  shields, and limited oversight for polluters contained in this bill.  These amendments targeted the most egregious provisions of this bill,  not every provision of the bill.

It targeted provisions that eviscerated Federal and State clean water  agencies; provisions that made it easier for polluters to put more  toxic and cancer-causing chemicals in waters such as PFAS, arsenic, and  pesticides; and provisions that endanger not only our own health but  the health of local, regional, and State economies. These were all  defeated on party-line votes, unfortunately.

Honestly, I do look forward to the Transportation and Infrastructure  Committee returning to its bipartisan work and creating effective  legislation that will upgrade our infrastructure, that will build our  economy and create jobs, all while protecting our waters.

Mr. Chair, unfortunately, the outcome of this bill, if enacted, will  be increasing pollution and contamination of our waters. I oppose this  bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same.