Recognizing Victor Odermat


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697600/recognizing-victor-odermat


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Victor  Odermat for his many years of dedication to our country, both through  his military service and active support for the Puget Sound military  community through Brown Bear Car Wash.

Victor valiantly served in the United States Marine Corps until the  mid-1950's, and his dedication to service continued long after his  active military duty. Upon graduating from Lakeside High School, Victor  entered the University of Washington's NROTC program and would go on to  serve in the United States Marine Corps until the mid-1950's. After  leaving the Marines, Victor founded Brown Bear Car Wash, which would  become a steadfast supporter of the military community. He displayed  exemplary work ethic and was widely known for his commitment to  ``taking care of the customer.''

Victor exemplified service and dedication to the military community,  he carried this same unceasing devotion to serving those around him.  Brown Bear Car Wash backs National Guard and Reserve troops through  Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, offering free car washes to  veterans on every Veterans Day and donating a portion of proceeds to  the Puget Sound Honor Flight. Brown Bear Car Wash has donated over  $71,000 to the Puget Sound Honor Flight and is a vital partner to  Cathay Post No. 186, helping raise funds for veteran services. Beyond  supporting the post, Brown Bear contributes to organizations like the  USO, Marine Corps Scholarship Foundation, and Boy Scouts of America,  reflecting a deep commitment to the Puget Sound community. Victor has  left a resounding impact on all those around him and was a true leader  of the communities he was part of.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Victor Odermat for a lifetime of service to the  United States of America and to his community. I am deeply grateful for  his important efforts towards protecting our country and his  outstanding contributions to the Puget Sound community. His legacy will  not be forgotten.