Burma


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I rise to speak about the ongoing and often  forgotten civil war and humanitarian crisis taking place in Burma,  which impacts the broader Southeast Asia region. We should all be  outraged by the horrific crimes against humanity perpetrated by the  Burmese military  against the Rohingya and other Burmese minority groups.

The fallout from the Burmese military's February 2021 coup and  jailing of State Counsellor and Nobel Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi  continues to roil the country. Ethnic minority groups within Burma,  which had long been at odds with the Burmese military junta, saw the  ousting of Suu Kyi as a prelude to greater repression, and took up arms  against the junta, in collaboration with the ``People's Defense  Forces'' of the government in exile.

The violent conflict between opposition groups and the Burmese junta  has caused immense suffering of Burmese civilians, primarily due to  displacement and military bombing campaigns, targeting civilians as  retribution for rebel gains on the battlefield.

The Burmese people are no stranger to displacement. A decade ago,  Burma's military junta engaged in a violent persecution of the Rohingya  minority, forcing 1.5 million people to flee to Bangladesh and  Thailand. A recent investigation by the United Nations concluded the  2017 attacks were a ``coordinated and organized operation'' to strip  the Rohingya of their land rights within the country. In 2022, the  State Department officially determined that these actions constituted a  genocide.

Today, refugees from the conflict in Burma, both Rohingya and members  of other minority groups, face an even more dire situation. Amnesty  International reports that the Arakan Army, one of the ethnic armed  organizations controlling parts of Burma, is continuing to displace the  Rohingya. Many other Burmese citizens are fleeing bombardment by junta  artillery and warplanes. Despite these horrors, many countries are now  refusing to accept any Burmese refugees--including, regrettably, the  United States, which recently banned all travel to the U.S. by Burmese  citizens following an executive order from President Trump.

Rather than slamming the door, the Trump administration should  reverse this misguided decision and allow Burmese refugees who have a  credible fear of persecution to seek refuge in the United States. The  United States should also increase aid to the Burmese people and  support for democratic forces within the country, strengthening the  opposition's position in potential negotiations with the junta for an  end to the conflict. Trump administration aid cuts, including in the  aftermath of a devastating earthquake that hit the country earlier this  year, contravene the express purposes of the bipartisan BURMA Act. I  recently cosigned signed a letter to Secretary Rubio with eight of my  Senate colleagues calling for the Trump administration to make Burma a  diplomatic priority in the coming months.