Department of Health and Human Services


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to speak about the extreme cuts that  have affected the Department of Health and Human Services, the Federal  Drug Administration, the National Institutes of Health, and the Centers  for Disease Control.

First of all, the DOGE operation starts out with a premise that it is  attacking waste, fraud, and abuse. And I am for that. Anyplace that we  can save taxpayers money by responsible assessment of what programs are  working or aren't, anytime we can uncover waste or certainly fraud and  abuse, I want to do that, and I want that to be done across the board.  Whether you are talking about health programs where they could be  better organized or they could be more efficiently run to achieve the  goal of better services for the people you represent and I represent  for all Americans, I want to do that.

But how is DOGE going about it?

And we are here to talk about how they are doing it in the Department  of Health and Human Services, under Mr. Kennedy. Basically, they are  doing it by sending out firing notices to people. Over 5,000 people  have been fired, and that includes 700 in the Food and Drug  Administration, 1,200 in the National Institutes of Health, and 600 in  the Centers for Disease Control.

Here is the question, and the answer is obvious: If you want to make  a program more efficient, do you fire the people first and essentially  erode any capacity of that program to deliver the services that the  American people need? Or do you study the organization? Do you kick the  tires? Do you investigate and analyze where the issues are that can be  addressed by a comprehensive plan that would include getting rid of any  waste? It would include getting rid, obviously, of any fraud and abuse.

But what DOGE is doing is not that. It doesn't have a plan. What it  has is a decision to fire people. So, essentially, DOGE is saying that  the higher the body count of people who are fired, then the more the  savings will be. Well, there is truth in that. If you just fire people  and they are not on the payroll, you are going to save taxpayer money.  But does that mean that you are getting waste, fraud, and abuse out of  the system, or are you just wrecking the program? It clearly is going  to be the latter.

You are just wrecking the program because you didn't even take the  time to examine what is going on and how best to do it. Think about it.  In the National Institutes of Health, there are investigators, there  are scientists. These are people who are working on research that is  important to your State and mine about diseases, about cures, about  vaccines, about pandemics, things that--you know, American people are  entitled to have some confidence and security that we have the best  minds addressing health issues and focusing on cures to diseases that  all of us can be subject to or the people we love, that they will be  doing that job.

But these people are now just fired. They are gone. That means--just  think about it. An NIH scientist, that is somebody who probably has a  Ph.D, went to one of our State institutions. It might have been a land- grant college in North Carolina or a land-grant college in Vermont. And  there is probably an enormous amount of talent in that person who was  able to achieve a Ph.D in scientific research. And there is probably a  good deal of public investment in the career of that person with the  return being that person is going to be doing research on trying to  cure diseases. And that person may well have gotten some Federal  grants, including college assistance or Ph.D investigatory assistance.

That could be hundreds of thousands of dollars the taxpayers really  invested in supporting a person who has become a scientist, helping us  on very important research that is really good for the American people.

Boom. They go to work, or they are at home. They get an email, and  they say: Don't show up for work; you are fired.

There is a certain cruelty in a lot of these notices because it also  has an assertion that your performance has been subpar. Of course, we  find out there has been no performance review; and, in many cases,  these people who were fired supposedly because of subpar performance,  in fact, did just have a performance review that said you are doing a  fantastic job.

Or think about Food and Drug Administration. Their job is to review,  among other things, medications that can provide life-enhancing,  lifesaving, life-extending, pain-relieving medications that Americans  are going to need and can benefit by. The sooner that work of  investigation gets done, the sooner that the approval decisions can be  made, the sooner cures get to market and to the folks in this country.

Boom. They are fired.

Again, these people, some of whom do have Ph.Ds, as I mentioned, but  others of whom have been at the FDA for 15 or 20 years and have that  institutional knowledge of how it works--these people are getting fired  independent of any performance review, independent of any assessment of  where do we need more people or where do we need fewer people or what  are some of the functions that no longer need to be done versus some  functions where we actually may need to enhance the staff to get a  better job for the American people.

What is so bogus about DOGE is that it is not about waste, fraud, and  abuse. It really is not because there would have to be an  investigation, a plan, people looking at how the functions are being  performed. It is simply a mechanism to justify firing people and  lowering the head count.

And as I mentioned, you know what? That will ``save money,'' but it  will destroy the capacity of these organizations that all of us agree  are doing incredibly important work. It is going to destroy their  ability to do it. It is just mangling the services in the area of  Health and Human Services that are so essential to the well-being of  the people in this country.

By the way, this has a real economic impact; and it is the economic  impact, first and foremost, among those individuals who lost their  jobs. But it is a real economic impact because we are eroding the  infrastructure of science, of inquiry, and of investigation for better  health cures. You don't destroy that and put it back together again  overnight. That is what is so wrong-headed about the DOGE approach to  things--body count versus better service, better performance, more  sustainability.

Mr. President, you couldn't have a worse approach if your goal is  more efficiency, better service, and better outcomes.

The other question that is going to be recurring for the American  people is the likelihood--the inevitability, actually--of massive  reductions in aid for Medicaid. Under the version of the House budget  reconciliation act, they have to come up with trillions of dollars in  savings. The only place you are going to get that is by cutting  Medicaid.

We have a contradiction here because the President says he loves  Medicaid, but he also says he loves the House bill. And the House bill  does not love Medicaid. What the House bill does is it attacks  Medicaid.

In Vermont, we have 20 percent or so, a little more, of our folks who  depend on Medicaid for healthcare. It is kids from low-income families;  it is seniors. Two out of three of our nursing home beds are paid for  by Medicaid. You are going to have families where the kids are really  trying to help their parents. Their parents need a nursing home, and  they are going to get kicked out, literally. That is what happens.

Finally, what we know is, why is this happening? Why are these  firings on a mass level being made when there has been no study and no  plan in place to indicate that action will improve services or, in the  long run, save money for the American people? It is being done because  there is a goal to have a tax cut. That is a fair-and-square debate.  What should our tax rate be; should we have a tax cut; if we have a tax  cut, how do you allocate; how much goes to corporations; how much goes  to billionaires; how much goes to everyday people?

But to have that debate without acknowledging that the way you are  going to pay for it is by taking away healthcare for everyday  Americans, that is not on the level. That is what is happening here, is  that there is an agenda: Get that tax cut.

I happen to profoundly disagree with the tax cut for major  multinational corporations, and I profoundly disagree with lowering  taxes for billionaires--totally disagree with that. But when it is the  situation that we are going to pay for it by taking away nursing home  beds from Vermonters, from folks in the Carolinas, that is really  appalling. We should not do it.

I am here with my colleagues to defend our commitment to good  scientific research, to good cancer research, to good healthcare access  for poor kids and seniors, and to sound the alert that that is what is  at stake despite what the President may say about his ``love'' for  Medicare. What he clearly has as his major agenda item is that tax cut.

I will acknowledge we can have a debate fair and square about that  tax cut. But I think it is incumbent on all of us to acknowledge that  the path to the President getting his tax cut marches right through  access to healthcare in an attack on Medicaid.