Senate Resolution 224--Calling for the Urgent Delivery of Humanitarian Aid to Address the Needs of Civilians in Gaza


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to speak about a very uncomfortable  but very real tragedy that is unfolding before our very eyes, and that,  of course, is starvation in Gaza. It is a tragedy that is totally  foreseeable and is totally preventable.

Today, the families and children of Gaza--today, right now--are  facing starvation, and this is following a monthslong complete denial  of the delivery of food and aid within the borders of Gaza. For more  than 2 months, Israeli forces have stopped thousands of tons of food  and water and medicine  and formula and shelter and other humanitarian aid from reaching Gaza.

The results of that siege have been and are unbearable for the  families there. Babies and children are starving to death right now-- right now--in Gaza.

I have behind me the picture of an infant girl in Gaza who starved to  death this past week. Her parents could not get the lactose-free  formula that she needed to keep her alive. That formula was on one side  of the Gaza gate; that starving child was on the other. There was never  even an effort to just hand that formula to keep that young girl alive,  over the fence or to open the gate.

I want to honor this beautiful infant girl today by sharing her name,  and I ask all of us to remember it. Her name is Jinan Iskafi. And to  Jinan's parents, on behalf of the U.S. Senate, I would like to say that  we--all of us--offer our wholehearted condolences for your unspeakable  loss.

I know the Presiding Officer and I know my colleagues on both sides  of the aisle are horrified about this suffering and this death of  innocent infants. We all agree on this. Babies and children should not  starve to death. We are united in our opposition to such unnecessary  death and suffering, and I believe all of us do not accept that Jinan's  death is a ``cost of war,'' a reality of war that can't be avoided.  Jinan's death was totally avoidable. It was totally preventable.

It has been over 2 months since the Israeli Government has been using  its power to withhold food, medicine, lifesaving cancer treatments,  dialysis systems, formula, and more from starving and suffering  families across Gaza. Half a million Palestinians in Gaza are facing  starvation, and that number is rising.

The IPC report that was released 1 year ago offered a similarly dire  warning. Yet here we are today. And, really, there is no end in sight.  More than 70,000 children and more than 17,000 mothers need urgent  treatment for acute malnutrition, urgent treatment to prevent  starvation. All the while, these trucks that are filled with food and  medicine, much of that aid provided by the United States and our  allies, are right there across the border.

This situation that folks face in Gaza is unprecedented in  contemporary conflict. We cannot have or sanction a government's  intentional policy of starvation. Nearly 30,000 babies and children  have been killed in Gaza--faces seared into the traumatized hearts of  their mothers, their brothers, their uncles. But even today, even more  than that number are severely malnourished; even more than that number  are facing famine conditions.

Jinan--that name means paradise. Think of the hope of the parents  when they named their beautiful child ``paradise.''

It is up to all of us to do all we can to make this the last picture  of a baby boy or girl who starves to death in Gaza. And, today, I am  offering a resolution with my colleagues that makes a simple point. It  notes simply that children are starving to death. They are starving to  death as we are here comfortably debating what we think are important  issues. And it must be the effort of all of us to do all we can to  bring this siege and this war to an immediate end.

I would like to thank my colleagues that joined me today in offering  this call for humanity: Senators Bennet, Booker, Duckworth, Durbin,  Hirono, Kaine, King, Heinrich, Hickenlooper, Kim, Klobuchar, Markey,  Merkley, Murphy, Murray, Sanders, Schatz, Shaheen, Slotkin, Smith, Van  Hollen, Warner, Warnock, Warren, and Wyden.

Mr. President, I want to conclude my remarks tonight by sharing one  more time the name of this infant girl, and I ask my colleagues to  please look at her face, recognize her humanity, and recognize her  name: Jinan Iskafi.