Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, exactly 2 years ago today, Vermont was  struck with devastating floods. Those floods occurred not only a year  ago today, but 2 years ago today. We had back-to-back floods in 2023  and 2024, doing about a billion dollars' worth of damage.

And by the end of last year, every county in Vermont, all 14  counties, were hit by flooding. That billion dollars in damages  affected homes; it affected businesses; it affected farms.

We had 6,000 tons of debris that was removed, 77 State bridges and 63  State roads were closed; 704 miles of rail was closed, and 159 miles of  rail trail was closed.

We are far from alone in Vermont in having suffered enormous damage  from wild weather events. And I see my colleague from Texas, to whom  all of us extend our heartfelt sorrow and condolences at the flooding  in Texas and the loss of lives of those wonderful Texans and those  kids.

This type of wild weather event can hit any one of our States at any  time of its own choosing. And all of our States have been affected at  one time or another.

Now, I want to talk about FEMA. Our experience in Vermont with FEMA  is that it is absolutely essential and actually quite helpful in the  immediate aftermath of the weather event.

FEMA can preposition resources. It has the capacity to surge  resources and personnel, including people with real experience, and can  coordinate with the local response, which is always very intense, from  State resources and also from incredible outpouring of help from  volunteers.

But acknowledging the importance of FEMA in the immediate aftermath  of a wild weather event in any of our States cannot disregard the fact  that we need to reform FEMA. We need significant reform in FEMA.

In the aftermath of the floods of 2023 and 2024, I visited all of our  communities that were affected, and I followed up after that to talk to  our local officials, our local volunteers, our local regional planning  commissions: What worked and what didn't in the long-term response?

And what I heard from officials--regardless of what their political  orientation was but local officials who had a real sense of urgency  about getting the community back on its feet--was that FEMA was too  slow; it was too bureaucratic; it was conflicting in the advice and  information that it gave. And the ability to respond quickly and timely  was really inhibited because of the centralization of the decision- making authority in FEMA in Washington or in one of the regional  locations where FEMA has administrative structures. For Vermont that,  ironically, is Puerto Rico, which is not only not close to Vermont but  doesn't have anything close to the weather in Vermont.

So the aftermath of repairing, getting the community back on its  feet--that is where FEMA has failed us. It is because of the  centralization, in my view--actually, less important than my view--in  the view of the local officials who have ongoing responsibility to get  the community back on its feet. They just couldn't get answers.

Let me just give some examples. When there is a culvert out, there is  a road out, there is a bridge down, the people whose bridge is  affected, the people who are threatened if we have a culvert replaced  that is too small for what now we know will be the required carrying  capacity of a culvert, the best people to make that are right there in  that community. They have a sense of urgency. They have a commitment to  the well-being of the people they represent in that community. They  have the pressure of local community people watching to see if they are  making progress on that recovery.

But what has happened with FEMA, where everything is centralized, is  you don't get an answer. Can we replace an 18-inch culvert with a 36- inch culvert? Can we do the bridge over Hartland Road? Or can we make a  change because the bridge over Route 5 is more important to get fixed  and that is the priority?

One of the problems that our communities had is that the program  managers--those are the people assigned by FEMA to serve communities as  the bridge between the local community and FEMA--they are changed  constantly. So we have had in some of our small towns--and I am talking  towns with a population of like 300--they have one program manager  after another and over the course of a year and a half might have seven  or eight program managers. When that program manager is doing good work  and asking questions and they are getting answers from the town clerk,  the new program manager comes in, and it is as though nothing ever  happened, and they have to start all over again. So it creates an  enormous amount of frustration.

We have a situation with the town of Stannard where the town clerk-- this is the town of 300--the town had to make a decision about repaving  a road. It is a gravel surface. In order to get repaved more than a  year after the road had been repaired, with the town borrowing money it  really couldn't afford for a project that clearly was ultimately going  to be covered by FEMA, the town clerk was getting questions about, what  is the size of the gravel stones in that roadbed 12 inches down? That  makes no sense. And what happens, of course, is it creates an immense  amount of frustration.

A community that goes through a major weather event, in the shock of  it, in the immediate aftermath, everyone rushes in to help. But if it  is your farm, if it is your business, if it is your home, you have to  live with the effects of a slow-moving, nonresponsive, centralized  bureaucracy rather than get on with life and get an answer. Yes or no?  Can you do this or not?

So as a result of my discussions with the communities that have been  affected in Vermont, today, I have introduced a bill that is called the  Disaster Assistance Improvement and Decentralization, AID, Act. Quite  simply, what this bill does is it recognizes that if you are going to  get as quick a recovery as possible, as efficient a recovery as  possible, as cost-effective a recovery as possible, you actually have  to delegate responsibility and authority to the local community that  has to live with the consequences of the damage that has been done.  There has to be a partnership. There has to be accountability.

But where FEMA's role is going to be better on this is on oversight  to make sure that there is the proper use of taxpayer, FEMA-authorized  money. But it is not going to micromanage local folks to death in the  name of oversight; it is going to empower the local folks to make those  decisions that have to be made right now about getting that community  back on its feet.

Every single one of us is horrified when the people we represent  suffer the result of a wild and catastrophic weather event. The loss of  life is horrifying. The destruction to the well-being of the community  is inconsolable. But we can help by making that long-term recovery  process work better, and the only way it is really going to work better  is by having much more authority in local hands--the decisions that  they can make about the culvert, about the bridge, about the grade of  gravel that goes into the repairs.

So my hope is that we can come together as a Congress to fix FEMA so  that its capacity to help our communities when they have been hurt so  hard through no fault of their own--that they will be able to get the  capacity to make decisions, act, and get their community back on its  feet.

Now, I do oppose this discussion that we are had hearing to some  extent from President Trump and Secretary Noem about abolishing FEMA.  You know, we can abolish FEMA when we can get an Executive order  abolishing and banning wild weather events, but that day is not going  to come. But another storm in one of our communities inevitably will  come.

What I want us to do, for your State and mine, is to have a FEMA that  can be on hand, prepositioned, and help in the immediate aftermath and  then be a partner but where we put the decision making and the capacity  to act and the flexibility that is necessary for the wise recovery of  our communities in the hands of our local officials. I think this will  make a much better recovery process for the folks all of us represent  in the great United States of America.                                       ______

By Mr. PADILLA:

S. 2260. A bill to provide for the water quality restoration of the  Tijuana River and the New River, and for other purposes; to the  Committee on Environment and Public Works.