Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, I want to support everything that my  colleague, the ranking member of the Finance Committee, just said about  these tariffs.

I want to make two points about the tariffs--one, the tariffs  themselves, and then second, the congressional failure to assert its  own authority on policies that it has the constitutional responsibility  for when our failure results in economic pain and insecurity for the  American people.

First of all, the tariffs. When the history of this decision is  written, President Trump's imposition of these wild and reckless  tariffs is going to be seen as one of the greatest economic blunders in  a century. It is that bad.

What is happening in Vermont is happening in every State across this  country. First of all, these tariffs are a tax. Second, they are paid  for by consumers, by manufacturers, and by producers. Third, it is  having a negative impact on trade and on our economy already. Today's  information about the gross domestic product shrinkage is evidence in  and of itself.

In Vermont, Trump's tariffs are estimated to cost Vermont households  more than $1 billion. More than 18,000 Vermonters work in industries  that are targeted by retaliatory tariffs, but virtually every Vermonter  is going to be impacted by increased costs--inflation--as a result of  the tariffs.

As an example, food, fuel, energy--all of these things are going to  be impacted and really affect people in their day-to-day and month-to- month budgets.

We get a lot of our electricity, a lot of our home heating fuel, and  a lot of our petroleum from Canada, especially in the northern part of  our State. Those costs are going to be increased, especially with the  expected retaliatory tariffs that are imposed on us by countries  subject to the arbitrary action of President Trump.

Farmers are really hit hard. Most of our farmers in Vermont import  their fertilizer from Canada. There is about a 25-percent increase that  they are going to be paying. And these are farmers, as the Presiding  Officer knows, that operate on the thinnest of margins in the most  uncertain of activities, subject to weather and price fluctuations and  so many other things that make our farmers courageous entrepreneurs.  But why add 25 percent to the cost of fertilizer when that input cost  is already so high? It is mind-boggling to think that this is a  voluntary action by the President.

Canada, by the way, happens to be our biggest trading partner, and 34  States have Canada as their major trading partner. In these tariffs--in  Canada, we are a 2.1 billion import partner with Canada--20 percent  tariff. China--a lot of input from China that our manufacturers use--54  percent tariff, plus who knows how many more tariffs depending on the  day and how President Trump feels when he wakes up. Trinidad and  Tobago: 81 million, 10 percent tariff. Germany: 75 million. Mexico: 77  million.

Very frustratingly for all of us, the sweeping global tariff order  unnecessarily increases prices and taxes on countries that have trade  surpluses with America.

I recently heard from a Vermonter who imports coffee and has a niche  business that has become extremely successful. The tariffs on Colombia  have resulted in this: A container that cost $700 last month--that  container now costs $13,000. How do you deal with that? A hit to the  margin is--no business can absorb that.

Vermont is also home to one of two businesses in the world that  produce these unique snow globes, and they have been in business for 25  years. It is a modest business, but it is one that was created by a  Vermont entrepreneur, and it has been really successful. They are going  to have to close their doors at the end of the summer with these  increased tariffs, basically, on China.

A second point that I think is relevant to these tariffs is the  arbitrariness of their implementation and the arbitrariness of how and  who is affected. We have a situation where we supposedly have these  tariffs on China. Apple Computer, quite understandably, was upset. It  was going to increase the cost of iPhones. Well, no problem. Tim Cook  was at the inauguration, sitting on the throne of honor, and he had the  telephone number, made the call, and the tariffs on iPhones vanished.

You know that snow globe manufacturer that I mentioned from Vermont?  She does not have Howard Lutnick's phone number. She does not have  Scott Bessent's phone number. She does not have President Trump's phone  number. She is out of luck.

So now, with these tariffs and the way they are being implemented  without any congressional engagement whatsoever, we are turning our  economy from one where it is based on a good product, really good  service, where you compete in the marketplace and if your product is  better and your service is better, you succeed, to an economy that is  more based on access. Do you know Lutnick? Do you know Bessent? Do you  know the President?

Oh, and by the way, if you contributed a couple million dollars to  the inauguration, you probably do know them and they give out the phone  number.

That is absolutely outrageous. People work hard. They produce a good  product. They give good service. Shouldn't they be entitled to the  reward for the labor that they have done; whereas, what we are seeing  now is that if you are connected, you can be rewarded regardless of how  good your product is or how lousy your service is. That is offensive-- and should be--to every single one of us here, and that is absolutely  what is happening in the White House.

Another thing is there is a casual disregard for how hard it is for  everyday families in the Presiding Officer's State and mine and in the  ranking member's State to pay the bills because inflation has been  here. Instead of arguing about who is at fault for that, let's solve  the problem, not aggravate the problem. And these tariffs aggravate the  problem. There is absolutely no denying that. This is just the wrong  thing at the wrong time for the wrong reasons.

Another element of this is, what is the purpose of these tariffs?  President Trump won't give a clear answer. It is to make us rich. They  will pay; we won't. It is to bring manufacturing back here. Or it is to  punish folks that he deems unworthy. It depends on the day, and it  depends on who is asking. So there is no coherent rationale connected  to the imposition of this enormous economic pain and cost increase that  is being imposed on American businesses and American consumers.

The other question here that is profoundly important for this  institution--every single one of us is proud to be a Member of the U.S.  Senate, and I think our pride is about our pride in the Constitution as  citizens where, under the Constitution, this Congress plays a role as a  coequal branch of government. And I think every single one of us here  is wary of the accumulation of excessive power in any one person or in  any one institution.

Congress has steadily over the years been ceding much of its  responsibility and authority to the executive branch. There is no  authority greater than the power to tax, and that is why, in the  Constitution, the power to impose tariffs resides in the House of  Representatives and the Senate. And shouldn't it be that way? Because  in the imposition of the tax, there has to be a decision that--in  asking our citizens, who we represent, to turn over hard-earned money  to the government, we have to be able to justify the purpose for which  those funds are being expended.

By allowing the President to take over, in effect, the taxing  authority that occurs when the tariff is imposed, we have ceded that  responsibility to him or that authority to him, and we have abandoned  our responsibility to look our constituents in the eye if and when we  say a tax should be imposed. None of us like to do that, but a  government has to collect revenues for the common good. We have  delegated that authority to the President, and it is wrong of us to do  that.

So we can have different views about whether there should be a tariff  or what the rate should be, but we have a collective responsibility to  do everything we can to maintain the constitutional structure of three  independent branches of government, each a counterweight to the other.  That is not just an abstract concept; that is the wisdom that has  served us well for well over 200 years, that those checks and balances  give all our citizens an opportunity to have a seat at the table when  major decisions about their lives and their futures are being made.

So that is why this decision that we are about to make is not just  about the tariffs. It is not just about, in my view, how recklessly  they are being applied and imposed. It is not just about how they  infect our economy with corruption, where it is who you know rather  than how hard you work that is going to get you ahead. It is about the  basic structure of our constitutional order, and every single one of us  has the responsibility to protect that because that is not about us. It  is not about who we represent. It is about how our country can operate  with a democratic system where every single person, through their  representatives, has a seat at the table.

So I urge all of us to take a look at what our constitutional  responsibility is. Whether we agree or not on so many different issues  of vital concern to the future of this country, we each have a  responsibility to act in a way that protects the constitutional system.  That means that we exercise authority over tariffs; we don't give that  away to an executive branch decision.

Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, first of all, I want to thank the senior  Senator from California not just for his leadership on protecting the  voting rights of all citizens in this country but for his work as the  California Secretary of State, where he gained a nationwide reputation  for running free and fair elections.

Senator Padilla, thank you so much for your work there, and thank you  so much for your leadership here.

I want to stand here in solidarity with my colleagues to push back,  oppose, denounce President Trump's March 25 Executive order, which  claims to preserve the integrity of U.S. elections. It does no such  thing. And, by the way, the idea that the President, who spent years  denying the outcome of the election he lost gives him absolutely no  credibility when he is speaking about his commitment to free and fair  elections.

Like my colleagues--all of us--I am committed to safeguarding the  security of our elections and working with anyone and everyone in the  Chamber to advance that objective. All of us revere the right of  citizens to make the decision about who their leaders are.

Unfortunately, many of our colleagues in the House, Republicans in  the House, have fought to gut the election security grants our States  depend on. I say that--usually, these are not partisan issues on  voting, but it is turning into that. And we are seeing a one-sided,  one-party approach, particularly out of the House, that goes to the  heart of our electoral process and the right of each of our citizens to  make their decision and their vote be the one that counts.

At the same time, despite the political violence at home and rising  tensions abroad, the Trump administration has taken an ax to CISA. As  we know, that is the Agency that works to curb emerging cyber security  threats. And that threat, those threats, are a threat to the election  integrity that is so essential to the well-being of our democracy.

The Executive order makes an assumption that noncitizen voting is a  problem. The assertion that noncitizens are voting is alarming.  Fortunately, it is not true. Also, Federal law already bars noncitizens  from voting in congressional and Presidential elections.

So this is not a question of whether there is some backdoor effort on  the part of one party to allow noncitizens to vote. It can't be done.  It is illegal now. This Executive order would not change that.

Study after study has also shown that the rate of noncitizen voting  is incredibly small, almost too small to measure--roughly 0.0001  percent, according to a reliable estimate. Obviously, that error is so  small that it is hard to measure and would not have any material impact  on our elections.

If you don't believe me, ask folks over at the libertarian Cato  Institute, a very conservative organization. They have labeled  President Trump's claims about noncitizen voting as ``bogus''--their  word, not mine.

The order of the President also raises significant constitutional  issues. The Constitution entrusts our States--and in the case of  certain core rules of conduct, Congress--with the authority to regulate  elections, not the Executive.

The Executive order President Trump has signed flips that framework  and purports to vest the President with expansive new powers that he  does not have--not just him but any chief executive.

It attempts to enact through Executive fiat what the Trump  administration seemingly believes it cannot achieve through the  legislative process, through an act of Congress; namely, Senate  consideration of the SAVE Act, many provisions of which are contained  in the President's Executive order.

I ask my colleagues to join me in focusing our attention on the very  real problems that confront our Nation and are pushing back against the  Trump administration's usurpation of the Senate's constitutional  prerogatives.

President Trump is attacking the right to vote with respect to  dismantling of the Department of Justice organization of attorneys who  are being punished for their efforts to protect that right to a vote.  That organization within the Justice Department is being actively  dismantled.

And the President has currently used the Department of Justice as a  tool to enact his--my view--very extreme policy positions, and that  includes the Civil Rights Division at the Department whose mission  includes protecting the right to vote.

According to press reports, all career supervisors in the voting  rights section have been reassigned to other positions completely  outside their areas of expertise. In other words, it is about  destroying the Civil Rights Division.

The Assistant Attorney General, Harmeet Dhillon, surely, at the  direction of the White House, is punishing career attorneys. This is  outrageous.

Also, reportedly, political appointees at the Department of Justice  have ordered the dismissal of all active cases and the closing of all  active investigations by this section.

Our Civil Rights Division within the Department of Justice has a  revered history for standing up for the rights of all citizens and  their constitutional rights to be enforced and protected, and that  brazen attack on the Civil Rights Division will leave it totally  unable--as the President, apparently, prefers--to defend the democratic  right of our citizens to vote.

I urge my colleagues to oppose the President's Executive order.