Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, there are just two issues: One is about the  policy, the energy policy, that the Trump administration is announcing,  and we can have a debate about that. I am in full support of the  comments that my colleagues have made. But there is another issue that,  in many ways, is more important, and that issue is whether this U.S.  Senate will accede to relinquishing its authority as a separate and  independent branch of government to a President who tries to seize that  power by claiming a phony emergency.

What justifies this action, as far as President Trump is concerned  and legally, is the assertion that we have an ``energy emergency.'' And  by invoking that term, he is saying to Congress: Get lost. This needs  immediate attention that only the Executive can give. And getting lost  means that we don't act as an independent branch of government and  fulfill the constitutional responsibility we have to be separate,  independent, and a check and balance on Executive power.

That is a separate question from whether Members agree or disagree  with the ``drill, baby, drill'' policy, but it is fundamental to the  well-being of our democracy. Congress, in the past, has never come  close to relinquishing that authority. And whether you are a Democrat  or Republican, if you are a U.S. Senator, you have to defend the  institution, not because it is good for me or you or any other Member  of the Senate, but it is good for America. We rely on that system of  checks and balances.

So the question is, Is it an emergency? And as my colleagues have  laid out, no, we have never had more production of power in our  history. We are exporting power. The power situation is not an  emergency. There is power abundance.

Now, second thing, as many of my colleagues are saying, there are  real consequences because, essentially, what the President is doing is  going all in on fossil fuels and casting aside the opportunities that  come--economic opportunities as well as cleaner climate opportunities-- with clean energy. I am not going to repeat all of the information  provided by starting with Senator Kaine, but it is true. And, you know,  selling out, as some of my colleagues say, to the fossil fuel  industry--the President was reported to have said ``get me a  billion''--what I don't understand is why you would kill jobs in the  clean energy sector that is producing cheaper power and good jobs.  There is no justification for an Executive or Member of Congress doing  that.

The other final point is that we are having this bizarre debate about  whether there is a climate situation caused by carbon emissions.  Reality is, we all know it is happening. We are all victimized by these  wild weather events.

And there are only two explanations that explain the actions of the  administration: One is they just favor fossil fuels no matter what.  There is a lot of truth to that. The other is, there is a lack of  confidence on the administration about the capacity of the American  people, the American innovators, the American entrepreneurs to take  full advantage of solving the issue of climate change by building out  clean energy, by doing efficiency.

That really, really works. And a confident person, a confident  country doesn't deny problems exist. They acknowledge them, face them  squarely, and then solve them. And in the process of doing that, they  all end up better and have a stronger economy as well.

So there is no emergency. We must stand first for the separation of  powers and the authority of Congress and not allow us to be stripped of  that by an Executive; and, second, we have to have a wise policy that  is going to create jobs, be sustainable for our economy and for our  future.