Usaid


Mr. WELCH. Mr. President, every President of the United States has a  right to review and realign programs funded by Congress, but only if  the President acts in a way that complies with the law.

In the past 5 weeks, President Trump, Elon Musk, and Secretary of  State Rubio have done away with even the pretense that they are  conducting a review of programs administered by the U.S. Agency for  International Development. It is not a review, and it never was. It is  the destruction of an entire Agency.

If it was, in fact, an honest review, I would support it. We should  be looking for ways to maximize the results we get from spending  taxpayer funds across the Federal Government.

If this was an honest review, they would not have announced the  closure of USAID and put virtually the entire domestic staff on leave.  The Trump administration cut off their communication with the global  workforce and required staff who were temporarily reinstated by court  order to work remotely because they were locked out of the--now  former--headquarters.

If this was an honest review, the Trump administration would not have  recalled 95 percent of USAID's global workforce after cutting off their  email access without warning and putting their security at risk, while  those staff were waiting for instructions to conduct the so-called  ``review.''

They would not have, prior to any review, forced American businesses  and nongovernmental organizations to lay off thousands of workers by  illegally withholding funds previously appropriated for USAID programs.

USAID supports programs that serve U.S. national interests overseas,  but it is farmers here in America who grow the corn, wheat, beans, and  peanuts. It is dairy farmers in Vermont who produce the powdered milk  that USAID uses to feed millions of hungry children in Africa, Central  America, and Asia.

It is American companies that manufacture the generators, water  pumps, trucks, and computers for USAID's programs, and American  workers--in blue States and red States--that implement those programs.

Thanks to Elon Musk--an unelected billionaire--those American farmers  and companies have lost their business with USAID, and the workers are  losing their jobs.

If the administration was serious about rooting out wasteful  spending, they would not have stopped programs in countries like  Somalia where USAID is a key partner in counterterrorism efforts with  the U.S. military.

They would not have shut down the Famine Early Warning System,  risking medicines and American-grown food aid to spoil in the supply  chain.

They would not have put more than a half dozen USAID lawyers on  leave, including its ethics lawyers.

They would not delay payment of invoices for work already completed  on behalf of the U.S. Government, incurring needless fees for violating  the Prompt Payment Act.

If this were truly about preventing waste, fraud, and abuse, if this  were truly about rooting out corruption, they would not empty U.S.  Embassies, leaving virtually no one trained in financial management and  oversight.

If there were any truth to their hyperbolic claims of corruption, for  which they have offered no credible evidence, they should have asked  the USAID Inspector General to investigate, rather than fire him  without cause.

And if they actually did discover programs they don't support, they  could have reprogramed the funds consistent with congressional  requirements and past practice. They also could have asked Congress to  change the law.

What is taking place right now is not about conducting a review,  policy realignment, or addressing waste, fraud, and abuse. The  administration instead has made every one of those goals impossible to  achieve.

President Trump, who claims a mandate but who won by the narrowest of  margins, does not have a mandate to illegally destroy Federal Agencies  and the careers of thousands of dedicated Federal employees. He does  not have a mandate to break the law.

But President Trump and Secretary Rubio are forging ahead, using Elon  Musk to provide cover through lies and misinformation on the social  media platform he bought and broke.

They highlight select examples of programs they deem wasteful which  amount to a fraction of a penny of the foreign aid budget--some of  which began under the first Trump administration--and they make  baseless claims of fraud and insubordination, blaming anyone else but  themselves for the chaos they are causing.

And while they say they favor transparency, they are doing this after  taking USAID's website down with all its previously publicly available  reports and data. Congress, the media, and the public are in the dark  about what they are doing.

We don't know which congressional spending directives they are  violating when they say they have terminated $1 billion in programs. It  could impact every single state.

We don't know how many HIV/AIDS patients have become sick because the  administration cut off funding for treatment or how many children are  sick with malaria or other preventable causes or how many malnourished  women and children have no emergency food rations because the funding  was stopped. We don't know how many thousands of girls can no longer go  to school in countries where they are traditionally denied access to  education because the funding was frozen. We don't know how many  organizations working to stop sex trafficking, child labor, and gang  violence are no longer functioning because the funding was cut off. We  don't know how many deminers we have trained and equipped to locate and  destroy unexploded mines and bombs in Vietnam, Laos, Lebanon, and  Ukraine are no longer working because the funding was stopped.

But before long, we will know, and our constituents will know. And  they will know that this administration is responsible for the chaos  and life and death impacts that are reverberating in the United States  and around the world.

How does cutting off infectious disease surveillance and treatment  during outbreaks of Ebola, bird flu, and the deadly hemorrhagic Marburg  virus disease make Americans safer? It doesn't. How does abandoning our  allies and partners and ceding ground to Russia and China and to ISIS  and other terrorist organizations make America stronger? It doesn't.  How does cutting off funding for joint USAID-DOD programs with Vietnam,  on the 30th anniversary of the normalization of relations with that  former enemy, which is now a Comprehensive Strategic Partner, advance  U.S. national security? It doesn't.

Anyone can see that Moscow is celebrating these reckless actions,  while Beijing plots how to fill the void to advance China's interests.

This wholesale, thoughtless, and illegal destruction of USAID is  playing out across the government. DOGE has told the U.S. African  Development Foundation and the Inter-American Foundation, agencies  established and funded with direct appropriations by Congress, that  their budgets are being slashed.

Elon Musk doesn't know and doesn't care why Congress established  these Agencies, what they do, or the positive impact they are having on  the lives of millions of people. To Musk and his DOGE agents, the law  be damned. Congress be damned. The American people be damned. The world  be damned.

The precedent being set by these illegal actions is a lasting threat  to the American people, to our global leadership, our national  security, our reputation around the world, and to the checks and  balances that are the foundation of our democracy.

Vermonters are outraged by what is happening. Dozens have already  lost their jobs. They want the United States to be a leader for good in  the world. They care about the image of the United States as the  world's oldest democracy. They are smart enough to know that abandoning  friends and allies is how you lose friends and allies.

The destruction of USAID and these other Agencies will reverberate  around the world and cause lasting damage. I urge Secretary Rubio,  senior Pentagon officials who know the invaluable role that USAID plays  in preventing conflict, and my Republican colleagues who in the past  have supported USAID, the Inter-American Foundation, and the U.S.  African Development Foundation, to stop this.

Because if the Congress, especially my friends in the majority party,  allow this to happen, people will soon realize that it wasn't China or  Russia that did this; we did it to ourselves.