Haiti Criminal Collusion Transparency Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694815/haiti-criminal-collusion-transparency-act-of-2025


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2643) to require the Secretary of State to submit an  annual report to Congress regarding the ties between criminal gangs and  political and economic elites in Haiti and impose sanctions on  political and economic elites involved in such criminal activities, as  amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2643

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Haiti Criminal Collusion       Transparency Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the       following 5 years, the Secretary of State, in coordination       with other Federal agencies as appropriate, shall submit a       report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding       the ties between criminal gangs and political and economic       elites in Haiti. The report shall--

(1) identify and list prominent criminal gangs in Haiti as       well as the leaders thereof, and describe their criminal       activities including coercive recruitment, and identify their       primary geographic areas of operations;

(2) list Haitian political and economic elites who have       direct links to criminal gangs and any organizations or       entities controlled by these elites;

(3) describe in detail the relationship between the       individuals listed pursuant to paragraph (2) and the criminal       gangs identified pursuant to paragraph (1);

(4) describe in detail how Haitian political and economic       elites use their relationships with criminal gangs to advance       their political and economic interests and agenda;

(5) include a list of each criminal organization assessed       to be trafficking Haitians and other individuals to the       United States border;

(6) include an assessment of ties between political and       economic elites, criminal gangs in Haiti, and transnational       criminal organizations;

(7) include an assessment of how the nature and extent of       collusion between political and economic elites and criminal       gangs threatens the Haitian people and United States national       interests and activities in the country; and

(8) include an assessment of potential actions that the       Government of the United States could take to address the       findings made pursuant to paragraph (6).

(b) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection       (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include       a classified annex.       SEC. 3. SANCTIONS.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the       submission of the report to the appropriate committees, the       President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection       (b) with respect to each foreign person identified pursuant       to sections 2(a)(1) and 2(a)(2).

(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following:

(1) Property blocking.--Notwithstanding the requirements of       section 202 of the International Emergency Economic Powers       Act (50 U.S.C. 1701), the President may exercise of all       powers granted to the President by that Act to the extent       necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all       property and interests in property of the foreign person if       such property and interests in property are in the United       States, come within the United States, or are or come within       the possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Visas, admission, or parole.--

(A) In general.--An alien who the Secretary of State or the       Secretary of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such       Secretaries) knows, or has reason to believe, is described in       subsection (a) is--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible for a visa or other documentation to enter       the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--

(i) In general.--The issuing consular officer, the       Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or       a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall, in accordance       with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8       U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or other entry documentation       issued to an alien described in subsection (a) regardless of       when the visa or other entry documentation is issued.

(ii) Effect of revocation.--A revocation under clause (i)       shall take effect immediately and shall automatically cancel       any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the       alien's possession.

(c) Exceptions.--

(1) Exception to comply with international obligations.--      Sanctions under this section shall not apply with respect to       the admission of an alien if admitting or paroling the alien       into the United States is necessary to permit the United       States to comply with the Agreement regarding the       Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success       June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947,       between the United Nations and the United States, or other       applicable international obligations.

(2) Exception relating to the provision of humanitarian       assistance.--Sanctions under this section may not be imposed       with respect to transactions or the facilitation of       transactions for--

(A) the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine,       or medical devices to Haiti;

(B) the provision of humanitarian assistance to the people       of Haiti;

(C) financial transactions relating to humanitarian       assistance or for humanitarian purposes in Haiti; or

(D) transporting goods or services that are necessary to       carry out operations relating to humanitarian assistance or       humanitarian purposes in Haiti.

(d) Implementation; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and       205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50       U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this subtitle.

(2) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in of section       206(b) and (c) of the International Emergency Economic Powers       Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that violates,       attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a       violation of regulations promulgated to carry out this       section to the same extent that such penalties apply to a       person that commits an unlawful act described in section       206(a) of that Act.

(e) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       sanctions or restrictions imposed with respect to a foreign       person under this section if the President certifies to the       appropriate congressional committees that the waiver is       important to the national interests of the United States.

(f) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--

(1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions authorized under this section shall not include the       authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the       importation of goods.

(2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term ``good''       means any article, natural or man-made substance, material,       supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.       SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives;

(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;

(C) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of       Representatives;

(D) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of       the Senate;

(E) the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;

(F) the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence;

(G) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of       Representatives; and

(H) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

(1) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an       individual or entity that is not a United States person.

(2) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means--

(A) a United States citizen;

(B) a permanent resident alien of the United States; or

(C) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity.

(3) Economic elites.--The term ``economic elites'' means       board members, officers, and executives of groups,       committees, corporations, or other entities that exert       substantial influence or control over Haiti's economy,       infrastructure, or particular industries.

(4) Political elites.--The term ``political elites'' means       current and former government officials and their high-level       staff, political party leaders, and political committee       leaders.       SEC. 5. SUNSET.

The authorities provided by this Act shall cease to have       effect on the date that is 5 years after the date of the       enactment of this Act.

I support H.R. 2643, the Haiti Criminal Collusion Transparency Act,  introduced by Ranking Member Meeks, because it advances a clear  bipartisan goal: exposing and sanctioning the corrupt political and  economic elites in Haiti who have fueled the country's ongoing gang  crisis.

This is not just about Haiti. It is about protecting U.S. national  security. The chaos in Port-au-Prince is creating regional instability.  Haitians are fleeing the island, using criminal networks to traffic  them and others to our southern border. These actors threaten the  safety of the Haitian people and the interests of the United States.

To its credit, the Trump administration responded swiftly. Within  days of taking office, it approved nearly $41 million to support the  Haitian National Police and the Kenyan-led Multinational Security  Support Mission. It also issued a humanitarian waiver to keep emergency  relief flowing.

This bill complements those efforts by requiring the State Department  to identify and report on individual gangs tied to gang activity and to  impose sanctions on those responsible. It targets the enablers of  violence and provides Congress with the information needed to act  decisively.

Meanwhile, the administration is prioritizing stronger oversight of  U.S. foreign assistance to Haiti, an essential effort to ensure  taxpayer funds are not misused. By identifying and sanctioning corrupt  actors, this bill helps ensure that U.S. aid does not end up in the  hands of those fueling the instability. It reinforces the broader  objective of holding accountable the networks behind Haiti's collapse.

I appreciate the bipartisan leadership on this legislation and  recognize its importance in confronting the crisis head-on.

House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                      Washington, DC, June 16, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 2643, the Haiti       Criminal Collusion Transparency Act of 2025. Provisions of       this bill fall within the Judiciary Committee's Rule X       jurisdiction, and I appreciate that you consulted with us on       those provisions. The Judiciary Committee agrees that it       shall be discharged from further consideration of the bill so       that it may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 2643 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in the future on matters of shared       jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                      Washington, DC, June 23, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Committee on Foreign Affairs and agreeing to be discharged       from further consideration of H.R. 2643, the Haiti Criminal       Collusion Transparency Act of 2025, so that the measure may       proceed expeditiously to the House Floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I would       support your effort to seek appointments of any appropriate       number of conferees from your committee to any House-Senate       conference of this legislation.

I will submit the exchange of letters to be published in       the Congressional Record. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to       work together on matters of shared jurisdiction during this       Congress.            Sincerely,                                                     Brian J. Mast,                         Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers and will  continue to reserve until the gentleman yields back his time.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Meeks for this  fine piece of legislation and appreciate his bipartisan spirit.

I urge my colleagues to pass the Haiti Criminal Collusion  Transparency Act and make clear that the United States will expose and  hold accountable those who fund, enable, and profit from gang violence  in Haiti. It will shine a light on the criminal networks undermining  regional stability and ensure there are consequences for those who  collude with them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.