International Traffic in Arms Regulations Licensing Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694830/international-traffic-in-arms-regulations-licensing-reform-act


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 4215) to require the Secretary of State to promulgate  expedited and fixed timelines for the decision-making process to  license the export of certain defense articles and defense services,  and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4215

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``International Traffic in       Arms Regulations Licensing Reform Act''.       SEC. 2. LIST OF COUNTRIES AND END-USERS TO RECEIVE PRIORITY                     FOR DIRECT COMMERCIAL SALES.

(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall       develop and maintain a list of countries and end-users with       respect to which expedited decision-making for applications       for licenses for the export of defense articles and defense       services is vital to the national security of the United       States, consistent with the requirements of the Arms Export       Control Act and other applicable provisions of law.

(b) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after       the development of the list required by subsection (a), and       annually thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to       the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the       Senate an updated copy of the list.       SEC. 3. DECISION-MAKING PROCESS FOR APPLICATIONS FOR DIRECT                     COMMERCIAL SALES.

Not later than 30 days after the date on which the       Secretary of State publishes the list required by section 2,       the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense,       shall initiate a rulemaking process to establish an expedited       timeline for the decision-making process with respect to       applications to export defense articles or defense services       under the Arms Export Control Act to countries or end-users       identified by such list and a fixed timeline for decisions       for all other applications for such exports. The timelines so       established shall provide that, to the maximum extent       practicable--

(1) an application to export defense articles or defense       services to a listed country or end-user shall be approved,       returned, or denied not later than 45 days after the date on       which the application is submitted to the Secretary;

(2) an application to export defense articles or defense       services to any country or end-user shall be approved,       returned, or denied not later than 60 days after the date on       which the application is submitted to the Secretary; and

(3) the deadlines described in paragraphs (1) and (2) may       be suspended with respect to an application if necessary--

(A) for applicable time periods specified in subsection       (b), (c), or (d) of section 36 of such Act, during which       Congress may enact a joint resolution prohibiting the       approval of such application; or

(B) for such time as may be required to receive a decision       from the Secretary of Defense with respect to an application       that is subject to approval by the Department of Defense,       including technology security and foreign disclosure release       determinations.       SEC. 4. REPORTS.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the       Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives       and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate on a       semi-annual basis a report, which may be submitted in       classified form, that identifies each application to export       defense articles or defense services during the preceding       180-day period with respect to which the time to reach a       decision exceeded the applicable deadline described in       section 3(1) or 3(2).

(b) Matter To Be Included.--The report required by this       section shall also include the following information with       respect to each application so identified:

(1) The defense articles or defense services included in       the application.

(2) The recipient country, end-user, and any corporate       entities involved in the application.

(3) Whether the United States has previously exported       similar defense articles or defense services to the recipient       country or end-user.

(4) A justification for the delay in reaching a decision       with respect to the application.

(5) The anticipated timeline for reaching a decision with       respect to the application, if still pending as of the date       of the submission of the report.

Mr. Speaker, I introduced the International Traffic in Arms  Regulations Licensing Reform Act to improve licensing timelines and  processes for direct commercial defense sales.

America's foreign defense sales program is notorious for its slow  timelines and opaque process. This lack of clarity about how foreign  partners are prioritized causes frustration and confusion among our  most important partners and allies. This inefficiency and murkiness  force our partners to consider turning to other countries to source  their capabilities.

The U.S. is currently the partner of choice for foreign arms sales,  but that status is in jeopardy due to internal delays and unnecessary  bureaucratic red tape.

The direct commercial sales process presents a more efficient,  expedient pathway for our allies and partners to purchase U.S.  technology. Direct commercial sales are the future of American defense  sales. Direct commercial sales skyrocketed last year and are quickly  outpacing other forms of defense sales.

If our direct commercial sales program is going to continue to grow,  more must be done to streamline direct commercial sales and incentivize  even faster timelines.

This legislation would codify President Trump's April 9 executive  order to establish a list of priority partners for certain defense  sales and would create a timebound process for approving direct  commercial sales cases.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support our defense industrial  base and support this commonsense bill.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, we must do everything we can to improve our foreign  defense sales process to ensure American competitiveness and equip our  allies with the highest quality defense materials.

I am proud to sponsor this legislation to streamline the direct  commercial sales process, and I urge my colleagues to join me in  support of it. This legislation makes America safer and our economy  wealthier.