Made-In-America Defense Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694809/made-in-america-defense-act


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 4216) to direct the Secretary of State, in coordination  with the Secretary of Defense, to carry out a review of the list of  defense articles and services required to be transferred under the  foreign military sales program as opposed to direct commercial sale  (FMS-Only List), as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4216

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Made-in-America Defense       Act''.       SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

Congress--

(1) believes the expeditious delivery of defense articles       and services to allies and partners strengthens American       national security;

(2) notes that the Department of Defense contracting       process often adds significant amounts of time to the       delivery of defense articles and services to allies and       partners, and in some cases these articles and services could       be appropriately transferred more quickly using direct       commercial sales; and

(3) supports the ongoing and periodic review of the FMS-      Only List to ensure that defense articles and services that       can be appropriately transferred using direct commercial       sales are not included on the FMS-Only list.       SEC. 3. REVIEW AND REPORT.

(a) Review.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the       Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of       Defense, shall carry out a review of defense articles and       defense services that are eligible to be provided under the       foreign military sales program under chapter 2 of the Arms       Export Control Act, but not eligible to be provided under       direct commercial sales under section 38 of such Act, in       order to identify those articles and services that should       also be eligible to be provided under direct commercial       sales.

(2) Matters to be addressed.--The review required by this       subsection shall address the following with respect to each       defense article and defense services identified under this       subsection:

(A) The average length of time to complete a transfer of       the article or service under the foreign military sales       program compared to such a transfer under a direct commercial       sale, measured from the initial submission of the letter of       request to the delivery of the article or service.

(B) The impact on the workload for the Department of State       and Department of Defense by reason of a transfer of the       article or service under a direct commercial sale.

(C) The benefits to United States national security and       United States competitiveness by reason of a transfer of the       article or service under a direct commercial sale.

(b) Report.--

(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the       completion of each review required by subsection (a), the       Secretary of State, in coordination of the Secretary of       Defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional       committees a report that contains the results of the review,       including--

(A) the average time to transfer the reviewed defense       articles or services during the previous reporting period       through the foreign military sales program and through direct       commercial sales and how those averages compare to the       averages reported in the previous reporting period;

(B) the leading causes of delays;

(C) any steps taken to reduce those delays; and

(D) any defense articles and services added to or removed       from the FMS-Only list during the preceding reporting period,       as well as the justification for such decisions.

(2) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be       submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified       annex.

(3) Definitions.--In this subsection--

(A) the term ``appropriate congressional committees''       means--

(i) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on       Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and

(ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee       on Armed Services of the Senate; and

(B) the term ``FMS-only list'' means the list maintained by       the Secretary of State of defense articles and defense       services that are eligible to be provided under the foreign       military sales program under chapter 2 of the Arms Export       Control Act, but not eligible to be provided under direct       commercial sales under section 38 of such Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation to improve the  foreign military sales process.

When our partners and allies choose to procure U.S.-origin defense  articles or services, they have a choice to purchase items via either  the foreign military sales process or the direct commercial sales  process.

While foreign military sales are often the path of choice due to the  robust, total-package approach, direct commercial sales are preferable  in many cases, as it is faster and a more nimble process than foreign  military sales.

However, the State Department maintains an out-of-date list of  defense articles that may only be purchased via foreign military sales.  This list is meant to only include the most sensitive technologies that  would pose a risk to U.S. competitiveness or national security if these  technologies fell into the wrong hands.

However, its outdated nature ends up creating the very problem that  it seeks to avoid. U.S. competitiveness is limited, as our partners  choose to turn to other sources for technologies that are too slow to  procure from the U.S.

President Trump's April 9 executive order mandated that the State  Department review and update the foreign military sales-only list.

This legislation would codify that requirement and go one step  further by requiring an annual review of the list. This legislation  would also enhance congressional reporting requirements to ensure that  Congress has oversight over any changes to the list.

This much-needed legislation is a key part of reforming our foreign  defense sales process to ensure that the United States maintains its  competitiveness and remains the global partner of choice for  procurement of defense technology.

Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Foreign Arms Sales Task Force, I urge  my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mrs. BIGGS of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, President Trump made it  clear: Put American jobs first, and cut the Washington red tape. I am  proud to say that my bill delivers by turning the President's executive  order into law and investing in American workers.

The Made-in-America Defense Act strengthens domestic manufacturing.  It supports our allies, and it advances our national security, all by  cutting through the Washington bureaucracy that too often slows us  down.

Here is the bottom line: This bill will produce more jobs for our  tradesmen and boost manufacturing in South Carolina and across the  Nation.

For South Carolina's Third District, it means good jobs for welders,  machinists, and engineers. It means new orders coming into counties  like Anderson, Greenwood, Newberry, and Oconee, and many other  hardworking blue-color communities all across the Nation.

Importantly, it means America's best equipment reaching our allies  faster than ever before.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, reforming America's foreign defense  sales is a top priority of this administration. We must do our part to  codify the improvements initiated by President Trump. I am proud to  support this legislation to improve the foreign defense system, and I  urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.