Recognizing Joshua Elliott


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700140/recognizing-joshua-elliott


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize Marine  Sergeant Joshua Elliott of Stevens County in eastern Washington and to  highlight the incredible work of Homes For Our Troops.

After the 9/11 attacks, Josh enlisted in the Marine Corps to serve  his country. During his second deployment to Afghanistan, he was  gravely injured by an improvised explosive device, losing both legs  above the knee.

Despite these injuries, Josh returned home to continue to serve,  founding Angel Peak Adaptive Sports with his wife, Samantha, to help  other wounded veterans and athletes experience the freedom of adaptive  skiing.

Yet, the unlevel terrain and narrow spaces of their current home make  daily life difficult.

That is why the great group Homes For Our Troops is stepping in to  build Josh a specially adapted home, giving him the safety,  independence, and access he has earned through his service.

Madam Speaker, Sergeant Elliott embodies the courage, resilience, and  community spirit of eastern Washington, and we are proud to call him  one of our own. We are also grateful to Homes For Our Troops for  providing this needed assistance.                       Recognizing Military Recruiters

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  dedicated work of our military recruiters and their critical role in  shaping the future of our Armed Forces.

I recently met with recruiters from across eastern Washington to  discuss the state of military recruiting and the challenges that they  face in reaching new applicants. These men and women are often the  first connection that young Americans have to military service. They  open doors to opportunity, education, and leadership,  while ensuring our Nation remains a strong and ready force.

I call upon the memory of one of my favorite Presidents, President  JFK, and think about his statement: ``Ask not what your country can do  for you--ask what you can do for your country.''

Madam Speaker, I call on all the parents of eastern Washington and  all the teachers and principals to have a conversation with our fine  recruiters and talk about what career paths their young people in their  homes and their schools may have in protecting our country with our  military.    Recognizing Spokane Chinese Association and Spokane Chinese Christian                                   Church

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the Spokane  Chinese Association and the Spokane Chinese Christian Church for  hosting an outstanding Lunar New Year celebration in Spokane.

The event was a vibrant tribute to our community's diversity and the  rich cultural traditions that strengthen all of us. The music and dance  performances showcase not only extraordinary talent but also the spirit  of unity and joy that defines this wonderful celebration.

In eastern Washington, we are proud to have such a vibrant Asian- American community. For more than 170 years, Asian, Native Hawaiian,  and Pacific Islander families have helped to shape the cultural fabric  of the inland Northwest.

As we celebrate this season of new beginnings, may it bring good  health, prosperity, and joy to them and their families. I am proud to  join in honoring the start of a new year filled with hope and good  fortune.

Madam Speaker, I thank the Spokane Chinese Association and the  Spokane Chinese Christian Church for inviting me to such a wonderful  celebration, and I wish them a Happy Lunar New Year.