Uyghur Policy Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694799/uyghur-policy-act-of-2025


Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2635) to support the human rights of Uyghurs and members  of other minority groups residing primarily in the Xinjiang Uyghur  Autonomous Region and safeguard their distinct identity, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2635

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Uyghur Policy Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The People's Republic of China (PRC) continues to       repress the distinct Islamic, Turkic identity of Uyghurs and       members of other ethnic and religious minority groups in the       Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) in northwestern       China and other areas of their habitual residence.

(2) Uyghurs, and other predominantly Muslim ethnic       minorities historically making up the majority of the XUAR       population, have maintained throughout their history a       distinct religious and cultural identity.

(3) Human rights, including freedom of religion or belief,       and respect for the Uyghurs' unique Muslim identity are       legitimate interests of the international community.

(4) The PRC has ratified the International Covenant on       Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights, and is thereby bound       by its provisions. The PRC has also signed the International       Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.

(5) An official campaign to encourage Han Chinese migration       into the XUAR has placed immense pressure on those who seek       to preserve the ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic       traditions of the Uyghurs and other ethnic and religious       minority groups.

(6) PRC authorities have supported an influx of Han Chinese       economic immigrants into the XUAR, implemented discrimination       against Uyghurs and other minorities in hiring practices, and       provided unequal access to healthcare services.

(7) PRC authorities have manipulated the strategic       objectives of the international war on terror to mask their       increasing cultural and religious oppression of the Muslim       population residing in the XUAR.

(8) Following unrest in the region, in 2014, Chinese       authorities launched their ``Strike Hard against Violent       Extremism'' campaign, in which dubious allegations of       widespread extremist activity were used as justification for       gross human rights violations committed against Uyghurs and       members of other minority communities in the XUAR.

(9) PRC authorities have made use of the legal system as a       tool of repression, including for the imposition of arbitrary       detentions and for torture against members of the Uyghur       community and other minority populations.

(10) Uyghurs and Kazakhs who have secured citizenship or       permanent residency outside of the PRC have attested to       repeated threats, harassment, and surveillance by PRC       officials.

(11) Reporting from international news organizations has       found that over the past decade, family members of Uyghurs       and other minority groups living outside of the PRC have gone       missing or been detained to force Uyghur expatriates to       return to the PRC or silence their dissent.

(12) In 2017, Radio Free Asia's Uyghur Service was the       first media organization to report on the PRC's vast, mass       arbitrary-detention program in the XUAR in 2017.

(13) Credible evidence from human rights organizations,       think tanks, and journalists confirms that more than       1,000,000 Uyghurs and members of other ethnic minority groups       have been imprisoned in extrajudicial ``political       reeducation'' centers.

(14) Independent accounts from former detainees of       ``political reeducation'' centers describe inhumane       conditions and treatment including forced political       indoctrination, torture, beatings, rape, forced       sterilization, and food deprivation.

(15) Former detainees also confirmed that they were told by       guards that the only way to secure release was to demonstrate       sufficient political loyalty to the PRC Government.

(16) Popular discourse surrounding the ongoing atrocities       in the XUAR and advocacy efforts to assist Uyghurs remains       muted in most Muslim majority nations around the world.

(17) Former Secretary of States Antony Blinken and Michael       Pompeo and Secretary of State Marco Rubio confirmed that the       PRC Government has committed genocide and crimes against       humanity against Uyghurs and other ethnic and religious       minorities in the XUAR.

(18) Government bodies of multiple nations have also       declared that PRC Government's atrocities against such       populations in the XUAR constitute genocide, including the       parliaments of the United Kingdom, Belgium, Czechia,       Lithuania, the Netherlands, and Canada.       SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the Sense of Congress that--

(1) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       immediately open the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR)       to regular, transparent, and unmanipulated visits by members       of the press, international organizations including the       Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human       Rights, academic and human rights research institutions, as       well as foreign delegations including from the United States       Congress;

(2) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       recognize, and take tangible steps to protect and preserve,       the distinct ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic       identity of Uyghurs and members of       other ethnic and religious minority groups in the XUAR;

(3) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       cease all government-sponsored crackdowns, imprisonments, and       detentions of people throughout the XUAR aimed at repressing       their ethnic, cultural, political, or religious identities;

(4) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       cease all government-sponsored transnational repression of       Uyghurs, including the detainment, harassment, intimidation,       and surveillance of the family members of exiled Uyghurs and       Uyghur activists;

(5) it is commendable for countries to provide shelter and       hospitality to Uyghurs and other minority group members in       exile, as Turkey, Albania, and Germany have done;

(6) urges all countries, especially fellow democracies and       those with sizeable Muslim populations, to condemn and       address the plight of Uyghurs and other minority communities       in the XUAR;

(7) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       immediately and unconditionally release all prisoners that       have been detained for their ethnic, cultural, religious, and       linguistic identities, for expressing their political or       religious beliefs in the XUAR, or for being related to       members of the Uyghur diaspora or activist community       including--

(A) Ekper Asat, who participated in the Department of       State's International Visitors Leadership Program in 2016,       was incarcerated after returning to the XUAR, and is now       serving a 15 year prison sentence on charges of ``inciting       ethnic hatred and ethnic discrimination'';

(B) Dr. Gulshan Abbas, a retired medical doctor and Uyghur,       who was wrongfully detained in the XUAR on September 11,       2018, and unjustly sentenced to 20 years in prison in       retaliation for her sister's advocacy for Uyghur human rights       issues; and

(C) Kamile Wayit, a university student and Uyghur, who was       wrongfully detained on December 12, 2022, after returning to       the XUAR while on break from studying during the winter       holiday;

(8) the Government of the People's Republic of China should       facilitate access for international humanitarian       organizations, including the International Federation of Red       Cross and Red Crescent Societies, to the ``political       reeducation'' centers in the XUAR to ensure prisoners are not       being mistreated and are receiving necessary medical care;       and

(9) the Department of State should continue to facilitate       the unhindered dissemination of information to the       international community on issues regarding the human rights,       religious freedom, and transnational repression of Uyghurs       and members of other minority groups in the XUAR.       SEC. 4. UNITED STATES STRENGTHENING OF COORDINATION ON UYGHUR                     ISSUES.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of State, as appropriate,       shall--

(1) prioritize policies, programs, and projects to support       the Uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious       minority groups in the XUAR;

(2) vigorously promote the policy of seeking to protect the       distinct ethnic, religious, cultural, and linguistic identity       of the Uyghurs and other minority groups and seek improved       protection of human rights in the XUAR;

(3) direct the State Department to maintain close contact       with Uyghur religious, cultural, and political leaders,       including seeking regular travel to the XUAR and to Uyghur       populations in Central Asia, Turkey, Albania, Germany, and       other parts of Europe;

(4) lead coordination efforts for the release of political       prisoners in the XUAR who are being detained for exercising       their human rights or being relatives of exiled Uyghurs;

(5) consult with the United States Congress on policies       relevant to the XUAR and the Uyghurs;

(6) coordinate with relevant Federal agencies to administer       aid to Uyghur rights advocates;

(7) make efforts to establish contacts with foreign       ministries of other countries, especially in Europe, Central       Asia, and members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation,       to pursue a policy of promoting greater respect for human       rights and religious freedom for Uyghurs and other ethnic and       religious minority groups from the XUAR;

(8) utilize the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and       United States Strategic Dialogue to address Uyghur rights,       working with the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation       individual member states to develop and implement joint       initiatives and programs aimed at promoting awareness of       Uyghur rights, and support Uyghur victims of detainment,       harassment, and transnational repression;

(9) support independent media authorized under PL 111/202       22 U.S.C. 6208 of the 111th Congress that conduct reporting       and investigative journalism focused on the XUAR, including       in local languages, to ensure that further PRC human rights       abuses are reported on;

(10) work with international partners to raise awareness       concerning acts of transnational repression against Uyghur       Americans or Uyghurs exiled in the United States;

(11) develop and implement strategies to prevent and       respond to the transnational repression of Uyghur Americans       and Uyghurs exiled in the United States;

(12) establish a reporting mechanism for individuals to       report incidents of transnational repression; and

(13) submit an annual report, including a classified annex       if necessary, to Congress on actions taken by the United       States to address and prevent transnational repression       against Uyghurs in the United States, and recommendations for       further legislative or policy measures.

(b) Support.--The Secretary of State shall ensure the       Department of State has adequate resources, staff, and       administrative support to carry out this section.

(c) Termination.--This section shall terminate on the date       that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.       SEC. 5. FUNDING FOR HUMAN RIGHTS ADVOCATES TO CONDUCT PUBLIC                     DIPLOMACY IN THE ISLAMIC WORLD ON THE UYGHUR                     SITUATION.

Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the United       States Speaker Program of the Bureau of Educational and       Cultural Affairs of the Department of State, $250,000 for       each of fiscal years 2025, 2026, and 2027 is authorized to be       made available to support human rights advocates working on       behalf of the Uyghurs and members of other ethnic and       religious minority groups from the XUAR that are persecuted       in the PRC, whose names may be provided by the Department of       State in consultation with representatives of the global       Uyghur community, to speak at global public diplomacy forums,       particularly those in which Organisation of Islamic       Cooperation countries and other Muslim-majority countries are       present, on issues regarding the human rights and religious       freedom of Uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious       minority groups persecuted in the PRC.       SEC. 6. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

No additional funds are authorized to carry out the       requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried       out using amounts otherwise authorized.       SEC. 7. ACCESS TO DETENTION FACILITIES AND PRISONS AND THE                     RELEASE OF PRISONERS.

(a) Strategy on Political Reeducation and Detention       Facilities.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in       consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal       departments and agencies, develop a strategy to cooperate       with like-minded partners to pressure the People's Republic       of China to--

(1) close all detention facilities and ``political       reeducation'' camps housing Uyghurs and members of other       ethnic minority groups in the XUAR;

(2) allow unhindered access to detention facilities and       ``political reeducation'' camps in the XUAR by independent       media, researchers, international organizations and the       Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human       Rights for a comprehensive assessment of the human rights       situation; and

(3) protect human rights and preserve the distinct       religious and cultural identity of the Uyghurs and the other       religious and ethnic minority communities in the XUAR.

(b) Report on Strategy and Implementation.--Not later than       1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the       Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign       Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on       Foreign Relations of the Senate a report, including a       classified annex if necessary, that includes--

(1) the strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a); and

(2) all the steps taken to implement such strategy pursuant       to the objectives described in subsection (a).       SEC. 8. REQUIREMENT FOR UYGHUR LANGUAGE TRAINING.

(a) Uyghur Language Training and Staffing.--The Secretary       of State shall take such steps as may be necessary to ensure       that--

(1) Uyghur language training is available to Foreign       Service officers as appropriate; and

(2) every effort is made to ensure that at least 1 Uyghur-      speaking member of the Foreign Service (as such term is       defined by section 103 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22       U.S.C. 3903)) is assigned to each United States diplomatic or       consular post in China.

(b) Report.--No later than 1 year after the date of the       enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 2 years,       the Foreign Service Institute shall submit to the Committee       on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that       outlines all the steps taken to implement subsection (a).       SEC. 9. UYGHUR CONSIDERATIONS AT THE UNITED NATIONS.

The President should direct the United States Permanent       Representative to the United Nations to use the voice, vote,       and influence of the United States to--

(1) oppose any efforts to prevent consideration of the       gross violation of internationally recognized human rights in       the XUAR in any body of the United Nations;

(2) oppose any efforts to prevent the participation of any       Uyghur human rights advocates in nongovernmental fora hosted       by or otherwise organized under the auspices of any body of       the United Nations; and

(3) support the appointment of a special rapporteur or       working group for the XUAR for the purposes of monitoring       human rights violations and abuses in the XUAR, and for       making reports available to the High Commissioner for       Refugees, the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Human       Rights       Commission, the General Assembly, and other United Nations       bodies.

I rise today in strong support of Representative Young Kim's Uyghur  Policy Act of 2025.

The Chinese Communist Party continues to commit genocide against the  Uyghur people in Xinjiang. Over 1 million Uyghurs are held in mass  detention camps, where they face torture, forced labor, constant  surveillance, and forced sterilization. This is not just about abuse.  It is a systematic campaign of genocide.

The Uyghur Policy Act of 2025 pushes back. It directs the Secretary  of State to prioritize support for the Uyghurs and other persecuted  groups and to work with allies to pressure China to close these camps.

It also urges U.S. leadership at the United Nations to ensure China's  human rights abuses are not ignored or silenced.

America must lead with moral clarity. We must stand for human rights  and against genocide.

Mr. BAUMGARTNER. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in  passing the Uyghur Policy Act of 2025 to increase awareness and  advocacy for Uyghurs. We cannot be silent in the face of genocide.