-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, Congress, 3 weeks ago, passed the One  Big Beautiful Bill, and in that bill was a modest, cost-sharing  requirement for able-bodied Medicaid expansion of adults that were  making more than 100 percent of poverty.

The cost-sharing requirements would not apply to primary, prenatal,  pediatric, mental, substance abuse disorder, emergency room care, or  care provided by community health centers, certified behavioral health  clinics, or rural health clinics.

Now, under the One Big Beautiful Bill, this cost sharing that is  required for able-bodied Medicaid adults can't exceed $35 per visit,  and there is an annual maximum limit of no more than 5 percent of an  individual's income.

Well, you might ask: Why cost sharing? Having a modest cost sharing  ensures consumers have skin in the game and thus, in turn, be  responsible healthcare consumers.

Adults in Medicare earning between 100 and 133 percent of poverty are  most likely to gain health insurance through the Federal marketplace or  through an employer, where cost sharing is common. Despite  fearmongering about cost-share requirements, establishing modest cost- sharing requirements in Medicaid is not anything brandnew. It has been  around for quite a while.

So let me give you a little bit of history. The Obama administration  approved a half dozen Medicaid waivers, including my home State of  Iowa, to establish modest cost sharing for able-bodied Medicaid adults.

Congress, in addition, has enabled cost sharing before. Obama made  that move. In the 2005 Deficit Reduction Act, which included my Family  Opportunity Act, we expanded State flexibility in Medicaid to let  States establish cost sharing up to 10 percent of the cost of services  for those making over the poverty limit.

The law also lets hospitals impose cost sharing for nonemergency  services provided in the emergency department. The cost-sharing  policies had support from the Governors of both parties, from a  National Governors Association working group. At a 2005 Finance  Committee hearing that I chaired, Governors said modest Medicaid  sharing ``[utilizes] market forces and personal responsibility to  improve health care delivery.''

Another example is in the 1990s, Congress enabled cost sharing in the  Children's Health Insurance Program. To this day, States are allowed  and do impose cost sharing in that program. Even socialist proposals  like Medicare for All have also included cost sharing.

So I want to make very clear: This is nothing new. Modest cost  sharing is a commonsense policy for those benefitting from a government  program and who have the means to pay for it.