-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the floor today concerned that  the Senate's advice and consent role is being undermined. It is being  undermined by obstruction from Senate Democrats that threaten to keep  the Justice Department from functioning as the American people expect  and the American people deserve.

The Office of Legislative Affairs serves as the crucial bridge  between the Justice Department and this Congress. This relationship is  essential not only for the legislative process, but for maintaining  constitutional oversight and accountability.

The Office of Legislative Affairs ensures that we, as lawmakers, have  the timely information needed to craft legislation, conduct oversight,  and fulfill our constitutional duties.

When we seek answers, whether it is on criminal justice or  immigration or national security, it is the Office of Legislative  Affairs that takes our questions and returns the responses. This  function can't run on autopilot.

Yet, today, the Office of Legislative Affairs is hobbled. It lacks a  Senate-confirmed Assistant Attorney General to lead that office. Why?  Because Senate Democrats have decided to impede the confirmation of all  justice nominees without exception. That is not the constitutional role  of advice and consent. That is obstruction.

Every Senator has the right to raise concerns about nominees. That is  our constitutional role. That is our duty. And holds of specific  nominees for specific reasons at times is very appropriate. It is an  appropriate tool for any Senator to use.

I have even used that tool, and I have also done it on nominees. But  the process demands fairness; it demands common sense. We should weigh  each nominee individually, not slam the brakes on an entire Agency,  especially one for keeping Americans safe.

So I am here at the floor because the nomination of Patrick Davis has  been pending on the Senate Calendar now for 2 months. This is  regrettable because he is an exceptionally qualified nominee. And this  Senator should know because he worked for this Senator.

Mr. Davis brings a strong record of public service and a deep  understanding of the legislative process gained from his time working  for me on the Senate Judiciary Committee. I am confident he will lead  the Office of Legislative Affairs with diligence, with fairness, and  with integrity. He should be confirmed today, and I am here to ask my  colleagues to do just that.

Obstructing his nomination serves absolutely no one. Many Senators-- myself included--have outstanding requests to the Justice Department  that we expect answers to. I understand that some Senators may complain  that they haven't received a response to their own outstanding request.  I have made such complaints myself over the years under both Republican  and Democrat administrations.

But I don't believe that obstructing this particular qualified  nominee who can help get the responses we need will address their  concerns.

I also understand that some Senators are unhappy with the current  administration and are using Justice Department nominees to make their  displeasure known. To these colleagues, I will simply say that the  obstruction of qualified nominees to lead the Office of Legislative  Affairs makes it harder for the Department of Justice to engage with  Congress and harder for Congress to do its job.

This, ultimately, ends up hurting the American people. I am asking  this body to uphold a fair confirmation process so that the Justice  Department can effectively engage with Congress. Blocking the  confirmation of Patrick Davis does not serve the Senate; it does not  serve the interest of justice; and it does not serve the American  people.

Mr. President, I am here to ask unanimous consent that the Senate  proceed to the consideration of the following nomination: Executive  Calendar No. 92, Patrick Davis, to be Assistant Attorney General; that  the Senate vote on the nomination without intervening action or debate;  that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table; and that the President be immediately notified of the Senate's  action.

Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I am sorry to hear the objection. I  would like to correct the one thing that Senator Schumer said, that  Patrick Davis didn't have a hearing before the committee. We did hold a  hearing on Patrick Davis.