-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, soon, we will be voting on the  nomination of Jamieson Greer of Maryland to be U.S. Trade  Representative.

I will be supporting that nomination. I voted for his nomination to  get out of the Finance Committee because I believe we need a clear  change from the last 4 years, when there was never any attempt to do  anything to reduce trade barriers.

Unlike his predecessor, I am confident that Mr. Greer will pursue an  aggressive trade strategy that includes opening access to new markets  through new trade deals. I also believe that Mr. Greer will work to  level the playing field for U.S. farmers to compete with Brazil fairly  and to deal with China head on. As my colleagues know, I am a free and  fair trader, and though I would not like to see extreme tariffs, I am  hopeful that Mr. Greer and President Trump will bring us to freer and  more fair trade.

We often think of Europe, Brazil, Japan, South Korea, and China as  being big problems for us when it comes to trade. I would like to  remind my colleagues that there are about 190 other countries on this  globe that we can seek agreements with, and taking time to seek those  agreements would be good.

Along this line, Senator Boozman, chairman of the Ag Committee, and  I, a member of the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over  trade, sent letters to members of the Finance Committee, the  Agriculture Committee, and the Ways and Means Committee of the House of  Representatives. We asked our colleagues to listen to somebody who has  had some experience in dealing with some of these smaller nations with  bilateral trade agreements. That person is a person by the name of Al  Johnson.

During the George W. Bush Presidency, he negotiated trade agreements  with about a dozen countries that added up to about six or seven  different agreements--all bilateral. I think, this is the way President  Trump prefers--bilateral negotiations rather than multilateral  negotiations. He was very successful, and that success can be measured  by the fact that he has shown in his studies that, with these dozen  countries with which we negotiated bilateral free-trade agreements  during the George W. Bush administration, we increased our trade with  those nations by about 600 percent.

So I hope my colleagues will give Al Johnson a chance to talk to  them. I know he has already visited with some Members of the U.S.  Senate, and he is very vigorously promoting the idea that we ought to  have bilateral negotiations--and with a lot of countries that we never  think about--that could be beneficial to American exports.