-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, my message today is to the  administration and particularly to President Trump, who is very  forcefully enforcing the immigration laws that were not enforced in the  last administration, a message about bringing justice to some people  who have been harmed by the previous administration.

On January 20, President Trump's first day in office, he signed the  Executive order that is called Securing Our Borders Executive Order.  His Executive order properly instructs the Justice Department and the  Department of Homeland Security to ``fulfill the requirements of the  DNA Fingerprint Act of 2005.'' That is music to my ears because I have  been involved in that issue in regard to the kids who have been lost in  this system of immigration that the previous administration has not  been able to follow. As I said, that is music to my ears.

For years, my oversight has sounded the alarm on the Customs and  Border Protection and the Department of Homeland Security's failure to  fully implement the 2005 DNA Fingerprint Act.

I have a lot of whistleblowers come to me on different subjects.  Three whistleblowers--Mark Jones, Mike Taylor, and Fred Wynn--disclosed  to their superiors that the Department of Homeland Security wasn't  following the 2005 law. In other words, they were not taking DNA from  the people whom they were supposed to be keeping track of.  Specifically, these whistleblowers disclosed that the government wasn't  collecting the DNA from individuals encountered at the southern border  like the law requires.

As you might expect, because it happens to so many whistleblowers,  instead of being thanked for pointing out this failure, the Department  of Homeland Security and Customs and Border Protection officials  retaliated against these whistleblowers. That is why you hear me say so  often that whistleblowers are a very--I would like to say they love  their country. They want to see their government just simply enforce  the law. Then we find out, as I am going to show you, how they are  treated like a skunk at a picnic.

Mr. Jones and Mr. Taylor had their law enforcement credentials  removed. After 30 years of Federal service, Mr. Taylor lost his law  enforcement retirement benefits. All three were subject to harassment.

The Office of Special Counsel has the power to investigate and did  investigate and substantiated their whistleblower disclosures and that  retaliation occurred.

President Trump and this administration, moving so forcefully to see  that the laws are enforced, ought to appreciate whistleblowers who are  telling the truth about the government not carrying out the law. In  this case, I am asking President Trump to immediately remedy the  situation of these whistleblowers.

Last year, how I became acquainted with a lot of this--at least the  details of it--I hosted an oversight roundtable with these  whistleblowers. The roundtable exposed that the Department of Homeland  Security and Customs and Border Protection failed to take the DNA of  the individuals charged with the tragic murder of Rachel Morin despite  having three opportunities to  take those fingerprints. Had the Biden-Harris Department of Homeland  Security and Customs and Border Protection done their job, there is a  chance that Ms. Morin would be alive today.

This Executive action couldn't come soon enough. That is why I am  pleading with President Trump or his staff to follow up and make sure  that justice is brought to these three whistleblowers. Then the  President is going to see that the law is enforced. I don't have any  doubt about the President seeing that this law is carried out in the  future because full compliance with the law will make our border  stronger and our citizens safer.