-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Only in Washington--only in Washington--can you let  people take more than what is legally allowed under a government  program and, at the same time, let them keep it. Last year, I shined a  light with the Treasury inspector general that over 40 percent of  excess marketplace subsidy payments totaling $10 and two-tenths  billion, dating back to 2016, were not being recouped.

So why not recouped? Because of the current so-called safe harbor  recapture rules. When ObamaCare was passed, it established so-called  safe harbor recapture rules for the advanced premium tax credit, also  known as a subsidy.

When an individual buys a health plan off of the Federal marketplace,  the government subsidizes much of the cost through an advanced premium  tax credit. The subsidy is based on a consumer's estimated income. At  the end of the year, the consumer reconciles any differences in their  subsidy amount based on their actual income compared to their  previously projected income.

If a consumer gets more than what is permitted based on their income,  they must return the excess amount unless they fall within the so- called safe harbor, which is based on income and excess amount, as a  consumer could misestimate their annual income and not be required to  pay back any excess subsidy or maybe just a small portion.

Until now, safe harbor rules permitted keeping up to $3,250 in  excess. This policy actually rewarded fraud and wasted taxpayers'  money. This is especially concerning since I have also found that  insurance agents are also using targeted internet ads to fraudulently  enroll consumers with false income.

Congress has tightened and simplified the safe harbor rules before.  Senate Republicans, through the One Big Beautiful Bill, ended this  legal theft for those over the poverty limits. This policy will save  over $19 billion in the next 10 years. Senate Republicans  also established pre-enrollment verification requirements with  flexibilities for special enrollment periods.

This will save over $40 billion. This is good news for the taxpayers  but, particularly, fairness in this program.