-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, soon, we will be voting on the  nomination of Todd Blanche to serve as Deputy Attorney General of the  United States. I support his nomination and urge all of my colleagues  to vote for this well-qualified nominee. Mr. Blanche's record shows  that he is the right man for this job.

His story exemplifies the American dream. As a young man, he  supported his young family by working as a paralegal during the day  while attending law school at night. He clerked twice for judges  appointed by Presidents of both parties and ultimately became a  respected prosecutor in the Southern District of New York. His  colleagues from that office of both political parties told us that Mr.  Blanche is ``a fundamentally good and decent man.'' Mr. Blanche then  entered private practice at two very prestigious law firms--including  the oldest firm on Wall Street.

This remarkable resume has all the hallmarks of someone who should  serve as a senior official at the Justice Department, but this isn't  what impresses me the most. I have spoken often about the partisan  weaponization of our justice system. I have worked to investigate it. I  have released records proving that weaponization exists.

My colleagues, for your information, you can expect to see more of  this information coming out from me very, very soon.

I believe Mr. Blanche is the right man for the job because he has  seen this weaponization firsthand, and he has paid a personal cost to  do something about it. This is the price he paid: Mr. Blanche was  forced out of his law firm because he chose to represent  President Trump. Now, that is quite a law firm, isn't it? Just because  you are taking business in, they don't like it. So then he put his  reputation on the line and he put his career on the line to fight  against Jack Smith's and District Attorney Bragg's rampant lawfare, and  he handled these cases with professional excellence.

We need good people like Todd Blanche in the Justice Department. We  need lawyers who will do justice even when it is unpopular or comes at  a personal cost, as it did to Mr. Blanche. We need people leading the  Department who will end the abuses of the past and make the Agency live  up to the ideals of our Constitution.

I am not the only one who thinks Mr. Blanche is the right man for the  job. He has received support from some of the people who understand the  Justice Department best. Over 100 alumni of the Southern District of  New York who worked alongside Mr. Blanche wrote to say this:

Todd's experience, character, intellect, openness to       dialogue, and longstanding love of and belief in the mission       of the Department of Justice make him eminently qualified to       serve as Deputy Attorney General.

Another communication. Seventy former DOJ officials wrote to say:

Mr. Blanche is a special nominee in that he brings decades       of experience both as a prosecutor and defense attorney to       the role of Deputy Attorney General.

Another one. Law enforcement groups representing tens of thousands of  officers wrote to support Mr. Blanche because of his history working  alongside of law enforcement and prosecuting violent crime.

Between his record, his presentation in committee, and his extensive  support, I am convinced that Mr. Blanche is the best person to serve as  Deputy Attorney General. I am proud to support this nomination, and I  look forward to voting for him. I know that he will work with President  Trump and Attorney General Bondi to restore faith in the Justice  Department.