-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, my remarks were written 3 days ago, and  the purpose of writing those remarks 3 days ago was to come to the  floor and tell you about a person that I think should not be working  for the Federal Government. Then the next day, I found out somebody in  government was smart enough to see that this guy was fired. But I would  like to now tell the Senate why I think people like this shouldn't be  working for the Federal Government and why I obviously thought he  should be fired.

This refers to Dr. Vinay Prasad. Recently, the Wall Street Journal  published an article on this person.

Until Tuesday, Dr. Prasad served as the Food and Drug  Administration's--FDA--Chief Medical and Scientific Officer and as the  Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.

I wonder how he got the job in the first place, and you will  understand through my remarks why I wonder how he got that job.

He was appointed by the FDA Commissioner to this position.

According to media reports, Dr. Prasad left the Agency. The Wall  Street Journal said the position he held at FDA was ``one of the most  powerful officials in the federal government,'' and gets to determine  ``whether patients get access to many life-saving medicines. Or not.''

Sadly, Dr. Prasad believes the Federal Government should restrict  access to new treatments that could extend your life.

Dr. Prasad wrote a 2016 article entitled ``The case for rationing:  Why we should limit public spending on cancer drugs.'' Dr. Prasad says  that ``among 71 new drugs approved for solid tumors between 2002 and  2014, the median improvement in survival is just 2.1 months.'' He  believes that when costs are large and the benefits are small, the  government should restrict access. He thinks patients don't have the  right to extend their lives.

Dr. Prasad is a proponent of what we call government rationing of  care that we see in socialized healthcare systems such as the United  Kingdom and Canada.

Dr. Prasad sounds like another physician, Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel, who at  one time wielded a lot of power in the Federal Government. Dr. Emanuel  is considered the ``architect'' of Obamacare and served as Special  Advisor for Health Policy to President Obama. In 2014, this architect  of Obamacare wrote in The Atlantic: ``Why I Hope to Die At 75.'' He  argues that people should just check out once they reach 75 years.

Dr. Emanuel has long argued for rationing healthcare and treating the  elderly differently because they ``already had more life-years.'' You  can even take an online course titled ``Rationing Care'' at the  University of Pennsylvania, taught by Dr. Emanuel.

The government rationing care goes by another name that we throw  around, but I have talked about examples of it so you know that it is  real, called socialized medicine. Socialized medicine results in longer  wait times and delayed care.

Here are some recent examples of outcomes of socialized medicine:

In January, hundreds of Canadian residents in Walkerton, Ontario,  began forming a line at 2 a.m. in the dead of winter just to be put on  a waiting list to see the town's new family doctor. Some residents have  waited more than a decade to have a doctor in that town.

In 2023, 7.1 million people in England were stuck on a waiting list  for nonemergency hospital treatment like hip replacements. Today, that  waiting list is 200,000 more at 7.3 million people.

Now, you wonder why people come to the United States for medical  care, from other countries. That is one of the reasons why.

Of all new medicines launched between 2012 and 2021, 85 percent were  available in the United States compared to less than 40 percent in  Europe.

We are also No. 1 in medical advances and discoveries. For all these  reasons and even more, I don't understand why Dr. Prasad and Dr.  Emmanuel believe in government health rationing healthcare.

In 2023, I joined with my Republican colleagues expressing serious  concern about the Biden administration's potential use of what is  called quality-adjusted life years and other discriminatory metrics  when it came to prescription drug programs.

Places like the United Kingdom use quality-adjusted life years to  determine drug coverage. If the government decides a drug won't extend  a person's life long enough, it will restrict access. Dr. Prasad has  applauded the United Kingdom for restricting access to new treatment  and said that quality-adjusted life years is ``a good way to judge  drugs.''

The National Council on Disability disagrees with Dr. Prasad, stating  that ``quality-adjusted life years place a lower value on treatments  which extend the lives of people with chronic illnesses and  disabilities.''

When the government gets to dictate which treatments patients can and  cannot access, we devalue people living with rare diseases, we devalue  older Americans, and we devalue individuals with disabilities.

The government should use every opportunity to promote a potential  miracle cure or breakthrough treatment. The Food and Drug  Administration should determine if a drug is safe and effective.  However, it shouldn't limit access because a government bureaucrat  believes the costs outweigh the benefits.

The United States is a world leader in innovation and care. Why  should the government shy away from testing limits of new treatments  and miracle cures? The answer is, we should not.

We wouldn't see headlines like these if we had a different approach.  Time Magazine says: ``A Baby Receives the First Customized CRISPR  Treatment.''

The New York Times says: ``From No Hope to a Potential Cure for a  Deadly Blood Cancer.''

In recent years, I have had constituents sit in my office pleading  for the government to remove redtape so that they can access  potentially life-changing, life-extending treatments for Alzheimer's,  Lou Gehrig's disease, cancer, and other diseases.

I was proud to be a cosponsor in 2018 of the 2018 Right to Try law  that President Trump advocated for and eventually signed. That law lets  people with life-threatening conditions access unapproved treatments  after they have tried all treatment options and are not eligible for  clinical trials.

Dr. Prasad has said he is not in favor of the 2018 Right to Try law  and that he ``favor[s] a strong regulatory state.'' He has long  criticized the FDA for approving too many treatments that, in his view,  provide only marginal benefits.

After he took the job at FDA, Dr. Prasad said:

We will take action at the first sign of promise for rare       diseases. We're not going to wait.

Given Dr. Prasad has left the FDA, we don't know if this was an empty  promise. I hope that whoever takes on the role of FDA's Chief Medical  and Scientific Officer and Director of the Center for Biologics  Evaluation and Research will support patients who face life-threatening  illnesses, instead of using his or her power to restrict access to  care, which, I think, is fairly certain we would presume that Dr.  Prasad would do just the opposite.

The government shouldn't get to decide when its citizens are required  to give up on their own life. This is true when a person turns 75 years  old or when rare disease treatments may only extend a person's life by  just a short period of time. If there is a cure or a treatment, you  should be able to access it, regardless of what bureaucrats think.

Dr. Prasad is gone. It is good he is no longer on the government  payroll. I don't know who decided to get rid of this person that  shouldn't have been hired in the first place, but I want to thank them  for doing that.