-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699771/9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, this year marks 6 years since the  President and Congress approved the North American U.S.-Mexico-Canada  Agreement--USMCA for short. It is also the year that the three  countries will review the agreement and decide on its future. That 6- year review is part of the agreement itself, so it must be done. So I  would like to review the USMCA's impact in the first 6 years.

The agreement has really enhanced U.S. exports, so President Trump  has hailed the trade deal as ``a colossal victory for [Iowa] farmers,  ranchers, energy workers, factory workers, and American workers in all  50 states.''

What President Trump said there was 100 percent on target when he  made that statement about the value of the USMCA to the U.S. economy.

Since 2019, U.S. agriculture exports have increased by almost $35  billion, and nearly half of that $35 billion was from just two  countries--Canada and Mexico.

After 10 years of relative stagnation before the agreement, U.S.  agriculture exports to Mexico shot up by $11 billion between 2019 and  2024 to over a total of $30 billion. Today, Mexico is the No. 1 market  for U.S. corn, and around one-third of all U.S. agriculture exports go  to either Canada or Mexico.

Remember I said Mexico is the No. 1 market for U.S. corn? Iowa, my  State, is the No. 1 producer of corn, so you know how that benefits the  farmers of Iowa.

To summarize, the U.S. agriculture exports pie has gotten bigger, and  the biggest slices have been for Canada and Mexico because of the  USMCA. This means bringing home more bacon for Iowa farmers. When I  mention bacon, Iowa is also the No. 1 pork producer of the 50 States.

So what I have just said to you is why it is necessary to continue  the great economic environment that the USMCA has produced for the  United States. In other words, it is a no-brainer to get the USMCA  extended and get it done very, very soon.

President Trump needs to speak forcefully about the success of the  USMCA, along the same lines of the quote that I gave you earlier in my  speech. We know it is his strong position; it should be easy to restate  that to everybody. His positive words will take the uncertainty out of  whether this agreement will be extended, and if it is not extended,  there will be great economic loss to the United States. Uncertainty  doesn't help anybody's economy. Such uncertainty is holding back our  economic growth.