-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, for the second time in a week, I come  to the floor to implore my Democratic colleagues to stop partisan  obstruction of public safety officials. We have 10 highly qualified  nominees on the Senate floor right now waiting for confirmation.  Several have blue slips from Democratic Senators. All were reported to  the floor by voice vote. There is no reason that we shouldn't get them  to work for the American people today.

As I explained just a few days ago, communities around our country  are in desperate need of U.S. attorneys to protect the public and  uphold the rule of law. Eighty-one percent of Americans think that  crime in large cities is a major problem. If we can agree to put  partisanship aside, this body can take a tangible step to address this  today by confirming 10 qualified law enforcement officers to their  posts.

I am disappointed that my Democratic colleagues have chosen to place  partisan obstruction over public safety. I am here again today to give  my colleagues a chance to do the right thing.

This blanket obstruction of all nominees is a misguided attempt to  score political points. I know that several of my Democratic colleagues  agree with me because just a few months ago, some of them stood on the  Senate floor and made the same argument that I am making today.

In one speech last Congress, the Democratic whip and chairman of the  Judiciary Committee said:

Don't stand up and say you're for law and order, you're for       law enforcement, and then turn around and stop the       appointment of U.S. attorneys.

In another speech, the same Senator said:

Our communities desperately need top federal prosecutors in       place. Interested in stopping fentanyl? I am. Thousands of       people are dying. Who's going to prosecute these cases? The       U.S. Attorneys--93 of them across the United States. But you       can't prosecute the case if you don't have the U.S. Attorney       there to lead the effort, coordinate the effort with other       branches of government.

My Democratic colleagues continue to claim that their obstruction is  justified because two Republican Senators placed holds on some U.S.  attorneys in the last administration.

This compares apples with oranges. One of the Senators relented on  his hold and allowed U.S. attorneys to be confirmed by voice vote. The  other Senator ultimately blocked five U.S. attorneys. A handful of U.S.  attorneys being held last Congress, which I opposed, isn't comparable  to the blanket hold on all 93 U.S. attorneys that we are facing today.  The strategy this Congress is orchestrated by Senate Democratic  leadership and is part of a broader, Senate-wide assault on the  functioning of the executive branch.

At the end of the day, we can just look at the numbers. During the  Biden administration, nearly 94 percent of his U.S. attorney nominees  were confirmed by voice vote. So far in the second Trump  administration, zero percent of his U.S. attorney nominees have been  confirmed by voice vote.

For months, I have repeatedly tried to engage my Democratic  colleagues to end their obstruction. I have warned that their tactics  ultimately hurt the American people and will lead to lasting damage to  the Senate as an institution. I have even offered a compromise where we  hold five rollcall votes to compensate for the five nominees returned  to the President at the end of March. To my great disappointment, my  colleagues haven't relented from their strategy, and I hope they will  relent today with my unanimous consent requests.

I mentioned last week that one of the U.S. attorneys being held up is  Daniel Rosen, nominated for the District of Minnesota. Mr. Rosen was  reported out of committee by voice vote. He is supported by his home  State Senators Klobuchar and Smith, both Democrats. He is a qualified  nominee. He should be responding to the horrific mass shooting of  children at the Annunciation Catholic Church but instead is languishing  here on the Senate floor as a pawn of partisan obstruction.

This needs to end, and it needs to end today. So I now will ask  unanimous consent to confirm 10 U.S. attorneys who have been reported  out of committee. I hope that my Democratic colleagues will allow these  nominees to get to work. Debate and disagreement about policy is to be  expected but should never be at the expense of public safety.

176, David Charles Waterman,  Iowa; No. 183, Ronald A. Parsons, South Dakota; No. 257, David Metcalf,  Pennsylvania; No. 258, Bart McKay Davis, Idaho; No. 316, Kurt Alme of  Montana; No. 317, Nicholas Chase, North Dakota; No. 318, Lesley Murphy,  Nebraska; No. 319, Daniel Rosen, Minnesota; No. 320, Erik Siebert,  Virginia; and No. 321, Kurt Wall, Louisiana; that the Senate vote on  the nominations en bloc without intervening action or debate; that the  motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table; and  that the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

Mr. GRASSLEY. Well, obviously, I am disappointed that my request has  been objected to. I had hoped today we could set a new direction and  put the interests of the American people over partisanship.

I want to offer to the Democratic leader an offer he shouldn't object  to because it has both Republican and Democrat support. If we can't  agree to allow 10 U.S. attorneys who have been reported out of  committee to be confirmed today, I am going to make a more modest  request.

David Waterman is my pick to be U.S. attorney for the Southern  District of Iowa--highly qualified. He was reported out of committee by  voice vote, no recorded objections. My State needs him to get to work.

I initially recommended him to President Biden during the last  administration, and he was nominated and reported out of committee last  Congress.

My Democratic colleagues have tried to justify their obstruction by  pointing to the hold by then-Senator Vance last Congress. Well, Mr.  Waterman was one of the five U.S. attorneys returned to the President  from that hold.

So are we going to confirm a nominee who has been submitted to the  Senate by two different Presidents and reported out of committee  twice--seems to me like something the Democrats should not object to-- or are my Democratic colleague going to continue the objection?

Now, here is another one. They have confidence, surely, in their two  Democratic Senators from Minnesota. I have already spoken about Daniel  Rosen. Like Mr. Waterman, Mr. Rosen is well qualified to serve as U.S.  attorney for the District of Minnesota. He, too, was reported out of  committee by voice vote, and he is supported by both home State  Senators Klobuchar and Smith. So I encourage my Democratic colleagues  to send a clear signal to the people of Minnesota that they think they  ought to have a law enforcement person at their side.

The District of Minnesota needs its top Federal prosecutor in place  to preserve law and order, so we need to confirm Mr. Rosen. So I am now  going to ask unanimous consent to confirm Mr. Waterman as U.S. attorney  for the Southern District of Iowa and Mr. Rosen to be U.S. attorney for  the District of Minnesota.

176, David Charles Waterman,  Iowa, and No. 319, David Rosen, Minnesota; that the Senate vote on the  nominations en bloc without intervening action or debate; that the  motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table; and  that the President be immediately notified of the Senate's action.

Mr. GRASSLEY. You can see the weakness of that objection because here  is somebody that has been nominated by President Biden and President  Trump, and you have two Democratic Senators supporting him. At least in  those 2 instances, out of 93 that are potentially on hold, they could  go do their jobs.

The Senate  Judiciary Committee--in that committee, it is common practice to report  certain nominees by voice vote. We have been doing it for decades-- particularly for noncontroversial U.S. attorneys and U.S. marshal  nominees. Under my chairmanship, we only conduct voice votes with  explicit consent of the ranking member, and we don't do them if there  are any objections to so doing.

Recently, I have heard concern that nominees reported out of  committee by voice vote may be challenged or face additional  obstruction on the floor to further derail the functioning of the  executive branch. I sincerely hope this isn't the case.

Voice votes are a longstanding practice of our committee and involve  complete cooperation between the majority and minority parties on the  committee.

On the Senate Judiciary Committee, despite our differences, the  ranking member and I have a good working relationship. When we reach a  bipartisan agreement about how to manage our committee consistent with  our norms, I hope that every Member of this body will respect this  agreement.

attorney  nominees reported out of the Senate Judiciary Committee by voice vote  pursuant to explicit agreement between the offices of the chairman and  ranking member, whether those nominations are offered individually or  pursuant to a resolution: David Charles Waterman, Ronald A. Parsons,  David Metcalf, Bart McKay Davis, Kurt Alme, Nicholas Chase, Lesley  Murphy, Daniel Rosen, Erik Siebert, and Kurt Wall.