-9999


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I believe whistleblowing in the Federal  Government should be protected and encouraged. People in the executive  branch of government that work in there every day want the Federal  Government to enforce the laws the way they are written and spend money  according to that law.

And when they see something that is not right in government, they  have a responsibility to blow the whistle and tell somebody and,  hopefully, they work with the immediate superiors, but a lot of times  they don't get any respect for the shortcomings of government that they  expose.

Eventually, they come to Congress and at that point are covered by  whistleblower protection legislation, and if we want to continue the  good work that whistleblowers do to expose wrongdoing in government,  particularly fraud, waste, and abuse, we should make sure that the  whistleblower laws are faithfully followed.

One aspect of whistleblower protection is to make sure that everybody  in government knows about whistleblowers and the protection that they  can receive.

One aspect of that is what we call anti-gag rules that need to be  followed. So I am here to speak about my efforts to ensure that the  Federal Government complies with all whistleblower laws. Unfortunately,  the government has made efforts to gag whistleblowers before they can  make legally protected disclosures, including to Congress.

The illegal conduct has happened no matter which political party  controls the executive branch of government. That is why I spearheaded  successful efforts to get what is called anti-gag provisions enacted.

I worked for decades to make it the law. And I have worked to ensure  that  both Republican and Democratic administrations comply with that law.

Congress has a constitutional responsibility to ensure the laws it  passes are followed. In eighth grade civics or high school government  classes, our students study about the checks and balances of  government. Congress not only has a responsibility to pass the laws,  they have a responsibility to make sure that the executive branch  executes those laws as well.

We have not found that followed in practice for these anti-gag  provisions. The anti-gag provision requires all Federal Agency  nondisclosure policies, forms, or agreements to notify employees of  their right to blow the whistle to Congress, to an inspector general,  or to the Office of Special Counsel. Appropriations laws also prohibit  Federal funds from being used to enforce noncompliant agreements.

Nevertheless, Federal Agencies, amazingly, still violate the anti-gag  provisions. That failure not only has a chilling effect that  discourages whistleblowers, it also happens to be illegal. I have  conducted longstanding oversight to ensure that Federal Agencies comply  with this law, and I have held them accountable when they failed to do  so.

For example, 2013, I asked 15 executive branch departments about the  inclusion of the anti-gag provision in their nondisclosure agreements.

At the time, only the Department of Treasury, out of those 15  executive branch Departments, was in full compliance. I forwarded my  findings to the Office of Special Counsel, and in 2018, they issued  updated guidance to all executive branch Departments about including  anti-gag provisions in their nondisclosure policies and agreements.

In March of 2024, I wrote to 74 inspectors general requesting they  check on their parent Agencies' compliance with the anti-gag  provisions. To date, here are my findings from what I wrote to those 74  inspectors general: 45 inspectors general reported they completed their  review. Of those 45, 6 inspectors general reported their parent Agency  was in full compliance. Of that 45, 22 inspectors general said their  parent Agency made updates to comply with the law, and 6 said that  those corrective actions are ongoing.

So positive changes have been made. Whistleblowers are better off  because these Agencies are doing what they can to comply with the  nondisclosure gag rules.

But there are outstanding responses, and therefore more work must be  done. This Senator intends to ride herd on the government about making  sure that whistleblowers are protected and get rid of gag policies.

One example from my investigation, 10 inspectors general reported  their parent Agency agreed to make changes but had yet to implement  them. Another seven of the inspectors general who conducted a review  responded that their parent Agency was noncompliant, but they didn't  say if their Agency agreed to update their policies. Another seven  inspectors generals responded that they were taking the requests under  consideration or planning to conduct a future review.

It is a no-brainer that they ought to take that review, and I am  asking them: What is the hesitation? So I have a responsibility to  follow up with them.

Another eight inspectors general responded that the anti-gag law  didn't apply to their Agency. So I am looking into their position that  they took in response to my letter and ensure that their point that  they aren't covered by the anti-gag law is correct.

Fourteen inspectors general gave the stiff arm to those of us in  Congress, ignoring what we asked for them to do, and, as a result, they  failed to provide a substantive response, which included inspectors  general for the Central Intelligence Agency and the Export-Import Bank.

That failure to respond is a disgrace. Inspectors general ought to be  the tip of the spear when it comes to transparency in government.  Transparency and accountability are not a partisan issue. Federal  Agencies can't conceal their wrongdoing behind illegal nondisclosure  policies and related actions.

Whistleblowers are critical to exposing waste, fraud, and abuse  within government. Government officials at the top don't know  everything that is going on below them. That is why whistleblowers  ought to be listened to. They benefit the government carrying out its  constitutional responsibilities, and it surely benefits the taxpayers.

I encourage my Republican and Democrat colleagues to join in my  efforts to ensure all administrations, whether Republican or Democrat,  comply with whistleblower laws.

Rest assured, my oversight will continue and so will my fight for  whistleblowers.