ADVANCED GEOTHERMAL INNOVATION LEADERSHIP ACT OF 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, the bill before us supports clean  energy and emerging technologies, so this is the perfect opportunity to  update an outdated aspect related to a legacy energy source. 

   I want my colleagues to know--and I  think they do--of my long support for renewable and alternative sources  of energy, and so I agree with the aims of the Murkowski-Manchin Energy  bill. 

  The amendment Senator Udall and I have introduced is the same as the  bipartisan bill we introduced last week. The title of that bill is the  Fair Return for Public Lands Act. This bill was introduced 100 years to  the date of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920. 

  This amendment would increase the royalty rates on Federal lands from  12.5 percent to 18.75 percent. Everybody here knows that a royalty is  what the oil company will pay to a mineral owner--in this case, the  mineral owner is the American taxpayer--and that royalty is paid for  the right to extract oil and natural gas from the lands of the United  States. The legislation modernizes the public lands leasing system, and  it does this for the first time since royalty rates were set in 1920. 

  The legislation increases both the share of royalties taxpayers  receive from public lands leasing as well as the rental rates. The new  rental rate we are offering in this amendment reflects the current fair  market value, while the bill also establishes minimum bidding standards  to lease public lands that will stay in line with inflation. This bill  is a simple fix by making Federal leasing rates the same whether you  are on land or offshore. 

  The royalty rate the bill offers is very comparable to what current  leases are for oil-producing States on their State-owned land. We use  the State of Texas as an example. Texas charges a 25-percent royalty on  its State lands, while States in the Rocky Mountain West charge  royalties that are somewhere between 16-\2/3\ percent and 18\3/4\  percent. The royalty rate on Federal public lands is more than one- third lower, at 12\1/2\ percent; hence our amendment--the same as our  bill--updating this and bringing more parity between State rates and  Federal rates and, of course, absolute parity with offshore drilling. 

  The current regulatory system allows companies to get a sweetheart  deal on Federal public lands. Senator Udall and I are asking our  colleagues to fix this for the American people. 

  According to studies done by the Congressional Budget Office and the  Government Accountability Office, modernizing public lands royalty  rates for oil and gas could increase Federal revenues by as much as  $200 million over the next decade and do it with little to no impact on  production. 

  It is time--hence our amendment--for my colleagues in Congress to end  this oil company loophole and bring oil leasing into the 21st century. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT