Affordable Care Act


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on Monday, the Wall Street Journal  editorial board published an article titled ``ObamaCare is a Mecca For  Fraud.''

It articulates the waste, fraud, and abuse in the ObamaCare Program,  so I am going to read this article on the floor today and do it for the  benefit of my colleagues that maybe don't always read these editorials.

So quoting, and I will try to leave out commentary comment. If I do  that, I will identify it as such.

The Minnesota Medicaid grift illustrates how open-ended       government welfare can easily become an inducement for fraud.       A new Government Accountability Office report finds the       pandemic-era sweetened ObamaCare subsidies are . . . ripe for       gaming.

The GAO last fall began an undercover test in which it       submitted insurance applications for fictitious individuals       to the federal ObamaCare exchange and insurance brokers.       Nearly all of its invented people were able to enroll in       subsidized plans despite submitting false or no records to       verify their identities and incomes.

Of GAO's 24 applications, 23 were approved. Eighteen       enrollees were still covered as of September, suggesting that       the exchange and insurers didn't verify information even       after enrollment. The subsidies paid to insurance companies       for those 18 applicants totalled more than $10,000 per month,       equivalent to a $6,700 annual subsidy for each enrollee.

GAO says in some cases ``we were not prompted to provide       documentation'' to verify an applicant's identity. No Social       Security number? No problem. In another instance, the       ObamaCare exchange ``notified us that it had verified the       applicant's estimated income based on documentation we       submitted. However, we did not submit documentation.''

In two cases, brokers called the ObamaCare help center       because applicants had submitted invalid Social Security       numbers. The center let brokers submit the       fraudulent applications anyway. This suggests the Centers for       Medicare and Medicaid Services, which runs the federal       ObamaCare exchange, was ignoring fraud.

GAO also analyzed enrollment data in 2023 and 2024 for data       anomalies. It found more than 29,000 Social Security numbers       in 2023 and nearly 68,000 in 2024 that were used to receive       more than one year's worth of insurance coverage with       subsidies in a single year--meaning the same Social Security       number was used by more than one person.

In 2023 one Social Security number was used to apply for       more than 125 policies. Perhaps this was identity theft, but       it's also possible brokers submitted fake Social Security       numbers to enroll ineligible or phantom people in plans.       Brokers earn more in commissions from insurers if they enroll       more people in ObamaCare.

The Justice Department has charged numerous brokers with       enrolling people in ObamaCare plans, or switching them to new       plans, without their consent. GAO identified at least 30,000       applications in 2023 and 160,000 in 2024 that had ``likely       unauthorized changes by agents or brokers.''

GAO also found that incomes weren't later verified for       enrollees who received $21 billion in subsidies in 2023. That       means they might have received bigger subsidies than they       were eligible for. The Paragon Health Institute's Brian Blase       has warned that ObamaCare's lax verification controls       encourage people to understate income to get bigger       subsidies.

Using Census Bureau data, Mr. Blase estimates that about       6.4 million people this year were improperly enrolled in       subsidized ObamaCare plans, costing taxpayers $27 billion. He       has also found that about 40 percent of enrollees in plans       fully subsidized by the government filed no medical claims.       GAO's report suggests many may not be real people. Others may       have employer coverage and been enrolled by brokers without       their knowledge.

This year's GOP tax bill included modest reforms to prevent       ObamaCare fraud, such as requiring the exchange to verify       Social Security numbers and income data before enrolling       applicants in plans. It also requires people to repay the       government if their incomes turn out to be higher than       what they estimated on their applications. The       Congressional Budget Office projected that the tax bill's       ObamaCare fraud controls could result in about one million       more people going uninsured, but most aren't eligible for       subsidies--and some might not even exist.

Democrats want to boost enrollment in ObamaCare no matter       the cost because they view the subsidized and regulated plans       as a way-station to a single-payer system. Senate Minority       Leader Chuck Schumer plans to tee up a vote this week to       extend the pandemic-era subsidies, which have been an       inducement for fraud.

Republicans would be wise to remind voters that Democrats       sold ObamaCare on false pretenses--e.g., it would make       healthcare ``affordable.'' Extending the subsidies would       perpetuate that fraud.

That is the end of my reading of the Wall Street Journal of Monday of  this week.