Afghan Evacuees


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693254/afghan-evacuees


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, since 2021, I sounded the alarm about  the former Biden administration's failure to vet Afghan evacuees.  Instead of coming clean, the previous administration dismissed and  failed to answer my oversight request.

For years, the Biden administration hid from the American people  known vulnerabilities in the vetting process that goes under the names  of Operation Allies Welcome and Operation Allies Refuge. The Department  of Homeland Security inspector general eventually exposed those vetting  failures, and, just last month, so too did the Department of Justice  inspector general. Both inspectors general substantiated vetting  failures that I have raised for years.

Recently, I was informed by the Director of National Intelligence  Tulsi Gabbard of new information. My office has been told that of the  more than 100,000 Afghan evacuees, as of August 2022, 1.6 percent had  links to terrorism or other derogatory information. It happens that  that is over 1,600 people who, at that time, posed a potential threat  to our homeland and our people.

At that time, all 1,600 were located in the United States. Now,  naturally, since then, some may have left, some may have been deported,  and it is unclear who remains.

Based on past briefings provided by the FBI, it is clear they began  to investigate these evacuees years ago. I strongly urge the current  FBI and intelligence community leadership to aggressively investigate  those evacuees who require it and bring these matters to a close.

I am also calling on the Trump administration to ensure that its  findings are declassified to the fullest extent possible. Why? Because  the public has a right to be made aware--in fact, fully aware--of the  Biden administration's failure to vet Afghan evacuees.

Transparency brings accountability, and in this case, that  transparency is important because it is a matter of public safety.