Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690102/authorizing-representation-by-the-senate-legal-counsel-in-the-case-of-desmond-bellard-v-ronald-wyden-us-senator


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, this month of April is National Donate  Life Month. This month is the time to raise awareness about the  lifesaving importance of organ donation.

There are over 103,000 Americans on the national organ transplant  waiting  list. We should have confidence that our organ transplant system is  efficient and fair. Sadly, my oversight dating way back to 2005 has  uncovered decades of corruption and mismanagement in this donation  system. It has left vulnerable patients to die on waiting lists while  unused organs from generous American donors go to waste.

Speaking of waiting lists, I have been concerned about the reports of  those on the waitlist being skipped over. This furthers the distrust in  the organ donation system.

Through my bipartisan oversight and also the 2023 U.S. Organ  Procurement and Transplantation Network law, the Federal Government is  making long-overdue changes so that we take care and clean this mess  up. The law improved the management and the oversight of our organ  transplant system and encouraged participation from competent and  transparent contractors.

To build onto those reforms, in March, the President signed a  continuing resolution that provided authority for the Department of  Health and Human Services to collect registration fees from organ  transplant member institutions. This ensures the 2023 law can be  implemented properly.

I encourage all Americans to consider being an organ donor and  understand the impact that it can have on saving lives.

Of course, in addition to oversight of the new legislation, I am  keeping my very close eye on how the Federal Government is implementing  these new laws to give more people the chance of lifesaving  transplants.