China and the World Health Organization


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I am deeply concerned about reports  that China began hoarding medical supplies in early January while  working to prevent the World Health Organization from sounding the  alarm about the virus pandemic. 

  By analyzing international trade data, the Department of Homeland  Security assessed that the Chinese Government intentionally concealed  the severity of COVID-19 from the world in early January in order to  stockpile medical supplies. Furthermore, the Chinese Communist Party  Government tried to hide its actions by denying there were any export  restrictions. They even tried to obscure and delay its trade data so it  wouldn't get caught. 

  These acts are outrageous. 

  Even worse, the CIA and foreign intelligence agencies have found  evidence that China threatened the World Health Organization to stop  cooperating on efforts to combat COVID-19 if the organization declared  a global health emergency early on. So it was declared, and, hence,  there was valuable time lost in fighting the virus. 

  This is simply unacceptable behavior. The Chinese Communist Party  ought to be held accountable for the countless lives that have been  lost around the globe due to its nontransparent, aggressive, inhumane  behavior. 

  The World Health Organization is composed of many honorable and  dedicated medical professionals who believe in the WHO's mission. If  any of them were privy to what was going on by the Chinese Communist  Party, he ought to step forward and shine light on any misdeeds by the  organization's leadership. 

  Whistleblowers are necessary to prevent corruption within any  institution, which is why I have a longstanding reputation of  protecting whistleblowers. The world deserves to know what the World  Health Organization's leaders knew and when they knew it. The evidence  is quickly becoming crystal clear--that China is responsible for  tremendous suffering worldwide through its lies and active coverup.  Telling the truth about the Chinese Communist Party does not, as some  have suggested, have any bearing on how we analyze our domestic  response. 

  We should learn from democratic countries that have been successful  in containing outbreaks, like Taiwan and South Korea. However, in going  forward, everyone around the world should have his eyes open about the  true nature of the Chinese regime. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT