Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699108/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, many times, under both Republicans and  Democrats, I have come to the Senate floor to raise concerns and  warnings about how immigrant children called unaccompanied children are  handled by Republican and Democrat Departments of Health and Human  Services. When immigration people don't have the capabilities or  probably the legal right to determine where unaccompanied children  should be handled, they are turned over to a division in the Department  of Health and Human Services to do it.

In the recent 4 or 5 years, we have had lots of cases where the lives  of these children aren't protected because the Department of Health and  Human Services isn't properly vetting the adults these children are  placed with.

So once again, I am here to give you some updates on my concern about  that and an update today on investigations that I have followed up on.

As we start a new congressional session, I am here to discuss, as I  have just said, an oversight topic of significant importance.

For over a decade, I have investigated the government's mismanagement  of migrant children and related matters. My work covers both Republican  and Democrat administrations.

During the Biden administration, the vetting process to safeguard  these children barely existed, putting them in harm's way. Today, I am  making public records obtained from the Trump Department of Health and  Human Services which illustrate the dire consequences of weak Biden  administration vetting policies. These records show terrible cases of  fraud and exploitation involving vulnerable children, and the public  needs to know that this is probably just the tip of the iceberg.

I will give you three examples.

One sponsor allegedly applied to take in two migrant children as  their father--and as I will show you today, I have two other examples  of a person pretending to be a father who was not a father.

Later, this first father I am telling you about allegedly assaulted  these brothers on a regular basis. He reportedly didn't allow the  brothers to contact their mother, and he didn't enroll them in school.  Instead, the brothers lived in a trailer without heating or cooling.  The brothers worked 7 days a week until 10 p.m. and lived on one meal a  day. The brothers' sponsor also reportedly withheld the wages that the  brothers earned so that smuggling fees to get into this country could  be paid.

The brothers' sponsor reportedly had a violent criminal history,  which could have been revealed through fingerprinting background  checks, and these background checks are now required by the Trump  administration. They were assumed to be followed by  the Biden administration and obviously were not.

The Trump Health and Human Services told my office that they sent  this evidence to law enforcement for, hopefully, prosecution.

My second case describes the mistreatment of two other migrant  children placed into the care of another sponsor who applied to take  them in as their father. One of the children was reportedly forced to  sell drugs.

The records show this sponsor was later known to have used multiple  aliases as far back as 2015. In addition, records show this sponsor has  past convictions for fraud, which should have been caught by  fingerprinting checks. This sponsor reportedly later kidnapped his wife  for 24 hours and threatened to kill her.

Thankfully, the Health and Human Services Department told my office  the children have been removed, and HHS has transmitted this evidence  to law enforcement.

The final case I am going to bring to you today concerns a 4-year-old  boy who was released to someone who claimed, as you could expect, to be  his father. According to Health and Human Services' records, nearly 6  months later, the boy's sponsor called to say that he had taken another  job and that his mother would take care of the 4-year-old.

Approximately 1 month later, the sponsor's mother allegedly confessed  that her son was not actually the boy's real father. Instead, it was  later revealed that the sponsor allegedly colluded with the boy's  biological mother to obtain a fraudulent birth certificate to get the  boy into the United States.

Health and Human Services told my office they have sent evidence of  this fraud to law enforcement.

As these records indicate, the Trump administration has created new  DNA testing policies to verify sponsor parents. Now any sponsor of a  migrant child claiming to be a biological parent should undergo DNA  testing to confirm they are actually related.

Sadly, these stories were all but inevitable because the Biden HHS  prioritized speed--getting these people out of the immigration system,  getting them out of the authority and the responsibility of HHS. That  speed was all prioritized over the safety of the children. Thankfully,  the Trump administration put new policies in place.

I greatly appreciate the cooperation with my oversight from Health  and Human Services. Specifically, I appreciate the cooperation of  Secretary Kennedy, Assistant Secretary Adams, and Director Salazar of  the Office of Refugee Resettlement.

As the record states, this administration has made efforts to expand  DNA testing to help ensure sponsors are, in fact, who they claim to be.  In addition, fingerprinting checks should reveal if new sponsors have a  criminal or a violent past.

It is pretty simple: Get the background work done to protect these  kids.

Together, these new policies represent important steps needed to  correct the mistakes of the Biden administration.

More can always be done to safeguard the welfare of vulnerable  children. For these reasons, my oversight will continue.