Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, a new study showed that from the years  2007 to 2018, prices for, actually, hundreds of drugs rose many times-- many times faster than the rate of inflation. List prices on 602  medicines rose by 159 percent. That would average out to 9 percent  annually. After discounts and rebates, net prices increased by 60  percent or 4.5 percent annually. That is 3.5 times the rate of  inflation. 

  These are drugs for multiple sclerosis, cholesterol, rheumatoid  arthritis, chemotherapy, diabetes, and many other debilitating and  life-threatening conditions. Put into real terms, these price increases  mean that if one of these drugs cost $100 a month in 2007, that same  drug would cost $259 in 2018. 

  Meanwhile, you have to consider the working American. Wages for the  average American over the same time period increased about 30 percent  in the private sector. That means wage growth is about half the rate of  the growth of prescription drug prices, even after the rebates and even  after the discounts. 

  For many, increased drug costs are wiping out progress that these  workers are making in their wages. Some families are even going  backward financially after paying for their prescriptions. This doesn't  take into account at all the many other increases in the cost of living  from college to housing, to insurance. 

  Now, we Americans are surely fortunate, aren't we, to see the  significant wage growth that we have had in this country for our  workers under President Trump--great progress. 

  The President and Republicans in Congress can rightly take credit for  the country's booming economy, but all that wage growth doesn't mean  much--or at least as much--if it is spent on the same prescription drug  refills every month. That is something that ought to concern every  Member of this Congress, and for most, I am sure it does because we  hear about it constantly from our constituents. In fact, during this  election season, polls show that it is one of the top three or four  issues that are most on people's minds. 

  Let me be clear. These price hikes aren't because the medicines got  better or there was a significant increase in research and development.  No, this is because the pharmaceutical companies could do it, and in  doing it, they could get away with it because, in many cases, consumers  don't have a choice; consumers don't have options or alternatives. That  is because we don't have a healthy marketplace that drives costs down  for pharmaceuticals. 

  Right now, pharmaceutical companies can essentially charge Medicare  whatever they want, and taxpayers don't have much recourse. Right now,  every single working American who pays Federal taxes is subsidizing Big  Pharma's record profits through the drugs that the Federal Government  pays for through various programs like Medicare and Medicaid. 

  Now, there has to be a solution for this situation, and Ranking  Member Wyden and I are working to put some common sense back into this  whole system of buying pills. In the Finance Committee, we have passed  bipartisan legislation to put an end to unlimited corporate welfare for  Big Pharma. The vote of that bill out of committee was 19 to 9--a  bipartisan effort. 

  We are closer than ever to lowering drug prices for tens of millions  of Americans, and these Americans have been crying for this help from  Congress for quite a few years. But here we are. Big Pharma and its  paid allies are out in force trying to kill any reforms that might  endanger their profit margins. They are using scare tactics, deploying  terms like ``socialism'' and ``price controls,'' as if these subsidies  to Big Pharma are not a form of socialism. 

  I have been around long enough to recognize the political games that  are being played now. You see it quite regularly on the television  advertisements. So let's set the record straight. The last thing Big  Pharma wants is a free market. After all, these were the same folks who  loved ObamaCare so much because they knew it mandated another revenue  stream for their products. Now, we all know how ObamaCare has turned  out. Yet they made a deal with the White House to back that bill. 

  Now, Big Pharma is also warning that any reforms would hurt research  and development. In fact, my bipartisan legislation with Senator Wyden  would result in less socialism, a more competitive marketplace, and  wouldn't put a damper on innovation. That is according to something  that I call ``God'' around here--the independent Congressional Budget  Office. These are professional people making these judgments. They  judge most all of our legislation, particularly if there is a monetary  cost to it. 

  For those who may not believe a politician, let me point to the work,  then,  that the professionals at CBO have done on Grassley-Wyden: 

  First, the updated Grassley-Wyden bill will save more than $80  billion and result in no fewer cures. 

  No. 2, CBO says it will reduce patient out-of-pocket spending in Part  D of Medicare by around $50 billion. 

  No. 3, CBO says it will reduce premiums by about $1 billion for tens  of millions of seniors and Americans with disabilities on Medicare. 

  No. 4, CBO says that is all on top of out-of-pocket expenses that we  put a cap on and an end to the dreaded doughnut hole that has been part  of Part D since 2003. 

  No. 5, we have also, according to the Congressional Budget Office,  created a new way to spread out payments for those out-of-pocket  expenses so that paying the bills every month becomes a bit easier for  those on fixed incomes. 

  No. 6 and lastly, according to the Congressional Budget Office, the  bipartisan Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act--that is the title  of our bill--would protect taxpayers from being put on the hook for  unlimited price hikes that have no basis in a functioning free market. 

  So, without reforms, big pharmaceutical companies will continue to  receive tens of billions of dollars in excess taxpayer subsidies, and  they will also have no incentive to keep prices from rising many times  faster than inflation. 

  Currently, prescription drug manufacturers can charge Medicare more  and more every year, and they do. When the government is paying and you  have entitlement programs, taxpayers are forced to foot the bill. So  Grassley-Wyden enacts accountability and ends corporate welfare without  harming medical innovations. 

  Now, Senator Wyden and I are looking forward to reintroducing our  bipartisan bill very soon. So far, a dozen Senate Republicans have  announced publicly that they support this bipartisan bill. Others will  announce their support in the coming days, and a dozen more Republican  Senators have indicated to me that Grassley-Wyden is going in the right  direction, implying that they would vote for it on the Senate floor. So  I am optimistic that we will continue to gain support as Senators learn  more. 

  I was really pleased with President Trump announcing his willingness  to sign a bill in his State of the Union message. The next morning,  Vice President Pence was on cable TV saying that he supported Grassley- Wyden. Secretary Azar has endorsed the bill. Not only that, but  Secretary Azar and a gang of people in domestic policy at the White  House have been working with us on this legislation, even prior to its  coming out of committee. 

  So, with all of this work and with all of this support--and with the  interest on the part of the voters as being one of the three or four  most prominent issues that will determine how people vote--it seems to  me it deserves a vote on the Senate floor and very soon. So I am here  today to urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, if they have  any questions about this bill, to visit with me about it and learn how  it will help all of our constituents. 

  The six points I made about the bill based upon what the  Congressional Budget Office said about it isn't all that that bill  does. There is a lot more to it. 

  Maybe I had better back up. I have read enough comments of my  colleagues--colleagues I haven't even talked to--that said what an  important issue this is. So, in one way or another, without even  signing on to this bill, without even being on the Finance Committee,  it seems like we have all pledged to lower prescription drug prices. So  I think we should follow through on that pledge. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT