Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on September 11, America was attacked by  evil. Thousands of our countrymen were murdered by terrorists. In an  instant, the Nation was gripped with fear and anxiety. And as our  buildings burned, we mourned the loss of our fellow Americans, but as  we mourned, we also became very united as a country. We came together  and stood as one against a common enemy. That unity laid a foundation  for our victory, and it helped our military men and women deliver  justice to those who sought to destroy us. 

  Now, we confront a similar challenge. Unlike the 9/11 attacks, our  enemy today is faceless. We can't see or hear that enemy. We can't send  our Armed Forces to hunt it down and protect us, but much like our  response to the terrorist attacks nearly 20 years ago, we must unite as  a country. The threat we face is perhaps the greatest since World War  II. So much like our response to the terrorist attacks 20 years ago, we  will be united. 

  Never before have we shuttered so much of our country: businesses  closing, restaurants particularly, all kinds of--just stay at home, in  other words. Never before has our society changed so much, seemingly  overnight. 

  The coronavirus issue could prove as deadly as any war in recent  history, and that is why it is everyone's responsibility to do their  part. 

  In Congress, we have already passed legislation to provide emergency  relief, and our job isn't done yet. Further, unprecedented economic and  public health support is on the way, but what we do in Washington and  State capitols across our country is only one part of that solution. It  is the civic duty of every community, every family, and every  individual to enlist in this fight. 

  Make no mistake, our Nation is at war--a war on our own soil. This  war and this enemy aren't like anything that we fought before. Our  strategy and tactics will be different, but the stakes are just as  high. 

  This war will not be waged on foreign lands with tanks or guns or  troops. It will be waged right here in hospitals and public places and  in homes and with personal responsibility, personal  sacrifice, and patience on the part of our people. 

  It is on every American to exercise these values: Do not gather in  large groups. Don't hoard crucial goods. Keep your distance from those  you must be near. Protect yourself and others by washing your hands,  covering your cough and sneeze, and cleaning commonly used surfaces.  Work from home if you can. Check on your neighbors. Call your  relatives. Offer to help each other, especially the most vulnerable. We  are all in this together. 

  Much as we did before, we must shed party labels and put aside  partisan politics. We must band together and hold on to our national  identity, our families, and, most importantly, our faith. 

  Throughout history, Americans have risen to the occasion when  confronted with crises. I am confident this time will be no different. 

  It is up to each and every American to fight the spread of this  deadly virus. Countless lives depend on it. The days and months ahead  will be tough for everyone.     

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT