Dignity in Aging Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, last night we passed by unanimous  consent legislation to revise and extend for 5 more years the key  programs that Congress established under the Older Americans Act of  1965. I cosponsored the final version of this measure, which passed our  Chamber as a Senate amendment to the Dignity in Aging Act, H.R. 4334. 

  I want to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to Senator  Collins for leading the bicameral negotiations that made this  bipartisan compromise possible. I expect that the other Chamber will  soon accept the changes we made to their version of this legislation,  so that Congress can send the final version to the President's desk in  fairly short order. 

  For over five decades, the Older Americans Act has made resources  available to the Aging Network and States for services to the elderly  and disabled. An example is the nutrition services program authorized  under title III, which makes resources available for home-delivered  meals, enabling the homebound to remain independent. This statute also  helps older Americans live independently by supporting community-based  services, making information about care options available to family  caregivers, and supporting the Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program. 

  As I continue my 99 county meetings across the State of Iowa each  year, I welcome the feedback and ideas I get from local residents to  help make our communities safer and stronger for older Americans. I  also want to take this opportunity to commend the members of the Elder  Justice Coalition, as well as groups such as the Iowa Association of  Area Agencies on Aging, for their efforts in this area. These  organizations and their members deserve recognition for their continued  work on behalf of the Nation's older Americans and their contributions  to this year's Older Americans Act extension. 

  In a decade, all of our Nation's baby boomers will have reached the  age of 65 or older, and this demographic shift creates new challenges  for our communities. With this in mind, I am currently working with my  colleagues on other bipartisan initiatives to improve the quality of  life for older Iowans, including legislation that would extend the  Elder Justice Act. As the former chairman of the Senate Judiciary  Committee, I wrote the Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act to  curb elder abuse and beef up tools and resources within local  communities to help prevent financial fraud and exploitation of older  citizens. For those Iowans who enjoy working and need to continue  working to pay the bills, I have also championed legislation to  strengthen age-related workplace discrimination laws. 

  Mr. President, as noted by the former head of the Iowa Association of  Area Agencies on Aging, ``The Older Americans Act provides the  foundation that allows Iowa to continue to be a great place to for  Iowans to call home.'' I want to again thank my colleagues for working  with me in a bipartisan way on this legislation to improve the lives of  older Americans in Iowa and across the United States.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT