Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I rise for two reasons: one, for a  very short comment on political prisoners in foreign lands, and the  other one on how the CARES Act is developing and the reaction to it. 

  First of all, our country is now hopefully recovering from COVID-19,  so I want to take this opportunity to address the plight of an  extremely vulnerable population--political prisoners abroad. 

  In Turkey, Syria, China, and a lot of other countries, political  prisoners remain locked away in crowded prisons without adequate  medical care. The spread of COVID-19 among this population dramatically  increases the risk of serious medical consequences or even death. 

  Authoritarian regimes only risk further destabilization of their  countries by jailing the innocent. Political prisoners ought to be  released, and they ought to be released now.                                  HEROES Act  

  Madam President, at the beginning of March, we worked to get ahead of  the COVID pandemic, and an amazing thing happened. Congress came  together quickly and developed a broad package of measures to provide  relief to families, workers, and businesses to weather the COVID-19  event and the crisis that it is.  

  Coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security--those words make up  the CARES Act--included a broad range of tools: first, direct payments  to individuals and families; second, it expanded unemployment insurance  benefits for the unemployed; third, lending programs for businesses of  all sizes; and fourth, targeted tax relief to help businesses continue  operations and keep workers on the payroll. 

  Our objective for the tax provisions in the CARES Act was twofold:  first, to help individuals, families, and businesses weather the storm  caused by the stay-at-home governmental decisions, and second, lay as  much of a foundation as possible for restarting the economy once  businesses could start to reopen and Americans could get back to work. 

  The CARES Act came together through a bipartisan process, and that  process took place over 8 short days and ultimately and amazingly  passed the Senate 96 to 0 on March 25. The House passed it by a voice  vote 2 days later, and President Trump signed it into law that same  day. 

  As chairman of the Finance Committee, my approach for tax relief was  to provide as much liquidity as possible and as quickly as possible.  For individuals, that meant providing the Treasury Department with  authority to issue nearly $300 billion in economic impact payments to  families across the Nation. This economic impact payment was $1,200 for  an individual, $2,400 for a couple, and $500 for each child. That went  out in checks or direct deposit. It also meant giving individuals  access to cash in retirement accounts, suspending required  distributions from retirement accounts already hit by steep declines in  the stock market, and giving employers more flexibility to help  employees with student loan payments. 

  Many of these tools are similar to ones made available to help  families recover from natural disasters in recent years. So we were not  reinventing policy for this pandemic; we were making use of things we  had already tried before. Each of these changes I just mentioned is a  tool that can be implemented very quickly to help families access the  care they need to get through these difficult times. 

  Going through the business tax relief measures, our approach was to  modify existing provisions of the Tax Code, easing limits and  restrictions so that businesses could apply for this help easily and  quickly. The key was for businesses to keep cash on hand if they hadn't  already filed or give refunds to give them the liquidity to keep the  doors open, the machinery running, and most importantly, employees  paid, at least to the greatest extent possible. 

  Most of these tax measures have been employed in previous economic  crises and natural disasters. Again, these policies were not  reinventing the wheel; we were taking advantage of things that had  worked in the past. 

  Particularly, we expanded the ability of businesses to use net  operating losses--or, as we call them in tax jargon, NOLs--just like  Congress did in 2002 after 9/11, in 2005 for taxpayers affected by  Hurricane Katrina, and again in 2009 after the financial crisis. 

  Those were actually bipartisan relief efforts just like the CARES  Act. These provisions are temporary. They are designed to terminate  after the recovery is in full force. 

  While it seems longer, you have to remember the CARES Act was enacted  just over 7 weeks ago. In that time, Treasury has distributed economic  impact payments far faster than expected. Americans have received  approximately 140 million economic impact payments worth $249 billion.  Over 4.3 million small businesses have been approved for more than $500  billion of loans under the Paycheck Protection Program and businesses  of all sizes have started to use the tax tools that we provided for  their liquidity. 

  But in that time, the critics have also done what they do best: They  criticize. The media has seized on an opportunity to perpetuate every  negative story that critics can manufacture. You can imagine my  surprise when Democrats criticized the net operating loss carryback  provisions in the CARES Act. Oddly, Democrats previously supported the  last three bills, where we expanded the net operating loss carrybacks  in 2002, 2005, and even in 2009--in the last instance, with all- Democratic rule. 

  I don't recall, in any of those instances, any partisan attacks from  Democrats about this previously bipartisan, anti-recessionary policy  tools. So why now? Sadly, that irresponsibility has led our Democratic  colleagues in the House to pass legislation that would take back  important tax tools that we have provided in the CARES Act to the tune  of $254 billion, and that is a tax increase on the American businesses,  and with more taxes, less employees. 

  It is hard to understand how the House Democrats think that this  policy makes any sense. Imposing tax increases when you have a  downturn--imposing a quarter of a trillion dollar retroactive tax  increase on businesses in need of cash to restart their operations as  States begin to lift shutdown orders--is a recipe for further disaster,  as opposed to the disaster we are already in. 

  It makes one think that House Democrats don't want an economic  recovery, at least until they can defeat President Trump. Imposing such  a tax increase when the country is facing unemployment levels not seen  since the Great Depression fails the common sense test. 

  It is even more disturbing to the extent that the House Democrats'  proposal targets small businesses and other pass-through entities.  Aren't these losses just as real as larger corporations and their need  for liquidity possibly even greater? 

  According to the Tax Foundation, more than 90 percent of American  businesses in recent years operate as pass-through entities. Pass- through businesses include some of those hardest hit by this pandemic  we are in, like farmers, restaurants, manufacturers, retailers, and  healthcare providers. They employ over half of America's workers. Yet  the Democrats want to take them on. 

  It is critical that these businesses also survive this pandemic to  ensure that Americans have jobs to return to as it becomes safe to go  back to work. I have heard some critics even suggest that allowing  small businesses and pass-throughs to use their net operating losses is  kind of a tax gimmick or loophole. Apparently, they don't understand  that these are real economic losses that businesses incur because there  isn't enough income to cover payroll, rent, utilities, and other fixed  expenses. 

  The whole goal of the CARES Act is to help businesses tap cash paid  as taxes in prior years when times were very good, so that they can  survive through this current crisis. When we drafted the CARES Act, we  didn't pick winners and losers, and government shouldn't pick winners  and losers. The tools generally apply to all types and sizes of  businesses, from farmers and sole proprietorships to partnerships, to  LLCs and S corporations, to the large corporations. They apply across  all industries, since nearly every sector is bearing the burden of  stay-at-home and shutdown orders across our entire Nation. 

  Most importantly, we didn't try to decide which jobs were more worthy  of saving than other types of jobs. Our goal was to help preserve as  many jobs as possible, regardless of whatever business they were in.  Those objectives were the right ones. 

  This partisan tax increase also flies in the face of anti- recessionary fiscal policy 101. Find me a credible economist who says  that we should raise taxes in a normal recession. It is just common  sense not to. In a normal business cycle downturn, tax increases hurt,  rather than help, the recovery. Why double down now, as the House is  doing, in the greatest and sharpest economic contraction in modern  history? 

  The House Democrats have reverted to partisan politics, as usual, in  the middle of the worst pandemic in more than 100 years and the worst  economic crisis in nearly that long. Maybe, they should think about  former President Obama's support for this kind of anti-recessionary  fiscal policy back in 2009. What former President Obama said then  should apply now: Don't raise taxes in a recession. 

  Nevertheless, I am hopeful that we can maintain the bipartisan spirit  of the CARES Act in the Senate as we chart the next steps to reopen the  economy and get Americans back to work. 

  While some businesses will feel the impact of this pandemic more than  others, none of these businesses are  doing well. They all deserve as many tools as we can provide to weather  this storm. What is more, employers across the country who have been  relying on the CARES Act shouldn't be deterred by the misguided tax  hike proposed by the House Democrats. The messaging bill that the House  just passed can't be allowed to undermine access to capital needed to  reopen their businesses, bring back employees, and win back the  customers that made them successful before the pandemic attack. 

  And to the Democratic critics, I say this: Let's put away the  partisan attacks. Let's put away the political pandering. Let's keep  working for the good of the country, so our families, businesses, and  economy really can come out of these tough times on a strong footing  and with the best shot at a rapid recovery. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT