Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, last week, I introduced an amendment to  the American Energy Innovation Act. My amendment addresses a critical  shortcoming with whistleblower protections currently available to power  sector employees and those who are responsible for maintaining and  securing our Nation's electric grid. 

  For those who are unfamiliar, the electric grid is managed by a  patchwork of public and private entities. Unfortunately, that means  patchy coverage for energy sector employees under our current  whistleblower protection laws. Federal workers are covered under the  Whistleblower Protection Act, but other workers have to rely on State  and local laws for protection if they exist. 

  For many on the frontlines, these whistleblower protection laws don't  exist. Just last year, according to a news report, power company  employees raised concerns about equipment introduced to improve  efficiency that they believed posed a threat to starting wildfires. I  hope we all remember the fires in California--I think 1 and 2 years ago  or 2 and 3 years ago--with terrible destruction, terrible loss of life.  Eighty-five people in California, I think, lost their lives because of  that type of fire. 

  One of these employees raised his concern about the threat of this  equipment starting wildfires. It was reported that he was fired for  simply blowing the whistle. If it turns out the employee was fired for  blowing the whistle in the interest of public safety, that should be  unacceptable to all of us. 

  As a country, we should be encouraging whistleblowers who know of  threats to the security of our electric grid to come forward and report  what they know. We owe it to them to ensure that when they do, they  will be  protected--in other words, not lose their job. Isn't that common sense? 

  That is exactly what my amendment does. My amendment makes it clear  that power sector employees who report threats to our electric grid are  protected from retaliation; if they are fired, they can file a  complaint with the U.S. Secretary of Labor. In that regard, this  amendment brings whistleblower protections for energy sector employees  in line with more than a dozen other whistleblower laws established by  the Congress in recent years. I have been involved in a lot of those  whistleblower protection laws. 

  Next week is Sunshine Week--a time when we celebrate the importance  of transparency and accountability in government. With transparency,  you get accountability, and the public's business ought to be public.  The protection of our citizens from forest fires that are a result of  bad equipment that electric companies are using--if you report unsafe  conditions, you shouldn't be fired for it. 

  When we think about securing our electric grid, sunlight and  transparency bring accountability, but they also bring attention to  potential risks to our public safety and to our national security. They  can potentially save lives. That is something I am certain we can all  get behind and should be behind. 

  I am very thankful to Senator Markey for cosponsoring the amendment  and for his support of this amendment. I strongly encourage all of my  colleagues to support this amendment as well. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT