Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, since June of 2018, I have objected to  the nomination of William R. Evanina to be Director of the National  Counterintelligence and Security Center. Today, due to the recent  actions by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence ODNI,  and the Attorney General to finally respond to my very longstanding  oversight requests, I withdraw my objection to Mr. Evanina's  nomination. 

  When I noticed my intention to object to this nominee in June of  2018, I made it very clear to the public and to the administration my  reasons for doing so. I did not question Mr. Evanina's credentials in  any way, and I put my statement of those reasons in the Record. I have  done that consistently, not only since the rules of the Senate first  required every Member to do that, but even before that rule was put in  place. 

  At the time, I experienced difficulties obtaining relevant documents  and briefings from the Justice Department and ODNI related to the 2016  election controversies. On several occasions, then-Deputy Attorney  General--DAG--Rod Rosenstein personally assured me that the Senate  Judiciary Committee, of which I was chairman, would receive equal  access to information provided to the House Permanent Select Committee  on Intelligence--HPSCI--with regard to any concessions in its  negotiations regarding pending subpoenas from that committee. However,  I, and the Judiciary Committee, never received equal access from DAG  Rosenstein. 

  For example, on August 7, 2018, I wrote to the Justice Department and  pointed out that the House Intelligence Committee had received  documents related to Bruce Ohr that the Judiciary Committee had not  received. The Department initially denied those records had been  provided to the House Intelligence Committee. After my staff confronted  the Department, we eventually received some Bruce Ohr documents. In  that same 2018 letter, I also asked for other documents based on my  equal access agreement with DAG Rosenstein. 

  I then learned that the Justice Department took the position that  then-ODNI Director Dan Coats prohibited the Department from sharing the  requested records with the committee. Needless to say, it was your  typical bureaucratic blame-game. 

  Then, some personnel changes took place. I voiced my concerns to  Acting Director Grenell and Attorney General Barr. Recently, thanks to  their commitment to transparency, I have received access to the types  of documents that I asked for almost 2 years ago in June 2018.  Moreover, both Acting Director Grenell and Attorney General Barr have  gone multiple steps further by declassifying much of the information  that I had sought access to. Credit should be given when it is due and  Acting Director Grenell and Attorney General Barr deserve that credit  here today. 

  If their predecessors had simply respected legitimate congressional  oversight and their agreements with me and the Judiciary Committee from  the beginning, Mr. Evanina would have been confirmed long ago. 

  Now, I also want to remind everyone, especially future  administrations, that the Senate Judiciary Committee's jurisdiction  extends to the intelligence community. In the authorizing resolution  that created the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the Senate  explicitly reserved for other standing committees, such as the Senate  Judiciary Committee, independent authority to ``study and review any  intelligence activity'' and ``to obtain full and prompt access to the  product of the intelligence activities of any department or agency''  when such activity ``directly affects a matter otherwise within the  jurisdiction of such committee''--S. Res. 400. The Senate Judiciary  Committee has jurisdiction over all federal courts, including the  Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, FISC. As I understand it, the  records at issue here fall into that category. 

  Let this also be a reminder that when it comes to congressional  oversight, I will use all the tools at my disposal to get to the truth  of the matter and get access to the records that I believe are  necessary to advance my investigations. The executive branch must  recognize that it has an ongoing obligation to respond to congressional  inquiries in a timely and reasonable manner. As I have said many times  before, transparency brings accountability and congressional oversight  helps to bring about the sunlight necessary for that to happen. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT