Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, in the last several weeks, a lot of  information relating to the FBI's Russia investigation has been  declassified and made public. That is in large part thanks to action  taken by Attorney General Barr and action taken by Acting Director  Grenell at DNI on declassification of a lot of things that should have  been declassified a long time ago. Their acts of transparency are  finally shining a light on the dark corners of the Federal Government.  The public's business ought to be public. There is too much  overclassification in the Federal Government. Barr and Grenell are  doing what they ought to do, and I hope they keep it up. 

  In the last several weeks, we have also seen a lot of denial from  some quarters in the media about the information that has been  released. 

  Also last week, former President Obama said the rule of law is at  risk because of the Justice Department's dismissal of the Flynn case.  Contrary to what President Obama believes or the media might say, I  believe the opposite is true. The rule of law is at risk if the Federal  Government can get away with violating the Constitution to do what they  did to Lieutenant General Flynn. 

  When it comes to those violations and other misconduct by former  government officials, Obama and the mainstream media pundits all seem  to be silent all of a sudden. I have heard no comment from Mr. Obama  about the independent inspector general's findings that Andrew McCabe  lied under oath to Federal investigators multiple times or about how  Department of Justice prosecutors falsely told the court that they had  produced all Brady material to Flynn. I didn't hear them when the  Federal Government surveilled an American citizen connected to the  Trump campaign without probable cause and based on intelligence that  the FBI knew was questionable at best. There is too much silence on  something that now is so obvious. 

  Since 2017, I have aggressively pursued the Flynn investigation to  find out more about why the FBI decided to  interview Flynn, make him a subject of an investigation, and then why  the Justice Department eventually charged him. From the beginning, I  wanted to know the facts of the case, and from the beginning, none of  what I found looked right. Having done good government oversight for  over 40 years, I know a government foul-up when I see it. 

  The public knows a lot more than they did in 2017 when the news first  broke about this Flynn case. For example, we know that on January 4,  2017, the FBI wrote a closing memorandum on Flynn, who was code-named  ``Crossfire Razor'' by the FBI. That memorandum said the intelligence  community could find no derogatory information on the general. 

  On the very same day the FBI was ready to close the Flynn case, Peter  Strzok asked another FBI agent something like this: ``Hey, if you  haven't closed Razor, don't do it yet.'' So Strzok obviously had  another agenda. The case was still open at that moment, and Strzok  asked that it be kept open ``for now.'' Strzok then quickly messaged  Lisa Page, saying that Razor still happened to be open because of some  oversight and said: ``Yeah, our utter incompetence actually helps us.  20 percent of the time . . . '' 

  During the course of my oversight activities of the FBI, I have  uncovered and made public large amounts of Strzok's and Page's  messages. When reviewing all the faults and disasters of the Russia  investigation, these text messages are very, very important. They are  the free expression of these top FBI employees' mindset, unencumbered  by rules or decorum. They give us a look at what the drivers of the  Russia investigation actually believed. 

  In August 2016, just after the FBI opened the Russia investigation,  Page said: ``Trump's not ever going to become president, right?  Right?!?'' She is the one who edited Flynn's 302 summary along with  Strzok, which contradicted the original 302. Strzok responded to the  Page quote that I just gave about whether Trump would ever become  President this way: ``No. No he won't. We'll stop it.'' Their animus  towards Trump helps to explain why they cut corners and why they didn't  follow regular protocol in running their inquiry. 

  On January 5, 2017, the day after Strzok moved to keep the Flynn case  open, President Obama met with Director Comey, Deputy Attorney General  Sally Yates, Vice President Biden, and National Security Advisor Susan  Rice. At that meeting, they briefed President Obama on the Russia  investigation. It is unclear to what extent they discussed the details  of the investigation amongst each other, but given all that we know now  regarding the fake foundation to the inquiry, it is time we asked: What  did Obama and Biden know, and when did they know it? 

  During the course of my oversight, I acquired an email from Susan  Rice. She sent herself an email on Obama's last day in office, January  20, 2017. That email memorialized the alleged contents of the January  5, 2017, meeting with Obama that I previously referred to. As I noted  in 2018 when I made the email public, I found it very odd that among  her activities in the final moments of the final day of the Obama  administration, that she would write herself an email about a meeting  that happened several weeks prior about this investigation. According  to Rice, Obama wanted everything done ``by the book.'' 

  Of course, we now know that never happened. She also said, in part:  ``The President''--as in Obama--``asked Comey to inform him if anything  changes in the next few weeks that should affect how we share  classified information with the incoming team.'' 

  Then, 1 week later, on January 12, 2017, somebody in the Obama  administration leaked the Flynn-Kislyak call to the Washington Post  that, for the very first time, ignited rumors about Flynn's association  with Russians and a possible violation of the arcane Logan Act. 

  Now, wasn't this really a perfectly timed leak--one that would help  to create a fake foundation to interview Flynn? 

  Well, guess what happened. Twelve days later, on January 24, 2017,  Strzok interviewed Flynn in the White House. Prior to that interview,  Comey chose not to follow normal protocols to inform the White House  that the FBI intended to interview an employee. Now, we all know that  the FBI would normally work through the White House counsel to have  discussions for approval and who would be present at that interview. 

  You have seen it on television several times this weekend: Comey  bragging about getting away with skirting the rules. When he was asked  in a 2018 interview about how he did it, Comey said--and this is what  showed up in these last weekends:  

       I sent them--  

  Meaning he sent the FBI agents to interview.  

       I sent them. Something I probably wouldn't have done or       even gotten away with in a more organized investigation, a       more organized administration.  

  According to Comey's former assistant, Comey said: ``We just decided,  you know, screw it,'' in reference to their breaking protocol with the  White House. 

  Now, I referred to an email that said the President wanted to do this  by the book. Well, what I just described to you is hardly ``by the  book.'' Flynn was never told during this interview what he was being  secretly interrogated for, and the whole thing was done without Flynn  having an attorney present. In fact, I think I recall they even told  him he didn't need an attorney. 

  Now, we know that the FBI had no real investigative purpose to  interview Flynn. We also know, based upon FBI notes, that agents  apparently interviewed Flynn to trick him in a lie so that they could  prosecute him or get him fired. That prosecuting him or getting him  fired are very clear in some notes that we got from the FBI,  handwritten notes. 

  Keep in mind that the FBI had prepared to close this case weeks  before, except it didn't quite get closed because Strzok came in and  said: Can we keep it open--or something to that effect. 

  The FBI already had the transcript of the Flynn-Ambassador Kislyak  call. They knew exactly what was discussed. So what was the point of  interviewing Flynn if they already had the transcript? 

  Well, lucky for Strzok, the FBI had not technically closed the Flynn  case. So he figured yet they could lay a trap for Flynn, and they did  lay a trap. 

  In doing so, they didn't warn him that he was under investigation.  They went around the Justice Department, and I made it very clear how  they bypassed the White House on interview protocols, because Comey was  bragging on television about that. 

  Under Comey's leadership, the FBI abused government powers in ways  that our Founders and Framers feared most, because they had had enough  of George III. They weren't going to let it happen again in the United  States. That is why they wrote the Constitution the way they did. 

  The Russia investigation, in other words, is a textbook example of  what not to do. At every step of the investigation, the government  sought evidence to advance it, never got the evidence that they needed  to advance it, and advanced the investigation anyway. 

  That is pretty clearly an abuse of power. 

  Let's recall that Comey also leaked his memos of his private  discussions with President Trump to get the special counsel, Mueller,  appointed. Comey is pretty smart. He had a plan. It worked. That plan  worked to get Mueller appointed. Mueller did his work for 2 years, and  it cost the taxpayers $30 million. In the end, Mueller found no  collusion and no obstruction, which is exactly the same information  that the House Intelligence Committee's 50-plus depositions told us.  Those were done way back--not way back but a little way back--in 2017.  Mueller finished his job in 2019. That is more than $30 million just to  reinvent the wheel. 

  Now, with respect to Comey, I think it is monumentally important to  point out a piece of his testimony from 2017, before the House  Intelligence Committee. Comey said the following:  

       . . . we had an open counterintelligence investigation on       Mr. Flynn, and it had been open since the summertime, and we       were very close to closing it. In fact, I had--I think I       had authorized it to be closed at the end of December,       beginning of January.  

  Now, Comey leaked his memos so that the public would know the  President allegedly said to him that he  hoped Comey would let the whole Flynn thing go. That is what the hook  was to getting a special counsel appointed. 

  Not once in Comey's memos did he mention that by the time that  conversation occurred, he had already authorized the Flynn case to be  closed. Don't you think that is a material fact that would put the  proper context on his interactions with Trump? 

  Attorney General Barr is exactly right. What the FBI did to Flynn  cannot be justified by any angle of review. What the FBI did is to  flout the rules, the law, and the Constitution. Entrapment is  unconstitutional. 

  That is where the outrage ought to be--not on the dismissal of the  case but on facts that the case was brought in the first place and a  good man's life was destroyed. 

  Mueller had all these facts. He had documents. He had the Brady  material. He had the FBI notes and contradictory 302 summaries. He had  the emails. He had all the information that showed Flynn was set up,  targeted, and pressured to plead guilty in a secret side deal between  the Mueller team and his former lawyers, only because he was running  out of money and the government was coming after his son. 

  Flynn did what maybe a lot of people would do when your family is at  stake. Flynn did what he did to save his family from financial ruin and  his son from reputational ruin. He did what any father would do for his  family. 

  If it can happen to Flynn, it can happen to you. It can happen to any  American, and, in some ways, this also happened to a person named  Carter Page and with the illegal surveillance on Carter Page. 

  You know, in this business of self-government and this business of  constitutional safeguards, we still are in a constant battle between  liberty and tyranny, and we have seen some tyranny in regard to Flynn.  My fellow Americans, let's use the Russia investigation and all of its  shortcomings to forever guard against the tyranny of the Federal  Government. 

  On one last thing, people are constantly phoning our offices and  wanting to know when all the people who did the injustice to Flynn are  going to be prosecuted, because they think there are two standards of  justice. You know, they announced yesterday that McCabe isn't going to  be prosecuted. But Flynn was entrapped to be prosecuted, and how wrong  that is. A lot of people want justice brought to the people who did the  injustice, and I think they ought to be prosecuted. 

  But even more important than prosecuting him, it is about time that  these facts get out so the public knows the injustice that is going on  within our government, within the FBI, in the highest levels of the  FBI. 

  We aren't finding fault with the people in the FBI who are doing what  needs to be done to bring law and order to our country, but when we  have these unusual, illegal, unconstitutional, corrupt things that  happened to Flynn, it ought to wake up the American people. It ought to  wake up those of us in government to make sure it never happens again. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT