Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, today I come to the floor to salute  and thank our Nation's law enforcement officers during this year's  National Police Week. It is notable that this week dedicated to the  brave men and women in blue is in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. 

  I am grateful to all who are working on the front lines right now,  whether they are doctors and nurses or teachers and grocery store  clerks. We are grateful to all of them, including a lot of jobs that I  haven't even mentioned. 

  But this week, we have the unique opportunity just to settle on one  group of people and thank them in a special way during National Police  Week, and that is our police officers. Now, more than ever, we  appreciate their service and dedication. Being a police officer isn't  just a job. I am in public service, but I haven't been a police  officer. I think it is fair to assume that they put their lives on the  line more than most of us who are Members of the Senate. 

  It is not just a job. It is a calling. Each officer has answered that  call and is dutifully serving during these very trying times that we  call this virus pandemic. For that, I am--and, I am sure, everybody  is--forever grateful. 

  I am particularly thankful for the men and women in blue who serve my  fellow Iowans. I would also like to recognize the officers who serve in  Washington, DC, the Capitol Police, meaning those who serve here on the  Hill. They work to ensure our safety and protection, not only from  criminals but also from a virus that has drastically changed the way we  work in the Senate to serve our constituents, the American people, and,  for me, the people of Iowa. Thank you to the policemen on Capitol Hill  here for your selflessness and dedication. 

  COVID-19 knows no boundaries and has, unfortunately, affected  hundreds of police officers. As of May 11, 101 officers have died in  the line of duty from the virus. We must continue to honor members of  the law enforcement community who have made the ultimate sacrifice. The  circumstances of loss are a little different now but no less heroic or  devastating. 

  As a Senator, my actions often speak louder than my words. So I am  pleased to show the members of the law enforcement community how much I  support and appreciate you through legislation. Every year, during  Police Week, the Senate advances various bills focusing on the needs of  the police community. This year is no different. To that end, I  recently introduced a bipartisan bill with the title of Safeguarding  America's First Responders Act. This bill addresses the unfortunate  reality of officers' exposure to COVID-19. 

  To ensure benefits through the Public Safety Officer Benefits  Program, my bill creates a presumption that if a first responder is  diagnosed with COVID-19 within 45 days of their last day on duty, the  Justice Department will treat it as a line-of-duty incident. 

  Loss of a family member in the line of duty isn't only emotionally  devastating, but it also means lost wages in tough times. This bill  recognizes the challenges posed by the pandemic and better ensures that  officers' families will get the financial help as promised to other  police officers who are killed in other ways in the line of duty. This  bill enjoys wide support from multiple law enforcement groups and a  group of bipartisan cosponsors here in the Senate. 

  The Senate is considering two other police bills that I support.  Police officers have demanding jobs and experience events that often  impact their mental health. The next bill is named the Confidentiality  Opportunities for Peer Support Counseling Act, or we call it COPS  Counseling Act, for short. This bill builds off the recommendations  provided by the Justice Department in their recent report on law  enforcement mental health and wellness issues. 

  Specifically, the bill provides confidentiality to Federal law  enforcement officers by restricting individuals who participate in peer  support counseling sessions from disclosing communications arising out  of these sessions. With that privacy, we encourage more people to get  the help they might need. 

  Peer support programs serve as a valuable role in providing mental  health care to law enforcement and first responders. But as I have  indicated, confidentiality concerns have left these programs and these  professionals underutilized. This bill also encourages best practices  for officers and for first responders on peer support programs across  the country. 

  I want to thank Senator Cortez Masto for leading this bill and  teaming up with me on this important issue. 

  Lastly, I am proud to cosponsor Senator Hawley's bill, with a title  of Law Enforcement Suicide Data Collection Act. This bill seeks to  address mental illness and increasing suicide numbers among law  enforcement by requiring the FBI to open a voluntary data collection  program to track suicides and attempted suicides within local, Tribal,  State, and Federal law enforcement. By providing accurate and detailed  information on these issues of suicide, more effective prevention  programs can be implemented. 

  I urge my colleagues to support all three of these bills. Passing  them into law is one way of saying a big thank-you to the brave men and  women who serve us so selflessly in law enforcement. We owe them a debt  of gratitude, particularly during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT