Grassley Releases Phase 3 Coronavirus Response Legislation


Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today released updated Phase 3 coronavirus legislation responding to the public health and economic crisis. Grassley led bipartisan negotiations and crafted the Senate's tax policy and key health policy responses, as well as policy helping the unemployed, included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. "This legislation is the result of bipartisan compromise and significant give-and-take on both sides," Grassley said. "This bill would send a recovery check to most Americans for at least $1,200. A typical family of four would be eligible for $3,400. Seniors, veterans, the unemployed and low-income Americans would be eligible too. This would help workers, families and small businesses absorb some of the financial impact of the coronavirus. We also provide significantly enhanced unemployment insurance and expand eligibility to the self-employed, gig workers and other Americans who aren't working due to the coronavirus. The legislation also includes assistance for small businesses so they can stay afloat and not lay off their workers. "Our Phase Three legislation will also address critical needs of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. We boost telehealth services, we boost payments to health care providers and hospitals to ensure they have the resources to care for patients and we remove restrictions for anybody with health savings accounts. We also ensure that Part B will completely cover a COVID-19 vaccine and Medicare beneficiaries will be able to fill three months of prescriptions. These provisions in conjunction with the full scope of this bipartisan effort will deliver relief and help to all Americans." "This legislation has Democratic and Republican ideas and is the product of extensive bipartisan negotiations. The economic and public health crisis we are experiencing as a country is an emergency and Congress must respond in kind. Congress must pass this legislation immediately so it can be signed into law by the president and Americans can see relief."