Grassley Hails Trump Call to Action on Prescription Drug Pricing


Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) hailed President Donald Trump's call to action on prescription drug pricing during his State of the Union address. In his address to the nation, Trump recognized Grassley's leadership on the issue and called on Congress to pass bipartisan legislation. Grassley's Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act is the only significant, bipartisan legislation to lower drug prices in Congress and has been endorsed by Trump and Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar.

 

"I appreciate President Trump recognizing the work we're doing to lower prescription drug prices," Grassley said. "Iowans and Americans across the country are demanding reforms that lower sky-high drug costs. A recent poll showed 70% of Americans want Congress to make lowering drug prices its top priority. President Trump's clear call to action to pass bipartisan legislation is exactly the type of leadership needed to get the job done. The Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act is the only significant, bipartisan legislation in Congress that has been endorsed by President Trump. Congress shouldn't let Big Pharma prevent a vote on this bipartisan bill that would cap out-of-pocket costs, lower premiums and save taxpayer dollars, all while ensuring lifesaving medical innovation continues free from government harm. Taxpayers shouldn't be on the hook for unlimited subsidies to Big Pharma making billions in profits every year. President Trump understands that and Americans understand that. The Senate must act soon and the House should be ready to work with the Senate to get this legislation to the president's desk in the months ahead."

 

Trump outlined several priorities in lowering prescription drug prices, all of which are included in the Grassley-Wyden Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act.

 

In his address, Trump said, "And working together, the Congress can reduce drug prices substantially from current levels. I have been speaking to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa and others in the Congress in order to get something on drug pricing done, and done properly. I am calling for bipartisan legislation that achieves the goal of dramatically lowering prescription drug prices. Get a bill to my desk, and I will sign it into law without delay."