Grassley Statement on President Trump's 2020 State of the Union Address


Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) issued the following statement regarding President Donald Trump's State of the Union address.

 

"By almost every metric, the United States is better off than it was just a few years ago. Unemployment is lower, growth is higher and wages are rising faster than they have in recent memory.

 

"The 2020 State of the Union address clearly captured America's positive energy and provided an optimistic outlook for what our country has in store.

 

"The President highlighted important successes for American trade. The new USMCA as well as phase one of a trade deal with China give us a strong footing as we look ahead to future deals with partners around the world. These will all translate to better outcomes for American workers, farmers, manufacturers and service providers, while holding our trading partners accountable.

 

 "President Trump also noted the benefits and improvements in fairness to our justice system that have taken hold since he signed my criminal justice reform bill into law.

 

"I look forward to continued work alongside the president on efforts to support working families, through education initiatives and childcare.

 

"Importantly, President Trump announced that he will continue pushing forward to lower healthcare costs. Specifically, he and his administration will be working with Republicans and Democrats in Congress to pass my bipartisan prescription drug pricing bill. This is the exact approach we need when the American people are looking for more solutions and less politics.

 

"The President is also keeping his word with a sustained focus on securing the border, and on public safety by cracking down on sanctuary cities.

 

"Washington's divisive politics might steal the headlines, but families across America are already reaping the benefits of the successes of the last few years, and we have more big opportunities ahead. In this optimistic State of the Union address, President Trump made clear he's ready to work with both sides to achieve even more for America."