Grassley, Sinema, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Aid Victims of Identity Theft


Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Senator Kyrsten Sinema (D-Ariz.), alongside a bipartisan group of colleagues, today introduced the Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act to provide more efficient help to Americans whose social security numbers have been misused following an identity theft. "Millions of Americans are affected by identity theft every year, and Social Security numbers are regularly the thief's main target and treasure. But when a victim calls up the Social Security Administration, they can get bumped from contact to contact in the agency with each one having to retake details. Starting over like this would be frustrating for anyone, especially folks dealing with the stress of identity theft. Our new bill will make sure once someone calls for help, they'll have a single point person at the agency to get them through the problem," Grassley said. "Arizonans victimized by scammers should be able to easily resolve their issues with the Social Security Administration. Our bill cuts red tape and simplifies Arizonans' ability to get needed help after identity theft," said Sinema.  Misuse of Social Security numbers is a large and growing problem, and victims who are affected by identity theft face hurdles when trying to resolve issues with large, multi-office agencies such as the Social Security Administration (SSA). As things currently stand, a victim may have to engage in multiple procedures and work with numerous representatives at SSA in the process of resolving Social Security related identity-theft issues.  The Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act provides a single, focal point of contact at SSA to make SSA's processing of an identity-theft victim's issues, through complete resolution, more efficient and less frustrating for victims. In addition to Grassley and Sinema, cosponsors of the bill include Sens. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Kelly Loeffler (R-Ga.), Bob Casey (D-Penn.), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Cindy Hyde Smith (R-Miss.), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Angus King (I-Maine), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.) and Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.). The commonsense Improving Social Security's Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act has the endorsement of numerous groups, including: AARP; the Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC); the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare (NCPSSM); the National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA); National Organization of Social Security Claimants' Representatives (NOSSCR); and, Social Security Works.