Hamas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688469/hamas


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, October 7, 2023, will probably go down  in history to Americans like December 7, 1941, Pearl Harbor Day.

On October 7, 2 years ago, Israel experienced a surprise attack from  Hamas. As those under attack rushed to safe rooms and to bomb shelters,  the terrorist group infiltrating the country began firing on homes and  killing Israelis at random.

Those who have seen the footage of the attacks--in many cases, those  films have been taken by the attackers themselves--have said that the  glee and the pride Hamas showed in killing and mutilating and raping  innocent civilians were particularly shocking. It is also very chilling  and also very disgusting.

On October 7, Hamas also took roughly 250 residents hostage, even  including babies, really old people, and even some Americans. The  horror these individuals have faced under the brutal reign of Hamas is  unimaginable. The hostages have been subjected to inhumane conditions,  deprived of their basic human rights, and used as pawns in the cruel  game of manipulation.

Now more than 500 days later, Hamas is still holding dozens of  hostages captive, including five Americans. Of the  five Americans in Hamas's captivity, four have been confirmed to have  been murdered.

As the families have spent over a year in anguish, waiting for any  sign of their loved ones, desperate for their safe return, Hamas has  kept their bodies and refused to return them to family and friends,  compounding the grief of loved ones. All Americans would say this  cannot stand.

The United States must remain steadfast in its commitment to securing  the release of these hostages and holding Hamas accountable for these  atrocities. Under President Trump's leadership, that is exactly what  our country is doing because of President Trump's support for the State  of Israel and his stand against hostage taking.

To the families of these hostages, we grieve with you. We share in  your pain, and we share in your hope as well.

To the hostages still in captivity, we want them to know they are not  forgotten.

The world is watching, and we will not rest until justice is served  and you are safely returned home. God bless you all.