Healthcare


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, Happy New Year. Congress has a full  plate of issues to work on this year. I look forward to rolling up my  sleeves and continuing my work for the people of Iowa this year, as I  always do.

One issue that is on my mind is lowering healthcare costs, expanding  access to high-quality care, and supporting research and innovation.  The U.S. healthcare needs more reform and accountability, but we don't  need to turn it into a socialized, government-run healthcare system.

I would like to point out another example, as I have before, of how  socialized medicine fails patients. Recently, a Canadian woman named  Jolene Van Alstine made headlines because of Canada's socialized  single-payer healthcare system.

Jolene can't access a healthcare specialist to get the lifesaving  surgery that she needs. Jolene has a rare disease, and she needs  surgery. Yet there is not a surgeon available in her province to  perform that surgery. You would think she would look elsewhere in  Canada to get the surgery, but she can't do that. Jolene must get  permission from a local specialist first due to government rules  running the socialized healthcare system in Canada.

Yet getting an appointment with a specialist isn't possible because  no one is accepting new patients. Now she is considering ``medical  assistance in dying'' because Canada's healthcare system doesn't have a  surgeon or a specialist that she needs to get that lifesaving care.

American conservative radio commentator Glenn Beck has offered to  cover the patient's travel expenses to America if an American surgeon  is able to perform the surgery. I sure hope  someone will step up to help Jolene in this way.

So Canada does, however, have an alternative healthcare system. It is  called the United States of America, if the patient can afford to come  here and pay for the services. I have highlighted before how Canadians'  cancer patients are coming to America for treatment. Socialized  medicine leads to longer wait times and scarce resources. Let this be  another reminder of socialized medicine's failures.