Health Savings Accounts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693915/health-savings-accounts


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I want to tell my colleagues and the  public about a part of the Big Beautiful Bill that passed 2 weeks ago  that isn't getting much attention.

I have been a longtime supporter of health savings accounts. They  encourage responsible utilization of healthcare services by offering  lower cost insurance and greater flexibility of care.

I am proud to have led the charge in the early 2000s to make health  savings accounts accessible and a stronger option for Americans.

Today--would you believe it--over 30 million Americans have a health  savings account with an average balance of more than $3,000.

Senate Republicans, through the One Big Beautiful Bill, went a step  further, strengthening health savings accounts. First, the bill allowed  health savings accounts to work with direct primary care service  arrangements.

Direct primary care is a membership-based model of care that lets  patients choose a primary care provider of their choice and gain access  to a suite of care options without needing to go through an insurance  company's redtape.

Doctors and providers, under this way, also benefit since they can  spend more time with the patient rather than completing unnecessary  paperwork. When patients have access to timely and high-quality primary  care, they have better health outcomes and live longer.

Prior to the law change, there were rules preventing consumers from  contributing to and using health savings accounts for direct primary  care. Direct primary care will also improve rural healthcare by  expanding access to physicians and other healthcare providers and also  expanding access to telehealth to reach patients in a more timely  fashion.

We also allow individuals who have purchased a catastrophic or bronze  health plan on the Federal marketplace to now contribute to and use a  health savings account.

In addition, this will improve access and competition on the Federal  marketplace, and that, we all know, is sorely needed.