Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, as Senators, we cast many votes during  our time here. I have cast over 13,200. Each one of those votes is  important, but a vote to convict or acquit the President on charges of  impeachment is perhaps the most important vote a Senator could ever  cast. Until now, it has happened only twice in our Nation's history,  and it is something that should never be taken lightly. 

  President Trump has been charged of committing, according to the  Constitution and in these articles, ``high Crimes and Misdemeanors''  for requesting that a foreign leader investigate his potential  political opponent and, No. 2, obstructing Congress's inquiry into  those actions. For this, we are asked to permanently remove him from  office. 

  As a judge and juror, as we all are, I first ask whether the charges  rise to an offense that unquestionably demands removal from office. If  so, I then ask whether the House proved beyond a reasonable doubt that  it actually occurred. 

  The House's case fails on the first of those questions. The  President's request is not impeachable conduct under our Constitution.  A President isn't prohibited by law from engaging the assistance of a  foreign ally in an anti-corruption investigation. 

  The House tries to make up for this hurdle by suggesting that  subjective motive--in other words, political advantage--can turn an  otherwise unimpeachable act into an act that demands removal from  office. I won't support such an irreversible break from the  Constitution standard for impeaching a President. 

  The Senate is an institution of precedent. We are informed and guided  by history and the actions of our predecessors, but our choices also  actually make history. These days, that can be difficult to keep in  mind. A rush to convict or acquit can lead to cut corners and  overheated rhetoric. 

  We are each bound by our oath to ``do impartial justice.'' As  President pro tempore of this institution, I recognize that we must  also do justice to the Senate and to the Republic that this Senate  serves. 

  This trial began with a full and fair debate on the rules to guide  our process. We considered and voted on 11 amendments over nearly 13  hours. Consistent with precedent, the Senate adopted rules allowing the  same length of time for arguments and questions as was agreed to  unanimously in the 1999 Clinton impeachment. Consistent with precedent,  we engaged in a robust debate on calling witnesses and pursuing  additional evidence. We sat as a Court of Impeachment for over 70  hours. The final vote will be the product of a fair and judicial  process consistent with precedent of the Senate. 

  I cannot say the same of the Articles of Impeachment that we are  considering today from the House of Representatives, which has the sole  power of impeachment. After 9 days of presentation and questions and  after fully considering the record, I am convinced that what the House  is asking the Senate to do is constitutionally flawed and dangerously  unprecedented. 

  The House's abuse of power article rests on objectively legal  conduct. Until Congress legislates otherwise, a President is within his  authority to request that a foreign leader assist with anti-corruption  efforts. To make up for this, the House of Representatives' abuse of  power theory rests entirely on the President's subjective motive. This  very vague standard cannot be sustained. 

  The House offers no limiting principle of what motives are allowed.  Under such a flexible standard, future House of Representatives could  impeach Presidents for taking lawful action for what a majority thinks  are the wrong reasons.  

  The House also gives no guidance whatsoever on whether conviction  rests on proving a single, corrupt motive or whether mixed motives  suffice under their theory. In its trial brief, the House of  Representatives argues that there is ``no credible alternative  explanation''--those are their words--for the President's alleged  conduct, but once the Senate heard from the President's counsel in  defense, then all of a sudden, the House changed its tune. Now, even a  credible alternative explanation shouldn't stop the Senate from  removing the President. 

  Reshaping their own standard midtrial only serves to undercut their  initial arguments. And simply asserting--at least 63 times that I  counted--that their evidence was ``overwhelming'' doesn't make the  House of Representatives' allegations accurate or prove an impeachable  offense. Even after arguments had concluded, the House managers started  repeating the terms ``bribery'' and ``extortion'' on the floor of the  Senate, while neither term appears anywhere in their Articles of  Impeachment. 

  So you get down to this point. It is not the Senate's job to read  into House articles what the House failed or didn't see fit to  incorporate itself. Articles of Impeachment shouldn't be moving targets  like moving a goalpost. The ambiguity surrounding the House's abuse of  power theory gives this Senator reason enough to vote not guilty. If we  are to lower the bar of impeachment--and that is what the House of  Representatives is trying to do--we better be clear on where the bar is  being set. 

  The House's second article impeaching the President for what they  call obstruction of Congress is equally unprecedented and equally  patently frivolous. This Senator takes great pride in knowing a thing  or two about obstruction by the executive branch from both Republican  Presidents and Democratic Presidents in the 40 years that I have been  doing oversight. Congressional oversight--like rooting out waste,  fraud, and abuse--is central to my role as a Senator representing Iowa  taxpayers. In the face of obstruction, I use the tools the Constitution  provides to this institution. Now, that is the very core of the checks  and balances of our governmental system.  

  For example, I fought the Obama administration to obtain documents  related to Operation Fast and Furious. Under the House's obstruction  standard, should President Obama have been impeached for his failure to  waive privileges during the course of that investigation? We fought  President Obama on this for 3 years in the courts, and we still didn't  end up with all that we asked for. We never heard a peep from the  Democrats when Obama pulled that trick. 

  The hypocrisy here by the House Democrats has been on full display  for the last 2 weeks. In the case before us, the House issued a series  of requests and subpoenas to the executive branch, but the House failed  to enforce those requests. When challenged to stand up for its  subpoenas in court, the investigating committee simply retreated. 

  The House may cower at defending its own authority, but the Senate  shouldn't have to clean up the mess of the House's own making. For the  many ways in which the House failed in the fundamentals of oversight  and for the terrible new precedent this obstruction article would set,  I will vote not guilty. 

  Another point: There has been debate about the whistleblower, whose  complaint motivated the House's impeachment inquiry. I have worked for  and with whistleblowers for more than 30 years. I have sponsored  numerous laws to strengthen whistleblower protections. Attempts by  anyone to ``out'' a whistleblower just to sell an article or to score a  political point are not helpful at all. It is not the treatment any  whistleblower deserves. However, it is important for investigators to  talk to whistleblowers and to evaluate their claims and credibility  because those claims form the basis of an inquiry under checks and  balances of government. 

  My office does this all the time. When whistleblowers bring  significant cases of bipartisan interest, we frequently work closely  with the Democrats to look into those claims. I know the House  committees have followed that course in the past. Both parties  understand how to talk to whistleblowers and respect confidentiality. 

  Why no efforts were taken in this case to take these very basic,  bipartisan steps is very baffling to me. I fear that, to achieve its  desired goal, the House majority weaponized and politicized  whistleblowers for purely partisan purposes. I hope that the damage  done will be short-lived. Otherwise, the separation of powers under our  Constitution will be weakened. 

  Finally, I have always made it a priority to hold judicial nominees  to a standard of restraint and fidelity to the law, and as judges in  this case, which every Senator is, we should consider those factors  which counsel restraint. 

  These articles came to the Senate as a product of a flawed,  unprecedented, and partisan process. When the articles were voted on by  the full House, the only bipartisanship was of those in opposition.  Moreover, tonight, the Iowa caucuses will be finished. The 2020  Presidential election is underway. Yet we are all asked to remove the  incumbent from the ballot based on an impeachment that is supported by  only one party of the Congress. 

  The Senate should take no part in endorsing the very dangerous new  precedent that this would set for future impeachments. We need no new  normal when it comes to impeaching a President. We have precedents of  the past that should be followed, and they have not been followed. We  have had more than 28,000 pages of evidence. We have had 17 witnesses  and over 70 hours of open, transparent consideration by the Senate. The  American people are more than adequately prepared to decide for  themselves the fate of the President in November. This decision belongs  to the voters. It is time to get the Senate back to work for the  American people on issues of substance. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT