Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, as Senators, we cast a lot of votes  throughout our tenure in this body. I have cast over 13,200 of them.  Each vote is important. A vote to convict or acquit the President of  the United States on charges of impeachment is one of the most  important votes a Senator could ever cast. Until this week, such a vote  has only taken place twice since the founding of our Republic. 

  The President has been accused of committing ``high Crimes and  Misdemeanors'' for requesting that a foreign leader launch an anti- corruption investigation into his potential political opponent and  obstructing Congress's subsequent inquiry into his actions. For such  conduct, the House of Representatives asks this body to remove the  President from office and prohibit him from ever again serving in a  position of public trust. As both a judge and juror, this Senator asks  first whether the conduct alleged rises to the level of an offense that  unquestionably demands removal. If it does, I ask whether the House has  proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the conduct actually occurred.  The House's case clearly fails on the first of those questions.  Accordingly, I will vote not guilty on both articles. 

  The President's request, taken at face value, is not impeachable  conduct. A President is not prohibited by law or any other restriction  from engaging the assistance of a foreign ally in an anti-corruption  investigation. The House attempts to cure this defect by suggesting  that the President's subjective motive--political advantage--is enough  to turn an otherwise unimpeachable act into one that demands permanent  removal from office. I will not lend my vote in support of such an  unnecessary and irreversible break from the Constitution's clear  standard for impeachment. 

  The Senate is an institution of precedent. We are informed and often  guided, especially in times like this, by history and the actions of  our predecessors. While we look to history, however, we must be mindful  of the reality that our choices make history, for better or for worse.  What we say and do here necessarily becomes part of the roadmap for  future Presidential impeachments and their consideration by this body.  These days, that reality can be difficult to keep front and center.  Partisan fervor to convict or acquit a President of the United States  who has been impeached can lead to cut corners, overheated rhetoric,  and rushed  results. We are each bound by the special oath we take while sitting as  a Court of Impeachment to ``do impartial justice according to the  Constitution and laws.'' But as President pro tempore, I recognize we  must also do justice to the Senate as an institution and to the  Republic that it serves. 

  This trial began with a full and fair opportunity to debate and amend  the rules that would guide our process. The Senate considered and voted  on 11 separate amendments to the resolution, over the span of nearly 13  hours. Consistent with precedent, the Senate adopted a resolution to  allow the same length of time for opening arguments and questions as  was agreed to unanimously in 1999 during the Clinton impeachment trial.  Consistent with precedent, the Senate agreed to table the issue of  witnesses and additional evidence until after the conclusion of  questions from Members. Consistent with precedent, the Senate engaged  in a robust and open debate on the necessity of calling witnesses and  pursuing additional evidence. We heard nearly 24 hours of presentation  from the House managers, nearly 12 hours of presentation from the  President's counsel, and we engaged in 16 hours of questioning to both  sides. 

  Up to today, the Senate has sat as a Court of Impeachment for a  combined total of over 70 hours. The Senate did not and does not cut  corners, nor can the final vote be credibly called a rushed result or  anything less than the product of a fair and judicious process. Future  generations, if faced with the toxic turmoil of impeachment, will be  better served by the precedent we followed and the example we set in  this Chamber. I cannot in good conscience say the same of the articles  before us today. 

  I have said since the beginning of this unfortunate episode that the  House's articles don't, on their face, appear to allege anything  satisfying the Constitution's clear requirement of ``Treason, Bribery,  or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' Yet I took my role as a juror  seriously. I committed to hear the evidence in the record and to  reflect on the arguments made. After 9 days of presentation and  questions and after fully considering the record as presented to the  Senate, I am convinced that what the House is asking us to do is not  only constitutionally flawed but dangerously unprecedented. 

  The House's first article, impeaching the President for ``abuse of  power,'' rests on objectively legal conduct. Until Congress legislates  otherwise, a President is well within his or her legal and  constitutional authority, as the head of state, to request that a  foreign leader assist with an anti-corruption investigation falling  outside of the jurisdiction of our domestic law enforcement  authorities. Short of political blowback, there is also nothing in the  law that prohibits a President from conditioning his or her official  acts upon the agreement by the foreign leader to carry out such an  investigation. 

  In an attempt to cure this fundamental defect in its charge, the  House's ``abuse of power'' article sets out an impermissibly flexible  and vague standard to justify removing the Chief Executive from office.  As the House's trial brief and presentation demonstrated, its theory of  the case rests entirely on the President's subjective motive for  carrying out objectively permissible conduct. For two reasons, this  cannot be sustained. 

  First, the House would seemingly have the Senate believe that motive  by itself is sufficient to prove the illegality of an action. House  managers repeatedly described the President's ``corrupt motive'' as  grounds for removal from office. But this flips basic concepts in our  justice system upside down and represents an unprecedented expansion of  the scope of the impeachment authority. With limited exception, motive  is offered in court to show that the defendant on trial is the one who  most likely committed the illegal act that has been charged. Jealously  might compel one neighbor to steal something from the other. But a  court doesn't convict the defendant for a crime of jealousy. Second,  let's assume, however, that motive could be grounds for impeachment and  removal. The House offers no limiting principle or clear standard  whatsoever of what motives are permissible. Under such an amorphous  standard, future Houses would be empowered to impeach Presidents for  taking lawful action for what the House considers to be the wrong  reasons. 

  The House also gives no aid to this institution or to our successors  on whether impeachment should rest on proving a single, ``corrupt''  motive or whether mixed motive suffices under their theory for removing  a President from office. In its trial brief presented to the Senate,  the House asserts that there is ``no credible alternative explanation''  for the President's alleged conduct. This formulation, in the House's  own brief, necessarily implies that the presence of a credible  alternative explanation for the President's conduct would defeat the  ``abuse of power'' theory. But once the Senate heard the President's  counsel's presentation, the House changed its tune. Even a credible  alternative explanation--or multiple benign motives--shouldn't stop  this body from removing the President, so long as one ``corrupt''  motive is in the mix. This apparent shift in trial strategy seems less  indicative of a cohesive theory and more reflective of an ``impeach-by- any-means-necessary'' mindset. But reshaping their own standard mid- trial only served to undercut their initial arguments. 

  Simply asserting at least 63 times, as the House managers did, during  the trial that their evidence was ``overwhelming'' and that the  President's guilt was proven does not make the underlying allegations  accurate or prove an impeachable offense. Even in the midst of  questions and answers, after opening arguments had concluded, the House  managers started repeating the terms ``bribery'' and ``extortion'' on  the floor of the Senate, while neither appears anywhere in the House's  articles. These are serious, statutory crimes that have specific  elements of proof; they shouldn't be casually used as window dressing  to inflame the jury. And the House's attempts to shoehorn those charges  into their articles is itself a due process violation. 

  It is not the Senate's job to read into the House's articles what the  House failed or didn't see fit to incorporate itself. No more so is it  the job of a judge to read nonexistent provisions into legislation that  Congress passes and the President signs. Articles of Impeachment should  not be moving targets. 

  The Senate, accordingly, doesn't need to resolve today the question  of whether a criminal violation is necessary for a President's conduct  to be impeachable. The text of the Constitution and the Framers' clear  intent to limit the scope of the impeachment power counsels in favor of  such a brightline rule. And until this episode, no President has been  impeached on charges that didn't include a violation of established  law. Indeed, the only Presidential impeachments considered by this body  included alleged violations of laws, and both resulted in acquittals.  But the stated ambiguities surrounding the House's ``abuse of power''  theory, acknowledged even by the House managers, give this Senator  reason enough to vote not guilty. If we are to lower the bar of  impeachment, we better be clear on where the bar is being set. 

  The President himself, however, should not conclude from my vote that  I think his conduct was above reproach. He alone knows what his motives  were. The President has a duty to the American people to root out  corruption no matter who is implicated. And running for office does not  make one immune from scrutiny. But the President's request was poorly  timed and poorly executed, and he should have taken better care to  avoid even the mere appearance of impropriety. Had he done so, this  impeachment saga might have been avoided altogether. It is clear that  many of the President's opponents had plans to impeach him from the day  he took office. But the President didn't have to give them this  pretense. 

  The House's second article, impeaching the President for  ``obstruction of Congress,'' is equally unprecedented as grounds for  removal from office and patently frivolous. It purports that, if the  President claims constitutional privileges against Congress,  ``threatens'' to litigate, or otherwise fails to immediately give up  the goods, he or she must be removed from office. 

  I know a thing or two about obstruction by the executive branch under  both Democrat and Republican administrations. Congressional oversight-- rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse--is central to my role as a Senator  representing Iowa taxpayers and has been for 40 years. If there is  anything as sure as death and taxes, it is Federal agencies resisting  Congress' efforts to look behind the curtain. In the face of  obstruction, I don't retreat. I go to work. I use the tools the  Constitution provides to this institution. I withhold consent on  nominees until I get an honest answer to an oversight request. I work  with my colleagues to exercise Congress's power of the purse. And when  necessary, I take the administration to court. That is the very core of  checks and balances. For years, I fought the Obama administration to  obtain documents related to Operation Fast and Furious. I spent years  seeking answers and records from the Obama administration during my  investigation into Secretary Clinton's mishandling of highly classified  information. 

  Under the House's ``obstruction of Congress'' standard, should  President Obama have been impeached for his failure to waive privileges  during the course of my and other committees' oversight investigations?  We fought President Obama on this for 3 years in the courts, and we  still didn't end up with all we asked for. We never heard a peep from  the Democrats then. So the hypocrisy here by the House Democrats is on  full display. 

  When I face unprecedented obstruction, I don't agitate to impeach.  Rather, my office aggressively negotiates, in good faith, with the  executive branch. We discuss the scope of questions and document  requests. We discuss the intent of the inquiry to provide context for  the requested documents. We build an airtight case and demand  cooperation. Negotiations are difficult. They take time. 

  In the case before us, the House issued a series of requests and  subpoenas to individuals within the White House and throughout the  administration. But it did so rather early in its inquiry. The House  learned of the whistleblower complaint in September, issued subpoenas  for records in October, and impeached the President by December, 4  months from opening the inquiry to impeachment for ``obstruction.'' As  one who can speak from experience, that is unreasonable and doesn't  allow an investigation to appropriately and reasonably run its course.  That timeline makes clear to me that the House majority really had one  goal in mind: to impeach the President at all costs, no matter what the  facts and the law might say. Most importantly, the House failed to  exhaust all legal remedies to enforce its requests and subpoenas. When  challenged to stand up for the legality of its requests in court, the  investigating committee simply retreated. Yet, now, the House accuses  the Senate of aiding and abetting a coverup, if we don't finish their  job for them. The evidence is ``overwhelming,'' yet the Senate must  entertain more witnesses and gather more records that the House chose  to forgo. 

  The House's failure to proceed with their investigation in an  orderly, reasonable, good-faith manner has created fundamental flaws in  its own case. They skipped basic steps. It is not the job of the Senate  to fix the fundamental flaws that directly result from the House's  failure to do its job. The House may cower to defend its own authority,  but it will not extort and demean this body into cleaning up a mess of  the House's own making. 

  For the myriad ways in which the House failed to exercise the  fundamentals of oversight, for the terrible new precedent the House  wants us to endorse, and for the risk of future generations taking it  up as the standard, I will vote not guilty on the obstruction article. 

  Now, there has been much discussion and debate about the  whistleblower whose complaint framed the House's inquiry in this case.  I have worked for and with whistleblowers for more than 30 years. They  shed light on waste, fraud, and abuse that ought to be fixed and that  the public ought to know about, all frequently at great personal cost.  Whistleblowers are patriots, and they are heroes. I believed that in  the 1980s. I believe it today. I have sponsored, cosponsored, and  otherwise strongly supported numerous laws designed to strengthen  whistleblowers protections. I have reminded agencies of the  whistleblowers' rights to speak with us and of their protection under  the law for doing so. And this is how it works. Of course, it is much  better to have firsthand information because it is more reliable.  However, whether it is firsthand information or secondhand, it is  possible to conduct a thorough investigation of a whistleblower's  claims and respect his or her request for confidentiality. 

  As I said in October of last year, attempts by anyone in government  or the media to ``out'' a whistleblower just to sell an article or  score a political point is not helpful. It undermines the spirit and  purpose of the whistleblower protection laws. I remember very well the  rabid, public lashing experienced by the brave whistleblowers who came  to me about the Obama administration's Operation Fast and Furious.  President Obama's Justice Department worked overtime to discredit them  and tarnish their good names in the press, all to protect an operation  that it tried to keep hidden from Congress and the American people, and  that resulted in the death of an American Border Patrol agent. That was  not the treatment those whistleblowers deserved. It is not the  treatment any whistleblower deserves, who comes forward in good faith,  to report what he or she truly believes is waste, fraud, or abuse. 

  But whistleblower claims require careful evaluation and follow up,  particularly because their initial claim frames your inquiry and forms  the basis for further fact finding. The questions you ask and the  documents and witnesses you seek all start there. Any investigator  worth their salt will tell you that part of the investigative process  involving a whistleblower, or indeed any witness, requires the  investigator to evaluate that individual's claim and credibility. It is  standard procedure. So we talk to the whistleblowers, we meet with them  when possible, we look at their documents. We keep them confidential  from potential retaliators, but not from the folks who need to speak  with them to do their jobs. When whistleblowers bring to us significant  cases of bipartisan interest, where we have initially evaluated their  claim and credibility and determined that the claim merits additional  follow up, we also frequently work closely with the other side to look  into those claims. 

  We have done many bipartisan investigations of whistleblowers' claims  over the years and hopefully will continue to do so. We trust the other  side to respect the whistleblower's confidence as well and treat the  investigation seriously. We have also worked with many witnesses in  investigations who want to maintain low profiles and who request  additional security measures to come and speak with us. We are flexible  on location. We have the Capitol Police. We have SCIFs. We have  interviewed witnesses in both classified and unclassified settings. We  are willing to work with those witnesses to make them comfortable and  to ensure they are in a setting that allows them to share sensitive  information with us. 

  I know the House committees, particularly the oversight committees,  have all taken that course themselves. They routinely work with  whistleblowers too. Both sides understand how to talk to whistleblowers  and how to respect their role and confidentiality. So why no efforts  were taken in this case to go through these very basic, bipartisan  steps is baffling. I do not under any circumstances support reprisal or  efforts to throw stones without facts. But neither do I support efforts  to skirt basic fundamental investigative procedures to try and learn  those facts. I fear that, to achieve its desired ends, the House  weaponized and politicized whistleblowers and whistleblower reporting  for purely partisan purposes. I hope that the damage done from all  sides to these decades-long efforts will be short lived. 

  Finally, throughout my time on the Judiciary Committee, including as  chairman, I have made it a priority to hold judicial nominees to a  standard of restraint and fidelity to the law. As judges in the Court  of Impeachment, we too should be mindful of those factors which counsel  restraint in this matter. 

  To start, these articles came to the Senate as the product of a  flawed, unprecedented and partisan process. For  71 of the 78 days of the House's expedited impeachment inquiry, the  President was not permitted to take part or have agency counsel  present. Many of the rights traditionally afforded to the minority  party in impeachment proceedings were altered or withheld. And an  authorizing vote by the full House didn't occur until 4 weeks after  hearings had already begun. When the articles themselves were put to a  vote by the full House, just in time for Christmas, the only  bipartisanship we saw was in opposition. Moreover, the Iowa caucuses  have already occurred. The 2020 Presidential election is well underway.  Yet we are being asked to remove the incumbent from the ballot, based  on Articles of Impeachment supported by only one party in Congress.  Taken together, the Senate should take no part in endorsing the  dangerous new precedent this would set for future impeachments. 

  With more than 28,000 pages of evidence, 17 witnesses, and over 70  hours of open, transparent consideration by the Senate, I believe the  American people are more than adequately prepared to decide for  themselves the fate of this President in November. This decision  belongs to them. 

  When the Chief Justice spoke up at the start of this trial to defuse  some rising emotions, he challenged both sides addressing the Chamber  to ``remember where they are.'' We, too, should remember where we are.  The U.S. Senate has ably served the American people through trying  times. These are trying times. And when this trial adjourns, the cloud  of impeachment may not so quickly depart. But if there is any  institution best equipped to help bridge the divide and once again  achieve our common goals, it is this one. 

  Let's get back to work for the People. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT