Intercountry Adoptions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692787/intercountry-adoptions


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, recently, we witnessed China peddling  false claims as it continues to try and convince the United States that  China is a good partner. China has recently claimed that ``the Chinese  always honor and deliver what has been promised.'' What China asserted  is nonsense. Nobody ought to believe that the promises made are  honored.

So I want to give you one example: intercountry adoptions.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, China ``temporarily'' restricted travel  into the country, which stalled hundreds of families from completing  their adoptions. Today, the families I mentioned continue to be  separated from their adoptive child in China or are learning that the  child they have been matched with for many years has been rematched  with a different family in China. The latter is the case for the  Robinson family of Iowa.

Does that sound like China always honors and delivers what it  promises? I think not.

In September of last year, I wrote to the Chinese Ambassador to the  United States, outlining my concerns about China's termination of its  intercountry adoption program and urged China to not go back on its  promises, but, instead, allow for matched adoptions to finally be  completed. That has not happened.

It is a positive development that Chinese families have a stronger  will and capacity to adopt orphans within their own country. Children  having a safe and loving home is always a good thing. But my point of  contention is that China left American families in the dark and didn't  engage in good faith. American families were not given the same  opportunity as families from other countries to be united with their  children. Real commitments were made, and they were dismissed. This  brought disruption to families and needlessly left children orphaned.

Again, I suggest China doesn't honor its commitments, and I pray that  the hearts of Chinese leaders experience a transformation.