Letter to Vice President Mike Pence - Iowa Leaders Urge "Immediate Assistance' from Administration to Support Pork Producers


Dear Mr. Vice President and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force,

Livestock production is an essential element of Iowa's and our nation's critical infrastructure. Due toCOVID-19 workforce disruptions, U.S. pork production has lost approximately 25 percent of itsprocessing capacity over the last 3-4 weeks. Pork production operates in a "just-in-time" fashion; ateach step of the production cycle, there are pigs in line ready to move to the next stage. When pigsreach market weight, they must move to processing. Given severe processing capacity constraints, pigsare backing up on farms with nowhere to go, resulting in overcrowding and animal welfare issues. Atcurrent capacity levels, there are 700,000 pigs across the nation that cannot be processed each weekand must be humanely euthanized. Iowa produces one-third of the nation's pork supply and one-fourthof the nation's pork processing capacity. Simply put, Iowa pork producers cannot operate if they can'tsend their pigs to market.

While the announcement by USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service that they are standing upan incident command is helpful and the Interim Guidance from the Centers for Disease Control andprevention and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration provides useful steps for protectingworkers, we urgently request the additional following resources and authorities, including invoking theDefense Production Act, that will be required to keep Iowa pork production viable:* Packing plant operations: It is critical that plants continue to operate. Worker safety isparamount, and the packing industry is doing everything it can to ensure it and follow local,state and federal recommendations. We urge you to utilize every authority available to keepplants open, and to re-open closed facilities as soon as it is possible to do so safely.* Humane euthanasia of hogs: We ask that resources, including and in addition to thoseannounced by APHIS, be deployed to assist in the humane euthanasia of animals. Resources arecritically needed both on farm and in harvest facilities not currently producing food to safely,humanely and efficiently depopulate animals. No matter where these depopulation efforts takeplace, resources must be brought to bear to assure environmentally responsible disposalmethods are practiced.* Indemnity: Pork producers in Iowa and nationwide will go out of business, and the industrycould further contract and consolidate, if farmers are not compensated for the animals that theyhave no choice but to euthanize. We strongly urge that farmers are indemnified for theireuthanized hogs, including costs associated with depopulation and environmentally sound disposal, to help preserve Iowa's pork industry. Pork producers also need protection throughlegal immunity from attempts by activist organizations to penalize producers who are requiredto take these actions to protect the welfare of their animals.* Mental health assistance: The COVID-19 pandemic presents farmers with non-economic threatsas well. Mental health assistance is important to all affected, but producers who must euthanizeanimals cannot be forgotten. Providing mental health assistance to farmers, veterinarians andothers involved in the difficult decisions and processes around euthanizing and disposing ofanimals is imperative.

This is an emergency in our rural communities unlike any seen in recent history. Swift and decisiveaction will be required to preserve Iowa's farm communities and ensure that safe, affordable andabundant food remains available in this crisis. We ask for your immediate assistance in addressing thesecritical needs.

Sincerely,