Letter to Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture - Grassley, Duckworth, Ernst Call on USDA to Allocate Additional Funds to Biofuel Industry Negatively Impacted by COVID-19


Dear Secretary Perdue,

We are concerned about our nation's biofuel sector during the unprecedented economiccircumstances brought on by the national pandemic of COVID-19.As the country follows the advice of local and state governments and remain at home, motor fueluse has rapidly decreased. This dynamic comes on top of EPA's failure to implement the RFS inaccordance with the law, including the issuance of illegal small refinery waivers and the recentfailure to enforce ethanol blending requirements. As the consumption of motor fuel continues todecrease in response to COVID-19, it is important to note that most U.S. gasoline contains atleast 10 percent ethanol.We are concerned for the many farmers and producers who will bear the impact of this decreasein consumption, further damaging an already hurting rural economy and resulting in the closingof production facilities that employ many people in rural communities in our home states.As the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) considers the allocation of additional fundsprovided to the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, andEconomic Stabilization (CARES) Act we ask that you use the authority provided to assist thebiofuel industry.The decrease in fuel consumption has left production facilities little choice but to idle productionor close completely. Since March 1, industry sources show more than four billion gallons ofethanol production has ceased production. The CCC was created to stabilize, support, and protectfarm income and prices while also maintaining balanced and adequate supplies of agriculturalcommodities and aids in their orderly distribution.Farm income and prices for corn and other crop commodities are directly linked to the health ofthe renewable fuel industry. Ethanol plants use 40 percent of all corn grown in the United States.Among other feedstocks, biodiesel and renewable diesel producers currently use over 8 billionpounds of soybean oil a year, creating demand that adds 13 percent to the cash price of a bushelof soybeans. We have seen a significant drop in the price of corn and soybeans because of thedecline in demand. Keeping plants open is vital for our states and we ask that you use theauthority given by Congress to assist the biofuel industry during extremely difficult times. Weare supportive of the proposals the biofuel industry has put forward to reimburse feedstocks andalso believe that adding additional CCC funds to the Higher-Blends Infrastructure IncentiveProgram will drive future biofuel demand.Thank you for considering our request and for your dedication to rural America. We lookforward to working with you on deploying the additional resources that Congress gave you inthe CARES Act.Sincerely,