Letter to Alex Azar, Secretary of the Dept. of Health and Human Services, and Seema Verma, Admin. of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid -  - Grassley Joins Bipartisan Letter to HHS to Advocate for Relief for Senior Adult Communities and Health Care Workers - Grassley Seeks Details of Federal Response to Coronavirus in Nursing Homes


Dear Secretary Azar and Administrator Verma:

I write today concerning unique challenges facing some of the health care providers thatCongress has designated to receive COVID-19 relief under the Public Health and Social ServicesEmergency Fund, established by the CARES Act. In allocating these Federal resources, I urgethat your Department respond directly and promptly to these challenges.Specifically, I am troubled by media reports concerning the plight of older Americanswho reside in skilled nursing facilities, group homes, and assisted or independent living facilities.

Nursing homes became one of our nation's first so-called "hotspots" for COVID-19 last month,when the Life Care Center nursing home in Kirkland, Washington initially reported 37 deaths atthe outset1 of this public health crisis. Since then, the number of deaths due to COVID-19 in these facilities has soared to at least 5,670. In at least one State, the percentage of COVID-19related deaths in long-term care facilities is higher than that of hospitals, and in my home Stateof Iowa, nursing home residents account for a majority of COVID-19 related deaths.

The rapid transmission of this respiratory virus in long-term care facilities is attributableto asymptomatic staff members and residents, the close quarters in which people live, andstaffing shortages, among other factors. The death toll due to COVID-19 among theseresidents--especially those with preexisting conditions--is concerning. It is also concerning thatnearly two-thirds of the nation's nursing homes were cited for infection control failures in therecent past. Such factors underscore the importance of encouraging coronavirus testing andcompliance with CDC guidelines for reducing COVID-19 transmission in these facilities. It alsois important to ensure that any Medicaid- and Medicare-funded facilities accepting COVID-19patients have adequate staffing, equipment, and other necessary safeguards in place.

A second area for concern is inconsistencies in data tracking. Media accounts suggestthat the Federal government is tracking neither outbreaks nor the number of COVID-19 relateddeaths in long-term care facilities.9 This responsibility falls to the States, rather than HHS, butthe lack of uniformity across States in COVID-19 data collection practices makes it difficult to get a true picture of the full impact of this crisis. (To illustrate: some States, but not others,combine reported data for both residents and staff of long-term care facilities.)11 Given the lackof consistently reported data, I encourage you to exercise additional leadership in this area, e.g.,by issuing guidance for states to promote uniformity in the tracking and reporting of COVID-19cases in nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and other long-term care facilities participatingin the Medicaid and Medicare programs. I also encourage HHS to issue guidance, if it has notalready done so, to ensure the prompt reporting, within 24 hours, of positive COVID-19 resultsto the family members of residents of long-term care facilities.

A third challenge is that many long-term care facilities are short on the personalprotective equipment that helps prevent COVID-19 transmission among employees.Indeed, in at least one nursing home, employees ceased showing up for work due to fear of contracting thecoronavirus.Such incidents underscore the importance of making face masks, gowns, gloves,and other essential protective equipment available to those who are on the front lines in servingthe elderly and disabled during this public health emergency.

Fourth, transparency is critically important to reassure policymakers and the public thatthe Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund is fully devoted to those in need andhaving the capacity to effectively use such resources. I commend the Department for alreadydoing the necessary outreach to Congress concerning its allocation of $30 billion from this Fund;and I encourage you to expand on current practice, by reporting at least weekly to Congress withdetailed information on additional Fund expenditures.In light of the importance of swiftly responding to this public emergency, I ask that yourespond to the following no later than April 23, 2020:1. Please describe CMS plans, if any, to update its guidance or training requirements oninfection control procedures, especially for personnel in nursing homes and other longterm care facilities.a. What plans, if any, does HHS have to revisit and update 42 C.F.R. ยง 483.80,which outlines the requirements for infection control specialists in these facilities?2. Does HHS have the authority necessary to promulgate regulations calling for moreuniform reporting of COVID-19 infections by State public health agencies?a. If not, what Federal legislation would be necessary to close such gaps in HHS'sregulatory authority?3. Please provide a detailed proposal on the planned use by HHS of the $100 billion in thePublic Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (the "Fund"). Please also include adetailed accounting of the allocation of the $30 billion that has been distributed to date byHHS, including a discussion of the criteria used to determine which health care providersare eligible for assistance.a. To what extent have long-term care facilities, including nursing homes, grouphomes, assisted living facilities, and independent living facilities across theUnited States received resources flowing from the Fund? For what purpose(s)may these funds be used by such providers?b. Is the purchase of personal protective equipment a permitted use of Fundresources by all health care providers, or is participation in Federal health careprograms, such as Medicare or Medicaid, a precondition for such assistance?c. What additional efforts has HHS initiated to ensure that all health care providershave access to personal protective equipment?d. Have some health care facilities, such as independent living facilities that do notparticipate in either the Medicare or Medicaid programs, been ruled ineligible forthe Fund's relief assistance? If such facilities are ineligible, does HHS have otherplans or recommendations to assist these facilities? Please explain.4. Has HHS issued (or does it plan to issue) coronavirus testing protocols for employees oflong-term care facilities?5. In guidance issued on April 2, 2020, CMS embraced the idea of establishing separatewings in long-term care facilities for residents that have contracted COVID-9.Arethere practical impediments for many of these facilities to the implementation of thisapproach, and to what extent have such facilities adopted it in practice? 6. Because some employees of long-term care facilities reportedly lack expertise inmanagement of medical emergencies, proper use of personal protective equipment, andappropriate handwashing procedures, does HHS have any plans to expand its guidanceand training requirements to cover such topics?15 Please explain.7. By law, a long-term care facility must report a positive COVID-19 case, outbreak, orrelated death to state or local authorities, and this information then is relayed to theCDC.16 Approximately how long, on average, does it take for the CDC to transmit suchinformation to HHS and CMS?a. A leading trade association for the nursing home industry recently encouraged itsmembers to report every positive COVID-19 test result to the appropriate Statesurvey agency as well as the residents, family members, and staff of each suchnursing home.  Has CMS considered imposing a similar requirement for allnursing facilities that participate in the Medicaid and Medicare programs?

Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please contact Evelyn Fortier of my staff at202-224-4324 if you have any questions.

Sincerely