National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696138/national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, we are going to move to our first  vote on Professor Jennifer Mascott's nomination to the U.S. Court of  Appeals for the Third Circuit. I want to take a few minutes to express  my support for her nomination and to urge my colleagues to vote  accordingly.

Bipartisanship in this body has become, unfortunately, rare. Our  government shut down because of partisan obstruction, and even the few  instances of bipartisanship in our committee have been condemned by  leftist, dark money groups, such as Demand Justice. The situation is  bad for our country and really bad for the American people.

Putting high-quality judicial nominees on the bench to serve the  American people should be something that unites this body. In fact, in  the Biden administration, that happened. Over 80 percent of the  judicial nominees in that administration received bipartisan support on  the floor.

By contrast, this Congress, only 20 percent of the Trump nominees  have had bipartisan support.

I encourage my colleagues to ignore the pressure from inflammatory  progressive groups like Demand Justice and to recognize Professor  Mascott's tremendous qualifications.

Professor Mascott is a law professor at Catholic University. She is  so beloved by her students. She has had a very distinguished career as  a public servant and has impeccable professional qualifications.

Just as an example, as a law student at George Washington University,  she earned a recordbreaking 4.22 GPA. Her professors even wrote to the  Judiciary Committee prior to her hearing to explain that these  professors often thought that her exam answers were better than their  own answer keys.

It is no surprise, then, that she went on to clerk for two Supreme  Court Justices.

Since her time as a clerk, she has grown into an impressive and  nationally influential scholar. Justices of the Supreme Court have  cited her scholarship eight times and even mentioned her by name in  oral arguments.

She is also well known and well respected by our own Senate Judiciary  Committee. The committee has called on Professor Mascott repeatedly to  testify about some of the toughest constitutional and statutory  questions. She has also filed amicus briefs on behalf of Members of the  committee in very important cases. We trusted her judgment then, and we  can surely trust that judgment now.

I am confident that Professor Mascott will make an outstanding judge,  and I know that she will serve the people of Delaware and the circuit  with distinction.

President Trump made an excellent selection in Professor Mascott, and  I hope my colleagues will join me in voting to support her nomination  so she can serve on the Third Circuit.