National Security


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697333/national-security


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, also last week, an Afghan evacuee was  arrested for threatening to bomb a building in Texas. The terrorists  entered our country as part of a program called Operation Allies  Welcome in the aftermath of the Biden administration's chaotic  withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Since 2021, I have warned the Biden administration, my congressional  allies and colleagues, and the American public about the failure to vet  Afghan evacuees. Unfortunately, the Biden administration was not honest  with the American people about the program's vetting vulnerabilities.

I asked then-Director Wray about the program's national security, and  I asked the same, this year, of Director Patel of the FBI.

This year, Director of National Intelligence Gabbard told my office  an important data point: Of the more than 100,000 Afghan evacuees, as  of August 2022, 1.6 percent had links to terrorism or other derogatory  information. So, when you take that 1.6 percent, that is over 1,600  people who at the time of Biden's disastrous evacuation posed a  potential threat to our homeland and to the American people.

On July 8, 2025, I came to the Senate floor and urged the current FBI  and the intelligence community leadership to aggressively investigate  evacuees. In September of this year, Department of Homeland Security  Secretary Noem told my office that, as of August 12, 2025, thousands of  Operation Allies Welcome parolees were potential national security  threats.

As we have tragically witnessed, the Biden administration's failure  to properly vet Afghan evacuees has serious consequences and probably  consequences we haven't seen beyond the killing last week.

I think we should thank the Trump administration's efforts--and I  thank them--for responding to my oversight requests and their efforts  to fix the Biden administration's failures.

This Senator's oversight work will continue.