National Character Counts Week


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696289/national-character-counts-week


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, since 1993, Congress has adopted a  resolution to recognize this third week of October as National  Character Counts Week, and, of course, we are in that week right now.

As Iowa's senior U.S. Senator, I am proud to sponsor the resolution  and share that the global headquarters for the Character Counts  organization is located in my home State. The Robert D. and Billie Ray  Center is located at Drake University.

By the way, Bob Ray was Iowa's Governor for 14 years. So the location  in Des Moines makes perfect sense to me because Iowa's values align  with the six pillars of character promoted by the national Character  Counts organization. These include trustworthiness, respect,  responsibility, fairness, caring, and citizenship.

Throughout my public service, I have strived to improve civic  engagement and bridge divisions through respectful dialogue. Part of  that effort includes my annual 99 county meetings, where I meet with  Iowans face to face. No topic is off limit, and Iowans set the agenda.

Each year, the Drake University Ray Center celebrates ``Iowa  Character Awards'' to recognize those who embody civic values. The  people of Spencer, IA, will receive the ``Community Character Award''  of 2025 in recognition of their efforts to recover from devastating  floods the summer of last year.

Like the courageous first responders from 9/11, emergency response  teams from across Northwest Iowa pitched in to help the people of  Spencer. They didn't stop to consider creed, race, gender, or political  affiliation. They were only concerned about those who had the needs  caused by the devastating flood. So they simply rolled up their  sleeves, and they simply pulled together, neighbors helping neighbors.  And, of course, that is the Iowa way.

History tells us how important it is for elected leaders to govern by  virtue. At the Virginia ratifying convention, debating whether or not  Virginia should ratify the new Constitution, James Madison said:

``To suppose that any form of government will secure       liberty or happiness without any virtue in the people, is a       chimerical idea.''

The American people who elected us are counting on us to live by  those standards. National Character Counts Week is a good time to do  what is right.