National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698692/national-law-enforcement-appreciation-day


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, tomorrow, January 9, is National Law  Enforcement Appreciation Day. For 365 days a year, but especially  tomorrow, we offer our gratitude to our country's men and women. When  you meet one of them, you should say: Thank you for your work. Thank  you for keeping the peace.

With President Trump's support, law enforcement nationwide is making  America safer. This year, violent crime is down 12 percent and murders  across our major cities are down 20 percent. Record amounts of  dangerous drugs like fentanyl, meth, cocaine, and heroin have been  seized and, thankfully, are off our streets due to the hard work of law  enforcement's very courageous work. I am proud to back the blue. I am  also grateful for their work to maintain the peace.

As chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee this year, I have  continued my work to support law enforcement in Iowa but also  nationwide. In that role, I worked with Senate Republicans and the  White House as part of the Working Families Tax Cut law signed by the  President on July 4, securing historic support for the Byrne JAG and  COPS Programs for local police as well as efforts to combat drug  trafficking.

Additionally, four bipartisan bills the Judiciary Committee passed  during Police Week in May became law with the passage of the National  Defense Authorization Act. These new laws will expand access to Federal  support for law enforcement and their families and help State and local  law enforcement combat online child exploitation.

The National Defense Authorization Act also expanded counterdrone  authorities for State and local law enforcement agencies using language  that was based on legislation that I worked on in a bipartisan way with  the senior Senator from Michigan.

We should all look forward, but I want you to know that I look  forward to working further with my colleagues this year to support  police in a bipartisan way. We are very fortunate that this type of  legislation is mostly bipartisan in the Congress.

To all those who have selflessly answered the call to keep our  communities safe, I say thank you. May God bless you and may God  protect you as you go about your work of protecting the American  people.