Notice of Intent to Object to Proceeding


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I intend to object to any unanimous  consent request relating to the nomination of Marshall Billingslea, of  Virginia, to be Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and  International Security, vice Andrea L. Thompson, resigned (PN1732). 

  Following my bipartisan letter to the president on April 8, 2020,  regarding the removal of the Intelligence Community Inspector General  (IC IG), I sent a separate letter to the President regarding the  removal of the Department of State Inspector General (State IG). My  letter echoed the IC IG letter to the President and reminded him of his  requirement under the Inspector General Reform Act to provide clear  reasons for removal of inspectors general. I also raised concerns  regarding the inherent conflicts of interest created by naming  individuals holding political positions within the overseen agency as  acting inspectors general. After a delay, the White House promised me a  response to both the IC IG letter and my State IG letter that fulfilled  the statutory requirement by providing substantive reasons for the  removal. On the evening of May 26, 2020, I received a response from the  White House, but it contained no explanation for the removal of the  State IG and made no comment regarding the conflicts of interest issues  that I raised. 

  Though the Constitution gives the president the authority to manage  executive branch personnel, Congress has made it clear that should the  president find reason to remove an inspector general, there ought to be  a good reason for it. The White House's response failed to address this  requirement, which Congress clearly stated in statute and accompanying  reports. I don't dispute the President's authority under the  Constitution, but without sufficient explanation, the American people  will be left speculating whether political or self-interests are to  blame. That's not good for the presidency or government accountability.  This is only compounded when the acting IG maintains their  presidentially appointed position within the overseen agency. 

  Further, the White House's response states that the President was  acting in a manner that comported with the precedent that began under  the Obama administration. The letter states that the President's letter  mirrors the one sent by President Obama when he removed IG Walpin. What  that letter fails to mention is that President Obama, at the demand of  myself and other members of this Chamber, eventually did send several  letters explaining in much greater detail the reasons for the removal  of Mr. Walpin. They were inadequate responses that continually changed  and eventually resulted in a bicameral investigation into the matter,  but reasons were provided. 

  I have attached copies of these letters and the aforementioned report  for the Record. I intend to maintain this hold until the notice  requirement in the Inspector General Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. app.  Sec. 3(b) is met and the reasons for the IC IGs removal are provided.        

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT