One Big Beautiful Bill Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694089/one-big-beautiful-bill-act


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on July the Fourth, President Trump  signed into law the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. The centerpiece of this  legislation is a permanent extension of the 2017 tax law, thereby  averting the largest tax hike in American history without a vote of  Congress.

In addition to this, the bill rolls back the Biden administration's  Green New Deal. This includes pairing back supercharged green subsidies  enacted by my Democrat colleagues as part of the so-called Inflation  Reduction Act.

I have long been a strong proponent of developing alternative energy  resources as part of an all the above energy strategy.

I am proud to be the original author of the wind production tax  credit. When Congress enacted that credit in 1993, less than one-tenth  of 1 percent of U.S. electricity production came from wind. Today, it  is over 10 percent. And in my home State of Iowa, it is over 60  percent. Wind development has been an unquestionable success.

My view has always been that tax incentives intended to spur  fledgling industries shouldn't last longer than necessary. That is why  in 2015 I worked with both the wind and solar industries to phase out  their credits over a period of years. Unfortunately, the Democrats so- called Inflation Reduction Act reversed course and supercharged these  credits once more.

As part of the One Big Beautiful Bill, much like I did in 2015, I  worked with my colleagues to provide wind and solar an appropriate  glidepath for the orderly phase-out of the tax credits.

Many of my colleagues advocated pulling the rug out from wind and  solar projects, but I worked to find a sensible compromise. Based on  that compromise, the law's December 31, 2027, placed-in-service  requirement for wind and solar facilities is only effective for  ``facilities the construction of which begins after the date which is  12 months after the date of enactment.''

This change is intended to grant the wind and solar industries a  yearlong transition to confidently move forward with planned projects  under the existing continuity safe harbor and the beginning of  construction guidance in effect at the time of the law's enactment.

The statute expressly codifies what it means to ``begin  construction.'' Congress consciously elected to set the provisions  effective date by reference to ``beginning of construction'' because of  its long- and well-established meaning at the time of enactment.  Treasury guidance with respect to when construction begins, along with  its continuity safe harbor, goes back more than a decade.

It is simply common sense for Congress to look to a well-understood  and long-established term in establishing such a transition period.  After all, the purpose of a transition period is to allow industry time  to adjust to new rules and requirements and avoid market disruptions.

As the Department of the Treasury works to implement the One Big  Beautiful Bill, I urge agency officials to do so in accordance with the  statute as written and consistent with congressional intent.