Prescription Drug Costs


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, as most of my colleagues know, I hold a  meeting in each of Iowa's 99 counties every year for Q&A with my  constituents. Over the last couple of years, without fail, Iowans have  brought up the skyrocketing prices of prescription drugs. People all  over my State, including farmers, factory workers, and especially  senior citizens, have raised the concern that pharmacy bills have been  ballooning. 

  I will say, Iowans are always interested in hearing about solutions,  and they are looking for solutions on this issue from Congress, but not  a single one of these people who bring this issue up cares about the  partisan politics of the issue. Iowans just want Congress to act. This  is my 40th year of taking questions in our 99 counties--although, as of  now, only 14. Rarely have I heard so much unanimity when it comes to  this issue, but on prescription drug prices, it is unanimous.  Republicans, Democrats, and Independents alike all want us to take  action, and the data, both polling and otherwise, bears out our  constituents' concerns. 

  As I highlighted last week, right here in this position on the Senate  floor, a new study shows that pharmaceutical prices have increased 3\1/ 2\ times the rate of inflation in recent years. People are paying more  than double what they paid in the year 2007 for drugs treating  conditions from MS to diabetes and everything in between. The lack of  transparency and the enormous subsidy incentives are driving these  price hikes--perverse incentives that we have in law. If they were not  intended to be perverse, they are incentives people have found out how  to benefit from. 

  This is because the government's spigot is all the way open for the  big pharmaceutical companies or--how we say it around here--Big Pharma.  Of course, when this happens, taxpayers get ripped off. It happens  because we pay a lot of money--I think about $138 billion--for Medicare  and Medicaid. We pay at least that much. So, when you have 5- to 10- percent increases on January 1, you can see willy-nilly, on the  judgment of Big Pharma, that taxpayers are paying a heck of a lot more. 

  I know all of my colleagues want to do something about this, and I  know the administration wants to do something about it. In fact, let me  say to the administration that I have been involved in this as the  chairman of this committee since just a year ago January. The  administration has given a major speech, and the Secretary of HHS has  taken major action going way back to June of 2018. So we all know that  our colleagues and our administration know that something needs to be  done. 

  We are fortunate that, just yesterday, the White House published five  principles that the administration can get behind for reducing  prescription drug costs. Our legislation in the Senate fits the bill,  or the principles, that were laid out in that op-ed piece. The  Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act is the name of our legislation,  and it addresses those principles. More importantly, it is the only  option that can get 60 votes in the U.S. Senate. 

  Many Americans are reading about the coronavirus issue. It scares our  constituents. We don't know what kind of drugs might come into the  market to help treat the disease. Senator Cassidy, who will soon speak,  is an expert on that. He can address those issues for anybody who wants  them addressed. Yet, if our bill becomes law, we know that folks who  are on Medicare will not face sticker shock at the drugstore counter.  Not only is that important in its being a comforting thought in the  short term, as we face the coronavirus, but it is important in the long  term, when we inevitably encounter another novel outbreak. 

  It took a long time to hammer out the Prescription Drug Pricing  Reduction Act. I thank Senator Wyden for sticking it out with me and  working in good faith for the benefit of all of our constituents so we  could produce a bipartisan bill. His determination as well as the  leadership of many of my colleagues, like Senators Cassidy, Collins,  and Daines, have further improved the legislation. We have a bill. We  have bipartisan support, and we have White House support. We also have  the opportunity. The bottom line is, let's act. 

  I thank my colleagues for joining me in this effort. 

  I yield to my colleague Senator Collins. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT