Project Labor Agreements


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693111/project-labor-agreements


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the Senate to bring up the  issue of how the Congress--on a piece of legislation that I am part  of--and how President Trump can help the economy through helping small  business.

President Biden issued an Executive order in February of 2022. That  Executive order required what is called the project labor agreements,  or PLAs, on Federal projects over $35 million. Just to be clear, I  meant that Executive order requires project labor agreements.

I opposed this Executive order at that time, and I joined a letter  with my colleagues, telling President Biden what a bad idea that was. I  believe the Trump administration should deregulate this Biden Executive  order.

Project labor agreements are a sort of backdoor way to give unionized  contractors a leg up on Federal contracts in competition with nonunion  contractors. Plus, there is too much redtape for a business to comply.

Public project labor agreements effectively make it impossible for a  contractor to compete for Federal contracts if its workforce isn't  unionized. So it is kind of like a union shop outlawed by the Taft- Hartley Act in right-to-work States. About 27 States have right-to-work  laws.

Well, most of the workforce in Iowa isn't unionized. This Executive  order seems to assume that every workforce should be unionized, and  Iowa happens to be a right-to-work State.

It happens that I support the right of workers to organize. I joined  a union from 1962 to 1971. I was a member of the International  Association of Machinists. I am proud of my membership in that union  and the years I spent on the assembly line at Waterloo Register in  Cedar Falls, IA. It happens that my job was putting screw holes in  furnace registers. However, I also support the right of workers not to  join a union.

Iowa has many companies, small and large, including many family-run  enterprises, where they care deeply about their employees. So it is  natural that these companies' employees don't feel a need to unionize.

The Federal Government should not tip the scales against these great  but small companies and their workers. Federal contracts should be  awarded through a fair and competitive bidding process that allows all  qualified contractors to compete on a level playing field based on  merit, based on experience, quality, and the safety of their workforce.

Project labor agreement mandates prevent many small businesses from  competing for Federal projects and may even lead to increased costs for  taxpayers.

I told you I was going to talk about legislation that would do the  same thing I asked President Biden to do. I am the cosponsor of a bill  called the Fair and Open Competition Act prohibiting Federal Agencies  from mandating project labor agreements or using PLA preferences on  Federal construction contracts.

I am also joining Senator Britt and a number of my colleagues in  urging President Trump to revoke the ill-conceived Biden Executive  order mandating project labor agreements on Federal projects. The Biden  Executive order should be at the top of the list of a ``deregulation''  administration, which this Trump administration is and it proudly  speaks so.