Providing Emergency Assistance and Health Care Response for Individuals, Families, and Businesses Affected By the 2020 Coronavirus Pandemic


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, all 100 Senators are hearing from our  constituents about the urgency of our acting. If we aren't hearing  about the urgency of our acting, we are hearing about the questions  they have about the future economy, as they read about businesses being  in trouble, restaurants shutting down, and schools closing. All of  these decisions that have brought doubt to the minds of our  constituents have been caused by governmental action as a result of the  virus pandemic, the world health pandemic, that has been expressed. 

  We have to respond to that, and I think the leader has said how  urgently he takes the response that our constituents expect from us and  that we have a responsibility for taking action. This is an urgent time  for us. 

  As Americans continue to do their part to curb the spread of  coronavirus and the pandemic that it has been called, we are doing our  part here in the Senate to support Americans, and that includes their  families and their jobs. 

  Congress passed two bills quickly to step up the government's ability  to combat the virus and to provide greater security for families whose  incomes have been disrupted by containment efforts. Those two bills-- one signed just last night by the President--were very bipartisan in  these efforts. We need to continue that bipartisanship. 

  We are now working, as the leader just introduced, on a bold and  comprehensive effort to provide additional relief to Americans and our  economy in this challenging time, to respond to the anxiety that the  American people have that I previously said was caused by government-- and not just the Federal Government but State governments maybe in 50  different ways because of 50 different States and by many local  governments in different ways, as they felt they needed to take action.  I have already referred to shutting down restaurants, schools closing,  et cetera. That speaks to how it affects the individuals we are trying  to help. 

  I am chairman of the Finance Committee, as my colleagues know. I have  been working with my colleagues around the clock to find opportunities  in the Tax Code to reduce stress on American taxpayers and the  businesses that create the jobs and the businesses that are probably  closed now and their workers laid off. 

  Our small group of colleagues is working to help the American  taxpayers and the businesses so that jobs continue. We first adopted a  do-no-harm approach. We want to ensure that routine government  processes don't add to the strain that everybody has out there. We do  this by issuing recovery assistance to American families in the form of  checks that can go out the door in short order. These direct payments  could be as much as $1,200 for individuals, $2,400 for couples, with  additional assistance to families. Obviously, the purpose of this is to  provide immediate relief to folks who are facing cash flow problems in  their families as they stay home to stop the spread of this virus. 

  To avoid in-person meetings with tax preparers in the midst of the  pandemic, we are extending the tax filing deadline from April 15 to  July 15, and of course we all know that the administration has already  deferred collection of taxes until July or later. So this will help  families defer filing costs and avoid meetings that could put folks at  risk at this time of--who knows how far the effect of this virus is  going to be. The deadline for quarterly estimated tax payments will  also be postponed for 180 days. 

  We encourage those able to lend a financial hand by providing  additional deductions for charitable giving. This includes suspending  the deduction limitation for cash donations by individuals and easing  the limitation on donations of cash and food inventories by businesses.  Additionally, for those who do not itemize, a new deduction will be  available for everyone who gives, regardless of how you file your  taxes. 

  American businesses, as we know, are the engine of our economy, and  we stand ready to help them as well. American business men and women  are our job providers, and we need to make sure that they can keep  their doors open--or if those doors are closed today, to reopen them-- and that the payrolls they have going out to those individual workers  and families across the Nation can be maintained. 

  Our proposal includes items to improve cash flow and liquidity for  businesses of all sizes. Businesses, including the self-employed, will  be able to defer their quarterly tax estimates 180 days and their  employer Social Security tax payments through 2020. 

  We are going to increase the limit on interest deductibility. We will  speed up the recovery of the alternative minimum tax credits. We will  relax limitations on how companies use losses from previous years to  reduce their tax burdens. 

  These are just some of the many provisions in our proposal to  unburden businesses, particularly those that have liquidity problems,  so that they can keep employing those who are home with their families  and helping to prevent the spread of the virus. 

  I hope nobody tries to tell me or the rest of us that we are bailing  out business. We are in the job of preserving jobs. If those jobs have  been lost in the last 10 days because of this slowdown of the economy-- almost a shutdown of the economy--then we want those jobs to be brought  back. Workers are unemployed because of government's decisions--not the  employer's decision, not the employee's lack of hard work, but because  Federal, State, and local governments have stopped interaction among  people so that we don't spread this virus, and it is because of what  the World Health Organization has labeled a world health pandemic.  

  We don't see it as bad now as we do in Italy and other countries in  Europe. We hope we don't see it as bad as they have, but we just don't  know, and because we don't know, people have this anxiety. They don't  know about the future, and we ought to give some help to the future. 

  I described to you some of the things the Finance Committee is  working on. 

  I have also joined Senator Alexander and others to assist healthcare  workers and patients. This portion of the package includes several  Finance Committee provisions to help everyone fight the pandemic. For  example, we are adding additional flexibility to the health savings  accounts, bolstering telehealth services, and boosting Medicare  payments to healthcare providers. 

  We can contain this deadly virus without destroying livelihoods or  the Nation's economy, but right now, our constituents have doubt about  that, and this proposal the leader has put forth is to try to quiet  some of that anxiety. 

  These recommendations take bold steps to curb the economic fallout as  we work as a country to contain this pandemic. These proposals won't be  the end of the congressional response to the coronavirus. I think we  made clear that this is the third effort--two already signed by the  President of the United States--and there will probably be more. When  people want more than what is maybe here, there are going to be plenty  of opportunities for more. 

  I wish I could say we know by a certain date that this anxiety is  going to go away and we know this pandemic has slowed down enough that  we can go back to work and start interacting with our friends and  family to the same extent we always have and open up the restaurants. 

  I stand ready to continue identifying targeted relief as necessary to  help bridge the gap beyond this bill, but we need to take this next  step and do it quickly. 

  I want to thank Leader McConnell for convening our task forces to  quickly provide meaningful relief to families, individuals, and all  sectors of the economy. 

  The people I have been working with that I thank are Senators John  Thune, Rob Portman, Pat Toomey, Tim Scott, Tom Cotton, and Mitt Romney  for working with me on this package. Some of those Members are hard- working Members of the Finance Committee, and some aren't on the  committee because we wanted as broad an opinion as we could get. I know  our staffs work literally around the clock, so I want to recognize  their efforts as well.  

  So many Americans are working day and night to provide essential  services and efforts to combat this outbreak. We in Congress must be  prepared to do the same, and that is why you heard the leader a little  while ago saying that we are going to stay in until we get this job  done. We ought to applaud that type of leadership. 

  It is a commitment to keep the Senate open until we have done our  part, and I look forward to working with Democrats and the  administration to get this job done without delay. So maybe, if we work  hard Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, we can get a bill to the President  next week. Nobody should be going home until we have delivered this  needed relief. 

  We often spoke in World War II about the United States being the  arsenal of democracy. I still remember--I was only 9 years old-- December 7, 1941. And then I remember studying history and how we  ramped up production for the war effort. Can we ramp up production of  the respirators, protective gear, and testing kits we need? Can we do  it on the same scale we did in World War II--a scale that can help us  overcome this crisis? 

  I suppose you all remember the cry of ``Remember Pearl Harbor'' to  help us pull the country together to win that war. Can we think of  ``Remember coronavirus'' as an effort to pull this country together?  Because in those times, I remember we all pulled together to--let's  say, just one example--we all prided ourselves in planning what we  called victory gardens. We did it in unison, as we sought to defeat the  Axis powers. Can we pull together in the same way to slow the spread of  COVID-19 until our healthcare system catches up with something we never  anticipated, never could plan for? 

  I think this is a test of America's character, just like it was a  test of our character in World War II to pull together. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT