Rural Emergency Hospital Program


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, keeping quantity and quality of  healthcare in rural America is a constant responsibility of most  Senators, because every Senator, even if you come from a high  population State, you still have a lot of rural areas.

So one of the things that I have been interested in is keeping  hospital services available in rural areas, even if they have a hard  time keeping their beds as part of their hospital.

So, in December 2020, I was proud to sponsor and to pass into law the  voluntary rural emergency hospital program under Medicare. CMS  implemented this program 3 years later, in 2023.

The rural emergency hospital program allows rural hospitals to  voluntarily right-size their healthcare infrastructure, while  maintaining essential medical services for their rural communities. It  gives these hospitals the flexibility to operate without hospital  inpatient services, while still retaining a 24/7 emergency department,  ambulance services, outpatient services, and more.

Today, 42 rural hospitals in 17 States have transitioned to a rural  emergency hospital model and, hence, are still operating. Some States  are still working to establish the necessary hospital licensing  flexibility so that they can participate in this program.

Rural emergency hospitals have been beneficial for many rural  communities, and I want to give you three examples.

In Friend, NE, going to the rural emergency hospital model has  ``meant a lifeline'' for that community.

In Union Springs, AL, the rural emergency hospital model has allowed  their hospital ``to remain open instead of leaving a void in the  community.''

In Scotland, SD, their rural emergency hospital will ``enhance local  health services.''

I will submit a longer list of examples of how rural emergency  hospitals have benefited rural communities to date.

I look forward to more rural hospitals converting in the near future.

Given it has been 5 years since the program became law, I would like  to better understand the challenges rural hospitals and communities  face when considering rural emergency hospital programs. So I am  pursuing getting that information because I am committed to ensuring  the rural emergency hospital remains a viable tool for rural hospitals  and their communities.

I recently sent letters to existing rural emergency hospital CEOs and  other rural healthcare leaders to get this information. I look forward  to their feedback and continuing to strengthen rural healthcare, and I  will keep my constituents in Iowa and my Senate colleagues so informed.