Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolution


   Mr. President, today I am introducing legislation in  response to the coronavirus outbreak. I submitted this proposal to  Senate Leadership earlier this week. It is my expectation that the  language I've developed will be included, in some form, in the final  agreement we're negotiating. The legislation is designed to remove a  stumbling block to enactment of a third coronavirus relief package. 

  Specifically, the proposal I've developed responds directly to the  concerns--voiced by some of my colleagues in recent days--that we  should add accountability provisions to the relief package now under  consideration by this chamber. It's my understanding that the Senate  leaders are seriously considering including this or very similar  language in their compromise. I applaud them for their efforts and  strongly urge my colleagues' support for these sensible provisions. 

  My proposal would impose strict congressional oversight over the  Treasury Department fund that is tasked with extending lending and  other assistance to air carriers and American companies that have been  hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic. It mirrors closely the language  that this chamber adopted in 2008, during consideration of the Troubled  Asset Relief Program. 

  For example, this bill, like that 2008 statute, calls for the  creation of a special inspector general for the coronavirus relief  program and would authorize $50 million for this purpose. The special  inspector general would be appointed by the President and confirmed by  the Senate. As stated in the bill, this appointment must be made ``on  the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting,  auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public  administration, or investigations.'' 

  The bill I've developed also calls for creation of a bipartisan  oversight board, comprised of five high ranking executive branch  officials. This board would meet every two weeks to review the  activities of the Exchange Stabilization Fund, a Treasury Department  vehicle through which hundreds of billions of dollars in loan  assistance would flow to distressed sectors of the United States  economy. This oversight board would have to report suspected fraud or  malfeasance to the special inspector general that this legislation  creates. Again, it is very similar to a board that Congress established  in 2008, during another National crisis. 

  In addition, my proposal calls for the head of the Office of  Management and Budget to issue regulations to minimize conflicts of  interest that may arise in coronavirus relief activities. It also  imposes limits on executive compensation to senior officers of  companies that accept lending assistance through the Treasury  Department's Exchange Stabilization Fund. 

  The bill also calls for greater oversight and audits by the  Government Accountability Office, a nonpartisan watchdog agency of  Congress. Specifically, GAO is tasked with ongoing oversight, including  conducting audits of the programs and financial transactions of Federal  agencies that extend financial assistance to private companies in  response to the coronavirus pandemic. 

  The bill also creates a bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Oversight  Panel within the legislative branch. This panel would be comprised of  five members of the House of Representatives and Senate, appointed by  the other chamber's Speaker and the Senate Leader. This oversight panel  would review the state of the financial markets and submit regular  reports on certain topics, such as Federal officials' use of  coronavirus relief authority and the impact of Federal assistance on  the financial markets, air carriers, and medical providers. This  congressional panel would have the ability to convene hearings, call  witnesses, take testimony, hire staff, get official data, and meet  regularly. The panel, like many of the programs established under this  bill, would terminate after this emergency ends. 

  Mr. President, my office has approached multiple colleagues,  including those on the other side of the aisle, about these provisions.  We've received encouraging comments from many. I believe this language  could be accepted and urge that it be included in the final relief  package, so that we can remove one of the remaining obstacles to moving  forward.                 Sec. 1. Short Title and Table of Contents  

       This title may be cited as the ``COVID-19 Funding       Accountability Act.''                              Sec. 2. Purpose  

       Provides that the purpose of this Act is to ensure that the       Federal authority and assistance that is extended to private       entities in response to the outbreak of the Coronavirus       Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is used in a manner that-- 

       promotes economic sustainability of severely distressed       sectors of the United States economy; 

       promotes jobs for working Americans and maximizes overall       returns to the taxpayers of the United States; and 

       provides public accountability for the exercise of such       Federal authority and assistance.                            Sec. 3. Definitions  

       Provides definitions of selected terms: ``Appropriate       Committees of Congress,'' ``Congressional Support Agencies,       ``COVID-19 Relief Program,'' ``Exchange Stabilization Fund.''                       Sec. 4. COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board  

       Creates a COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board (``Oversight       Board''), comprised of executive branch officials, which is       responsible for reviewing the exercise of authority under the       COVID-19 Relief Program that relates to policies implemented       to-- 

       increase loan forgiveness, loan eligibility, and loan       deferment of eligible small businesses under section 7(a) of       the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 6636(a); 

       extend grants or other forms of financial assistance to       business concerns in response to the outbreak of COVID-19; 

       make resources available, through the Medicare and Medicaid       programs, to hospitals and long-term care facilities for the       elderly in response to the COVID-19 outbreak; 

       extend emergency relief to distressed sectors of the United       States economy through the Treasury Department's Exchange       Stabilization Fund. 

       Tasks the Oversight Board with reviewing the effect of such       policies and initiatives on the supply chain and the economy       and with making recommendations, as appropriate, to       designated executive branch officials. Specifies that this       Board also shall have the authority to ensure that the       policies implemented through the Treasury Department's       Exchange Stabilization Fund are-- 

       in accordance with the purposes of this Act; 

       in the economic interests of the United States; and 

       consistent with protecting taxpayers' interests. 

       Clarifies that Oversight Board may appoint a credit review       committee for the purpose of evaluating the exercise of the       authority provided under the COVID-19 Relief Program. Also       calls for the Oversight Board to report any suspected fraud,       misrepresentation, or malfeasance to the Special Inspector       General for the COVID-19 Relief Program (created under this       Act) or the Attorney General of the United States. 

       Calls for the Oversight Board to meet every two weeks,       report to Congress at least quarterly, and include in its       membership the following: (1) the Administrator of the Small       Business Administration; (2) the Secretary of the Treasury;       (3) the Secretary of Transportation; (3) the Secretary of       Commerce; (4) the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and       (5) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management       Administration. Calls for the chair to be elected by members       of the board from among the board members (other than the       Administrator of the Small Business Administration and the       Secretary of the Treasury). 

       Specifies that the Oversight Board's role comes to an end       after the expiration of the national emergency declared by       the President with respect to the COVID-19 or after the       Exchange Stabilization Fund ceases to make loans, loan       guarantees, and investment or other assistance to air       carriers and other key businesses affected by COVID-19.                       Sec. 5. Conflicts of Interest  

       Calls for Director of the Office of Management and Budget       (``OMB'') to issue any regulations or guidelines necessary to       address and manage, or to prohibit, conflicts of interest       that may arise in connection with the administration and       execution of the authorities provided under the COVID-19       Relief Program. Deadline for their issuance is ``as soon as       practicable after the date of enactment'' of this Act.          Sec. 6. Executive Compensation and Corporate Governance  

       Specifies that any private entity receiving loans, loan       guarantees, grants, or other assistance through the Exchange       Stabilization Fund shall be subject to executive compensation       requirements in the Act and the provisions under the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable. Bars entities receiving       this COVID-19 relief from providing incentives for senior       executive officers of a private entity to take unnecessary       and excessive risks that threaten the value of such entity.       Also bars the entity from making any bonus, incentive       compensation or golden parachute payment to a senior       executive officer during the period in which such private       entity receives Federal assistance through the Exchange       Stabilization Fund. Defines the term ``senior executive       officer'' as an individual who is one of the top 5 highly       paid executives of a public or private corporation or limited       liability company. 

       Includes a sunset provision, specifying that these       limitations on executive compensation will apply only to       arrangements entered into during the period in which the       entity received Federal assistance in response to the COVID-      19 outbreak.                        Sec. 7. Oversight and Audits  

       Calls for the Comptroller General, which heads the       nonpartisan watchdog agency of Congress, to commence ongoing       oversight of Federal coronavirus relief initiatives and       activities. Authorizes this government watchdog agency, the       Government Accountability Office (``GAO''), to have access,       upon request, to any information or papers, things, or       property needed to carry out this oversight function. 

       Calls for the U.S. Treasury to reimburse GAO for costs of       such oversight, and requires GAO to report, at least every 60       days, to Congress and the Special Inspector General for the       COVID-19 Relief Program established under this Act. Confirms       that GAO may also submit special reports under this       subsection as warranted by the findings of its oversight       activities. 

       Further clarifies that GAO may audit the programs,       activities, receipts, expenditures, and financial       transactions of Federal entities involved in extending       authority or assistance to private entities in response to       the COVID-19 outbreak. Federal agencies or departments       subject to such audits must take action to address       deficiencies identified in the audits, as appropriate or       certify to appropriate committees of Congress that no action       is necessary or appropriate. Specifies circumstances for       termination of GAO's oversight authority after the national       emergency ends or the coronavirus relief activities cease.       Sec. 8. Special Inspector General for Covid-19 Relief Program  

       Establishes the Office of the Special Inspector General for       the COVID-19 Relief Program and authorizes $50 million for       this purpose in fiscal year 2021. Specifies that such       individual shall be appointed by the President, by and with       the advice and consent of the Senate; and the appointment       shall be made ``on the basis of integrity and demonstrated       ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law,       management analysis, public administration, or       investigations.'' 

       Sets the rate of pay for such individual and specifies that       his or her duties are ``to conduct, supervise, and coordinate       audits and investigations of Federal assistance and relief       programs established in response to the COVID-19 outbreak.''       Clarifies that, in addition to the duties specified in this       Act, the Special OIG shall also have the duties and       responsibilities of inspectors general under the Inspector       General Act of 1978. 

       Requires that the Special OIG report to Congress within 60       days after his or her Senate confirmation, and every calendar       quarter thereafter, on activities. Each report must include,       for the period covered by such report, a detailed statement       of all purchases, obligations, expenditures, and revenues       associated with the Exchange Stabilization Fund and any       COVID-19 Relief Program involving the expenditure of more       than $5 million. 

       Specifies that this section does not authorize the public       disclosure of information that is-- 

       specifically prohibited from disclosure by any other       provision of law; 

       specifically required by Executive order to be protected       from disclosure in the interest of national defense or       national security or in the conduct of foreign affairs; or 

       a part of an ongoing criminal investigation. 

       Also specifies a termination date for the OIG's authority.                   Sec. 9. Congressional Oversight Panel  

       Creates a Congressional Oversight Panel (``Oversight       Panel'') within the legislative branch, comprised of five       members appointed by the House Speaker and Senate Leader.       Specifies that its duties are to review the current state of       the financial markets and submit the regular reports to       Congress on the following: 

       The use by Federal officials of authority to implement       COVID-19 Relief Program; 

       The impact of the COVID-19 Relief Program on the financial       markets, air carriers, and medical providers. 

       The extent to which the information made available on       transactions under the Exchange Stabilization Fund has       contributed to market transparency. 

       The effectiveness of the program from the standpoint of       minimizing long-term costs to the taxpayers and maximizing       the benefits for taxpayers. 

       Specifies that reports must be submitted every 30 days       after the date on which the Exchange Stabilization Fund       begins to make loans, loan guarantees, and investment       assistance in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Also calls       for panel to submit a special report on regulatory reform by       March 31, 2021, analyzing the current state of the regulatory       system and its effectiveness at overseeing the recipients of       COVID-19 relief and protecting consumers, and providing       recommendations for improvement. 

       Sets the rate of pay and travel expenses of each member of       the Oversight Panel, authorizes the hiring of staff,       executive branch detailees, and temporary consultants. Bars       Oversight Panel members who are full-time Federal employees       from receiving additional pay, allowances, or benefits by       reason of their service on the panel. Provides that four       members of the Oversight Panel shall constitute a quorum but       a lesser number may hold hearings. Clarifies that a vacancy       on the Oversight Panel shall be filled in the manner in which       the original appointment was made. 

       Provides that the panel shall meet at the call of the chair       or a majority of its members. Permits the panel, for the       purpose of carrying out this section, to hold hearings, swear       in hearing witnesses, take testimony, and receive evidence as       it considers appropriate. Also clarifies when the panel can       get official data, and receive reports required to be       submitted to the panel under this Act. Specifies a       termination date for the Oversight Panel. Authorizes such       sums as may be necessary for the Oversight Panel to operate,       with this funding derived from the applicable account of the       House of Representatives, and half of which shall be derived       from the Senate's contingent fund.      Sec. 10. Cooperation with the Department of Justice and the FBI  

       Provides that any Federal financial regulatory agency shall       cooperate with the Department of Justice and the Federal       Bureau       of Investigation and other law enforcement agencies       investigating fraud, misrepresentation, and malfeasance with       respect to development, advertising, and sale of financial or       other products.          Sec. 11. Information for Congressional Support Agencies  

       Provides that all information used by Federal officials in       connection with activities authorized under this Act       (including the records to which GAO is entitled under this       Act) will be made available to the Congressional Budget       Office and the Joint Committee on Taxation, upon request, so       that these agencies can assist with congressional oversight       monitoring, and analysis of the COVID-19 relief assistance       activities.                                  S. 3578  

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.  

       This Act may be cited as the ``COVID-19 Funding       Accountability Act of 2020''.       SEC. 2. PURPOSE.  

       The purpose of this Act is to ensure that the Federal       authority and assistance that is extended to private entities       in response to the outbreak of the Coronavirus Disease 2019       (referred to in this Act as ``COVID-19'') is used in a manner       that-- 

       (1) promotes economic sustainability of severely distressed       sectors of the United States economy; 

       (2) promotes retention of jobs for working Americans and       maximizes overall returns to the taxpayers of the United       States; and 

       (3) provides public accountability for the exercise of such       Federal authority and assistance.       SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.  

       In this Act: 

       (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term       ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means-- 

       (A) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the       Budget, the Committee on Commerce, Science and       Transportation, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on       Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on       Small Business of the Senate; and 

       (B) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the       Budget, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee       on Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of       the House of Representatives. 

       (2) Congressional support agencies.--The term       ``congressional support agencies'' means-- 

       (A) the Congressional Budget Office; and 

       (B) the Joint Committee on Taxation. 

       (3) COVID-19 relief program.--The term ``COVID-19 Relief       Program'' means initiatives established or implemented by       Federal officials in accordance with-- 

       (A) the Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental       Appropriations Act (Public Law 116-123); 

       (B) the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (Public Law       116-127); 

       (C) the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act       (also known as the ``CARES Act''), H.R. 748 (116th Congress);       and 

       (D) any successor legislation to the same general intent       and effect as the legislation described in subparagraphs (A),       (B), and (C). 

       (4) Exchange stabilization fund.--The term ``Exchange       Stabilization Fund'' means the assistance program for       distressed sectors of the United States economy that is       established by the CARES Act, H.R. 748 (116th Congress)(or       any successor program established by Federal law).       SEC. 4. COVID-19 RELIEF OVERSIGHT BOARD.  

       (a) Establishment.--There is established a COVID-19 Relief       Oversight Board, which shall be responsible for-- 

       (1) reviewing the exercise of authority under the COVID-19       Relief Program that relates to policies implemented to-- 

       (A) increase loan forgiveness, loan eligibility, and loan       deferment of eligible small businesses under section 7(a) of       the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)); 

       (B) extend grants or other forms of financial assistance to       business concerns in response to the outbreak of COVID-19; 

       (C) make resources available, through the Medicare and       Medicaid programs, to hospitals and long-term care facilities       for the elderly in response to the COVID-19 outbreak; and 

       (D) extend emergency relief to distressed sectors of the       United States economy through the Exchange Stabilization Fund       of the Department of the Treasury; 

       (2) reviewing the effect of such policies and initiatives       in mitigating supply chain disruptions, preventing       disruptions in the distribution and sales of products and       services, and ensuring the sustainability of distressed       sectors of the United States economy due to the COVID-19       outbreak; 

       (3) making recommendations, as appropriate, to the       Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the       Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the       Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of       Transportation regarding use of such statutory authority; and 

       (4) reporting any suspected fraud, misrepresentation, or       malfeasance to the Special Inspector General for the COVID-19       Relief Program or the Attorney General of the United States,       consistent with section 535(b) of title 28, United States       Code. 

       (b) Membership.--The COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board       established under subsection (a) shall be comprised of-- 

       (1) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; 

       (2) the Secretary of the Treasury; 

       (3) the Secretary of Transportation; 

       (4) the Secretary of Commerce; 

       (5) the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and 

       (6) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management       Administration. 

       (c) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the COVID-19 Relief       Oversight Board shall be elected by the members of the Board       from among the members other than the Administrator of the       Small Business Administration and the Secretary of the       Treasury. 

       (d) Meetings.--The COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board shall       meet 2 weeks after the Exchange Stabilization Fund of the       Department of the Treasury initiates any loan, loan       guarantee, or other investment for air carriers and       businesses, as authorized under the CARES Act, H.R. 748       (116th Congress) (or any successor program established under       Federal law) and monthly thereafter. 

       (e) Additional Authorities.--In addition to the       responsibilities described in subsection (a), the COVID-19       Relief Oversight Board shall have the authority to ensure       that the policies implemented through the Exchange       Stabilization Fund are-- 

       (1) in accordance with the purposes of this Act, including       preservation of jobs of workers in severely distressed       sectors of the economy; 

       (2) in the economic interests of the United States; and 

       (3) consistent with protecting taxpayers' interests. 

       (f) Credit Review Committee.--The COVID-19 Relief Oversight       Board may appoint a credit review committee for the purpose       of evaluating the exercise of the authority provided under       the COVID-19 Relief Program, as the COVID-19 Relief Oversight       Board determines appropriate. 

       (g) Reports.--The COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board shall       report to the appropriate committees of Congress and the       Congressional Oversight Panel established under this Act, not       less frequently than quarterly, on the matters described in       subsection (a)(1). 

       (h) Termination.--The COVID-19 Relief Oversight Board, and       its authority under this section, shall terminate on the       expiration of the 15-day period beginning upon the later of-- 

       (1) the date on which the national emergency declared by       the President under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.       1601 et seq.) with respect to the COVID-19 expires; or 

       (2) the date on which the Exchange Stabilization Fund of       the Department of the Treasury ceases the direct lending,       loan guarantee, and investment activities for carriers and       businesses designated to receive such assistance under the       CARES Act, H.R. 748 (116th Congress) (or any successor       program established under Federal law).       SEC. 5. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.  

       (a) Standards Required.--The Director of the Office of       Management and Budget shall issue regulations or guidelines       necessary to address and manage or to prohibit conflicts of       interest that may arise in connection with the administration       and execution of the authorities provided under the COVID-19       Relief Program. 

       (b) Timing.--Regulations or guidelines required by this       section shall be issued as soon as practicable after the date       of enactment of this Act.       SEC. 6. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.  

       (a) Applicability.--Any private entity that receives loans,       loan guarantees, grants, or other assistance through the       Exchange Stabilization Fund of the Department of the Treasury       shall be subject to the executive compensation requirements       of subsection (b) and the provisions under the Internal       Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable. 

       (b) Criteria.--The standards required under this subsection       shall include-- 

       (1) limits on compensation that exclude incentives for       senior executive officers of a private entity to take       unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of       such entity during the period in which the entity receives       financial assistance in response to the COVID-19 outbreak;       and 

       (2) a prohibition on the entity making any bonus, incentive       compensation or golden parachute payment to a senior       executive officer during the period in which such private       entity receives Federal assistance through the Exchange       Stabilization Fund. 

       (c) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term       ``senior executive officer'' means an individual who is one       of the top 5 highly paid executives of a public or private       corporation or limited liability company. 

       (d) Sunset.--This section shall apply only to arrangements       entered into during the period in which the entity received a       Federal loan, loan guarantee, or other investment or       assistance in response to the COVID-19 outbreak.       SEC. 7. OVERSIGHT AND AUDITS.  

       (a) Comptroller General Oversight.-- 

       (1) Scope of oversight.--In furtherance of the purpose of       this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall       commence ongoing oversight of the activities and performance       of the COVID-19 Relief Program and any agents of the       executive branch invoking Federal authority or rendering       assistance to private entities in response to the COVID-19       outbreak. 

       (2) Conduct and administration of oversight.--  

       (A) GAO access to records.--To the extent otherwise       consistent with law, the Comptroller General shall have       access, upon request, to any information, data, schedules,       books, accounts, financial records, reports, files,       electronic communications, or other papers, things, or       property belonging to or in use by Federal entities that       exercise authority or render assistance to private entities       through the COVID-19 Relief Program. The Comptroller General       may make and retain copies of such books, accounts, and other       records as the Comptroller General deems appropriate. 

       (B) Reimbursement of costs.--The Treasury shall reimburse       the Government Accountability Office for the full cost of any       such oversight activities as billed therefor by the       Comptroller General of the United States. Such reimbursements       shall be credited to the appropriation account ``Salaries and       Expenses, Government Accountability Office'' current when the       payment is received and remain available until expended. 

       (3) Reporting.--The Comptroller General-- 

       (A) shall submit reports of findings under this section,       regularly and not less frequently than once every 60 days, to       the appropriate committees of Congress, and the Special       Inspector General for the COVID-19 Relief Program established       under section 8; and 

       (B) may submit special reports under this subsection as       warranted by the findings of its oversight activities. 

       (b) Comptroller General Audits.-- 

       (1) Authority.--The Comptroller General may audit the       programs, activities, receipts, expenditures, and financial       transactions of Federal entities involved in extending       authority or assistance to private entities in response to       the COVID-19 outbreak. 

       (2) Corrective responses to audit problems.--Agencies or       departments subject to audits under this subsection shall-- 

       (A) take action to address deficiencies identified by the       Comptroller General, as appropriate; or 

       (B) certify to appropriate committees of Congress that no       action is necessary or appropriate. 

       (c) Sharing of Information.--Any report or audit required       under this section shall also be submitted to the       Congressional Oversight Panel established under section 9. 

       (d) Termination.--Any oversight, reporting, or audit       requirement under this section shall terminate 180 days after       the termination date described in section 4(h).       SEC. 8. SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR COVID-19 RELIEF                     PROGRAM.  

       (a) Office of Inspector General.--There is hereby       established the Office of the Special Inspector General for       the COVID-19 Relief Program. 

       (b) Appointment of Inspector General; Removal.-- 

       (1) In general.--The head of the Office of the Special       Inspector General for the COVID-19 Asset Relief Program is       the Special Inspector General for the COVID-19 Relief Program       (in this section referred to as the ``Special Inspector       General''), who shall be appointed by the President, by and       with the advice and consent of the Senate. 

       (2) Requirement for appointment.--The appointment of the       Special Inspector General shall be made on the basis of       integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing,       financial analysis, law, management analysis, public       administration, or investigations. 

       (3) Timing of nomination.--The nomination of an individual       as Special Inspector General under this section shall be made       as soon as practicable after the establishment of the       Exchange Stabilization Fund. 

       (4) Removal.--The Special Inspector General shall be       removable from office in accordance with the provisions of       section 3(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.       App.). 

       (5) Political activities on duty.--For purposes of section       7324 of title 5, United States Code, the Special Inspector       General shall not be considered an employee who determines       policies to be pursued by the United States in the nationwide       administration of Federal law. 

       (6) Compensation.--The annual rate of basic pay of the       Special Inspector General shall be the annual rate of basic       pay for an Inspector General under section 3(e) of the       Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.). 

       (c) Duties.-- 

       (1) In general.--It shall be the duty of the Special       Inspector General to conduct, supervise, and coordinate       audits and investigations of Federal assistance and relief       programs established in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. 

       (2) Oversight.--The Special Inspector General shall       establish, maintain, and oversee such systems, procedures,       and controls as the Special Inspector General considers       appropriate to discharge the duty under paragraph (1). 

       (3) Additional duties.--In addition to the duties specified       in paragraphs (1) and (2), the Inspector General shall also       have the duties and responsibilities of inspectors general       under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.). 

       (d) Powers and Authorities.-- 

       (1) In general.--In carrying out the duties described in       subsection (c), the Special Inspector General shall have the       authorities provided in section 6 of the Inspector General       Act of 1978. 

       (2) Requirement.--The Special Inspector General shall carry       out the duties specified in subsection (c)(1) in accordance       with section 4(b)(1) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5       U.S.C. App.). 

       (e) Personnel, Facilities, and Other Resources.-- 

       (1) Personnel.--The Special Inspector General may select,       appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be       necessary for carrying out the duties of the Special       Inspector General, subject to the provisions of title 5,       United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive       service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III       of chapter 53 of such title 5, relating to classification and       General Schedule pay rates. 

       (2) Experts and consultants.--The Special Inspector General       may obtain services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,       United States Code, at daily rates not to exceed the       equivalent rate prescribed for grade GS-15 of the General       Schedule by section 5332 of such title 5. 

       (3) Audits and analyses.--The Special Inspector General may       enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits,       studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies       and with private persons, and make such payments as may be       necessary to carry out the duties of the Inspector General. 

       (4) Assistance from other departments.-- 

       (A) In general.--Upon request of the Special Inspector       General for information or assistance from any department,       agency, or other entity of the Federal Government, the head       of such entity shall, insofar as is practicable and not in       contravention of any existing law, furnish such information       or assistance to the Special Inspector General, or an       authorized designee. 

       (B) Notification of congress.--Whenever information or       assistance requested by the Special Inspector General is, in       the judgment of the Special Inspector General, unreasonably       refused or not provided, the Special Inspector General shall       report the circumstances to the appropriate committees of       Congress without delay. 

       (f) Reports.-- 

       (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the       confirmation of the Special Inspector General, and every       calendar quarter thereafter, the Special Inspector General       shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a       report summarizing the activities of the Special Inspector       General during the 120-day period ending on the date of such       report. 

       (2) Contents.--Each report required under this subsection       shall include, for the period covered by such report, a       detailed statement of all purchases, obligations,       expenditures, and revenues associated with the Exchange       Stabilization Fund and any COVID-19 Relief Program involving       the expenditure of more than $5,000,000. 

       (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall       be construed to authorize the public disclosure of       information that is-- 

       (A) specifically prohibited from disclosure by any other       provision of law; 

       (B) specifically required by Executive order to be       protected from disclosure in the interest of national defense       or national security or in the conduct of foreign affairs; or 

       (C) a part of an ongoing criminal investigation. 

       (4) Requirement.--Any reports required under this section       shall also be submitted to the Congressional Oversight Panel       established under section 9. 

       (g) Funding.--Of the amounts made available to the       Secretary of the Treasury in fiscal year 2021, $50,000,000       shall be available to the Special Inspector General to carry       out this section and shall remain available until expended. 

       (h) Termination.--Any oversight, reporting, or audit       requirement under this section shall terminate on the date       that is 1 year after the termination date described in       section 4(h).       SEC. 9. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT PANEL.  

       (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the       Congressional Oversight Panel (hereafter in this section       referred to as the ``Oversight Panel'') as an establishment       in the legislative branch. 

       (b) Duties.--The Oversight Panel shall review the current       state of the financial markets and submit the following       reports to Congress: 

       (1) Regular reports.-- 

       (A) In general.--Regular reports of the Oversight Panel       shall include the following: 

       (i) The use by Federal officials of authority to implement       COVID-19 Relief Program. 

       (ii) The impact of the COVID-19 Relief Program on the       financial markets, air carriers, and medical providers. 

       (iii) The extent to which the information made available on       transactions under the Exchange Stabilization Fund has       contributed to market transparency. 

       (iv) The effectiveness of the program from the standpoint       of minimizing long-term costs to the taxpayers and maximizing       the benefits for taxpayers. 

       (B) Timing.--The reports required under this paragraph       shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the       establishment of the Exchange Stabilization Fund, and every       30 days thereafter. 

       (2) Special report on regulatory reform.--The Oversight       Panel shall submit a special report on regulatory reform not       later than March 31, 2021, analyzing the current state of the       regulatory system and its effectiveness at overseeing the       recipients of       COVID-19 Relief Program assistance and protecting consumers,       and providing recommendations for improvement, including       recommendations regarding whether any participants in the       financial markets that are currently outside the regulatory       system should become subject to the regulatory system, the       rationale underlying such recommendation, and whether there       are any gaps in existing consumer protections. 

       (c) Membership.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Oversight Panel shall consist of 5       members, as follows: 

       (A) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of the House of       Representatives. 

       (B) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the House       of Representatives. 

       (C) 1 member appointed by the majority leader of the       Senate. 

       (D) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the       Senate. 

       (E) 1 member appointed by the Speaker of the House of       Representatives and the majority leader of the Senate, after       consultation with the minority leader of the Senate and the       minority leader of the House of Representatives. 

       (2) Pay.--Each member of the Oversight Panel shall each be       paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual       rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule for       each day (including travel time) during which such member is       engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the       Commission. 

       (3) Prohibition of compensation of federal employees.--      Members of the Oversight Panel who are full- time officers or       employees of the United States or Members of Congress may not       receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of       their service on the Oversight Panel. 

       (4) Travel expenses.--Each member shall receive travel       expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in       accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of       chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code. 

       (5) Quorum.--Four members of the Oversight Panel shall       constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings. 

       (6) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Oversight Panel shall be       filled in the manner in which the original appointment was       made. 

       (7) Meetings.--The Oversight Panel shall meet at the call       of the Chairperson or a majority of its members. 

       (d) Staff.-- 

       (1) In general.--The Oversight Panel may appoint and fix       the pay of any personnel as the Commission considers       appropriate. 

       (2) Experts and consultants.--The Oversight Panel may       procure temporary and intermittent services under section       3109(b) of title 5, United States Code. 

       (3) Staff of agencies.--Upon request of the Oversight       Panel, the head of any Federal department or agency may       detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that       department or agency to the Oversight Panel to assist it in       carrying out its duties under this Act. 

       (e) Powers.-- 

       (1) Hearings and sessions.--The Oversight Panel may, for       the purpose of carrying out this section, hold hearings, sit       and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive       evidence as the Panel considers appropriate and may       administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing       before it. 

       (2) Powers of members and agents.--Any member or agent of       the Oversight Panel may, if authorized by the Oversight       Panel, take any action which the Oversight Panel is       authorized to take by this section. 

       (3) Obtaining official data.--The Oversight Panel may       secure directly from any department or agency of the United       States information necessary to enable it to carry out this       section. Upon request of the Chairperson of the Oversight       Panel, the head of that department or agency shall furnish       that information to the Oversight Panel. 

       (4) Reports.--The Oversight Panel shall receive and       consider all reports required to be submitted to the       Oversight Panel under this Act. 

       (f) Termination.--The Oversight Panel shall terminate on       the date that is 180 days after the termination date       described in section 4(h). 

       (g) Funding for Expenses.-- 

       (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized       to be appropriated to the Oversight Panel such sums as may be       necessary for any fiscal year, half of which shall be derived       from the applicable account of the House of Representatives,       and half of which shall be derived from the contingent fund       of the Senate. 

       (2) Reimbursement of amounts.--An amount equal to the       expenses of the Oversight Panel shall be promptly transferred       by the Secretary of the Treasury, from time to time upon the       presentment of a statement of such expenses by the       Chairperson of the Oversight Panel, from funds made available       to the Secretary of the Treasury under this Act to the       applicable fund of the House of Representatives and the       contingent fund of the Senate, as appropriate, as       reimbursement for amounts expended from such account and fund       under paragraph (1).       SEC. 10. COOPERATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND THE                     FBI.  

       Any Federal financial regulatory agency shall cooperate       with the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of       Investigation and other law enforcement agencies       investigating fraud, misrepresentation, and malfeasance with       respect to development, advertising, and sale of financial or       other investment products.       SEC. 11. INFORMATION FOR CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT AGENCIES.  

       Upon request, and to the extent otherwise consistent with       law, all information used by the Federal officials in       connection with activities authorized under this Act       (including the records to which the Comptroller General is       entitled under this Act) shall be made available to       congressional support agencies (in accordance with their       obligations to support the Congress as set out in their       authorizing statutes) for the purposes of assisting the       committees of Congress with conducting oversight, monitoring,       and analysis of the activities authorized under the COVID-19       Relief Program.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT