Statements on Introduced Bills and Joint Resolutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689309/statements-on-introduced-bills-and-joint-resolutions


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, 20 of my colleagues and I will  introduce legislation to stop the abuse of universal injunctions that  we are seeing all across the country--all of this to stop the Trump  agenda.

Universal injunctions violate the words of the Constitution that we  agreed that the courts can only hear ``case or controversy.'' And that  is a requirement of article III of the Constitution because they apply  court orders to people not even parties to the lawsuits--so the  necessity for doing away with universal injunctions violating the  ``case-or-controversy'' requirements.

Universal injunctions were almost unheard of for the first 175 years  of our history and only became common in the last decade. In addition  to being unconstitutional, they are also anti-democratic. Universal  injunctions have become a favorite tool of those seeking to obstruct  President Trump's agenda.

Individual district judges who don't even have authority over any of  the other 92 district courts are singlehandedly vetoing policies the  American people elected President Trump to implement.

Now, universal injunctions have been used against both Democrat and  Republican administrations since they have sprung up so numerously in  the last few years.

But in the past 2 months alone, judges have issued more universal  injunctions against the Trump administration than President Biden faced  throughout his entire 4-year term.

By exercising power this way, the courts are doing great damage to  the judicial process that they should be working to protect, and the  Supreme  Court could stop this whole process, but the Supreme Court has not  taken such action.

So it is Congress's job to legislate. So what would you expect? I am  introducing legislation to solve this problem.

My bill prevents judges from providing nonparty relief, make  temporary restraining orders immediately appealable, and reset the  separation of powers. In short, I am trying to fix a bipartisan problem  that has been plaguing both Democratic and Republican administrations  alike.                                  ______

By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar):

S. 1209. A bill to amend the Federal Crop Insurance Act and the  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to make the  native sod provisions applicable to the United States and to modify  those provisions, and for other purposes; to the Committee on  Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.