Sunshine Week


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688777/sunshine-week


Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, every year, Sunshine Week is held  around March 16, the birthday of James Madison, who not only is a  former President, but the acclaimed ``Father of the Constitution.''

On its 20th anniversary, Sunshine Week continues to be a crucial  reminder of the need for transparency and open government. To control a  government as big as ours, it takes a lot of very bright light shining  on every Agency. As Justice Brandeis wrote in 1913, ``Sunlight is said  to be the best of disinfectants.''

Transparency brings accountability and the public's business ought to  be public. That attitude and approach is an important check on the  Federal Government. It reminds bureaucrats that they ultimately work  for and answer to ``We the People.''

One transparency tool I value is the Freedom of Information Act. This  law, first enacted in 1966, requires our government to proactively make  material public and to respond to requests for documents, reports, and  many other types of information. The presumption under this law is that  government actions, rules, and work is public property. Putting this  information in public hands helps us hold our government accountable.  The Freedom of Information Act is one of the strongest tools we have to  ensure that our government is doing what it should be doing and in ways  that are best for us.

And speaking of records, a large part of my oversight work includes  publicly releasing documents to hold current and former government  officials accountable. To accomplish that, I often work with  whistleblowers to get the information the government likes to hide.  Whistleblowers are patriots and our most powerful tool in rooting out  waste, fraud, abuse, and misconduct, including the weaponization of our  government.

They are often targeted for retaliation and harassment. That must  stop.  Time and again, I have come to the floor of the U.S. Senate to point  out specific examples of retaliation. That is why I have called on  every President since Ronald Reagan to hold a Rose Garden Ceremony to  honor whistleblowers. I hope President Trump will be the first to set  this historic precedent.

Unfortunately, there has been a growing trend among Federal Agencies  to unlawfully silence whistleblowers by failing to include the anti-gag  provision in their nondisclosure policies, forms, and similar  agreements. The law requires Federal Agencies to include the anti-gag  provision to notify employees of their whistleblower rights.

That is why last Congress, I called on 76 inspectors general to  conduct a review of their parent Agency's nondisclosure agreements and  similar documents to ensure the anti-gag provision was included. In  response, so far, 36 IGs have completed reviews.

Thirty IGs found that their parent Agency's nondisclosure agreements  were noncompliant with the law. Twenty-six IGs said their parent Agency  updated or was in the process of updating these deficient agreements.  The IG community has much work to do, and this Senator won't stop  protecting whistleblowers.

Whistleblower disclosures proved that anti-Trump FBI agent Tim  Thibault was involved in the genesis of Jack Smith's election  interference case against President Trump. The FBI codenamed it Arctic  Frost. Internal FBI records revealed Thibault acted outside of  established FBI protocol and essentially opened and approved his own  investigation into President Trump. This is just one of many instances  of political infection at the Justice Department and FBI.

Whistleblowers also provided me with new information that, during the  Biden administration, FBI leadership politicized investigations at the  expense of saving victimized children. According to whistleblowers,  agents working large caseloads on the Violent Crimes Against Children  Unit were reassigned by FBI leadership to work January 6 cases.

Political infection isn't just a DOJ and FBI problem. Whistleblower  disclosures provided to my office showed that the Obama-Biden  administration's then-Secretary of State John Kerry obstructed arrests  of indicted Iranian terrorists. Kerry did so to score political points  with Iran for the failed nuclear deal.

My consistent efforts to let in sunshine continues across our  government whether it is exposing flaws in the Health and Human  Services Office of Refugee Resettlement that caused children to be  placed in harm's way, pressing the FBI on issuing a memo about  targeting Catholics, or fighting to obtain information from DOJ on the  horrific January 1, 2025, attacks in New Orleans. We need more  whistleblowers to shine light on political infection because we  certainly can't count on the government to turn themselves in.

Now, the Federal Government isn't the only bad actor that  whistleblowers provided sunlight on. The Simon Wiesenthal Center also  disclosed to my office that Credit Suisse engaged in misconduct during  in internal investigation. That investigation focused on the bank's  Nazi-linked financial accounts. Turns out, Credit Suisse serviced more  Nazi wealth than was known during and after World War II and tried to  keep it hidden. Thanks to these whistleblowers, I discovered that  Credit Suisse lied to Congress about all this, while smearing the  reputation of the Simon Wiesenthal Center.

My oversight list could go on and on thanks to whistleblowers.

In conclusion, we all ought to be thankful for Sunshine Week, which  is an opportunity for the country to highlight the righteous fight for  transparency. Shining a consistent light on the work of our government  is essential to making it accountable to ``We the People.''