TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on Wednesday, June 3, this year, the  Associated Press released an article detailing China's stonewalling and  delay tactics in withholding crucial data from the World Health  Organization. That information that was held was about the novel  coronavirus that caused COVID-19. 

  Now, this article gives us a glimpse behind the scenes of the World  Health Organization, and there are a lot of questions raised about the  World Health Organization today in regard to their relationship with  China. The political leaders at WHO pursued a strategy of placating  China in a seemingly haphazard attempt to coax China's leader into  cooperating more fully. 

  Now, despite red flags raised by medical experts within the  organization about the lack of data coming out of China and also  serious doubts about the Chinese Government's claim that human-to-human  transmission was not of any concern, WHO leadership, through all of  that, continued lauding China's approach and transparency on this whole  virus issue. 

  Many career officials openly voiced their frustration with how the  World Health Organization leadership lacked the willingness to push  China to hand over vital information about the virus. Remember, the  World Health Organization did publicly push China when it withheld  information on the SARS outbreak in 2003 but didn't seem to be as  interested pushing China as much this time. 

  The Chinese Government then refused to share data about COVID-19 test  results that would have allowed researchers around the world to make  independent assessments of the virus's spread. 

  Now, weeks passed before the Chinese Government allowed the World  Health Organization to see the map of the virus genome, and that genome  was created by Chinese researchers. So they had the information where  other people could start out to try to find a vaccine. By that time,  the virus was already spreading around the globe, which has led to  countless needless deaths and immeasurable economic damage globally  that now rests on the shoulders of the Chinese for that happening. 

  I am glad that the World Health Organization member countries  approved an investigation as to how the organization handled COVID-19.  I hope this will be a truly independent investigation that will prevent  future mishaps. 

  Now, in the meantime, we already know enough about the actions by the  World Health Organization management to warrant immediate changes.  Politics must never again get in the way of those medical professionals  in the organization who are actually dedicated to fulfilling the World  Health Organization's mission to share accurate and timely public  health information and at the same time save lives. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT