Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, when it comes to the virus pandemic  that faces the world, the World Health Organization is not serving its  member nations the way it should. The World Health Organization's  mission is to promote worldwide health, to reduce the burdens of  disease and poverty, and to provide access to healthcare, especially  for the world's most vulnerable populations. The World Health  Organization states as its guiding principle that all people should  enjoy the highest standard of health regardless of race, religion,  economics, social condition, or political belief. It serves primarily  as a coordinating body to share information and best practices by  connecting experts in different countries. 

  The virus that emerged in Wuhan, China, which has caused the disease  now known as COVID-19, has had a devastating impact on the health of  people worldwide as well as the global economy. Nations, including the  United States, have been scrambling to deal with the impact of the  virus since the beginning of the year. Without a doubt, worldwide  efforts to combat COVID-19 would have been greatly benefited from  independent, unbiased, and informative data from the world's leader in  health, the World Health Organization. Unfortunately, information  coming from this organization since the beginning of the year has left  much to be desired in its often providing information that we know now  to be inaccurate or at least incomplete. The American people and the  citizens of every country--all of whom rely on direct and truthful  information--deserve better from Dr. Tedros and his team who lead the  World Health Organization. 

  China, which is where the current crisis began, has not done its part  either in its seeking of or in providing that very crucial information  that, had  it come out sooner, would have saved many lives. As an example of  China's not cooperating, a doctor in Wuhan, China, by the name of Dr.  Li Wenliang, raised concerns about the growing pandemic in early  January. Dr. Li tried to blow the whistle on the spread of one of the  world's deadliest diseases. Do you know what he got for doing that? He  was punished by the Communist Chinese Government for ``spreading  rumors.'' 

  Tragically, Dr. Li passed away in early February due to this virus,  COVID-19. After the death of Dr. Li, he actually became a rallying  point for Chinese citizens who were very upset about their government's  coverup of this virus. Only then, after he died and after the public  outroar, did the Chinese Government apologize to his family and  posthumously drop Dr. Li's reprimand. Throughout this time, the World  Health Organization demonstrated no interest in the accurate and  verifiable information on the true dangers of this virus. 

  We now know that, in late December 2019, Taiwanese officials sounded  the alarm directly to the World Health Organization about the human-to- human transmission of the virus. Prior to that, it was only thought  there was an animal-to-human transmission, but Taiwanese officials blew  the whistle. The Taiwan Centers for Disease Control sent an email to  the World Health Organization--an email that has now been forwarded to  my office and has been widely reported. It warned of ``at least seven  atypical pneumonia cases in Wuhan, China.'' Additionally, this email  communication noted that those individuals had been isolated for  treatment, which we now know is said to be the standard operating  procedure for preventing human-to-human transmission, but still, at  that time, it was considered to be animal to human. 

  Taken together, this information should have been very much a red  flag to the World Health Organization's leadership that the virus was  capable of having human-to-human transmission. Unfortunately, the World  Health Organization chose to ignore these warnings and, thus, failed to  pass on this critical information to other countries. Instead, what did  the World Health Organization do? It was complicit in the Chinese  Government's coverup. It stated the opposite--that there was not human- to-human transmission. In fact, the World Health Organization even  retweeted Chinese propaganda on January 14--that there was ``no clear  evidence of human-to-human transmission,'' which is contrary to the  information that the World Health Organization got from the Taiwanese. 

  It ought to be very clear that misleading the public like this is  simply egregious. By sidelining Taiwan's participation, which has one  of the lowest known COVID-19 infection rates per capita, despite its  proximity to Mainland China, the World Health Organization stymied  information about a more effective response to the pandemic. It was  during these critical days back in January when the spread of the virus  could have been greatly slowed or even contained and could have saved a  lot of lives. 

  The World Health Organization's mandate is to coordinate responses  and facilitate information sharing to all of its members on a health  emergency--members which include probably almost every country on this  globe. This gross mishandling of the organization's most important  mandate has cost countless lives around the world. 

  While China covered up the extent of the virus's spread, the World  Health Organization continued to praise China for its so-called  proactive response and transparency. General Secretary Xi waited a  crucial 6 days, until January 20, before announcing the findings by  China's National Health Commission about the danger of the widespread  human-to-human coronavirus contagion. Now, just think for a while of  the time lost between Taiwan's warning to the World Health Organization  in late December 2019 and General Secretary Xi's admitting on January  20 of its human-to-human transmission. That time lost could have saved  the whole world thousands of lives because they could have been on top  of the situation as to how bad it was, which was much more than anybody  knew at that particular time 

  General Secretary Xi's government also delayed an access request for  the World Health Organization's experts to visit affected regions at  the end of January by almost 2 weeks--another 2 weeks lost. He has also  continually fed disinformation to foreign citizens via several  misleading tweets by his foreign ministry and multiple unfounded claims  that have been posted on state-run media websites. 

  Despite this and also other evidence that China actively silenced  whistleblowers and doctors domestically and that the Communist Party's  officials were aware of the spread well before reporting it, the World  Health Organization's officials continued to praise China's response  and transparency. The World Health Organization lauded China for  releasing the virus's genome in mid-January while it neglected to  mention that it took China at least 14 days to do this even as the  virus continued to spread across Europe and reach America. 

  Dr. Tedros said in early February that there was no need for measures  that unnecessarily interfered with international travel and trade in  trying to halt the spread of that coronavirus. Now, early February was  a few days after President Trump stopped travel from China except for  American citizens who were coming home. Yet, during that period of  time, Dr. Tedros thought it was unnecessary to interfere with  international travel. 

  Time and again, the World Health Organization endorsed and also  repeated Chinese Government talking points, and it did it all to the  rest of the world's detriment. We now know that there was a continued  flow of misinformation that came from the Chinese Government since the  onset of the pandemic with there being little to no pushback from the  World Health Organization as to whether that information was accurate. 

  In mid-February, officials from the World Health Organization--yet  again, uncritically--parroted Chinese Government propaganda by stating  that there were signs that confirmed and suspected cases of COVID-19  had declined in China. The U.S. intelligence community has, in fact,  asserted that China misrepresented both the number of cases and its  death toll from the virus, concealing the real extent of the outbreak  in its country, and that China intentionally hid or even destroyed  evidence of the virus' outbreak. 

  In a dossier that was leaked to the Australian Daily Telegraph, it is  alleged that China began censoring information as early as December 31,  2019--precisely when Taiwan, in its caring about the whole world as it  knew what might be going on, was sounding that alarm to the World  Health Organization. 

  Previously, Chinese leaders came under incredible scrutiny by the  World Health Organization back in 2003 for the SARS outbreak. China was  not transparent with SARS, just like they weren't transparent until too  late in regard to this virus pandemic that we are fighting today. Back  then, the Chinese Government made sure that information regarding the  outbreak was not made public. At that point, the World Health  Organization did what they are responsible for doing: They publicly  reprimanded China back in 2003 on the SARS outbreak. Chinese leaders  then quickly fell in line with the rest of the world in sharing its  data with the World Health Organization member countries. If the World  Health Organization had been doing its job on this pandemic, then maybe  China would have been quicker admitting that its spread was human-to- human and how bad it was even in their own country. 

  However, we are seeing a very different approach now to the  organization's handling of China's information suppression campaign,  with the World Health Organization often praising China for its  information sharing, but make no mistake, China has been nothing but  deceptive in its handling of COVID-19. 

  We must remember that China has a long history of not being  transparent with respect to the outbreaks of viruses, and there is  little to no evidence suggesting we should start believing China now-- meaning, of course, the Chinese Communist leaders. Nobody in this world  is going to hold the Chinese people responsible for this. 

  Global leaders are now coming to realize that China is responsible  for this pandemic, with global sentiment  against the Chinese Communist Party at its highest since the 1999  Tiananmen Square crackdown. 

  It is important that world leaders, including President Trump, keep  pressure on China to finally be transparent with its data so we can  join together in combating this deadly disease. We have a report from  the Department of Homeland Security that says that China  ``intentionally concealed the severity'' of the pandemic from the  world. To make matters worse, the report further states that while  China continues to downplay the pandemic, it began to increase imports  and decrease exports of medical supplies. This report from the  Department of Homeland Security suggests that China was beginning to  hoard these medical supplies from the rest of the world. So they knew  how bad this was in their own country. Secretary Pompeo recently stated  that there is a significant amount of evidence that this virus came  from the laboratory in Wuhan, China, contrary to what Chinese Communist  Party propagandists have been pushing throughout the world. 

  On April 9, I wrote to the World Health Organization seeking answers  to several questions regarding the organization's handling of COVID-19.  I wanted to know what the World Health Organization knew and when they  knew it. I asked that my questions be answered no later than May 1.  Much to my dismay, the World Health Organization has refused to answer  my questions about its handling of the virus. It would seem that the  organization is much more focused on covering for China than it is in  answering questions that every single American has a right to know. 

  Not only does the United States have the right to know this  information for the benefit of the world, because transparency brings  accountability, but because we give about $400 million a year to  support the World Health Organization. I believe we are the largest  contributor to it, and I believe China gives about 10 percent of what  the U.S. taxpayers put in. I want to state that I will continue to push  the World Health Organization for answers. There are probably a lot  more questions that ought to be asked in addition to the questions in  my letter. 

  Ultimately, the primary responsibility for this pandemic lies with  the Chinese Communist Government authorities who actively concealed the  outbreak since the fall of 2019 and suppressed the spread of accurate  information about the virus, but the World Health Organization also  bears responsibility for aiding and abetting the Chinese Communist  Party's coverup. That is why I support a full congressional  investigation into how the World Health Organization has bowed to  Chinese pressure with the COVID-19 outbreak. The leaders of the World  Health Organization need to be held accountable for their role in  promoting misinformation and helping China cover up this global  pandemic. Americans deserve to know what the World Health Organization  leaders knew and when they knew it. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT