Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to recognize  this month of May as National Foster Care Month. In 1988, President  Reagan brought attention to the importance of foster care. He first  designated the month of May as a time to celebrate and remember all of  those people in foster care, including foster parents, caseworkers, and  others who work to improve the lives of those in care. 

  We made some progress since that time with legislation, such as the  Fostering Connections Act of 2008 and the Child and Family Services  Improvement and Innovation Act of 2011. We provided new investments and  services to improve the outcomes for children in the foster care  system. 

  More recently, in 2018, Congress passed the Family First Prevention  Services Act. That legislation, passed in 2018, changed the way Federal  reimbursement for foster care works, allowing States to provide  services to parents before their kids are placed into foster care, not  just after they go into foster care. It also ensures more kids will be  cared for by a family, instead of being placed in a group setting  outside the home. Last year, I introduced and Congress passed the  Family First Transition Act to help States get moving to this new  system and do it more quickly. 

  A lot has changed since President Reagan first announced this month  of May as National Foster Care Month, but one thing hasn't changed, and  that is the tireless work of one Iowan in particular that I want to  recognize today: Linda Faye Herring, of Johnson County, IA. 

  Linda started serving as a foster parent in the 1970s, at least a  decade before President Reagan recognized the importance of  highlighting foster care. Over the course of almost 50 years, Linda has  fostered over 600 kids. Over 600 kids in need of a place to call home,  even if for a few days, were welcome in Linda's home. Just think of how  many lives just one person, Linda, was able to impact by making the  decision to be a foster parent. It is not just that it is 600, although  that number is staggering enough. It is the birth parents of those  children who, due to the help that they received from the foster care  system, may have been able to treat their substance abuse and turn  their lives around, to maybe be a mother or father to their children  again. 

  Also, this month honors all the parents who were able to adopt  children who temporarily stayed in Linda's home. 

  Linda has influenced her own family as well, because the family that  she had continues her good work. It is this kind of example of selfless  service that caused five of Linda's children and three of her  grandchildren to also become foster parents. Foster parents deserve  more recognition. They deserve more support, and even more services. I  will continue to work here in the Senate to try to make these goals a  reality. 

  If you have ever considered becoming a foster parent, this Senator  urges you to take that first step and reach out to your local child  welfare agencies and tell them you are interested in being a foster  parent. There is a great need out there for that. 

  Sometimes the numbers can seem overwhelming. There are over 400,000  kids in foster care--some of them sleeping on the floor of their social  worker's office due to the lack of available homes to care for them.  But Linda is proof that just one person can make an incredible impact.  

  Over the years, I have heard from many kids in foster care. I make a  special effort to hear directly from them on what they think needs to  be improved about the system so future foster children can have a  better life and a better future. Do you know what? After decades of  being involved in this subject, I hear the same thing from them. They  tell me: I would like to have a home. 

  Why would they say they would like to have a home? They have been  shifted in a 1-year period of time to two or three different foster  homes in two or three different school districts. They say that they  want a mom and a dad for the same reason, because they could have had  three or four different moms and dads within the year. They want to be  a part of a family. Those are the things I hear from them. Whether it  is the biological family getting the help they need to parent their  children or whether it is a foster parent stepping up to the plate,  kids belong in a family. All children deserve a safe, loving, permanent  home. 

  Unfortunately, the foster care system has also been impacted by the  virus that we have all been affected by in the last 4 or 5 months.  Families who were already vulnerable were thrown into unemployment and  instability. Children in temporary foster care placements are remaining  there for a much longer time than usual, all because of canceled and  delayed court proceedings, which makes staying in the foster home  longer than getting into a permanent home. 

  Foster parents, birth parents, and children in foster care, all lost  access to peer networks and other vital support services because of the  last 4 or 5 months we have been dealing with this pandemic. 

  Especially impacted at this time are older youth who have aged out of  foster care. Youth in college lost their housing when campuses closed.  Those who were training for a career or are in the workforce have lost  their jobs as well. 

  Many of the provisions in the CARES Act will help foster families and  the youth generally who are in their care. However, I will continue to  work to ensure that needy relief for kids and families is provided. I  ask my colleagues in the Senate to support my resolution marking May as  National Foster Care Month to bring awareness to the issues that kids  in foster care face and to honor Linda of Johnson County, the one I  used as an example, who helped 600 kids--and not only Linda but all the  other foster parents who make a world of difference. That is what this  month is all about. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT