Veterans Day


Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, today, I come to the floor ahead of next  Tuesday, which is Veterans Day, to recognize and share my gratitude to  those who have all answered the call to serve the United States of  America.

November 11 is the Federal holiday that we observe today as Veterans  Day. It has not always been referred to as Veterans Day. Its origins  come from the term Armistice Day, the eleventh hour of the eleventh day  of the eleventh month, which marked the end of World War I.

The holiday is often marked by tributes and other ceremonies to show  our gratitude to our family, friends, and neighbors who have served.

In honor of Veterans Day, my office typically hosts a Veterans  History Project event to collect stories from Iowa veterans and submit  those stories to the Library of Congress to honor those individuals and  their service for generations to come, also, so that researchers can  hear the exact words spoken from the mouths of those veterans of what  war is all about.

To date, I have submitted 95 stories from Iowa veterans to the  Library of Congress. There are more Iowa veterans who wish to share  their story, and I look forward to continuing my efforts to preserve  those stories.

Normally, it would be this weekend at some major city in Iowa. I  would ask veterans to gather so we can record their memories.  Obviously, with the government shutdown, that is impossible for my  staff to do, but we will continue that as long as I serve in the U.S.  Senate.

I would also like to recognize that, this year, the day before  Veterans Day marks the 250th anniversary of the U.S. Marines. On  November 10, 1775, the Second Continental Congress established the  Marine Corps. I have been fortunate enough to have a brother who served  in the Marines in World War II. I have had a grandson in the Marines in  the last 10 years.

For the last 250 years, the Marine Corps has faithfully defended our  Nation with a distinct fighting spirit, and I am confident that the  Marines will continue to do that.

Thank you to our dedicated marines and thank you to all veterans.