Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, as vice chair of the Commerce, Justice,  Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I rise in strong support of  this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, our Republic is alive and well. This bill refocuses  Washington's spending. It cuts waste, restores accountability, and  delivers on President Trump's agenda. It cracks down on fentanyl and  foreign adversaries, defends American values and principles, and  ensures that taxpayer dollars are spent on public safety and national  security, not bloated bureaucracy.

It provides strong support for State and local law enforcement  partnerships, and it defends the Second Amendment and America's right  to bear arms.

Republicans are working to advance regular order and deliver results  for the American people--reliable and affordable energy, strong  national security, safe communities, and long-term fiscal  responsibility. The appropriations process works for America.

I also highlight the provisions important to my community and, as a  result, the security of our Nation. This bill ensures continued  American dominance in space, making crucial investments that secure the  future of the space launch system, human landing system, and nuclear  thermal propulsion, for all of which Marshall Space Flight Center in  north Alabama plays a central role.

These investments reinforce America's leadership in space through  competition and innovation, while strengthening our national security,  protecting taxpayers' dollars, and ensuring NASA remains focused on  results.

This legislation returns the FBI to its core mission and ensures that  our dedicated FBI agents are back in the field and out of the beltway.  There is no better place to achieve this than the FBI Redstone in  Huntsville, Alabama. We are making America safe and secure again.

This is a responsible bill that supports law enforcement, strengthens  national security, and puts America first.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Cole, Ranking Member DeLauro, and  Chairman Rogers for their steady leadership throughout this process,  and I thank the subcommittee staff for their hard work on this  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this bill. Our time is  now.