Congratulating Mr. David Cook of Huntsville, Alabama on His Retirement


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a remarkable citizen,  Mr. David Cook of Huntsville, Alabama, on his well-deserved retirement  from Torch Technologies. Dave Cook's distinguished career is a powerful  testament to the American dream, and a lifetime dedicated to the  service and protection of our Nation.

Dave began his service to our Nation by enlisting in the United  States Army. His exceptional potential was quickly recognized, earning  him an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point,  from which he graduated in 1984 with an Engineering degree. He further  sharpened his expertise, earning an MBA from The Ohio State University  and completing a Senior Service Fellowship at the University of Texas  Institute for Advanced Technology.

His military career spanned critical roles in both combat arms  leadership and defense acquisition. At the Pentagon, he served as  Executive Officer to the Deputy for Systems Management and as Deputy  Director of Executive Communications and Control for the Secretary of  the Army. Most notably, as Senior Military Assistant to the Under  Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, he was  instrumental in the urgent effort to field fifteen thousand Mine  Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, a lifesaving action that protected  countless troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Dave's contributions to our Nation's missile defense capability are  equally extraordinary. As Product Manager for the Sentinel Radar System  following the September 11th attacks, he rapidly deployed teams to  support operations, achieving record readiness rates and earning him  recognition as the top product manager among thirty-two Lieutenant  Colonels. As Project Manager for the Ground Based Interceptor Program  at the Missile Defense Agency, he achieved the first successful launch  of a newly configured interceptor within five months and doubled the  operational interceptors deployed. For this success, he was awarded  both the Program Manager of the Year and the Missile Defense Pinnacle  Leadership Awards. Following his military retirement, Dave brought his  leadership to Torch Technologies, rising to the level of Senior Vice  President and Business Group Lead.

Mr. Speaker, as Dave Cook begins this next chapter alongside his  wife, Petra, and their two children, David, Jr. and Brandi, I ask my  colleagues to join me in extending our deepest thanks and  congratulations to Mr. David Cook for his decades of extraordinary  service to our Nation, our warfighters, and the Huntsville community.