Dhs Biodetection Improvement Act


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Green for his support as  well as my colleagues who joined me in introducing this legislation,  H.R. 706, the DHS Biodetection Improvement Act.

The anthrax attacks of 2001 opened our eyes to a new dimension of  national security risks, including the possibilities of bioterrorism.  In response to this tragic event, the Department of Homeland Security  launched the BioWatch program, a monitoring system that collects and  tests air samples for biological agents likely to be used in a  bioterrorism attack. This program has played an essential role in  keeping us safe, providing valuable data on potential biological  threats.

We must do everything we can to ensure that the tools we rely on  remain as advanced and effective as possible, providing us with fast,  accurate, and reliable data. Unfortunately, DHS has faced continuous  challenges in acquiring capabilities to replace BioWatch.

While DHS has the authority to utilize the Department of Energy's  national labs to identify and develop new technologies related to  biodefense, they have yet to take advantage of this resource.

My legislation will advance America's bioweapon defense posture by  directing the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct an assessment  of how, if at all, DHS has utilized this resource to address homeland  security needs. It also directs DHS to submit a strategy for how the  agency will coordinate with DOE to address biodetection research and  development moving forward.

To ensure accountability, H.R. 706 requires DHS to report to Congress  on the assessment and strategy no later than 1 year after the date of  enactment.

As a first responder, I know there is more work to be done to harden  our defenses against bioterrorism, and this legislation will ensure  that DHS is utilizing all available resources and tools to do just  that.

In the 118th Congress, I was proud to have the support of my  colleagues in passing this legislation in the House. I urge my  colleagues to join me once again in supporting this commonsense bill to  ensure the security of our communities against biological threats.