Providing An Update to the American People


Mr. STRONG. Mr. Speaker, I rise to provide an 11-month update to the  American people.

While most media outlets struggle to be honest with the American  people, under the administration of President Donald Trump, a  Republican House, and a Republican Senate, America is back.

It is a fact that inflation is down from 5 percent to 2.5 percent.  Gas prices have hit a 4-year low, averaging $2.95 a gallon. Advanced  manufacturing and industry are returning to U.S. soil.

President Trump has secured over $8 trillion in investments that will  fuel job growth and create opportunity. The stock market continues to  set new all-time highs.

It is a fact that Republicans are committed to making sure  hardworking Americans keep more of what they earn. The Working Families  Tax Cut delivered the largest tax cut for middle- and working-class  Americans in history, like no tax on tips and no tax on overtime.

It is a fact that the southern border is closed. Drug dealers, sexual  predators, human traffickers, and those who illegally invaded our  country during the Biden administration from over 160 countries are  being returned to the country of their origin.

Under Biden, our emergency departments and local hospitals became the  preferred free healthcare provider for illegal aliens, driving  healthcare costs through the roof while the American taxpayers footed  the bill.

We didn't need legislation to put America first. We needed a new  President.

It is a fact that the spirit of cutting waste, fraud, and abuse is  alive in Washington, D.C. Funds being sent to foreign countries that  hate America have been cut off. Republicans cut $100,000 for climate  resilience in Ghana; cut $360,000 for gender nonconforming, nonbinary,  two-spirit farmers in New York; cut $24 billion to USAID; cut $22  billion from Health and Human Services to provide housing and cars for  illegal aliens; cut $45 million for diversity, equity, and inclusion  scholarships in Burma; cut $8 million to promote LGBTQ in Africa; cut  $10 million for male circumcision in Mozambique; cut $20 million for  the Arab ``Sesame Street'' in the Middle East; and we cut $600 million  from National Public Radio. Free enterprise in America is alive and  well.

President Donald Trump is the President of peace, ending eight wars  in 8 months. Tell me who in history has ever done this.

The war between Israel and Hamas is over. The hostages were returned  home. The Iranian nuclear program has been set back for decades, and  the Middle East is more stable than it has been in years.

To gain peace through strength, we have invested in America's  national defense. We have increased pay for our troops. We are making  generational investments in our defense industrial base. We are filling  our stockpiles. We are making our soldiers the most lethal fighting  force the world has ever seen.

We will never apologize for keeping America safe. Thankfully, Mr.  Speaker, the people of America are now seeing through Biden's 4 years  of smoke and mirrors here in D.C.

It is a fact that the Clinton-Steele dossier was proven a hoax.

It is a fact that the Department of Justice was weaponized against  President Trump.

It is a fact that the Democrats' so-called Inflation Reduction Act  raised the United States debt to more than $38 trillion. It raised  inflation to its highest level in 40 years.

It is a fact that Biden's Green New Deal was nothing more than  another scam on the U.S. taxpayers, and ObamaCare, known as the  Affordable Care Act, is not affordable to anyone in America.

It is a fact that Space Command is coming to Redstone Arsenal in  north Alabama and the Golden Dome is on the horizon.

It is a fact that President Trump and our Republican majority is  making America better for the people. America is back.