Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701858/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Ms. GILLEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of my  bipartisan bill, H.R. 1689, to extend TPS for Haitians.

I thank all of my colleagues who voted to bring this bill to a vote  today--Democrat, Republican, and Independent. I thank Representative  Pressley, co-chair of the Haiti Caucus, for her leadership on the  discharge petition that helped make this vote possible. I am grateful  for our partnership in the fight to protect our Haitian neighbors.

My district in Nassau County is home to one of the largest Haitian  populations in the country. We are incredibly proud of that. Haitian  Long Islanders are part of the very fabric of our community. They work  in critical sectors like healthcare, education, caregiving, and  supporting our elderly, and they work in our local hospitals. Many have  built thriving businesses and have enriched our faith community.

Before I came to Congress, I made a promise to the Haitian community  in my district that I would use my voice to work with anyone from any  party to help protect this community and their existing legal status  here in the United States.

Let's be very clear. These are people who came in through the front  door legally and are paying taxes and contributing to our community.  Removing these folks would not just be a humanitarian catastrophe. It  would hurt our economy.

As soon as I got to Congress, the first bill I introduced was this  bipartisan bill to extend TPS for Haiti. I felt that saving these  people from imminent danger should not be partisan, and it was  important to get support from the other side of the aisle. I was  thrilled that my Republican colleague, Representative Mike Lawler,  joined and was an original cosponsor of this bill. This is how Congress  should be working, both sides working together.

For more than a year, we have been pushing back against the  administration and trying to do what is right and reverse this cruel,  misguided decision to force Haitians to return to Haiti when they have  come here lawfully.

The suggestion that the situation has improved in Haiti is belied by  the U.S. Department of State. The Department of State website explains  it is too dangerous for American citizens to travel to Haiti because of  kidnapping, rampant crime, terrorist activity, civil unrest, and  limited healthcare. How then could we say it is perfectly safe to force  Haitians to go back there and that everything is okay?

Armed gangs control 90 percent of the capital. More than 1.4 million  innocent civilians, half of them children, have been forced from their  homes. It is cruel to expect Haitians to be forced to return to these  deadly conditions. I have spoken to many Haitian families who  desperately want to see peace return to their country and would like to  go home once it is safe to do so.

I held a roundtable in my district and spoke to people. One speaker  recently traveled to Haiti and said she could not even go to Port-au- Prince because it is so overrun by gangs. She shared that there is only  one small part of Haiti that is safe for people to go to, but  there is no housing and no promise of securing work. It is truly a dire  situation.

I met a young man, a TPS recipient, who has been in the United States  for a number of years. He has worked hard and graduated from college.  Now, he is giving back to his community. He is helping those who could  face the same fate as him if he loses this protection. He is dedicated  to selflessly using the opportunity that he has been given to come here  and using his voice to give back to his community. He encapsulates the  heart of the Haitian community and the true humanity of the people we  are trying to protect.

I am proud that, with the partnership of my Democratic and Republican  colleagues, we advance this discharge petition today and are voting on  my legislation. It shows the bipartisan nature of this issue. It  affects communities, red and blue.

I look forward to passing the very first bill that I introduced into  Congress and delivering on the promise I made to my district. This is  an important milestone for our hardworking, law-abiding, taxpaying  Haitian friends and neighbors across the country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this  legislation to protect their lives. I also say to my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle that I ran on immigration reform. I am 1 of 10  original Democratic cosponsors, along with 10 Republican cosponsors, of  the Dignity Act, which would transform our immigration system, secure  our border, and create a legal pathway to citizenship. I urge my  colleagues to take up immigration reform.