Notice of Intention to Offer Motion to Discharge Committee on Rules From Further Consideration of House Resolution 965


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701753/notice-of-intention-to-offer-motion-to-discharge-committee-on-rules-from-further-consideration-of-house-resolution-965


Ms. GILLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative  Pressley, for her leadership on this issue and her yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of this resolution to  advance H.R. 1689, the bipartisan bill extending TPS for Haitians.

I thank my colleague, Representative Pressley, the co-chair of the  Haiti Caucus, for her leadership on today's discharge petition. I am  grateful for her partnership to protect our Haitian neighbors and  friends.

Nassau County is home to one of the largest Haitian populations in  the country, and we are incredibly proud of that. Haitian Long  Islanders are part of the very fabric of our communities. Haitians work  in critical sectors like healthcare, education and caregiving,  supporting our elderly and working in local hospitals. Many have built  private businesses and enriched our faith community.

Before I came to Congress, I made a promise to the Haitian  constituents in my district that I would use my voice and work with  anyone in any party to help protect this community and their existing  legal status here in the United States.

Removing our neighbors would not just be a humanitarian catastrophe,  it would hurt our economy, so as soon as I got to Congress, the very  first bill that I introduced was a bipartisan bill to extend TPS for  Haitians because protecting our friends and neighbors should be a  bipartisan concern.

I was so proud and honored to work with my Republican colleague, the  gentleman from New York (Mr. Lawler). I am thankful for his leadership  on this issue, as well.

The U.S. State Department claims it is too dangerous for American  citizens to go to Haiti because of kidnapping, gang violence, and  widespread chaos, but yet the administration has said it is safe for  Haitians to return there. How can we say that when the State Department  has a ``Level 4: Do not travel'' advisory on its own website?

I have spoken to Haitian families who desperately want to see peace  return to their country and would like to return there when it is safe  to do so. However, the safety and economic security that they need to  rebuild their lives there is nonexistent. I urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes.''