504 Program Risk Oversight Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699187/504-program-risk-oversight-act


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the bill before us today, H.R.  5788, the 504 Program Risk Oversight Act.

Madam Speaker, transparency is key to ensuring the proper operation  and functioning of the SBA lending programs, including the 504/CDC  program. This bill will give the Committee on Small Business the  necessary information to carry out our oversight authority.

Federal law requires the SBA Office of Credit Risk Management to  conduct an annual portfolio risk analysis of the SBA flagship 7(a) loan  program and provide Congress with a detailed report of their results.  This report has been crucial in Committee on Small Business Democrats'  investigation into the rising default levels in the 7(a) program and  has helped us to respond accordingly.

Unfortunately, no statutory reporting requirement exists for the 504/ CDC loan program. H.R. 5788 will fix that by adding a requirement that  the SBA conduct an annual risk analysis of the 504/CDC program and  provide Congress with their results. Tailored to the 504/CDC program's  unique features, the report will provide Congress with many of the same  data points it currently provides on the 7(a) program, but the bill  also requires several new data points to improve our stewardship of the  program.

While loan defaults aren't currently a concern for the 504 program,  this bill will provide Congress with valuable information needed to  monitor the program's operation, guard against future risk, and ensure  that the program's zero-subsidy requirement is maintained.

Madam Speaker, I applaud Representatives Tran and Patronis for their  work on this bill, which is supported by the National Association of  Development Companies. I ask my colleagues to support it, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Tran), the lead sponsor of the bill.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I again applaud Representatives Tran  and Patronis for their bipartisan work on this bill. I encourage all of  my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and I yield back the balance of my time.