American Entrepreneurs First Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692125/american-entrepreneurs-first-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 2966, the American  Entrepreneurs First Act.

If we really wanted to put American entrepreneurs first, we would be  debating a bill to strengthen SBA lending and make it easier to access  capital, or we could stop playing political games and finally vote to  exempt small businesses from these painful on-again, off-again tariffs.  That would put American entrepreneurs first.

Unfortunately, this bill does nothing to help small businesses grow  or adjust to supply chain disruptions or unexpected tariff costs.  Rather, it will actually make it harder for thousands of legally  operating small businesses to get the financing they need at a time  they need it most.

SBA loans are supposed to help creditworthy businesses that cannot  get loans elsewhere. That includes many immigrant-owned businesses,  businesses that follow the rules, pay taxes, and create jobs in our  communities.

Let's set the record straight. First, the Small Business Act already  prohibits the use of funds for individuals not lawfully within the  United States. Contrary to any statement that my colleagues may make  that Democrats have supported this, this is incorrect. The statute is  clear. Secondly, there is no evidence, not a shred of evidence, that  has been shared with Members of Congress, the public, the IG, or other  law enforcement officials.

My colleagues across the aisle keep claiming that the Administrator,  along with DOGE, identified a case wherein an illegal alien--we will  get to my thoughts on that term in a minute--received a nearly $1  million loan despite holding only 49 percent ownership of a business.

These allegations are unsubstantiated. We have seen no documents,  data, or details that have been shared to support this claim. This  claim reportedly came from DOGE, which immediately sets off alarm bells  given the well-documented issues with privacy and accuracy since its  inception.

It is also troublesome that Republicans are blindly relying on the  SBA Administrator's word. At our committee hearing the day before  yesterday, all we heard from her was empty rhetoric and evasive  answers. I would need to see some evidence before accepting her word on  a case such as this.

If we are being asked to enact such drastic measures without proper  vetting or a thoughtful process, then we need more than her assurances.  We need evidence. We need real facts, not fabricated ones, to back up  these accusations.

Republican support for this bill seems to be strictly based on this  one case, but without the facts and circumstances, how can we know the  truth?

Oftentimes, my counterparts seem to refer to anyone born outside the  U.S. as an ``illegal,'' but Democrats understand the nuances of  immigration status. What they call an illegal may actually be a visa  holder, a green card holder, or someone with DACA or TPS protections.  Precision of language matters, especially when it involves accusations  of fraud.

That brings me to my next point. Without a full accounting of this  case, we could be looking at an illegal rescission of loan funds made  by the Trump administration. For all we know, the recipient of that  loan was in compliance with the SBA rules at the time, rules that, I  should note, were in place during the first Trump administration.

Those rules required 51 percent ownership of a business by a citizen  or permanent resident, meaning a 49 percent ownership stake by a short- term resident, like a DACA recipient, was permissible if other  requirements were met. It allowed a pathway for hardworking, documented  persons to become entrepreneurs and give back to their communities.

Is this administration simply misrepresenting the rules and calling  foul for no reason; or are they the ones in the wrong by rescinding a  loan that was issued lawfully; or is this all just a manufactured  narrative? We may never  know because, despite repeated requests, the Administrator hasn't  shared any information.

On that note, if they have identified this as fraud or abuse, then  there is a process in place to turn over these findings to the Office  of Inspector General and other law enforcement for a full  investigation. No such referral has occurred, and no SBA IG has yet  been named after the illegal firing of Mike Ware, a respected watchdog  praised by Democrats and Republicans alike.

We also keep hearing about the need to protect taxpayers' money and  ensure SBA loans go to deserving small businesses. I don't disagree,  but I remind my colleagues that some of the individuals they refer to  as ``illegals,'' which in many cases means people with TPS or DACA  status, do pay taxes. They contribute to Social Security. The previous  51 percent ownership rule recognized that and created a pathway for  them to access some entrepreneurial assistance, but only as a minority  partner with a permanent resident.

This rule codifies the new rule that 100 percent of the business must  now be owned by a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. That might sound  reasonable until you hear the real-world consequences.

Businesses could be shut out of SBA lending because of a foreign  investor with less than 2 percent ownership. A husband and wife could  not get a loan because one of them is a European citizen with an  ownership interest in the business. Despite their clear commitment to  creating local jobs and investing in their community, under this bill,  they are also being penalized.

The harm isn't limited to businessowners. The bill creates a new set  of compliance burdens that SBA lenders are not equipped to handle.  Banks will have to verify the citizenship status of every owner down to  the last percentage point, something they have told us could expose  them to legal risk under civil rights laws like the Equal Credit  Opportunity Act.

We have also heard concerns that the information collected under this  bill could be shared with immigration enforcement. This could turn the  SBA from a resource for all small businesses into an enforcement arm of  DHS. That is not what the SBA is for.

Finally, let me point out the double standard here. For years,  Republicans have complained about regulations and reporting  requirements being too burdensome for small businesses and lenders, but  now they are ready to impose an incredibly complicated, mandatory, and  invasive new compliance regime without offering any new resources to  support it.

This bill is about scoring political points at the expense of  immigrant entrepreneurs. It sends a message that some people, no matter  how hard they work or how closely they follow the rules, do not deserve  the same shot at success. We should be expanding opportunity, not  closing it off.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and stand up  for the small businesses that make our communities stronger, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, if this is so easy, then let's bring 1071 back. The type  of information that it is requiring and that it is imposing lenders to  provide is at the very front end, while 1071 is voluntary at the end of  a loan being approved, then we are not burdening small businesses and  lenders today.

By the way, this bill likely violates the Equal Credit Opportunity  Act. SBA lenders have already told us that they are likely to pull back  from lending not to violate ECOA.

Mr. Speaker, we have heard supporters of this bill say it is about  protecting taxpayer dollars and stopping fraud, but the facts just  don't back that up. There is no evidence that undocumented immigrants  are getting loans they are not supposed to. In the one case Republicans  like to cite, not prove, that has been provided, it is highly likely  that DOGE and the current administration are confusing the rules that  were in place at the time with the stricter 100 percent ownership  requirement they imposed later.

That is what this bill is really doing. It targets small business  owners who are here legally, people like DACA recipients, visa holders,  and refugees; people who are building businesses, creating jobs, and  following every rule.

Republicans also claim this bill is about accountability, when in  reality it creates a mess for lenders. It forces them to track and  verify the age and citizenship status of every single businessowner  down to the last percentage point. It requires all of this information  just to be considered for the loan, unlike the section 1071 rules which  required voluntary reporting after the loan's origination. This bill  makes compliance a requisite for obtaining a loan.

I have to ask, after all of the complaints we have heard over the  years about section 1071, how do my colleagues justify this now? How do  my colleagues justify imposing this regulatory regime against lenders  and borrowers?

Right now small businesses are struggling. Tariffs are driving up the  costs of goods. Supply chains are under pressure. Instead of giving  entrepreneurs the tools they need to grow, this bill adds more barriers  and more uncertainty. If it is to become law, it is going to hurt the  very small businesses which it will be trying to help.

Section 1071 the borrower can decline after the loan. The lender  cannot get information from a trade group.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record two letters in opposition to the  bill, one from the Small Business Majority and another from UnidosUS.                                                      June 5, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Roger Williams,      Chairman, Committee on Small Business,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Nydia Velazquez,      Ranking Member, Committee on Small Business,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson, Chairman Williams, Minority Leader       Jeffries and Ranking Member Velazquez: As a representative of       America's 34 million small businesses, Small Business       Majority writes to express our opposition to H.R. 2931, the       Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025, and H.R. 2966,       the American Entrepreneurs First Act.

Amid an increasingly more difficult economic environment,       the federal government should do everything it can to meet       small businesses where they are, which is why H.R. 2931 is an       example of a policy proposal that would be ineffective at       best and harmful at worst. The bill, which would require the       U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to relocate any       regional, district or local SBA office housed in a `sanctuary       jurisdiction', ignores the fact that millions of small       businesses are located in or near cities that could be       designated as a `sanctuary jurisdiction.' Moving offices       farther away from the small businesses they were intended to       support certainly would not facilitate SBA better servicing       these small firms. What's more, there is no evidence to even       suggest that a city's policy toward immigrants has any       relationship to its ability to effectively meet the needs of       local small businesses. With that in mind, we strongly       encourage members of the House of Representatives to ignore       distractions like H.R. 2931 and focus on policies that would       truly benefit America's entrepreneurs.

In addition to ongoing efforts to shutter regional offices,       with no detailed or communicated plans as to where those       offices will be relocated or when, SBA has also slashed its       workforce by 43%, further restricting the agency's ability to       meet the growing demands of today's small businesses. Recent       national polling found that 78% of small business owners are       concerned about cuts to the SBA and its programs. Nearly 8 in       10 small business owners report having used SBA programs for       their business.

Also up for consideration is H.R. 2966, the American       Entrepreneurs First Act, which doesn't live up to its name.       Some small businesses that are majority owned by Americans       have foreign investors, and under this bill those businesses       would be denied access to critical Small Business       Administration resources. What's more, this legislation       ignores the fact that immigrant communities are a vital hub       of entrepreneurial activity in the United States. Immigrants       who may not yet be citizens employ American citizens and pay       taxes to the United States government; they too deserve       access to Small Business Administration resources. Small       Business Majority strongly supports uplifting immigrant       communities working in good faith to obtain U.S. citizenship.       These bills will lead to less vibrant communities and fewer       Main Street business opportunities for many in search of the       American Dream. Congress should do all it can to support       America's job creators, not pick and choose winners within       the small business community based on nothing more than where       a small business owner was born.

We urge your office to oppose H.R. 2931 and H.R. 2966 as       both proposals undermine the       SBA's capacity to carry out its mission and strip resources       away from hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs.            Sincerely,                                                   John Arensmeyer,      Founder & CEO, Small Business Majority.                                   ____                                               Tuesday June 3, 2025.

Dear Hill Colleague, On behalf of UnidosUS, we urge Members       to vote NO on both the Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act       (H.R. 2931) and the American Entrepreneurs First Act (H.R.       2966).

H.R. 2931 represents an unacceptable politicization of the       Small Business Administration (SBA), proposing to strip vital       SBA resources from so-called ``sanctuary'' jurisdictions.       This would deny millions of small businesses, especially       those in underserved communities, access to essential       services such as loans, disaster relief, and technical       assistance, simply based on where they are located. These are       businesses already navigating high prices and ongoing       economic instability caused by the chaotic policies of the       administration. Punishing them because their local       governments instituted policies to draw a line between local       law enforcement responsibilities and federal immigration       enforcement will only deepen inequities and disrupt local       economies.

H.R. 2966 adds insult to injury by imposing sweeping new       restrictions on SBA loan eligibility, explicitly excluding       entrepreneurs with certain immigration statuses--including       asylees, refugees, DACA recipients, visa holders, and       undocumented individuals. Many of these individuals are       lawfully present in the U.S. and are creating jobs, paying       taxes, and helping their communities thrive. Shutting them       out of SBA programs undermines entrepreneurship, limits       innovation, and weakens our long-term economic       competitiveness.

Immigrant entrepreneurs open businesses at higher rates       than native born Americans and Latino-owned businesses       contribute almost $800 billion to the nation's economy. And       as we noted in our 2024 analysis on Latina Equal Pay Day,       Latinas are key drivers of the U.S. economy. Their economic       output exceeds $1.3 trillion, surpassing the GDP of Florida,       and they own over a quarter of all Latino-owned businesses.       Yet despite these contributions, Latinas face profound       structural barriers, earning just 58 cents for every dollar       earned by non-Hispanic white men, and with nearly two-thirds       lacking access to employer-based benefits. These challenges       would be compounded by H.R. 2931 and H.R. 2966, which       threaten to strip away the limited federal support many       Hispanic entrepreneurs and workers can access.

By excluding entire categories of immigrant entrepreneurs,       these bills risk driving more individuals into the shadow       economy, undermining transparency and accountability. States       and localities have a strong interest in knowing which       businesses are operating in their communities, including       street vendors and other informal enterprises. Instead of       supporting these efforts, the legislation would make it       harder to identify and engage such businesses, ultimately       hindering local economic development and effective       regulation.

Together, these bills are part of a broader effort to       scapegoat immigrants, even when doing so comes at the direct       expense of American small businesses and working families. We       urge Members to reject this harmful and short-sighted agenda       by voting NO on H.R. 2931 and H.R. 2966.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, let me say that H.R. 2966 will not  improve SBA lending or support small businesses. This bill creates new  barriers, targets legally operating entrepreneurs, and burdens lenders  with requirements they aren't equipped to meet. Small businesses are  struggling.

This administration's trade policies have increased uncertainty and  made it nearly impossible for many small firms to do business. The  small businesses in my district and those that have reached out to my  committee are not asking for this legislation. They want stability, and  they want more support.

This bill risks making things worse by reducing access to capital for  many small businesses that are following the rules. We should be  working together to lift these businesses up, not passing laws to  punish them.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill and focus instead on  solutions that will truly help American small businesses.

Let me say, they brought this bill to the floor without a single  hearing, no expert witnesses, no nothing.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 217,  nays 190, not voting 25, as follows:                               [Roll No. 156]                                 YEAS--217       Aderholt      Alford      Allen      Amodei (NV)      Arrington      Babin      Bacon      Baird      Balderson      Barr      Barrett      Baumgartner      Bean (FL)      Begich      Bentz      Bergman      Bice      Biggs (AZ)      Biggs (SC)      Bilirakis      Boebert      Bost      Brecheen      Bresnahan      Burchett      Burlison      Calvert      Cammack      Carey      Carter (GA)      Carter (TX)      Ciscomani      Cline      Cloud      Clyde      Cole      Collins      Crane      Crank      Crawford      Cuellar      Davidson      Davis (NC)      DesJarlais      Diaz-Balart      Donalds      Downing      Dunn (FL)      Edwards      Ellzey      Emmer      Estes      Evans (CO)      Ezell      Fallon      Fedorchak      Feenstra      Fine      Finstad      Fischbach      Fitzgerald      Fitzpatrick      Fleischmann      Flood      Fong      Foxx      Franklin, Scott      Fry      Fulcher      Garbarino      Gill (TX)      Gillen      Goldman (TX)      Gonzales, Tony      Gooden      Gosar      Graves      Green (TN)      Greene (GA)      Griffith      Grothman      Guest      Guthrie      Hageman      Harder (CA)      Haridopolos      Harrigan      Harris (MD)      Harris (NC)      Harshbarger      Hern (OK)      Higgins (LA)      Hill (AR)      Hinson      Houchin      Hudson      Huizenga      Hunt      Hurd (CO)      Issa      Jack      Jackson (TX)      James      Johnson (LA)      Johnson (SD)      Jordan      Joyce (OH)      Joyce (PA)      Kaptur      Kean      Kelly (MS)      Kelly (PA)      Kennedy (UT)      Kiggans (VA)      Kiley (CA)      Kim      Knott      Kustoff      LaHood      LaLota      LaMalfa      Langworthy      Latta      Lawler      Letlow      Loudermilk      Lucas      Luna      Luttrell      Mace      Mackenzie      Malliotakis      Maloy      Mann      Massie      Mast      McCaul      McClain      McClintock      McCormick      McDonald Rivet      McDowell      McGuire      Messmer      Miller (IL)      Miller (OH)      Miller (WV)      Mills      Moolenaar      Moore (NC)      Moore (UT)      Moore (WV)      Moran      Murphy      Nehls      Newhouse      Norman      Nunn (IA)      Obernolte      Ogles      Onder      Owens      Palmer      Patronis      Perez      Perry      Pfluger      Reschenthaler      Rogers (AL)      Rogers (KY)      Rose      Rouzer      Roy      Rulli      Rutherford      Salazar      Scalise      Schmidt      Schweikert      Scott, Austin      Self      Sessions      Shreve      Simpson      Smith (MO)      Smith (NE)      Smith (NJ)      Smucker      Spartz      Stauber      Stefanik      Steil      Steube      Strong      Stutzman      Suozzi      Taylor      Tenney      Thompson (PA)      Tiffany      Timmons      Turner (OH)      Valadao      Van Drew      Van Duyne      Wagner      Walberg      Weber (TX)      Webster (FL)      Westerman      Wied      Williams (TX)      Wilson (SC)      Wittman      Womack      Yakym      Zinke                                 NAYS--190       Adams      Aguilar      Amo      Auchincloss      Balint      Barragan      Beatty      Bell      Bera      Beyer      Bishop      Bonamici      Boyle (PA)      Brown      Brownley      Budzinski      Bynum      Carbajal      Carson      Carter (LA)      Casar      Case      Casten      Castor (FL)      Castro (TX)      Cherfilus-McCormick      Chu      Cisneros      Clark (MA)      Cleaver      Clyburn      Cohen      Conaway      Correa      Costa      Courtney      Craig      Crockett      Crow      Davids (KS)      Davis (IL)      Dean (PA)      DeGette      DeLauro      DelBene      Deluzio      DeSaulnier      Dexter      Dingell      Doggett      Elfreth      Escobar      Espaillat      Evans (PA)      Fields      Figures      Fletcher      Foster      Foushee      Frankel, Lois      Friedman      Frost      Garamendi      Garcia (CA)      Garcia (IL)      Garcia (TX)      Golden (ME)      Gomez      Gonzalez, V.      Goodlander      Gray      Green, Al (TX)      Hayes      Himes      Horsford      Houlahan      Hoyer      Huffman      Ivey      Jackson (IL)      Jacobs      Jayapal      Jeffries      Johnson (GA)      Johnson (TX)      Keating      Kelly (IL)      Kennedy (NY)      Khanna      Krishnamoorthi      Landsman      Larsen (WA)      Larson (CT)      Latimer      Lee (NV)      Lee (PA)      Leger Fernandez      Levin      Liccardo      Lieu      Lofgren      Lynch      Magaziner      Mannion      Matsui      McBath      McBride      McClellan      McCollum      McGarvey      McGovern      McIver      Meeks      Menendez      Meng      Mfume      Min      Morelle      Morrison      Moskowitz      Moulton      Mrvan      Nadler      Neal      Neguse      Ocasio-Cortez      Olszewski      Pallone      Panetta      Pappas      Pelosi      Peters      Pettersen      Pocan      Pou      Pressley      Quigley      Ramirez      Randall      Raskin      Riley (NY)      Rivas      Ross        Ruiz      Ryan      Salinas      Sanchez      Scanlon      Schakowsky      Schneider      Scholten      Schrier      Scott (VA)      Scott, David      Sewell      Sherman      Simon      Smith (WA)      Sorensen      Soto      Stansbury      Stanton      Stevens      Strickland      Subramanyam      Swalwell      Sykes      Takano      Thanedar      Thompson (CA)      Thompson (MS)      Titus      Tokuda      Tonko      Torres (CA)      Torres (NY)      Trahan      Tran      Underwood      Vargas      Vasquez      Veasey      Velazquez      Vindman      Wasserman Schultz      Waters      Watson Coleman      Whitesides      Williams (GA)      Wilson (FL)                               NOT VOTING--25       Ansari      Buchanan      Clarke (NY)      Comer      Crenshaw      De La Cruz      Gimenez      Goldman (NY)      Gottheimer      Hamadeh (AZ)      Hoyle (OR)      Kamlager-Dove      Lee (FL)      McClain Delaney      Meuser      Miller-Meeks      Moore (AL)      Moore (WI)      Mullin      Norcross      Omar      Pingree      Sherrill      Tlaib      Van Orden

Ms. STEVENS changed her vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''

So the bill was passed.

The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.

Stated against: