Artificial Intelligence Wisdom for Innovative Small Enterprises Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699205/artificial-intelligence-wisdom-for-innovative-small-enterprises-act


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to support H.R. 5784, the AI-WISE Act.

Four years ago, AI burst into mainstream focus with the launch of  OpenAI's ChatGPT. When I first tried this tool, I was shocked. I knew  then and there that AI had the potential to revolutionize the way  American firms operate and do business.

AI, like all emerging technology, comes with risks. AI outputs are  prone to bias, discrimination, misinformation, and omissions. Safety  and cybersecurity vulnerabilities can render AI deployers open to  adversarial attacks. We don't even fully know this risk because we  cannot predict AI's trajectory, so new risk could come up as it evolves  and adds capabilities.

We have all seen reports of GenAI gone wrong, with episodes ranging  from customer service chatbots at car dealerships offering to sell  pickup trucks for $1 to general purpose chatbots advising small  businesses to break the law.

In other words, a small business using a flawed AI model risks steep  reputational and legal harm. Many of these incidents are attributable  simply to AI's current technological immaturity and the growing pains  that come with its ongoing evolution. This is why AI literacy is  crucial for small businesses to keep up with their larger competitors  considering and adopting AI.

The AI-WISE Act will direct SBA to create online AI literacy  resources for entrepreneurs, so they have the tools to make sound  choices on AI adoption and use. It will also direct the SBA to keep  their resources updated on innovations in AI technology through an  expert working group. Finally, the bill will allow the SBA resource  partners to develop specialized and localized assistance to best  educate their communities.

I thank my colleagues, Ms. Scholten and Mr. Downing, for  collaborating over the last 2 years to bring this bill to the floor.  Furthermore, let me convey my gratitude to Chairman Williams; his staff  director, Lauren Holmes; and all the floor staff for seeing this bill  through today. It is greatly appreciated.

Madam Speaker, I urge Members to support this bill, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I commend Ms. Scholten and Mr. Downing  for their dedication to our Nation's innovative small enterprises, and  I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 5784.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.