Recognizing Theodore M. Renz


Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Theodore M.  Renz, who is retiring after nearly four decades of exceptional public  service as the Executive Director of the Myrtle Avenue Business  Improvement District (BID) in Ridgewood, Queens. Throughout his  distinguished career, Mr. Renz has exemplified an unwavering commitment  to community development, small business, and neighborhood  revitalization, laying a strong foundation for a more vibrant community  for future generations.

Since the Myrtle Avenue BID's establishment in 1988, Mr. Renz has  been at the helm, guiding it through transformative growth. Recognizing  the vital role that small businesses play in New York City's economy,  Mr. Renz has worked tirelessly to ensure that the BID serves as an  accessible and indispensable resource for local entrepreneurs. Under  his leadership, the BID supports more than 300 businesses along a mile- long stretch of Myrtle Avenue, providing essential services including  sanitation, public safety, beautification, and marketing that fosters a  robust and welcoming commercial corridor.

Mr. Renz's tenure is marked by numerous accomplishments. He  spearheaded major urban improvement projects, including a $2.4 million  streetscape enhancement for Myrtle Avenue and played a pivotal role in  helping secure a $55 million upgrade of the Myrtle-Wyckoff transit hub,  enhancing accessibility for thousands of daily commuters and consumers.  As an advocate for open space, he successfully championed the  conversion of underutilized spaces into public plazas for the  community. Today, the BID corridor is home to four new public plazas  enjoyed by all.

As a lifetime resident of Ridgewood, Mr. Renz public service extends  beyond the BID. He has served as Executive Director of the Ridgewood  Local Development Corporation (RLDC) and as a member of Queens  Community Board 5, consistently advocating for small businesses, public  safety, and quality-of-life improvements. His collaboration with city  agencies, elected officials, and local stakeholders has left a lasting  impact on the Ridgewood community.

As Mr. Renz embarks on a well-earned retirement after 37 years of  dedicated public  service, I extend my deepest gratitude for his leadership, and  unwavering commitment to strengthening the economic fabric of New York  City. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in  celebrating Theodore M. Renz for his outstanding contributions and  wishing him good health and joy in this next chapter of life.