Small Business Regulatory Reduction Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697332/small-business-regulatory-reduction-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2965, the Small Business  Regulatory Reduction Act.

Let me begin by stating that I wish we were here to talk about bills  to help small businesses grow or policies that address challenges they  are facing today, like tariffs and the cost of groceries and  healthcare. Instead, we are talking about an unworkable regulatory  budget.

To be clear, small businesses are not talking about regulations. It  ranks near the bottom of their list. Inflation, tariffs, and finding  good employees are some of the top challenges facing small businesses.

Take a walk down a Main Street, Mr. Speaker, and you will hear the  same concern from small business owners up and down the block: The  uncertainty and rising costs tied to the President Trump tariffs are  crushing their small businesses, plain and simple.

We should be working together on issues that matter: lowering costs  for small businesses. Instead, we are considering two regulatory bills  that will not help them one iota, while real problems go unaddressed.

H.R. 2965 may sound good on the surface, but it will have the  practical effect of limiting the SBA from issuing any rules, even if  the benefits outweigh the costs.

The SBA needs to issue regulations to update programs, issue disaster  regulations, and even reduce recordkeeping requirements. That is good  government practice.

The majority fails to realize that agencies may be able to estimate  the cost of a regulation, but they do not have the hard data on the  costs that are imposed.

This bill will require the SBA to make assumptions that could turn  out to be incorrect. There is nothing in the bill that clarifies how  the agency is to implement a regulatory budget, and it is therefore  impractical.

Finally, the bill does not include an exception for national  emergencies, meaning that if this bill had been enacted before the  pandemic, small businesses across the country might not have received  PPP assistance in a timely manner, if they received it at all.

For these reasons, I oppose the Small Business Regulatory Reduction  Act, and I urge my colleagues to oppose it.

Mr. Speaker, I will close with this: Trump's tariffs, not  regulations, are crushing small businesses. I know that it is painful  for the other side of the aisle to discuss or even debate the issue of  tariffs and how it is negatively impacting small businesses. The  President of the United States said that on day one he will lower the  costs. Yet, here we are.

Witnesses have testified before our committee that the costs of  tariffs are harming their small businesses. The uncertainty resulting  from the on-again, off-again pronouncements by Trump has halted  investment and expansion of small businesses, and it has hindered basic  business decisions, like when to put in an order or how to plan for the  holiday season.

I know they don't want to talk about tariffs and, instead, we are  debating these two bills.

The American Action Forum estimates that Trump's tariffs are costing  small businesses $85 billion a year, and that is not including the cost  of navigating the uncertain environment or complying with the tariffs  themselves.

The tariffs disproportionately harm small firms, which operate on  thinner margins and have virtually no buying power. Yet, we are focused  today on a regulatory budget that is unworkable.

The bill has no exceptions for national emergencies. Let's look back  to 2020. SBA issued scores of rules to provide relief to help small  businesses during the pandemic, so the author of the bill is incorrect  when she claimed that SBA didn't issue regulations to make sure that  people accessing the money from PPP will not commit crime, abuse, or  fraud.

The Paycheck Protection Program imposed significant compliance  burdens on small businesses, but I believe we can all attest to the  fact that the PPP helped millions of small businesses stay afloat that  otherwise would have gone out of business. Clearly, the benefits of  those regulations at the time outweighed the costs.

Had a regulatory budget been in place in 2020, it would have been  extremely challenging for SBA to cut existing regulatory programs to  offset the cost of the Paycheck Protection Program. Moreover, many of  the lending rules ensure accountability and fair access. Cutting them  to free up funds for PPP would have compromised the integrity of the  program.

Moreover, these funds needed to be disbursed quickly. Imposing a no- new-spending-without-cuts approach would have delayed or reduced aid to  small businesses.

The bottom line is that this bill is slogan over substance and would  harm small businesses rather than help them, particularly in a crisis.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.