Pressure Regulatory Organizations to End Chinese Threats to Taiwan Act


Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise today in support of my bill, H.R.  1531, the PROTECT Taiwan Act.

Under the Taiwan Relations Act, the President is required to notify  Congress if China poses an immediate threat to Taiwan's security. If  this notification is triggered, my bill states that it is U.S. policy  to exclude Chinese representatives from key international organizations  such as the G20, the Financial Stability Board, and the Basel Committee  on Banking Supervision.

This bill sends a clear message. If China intends to engage in  conflict with Taiwan, then China should be prepared to withstand the  consequences.

In the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, this body enacted a  similar regime to demonstrate to the world that violating international  order comes with swift and severe results.

We should have a proactive policy toward Beijing today. As China  continues to show aggression in the South China Sea, the United States  must show clear resolve that aggression will not be tolerated.

The United States' response to an invasion of Taiwan should be robust  and include numerous sanctions and economic penalties. Exclusion from  international bodies must be a part of that response.

If China seeks to disrupt the global order, then China cannot  continue to be party to international organizations that seek to  preserve that order.

China's position in multilateral economic institutions will be at  risk should they engage in hostilities toward Taiwan. We simply cannot  overlook the value of deterrence and preparedness.

China should understand the economic and diplomatic repercussions of  threatening international financial stability and make its choices  accordingly.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Texas (Mr. Gonzalez) for his  work on this issue and for cosponsoring this legislation. We received  unanimous support in the committee, and I hope that the body will  continue that tradition today.