Bringing Real Accountability Via Enforcement in Burma Act


Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for the opportunity  to speak on my bill, H.R. 3190, the BRAVE Burma Act.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill and ask for its immediate  consideration.

Burma is a country in profound crisis. In February of 2021, a  military-led junta toppled a democratically elected government and  plunged the country into civil war. These actions, coupled with the  March 2025 earthquake, created a humanitarian crisis that has left tens  of thousands of Burmese dead or detained, while approximately 3.6  million people, nearly 6 percent of the population, is now displaced  from their homes.

In response to the calls for action from the Burmese diaspora in the  United States and in my district, I introduced H.R. 3190, the BRAVE  Burma Act.

As I have mentioned many times before, issues involving Burma are  near and dear to my heart, as well as to those of many of my Burmese  constituents and members at the Battle Creek Burma Center in southwest  Michigan. It was there that I first heard the stories about their  families and friends in horrific situations in Burma and the lack of  mainstream media attention given to these issues.

However, we have an opportunity today to send a message. We have an  opportunity today to stand with the current residents of Burma and to  remind them that they have not been forgotten. The BRAVE Burma Act is  intentional in its action, targeting the heart of the junta's revenues,  which it uses to purchase advanced weaponry from abroad.

Specifically, this bill requires the President to impose full  blocking sanctions on, first, the state-owned Myanma Oil and Gas  Enterprise, also known as MOGE. This is the junta's single largest  source of foreign revenue, reportedly generating over $1 billion  annually.

Second, the bill requires sanctions on the state-owned Myanma  Economic Bank, also known as the MEB, which is operated by junta  cronies and processes weapons transactions that are contrary to those  sanctions.

Third, the bill requires sanctions on any person operating in the jet  fuel sector of the Burmese economy. The jet fuel industry in Burma is a  key and important target for sanctions because it directly enables the  junta's unlawful airstrikes against civilians, places of worship,  villages, hospitals, IDP camps, and schools.

Depleting the government's ability to control and profit from  aviation fuel imports and distribution will inhibit the junta's ability  to sustain violence and commit war crimes using airpower.

Mr. Speaker, the urgency to act has never been greater. Last month,  it was reported that Iran had become the sole source of jet fuel to  Burma. These secret shipments had not only given Iran much-needed cash  and a new market, but it allowed the Burmese military leaders to  circumvent Western sanctions.

The deliveries of jet fuel have powered an expansive bombing campaign  by the junta that has struck more than 1,000 civilian locations,  including Christian churches.

While the military ruling class pledged open and fair elections, the  sham process that took place last month should be viewed as a rigged  farce and nothing more. Make no mistake, these mass atrocities will not  stop until the current regime is crippled.

With the support of the Trump administration, which has continued to  turn up the pressure, Congress can shape the future of Burma by  leveraging sanctions and financial oversight.

The BRAVE Burma Act will strengthen U.S. efforts to disrupt  authoritarian regimes, support democratic movements, and protect  vulnerable populations.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Betty McCollum, my co-chair of the  Congressional Burma Caucus and an original cosponsor of this particular  legislation, as well as Representatives Ann Wagner and Seth Moulton,  who helped to make this a truly bipartisan effort.

Mr. Speaker, let me end with this. Since the 2021 coup, nearly 3  million Burmese have been driven from their homes; more than 75,000  people have been killed; and the military has swept up more than 30,000  political prisoners into detention, silencing those who oppose them.

The Burmese military has left a trail of devastation, damaging or  destroying at least 343 Christian churches and numerous other religious  buildings, according to the Burma Research Institute.

The people of Burma can no longer afford for Congress to sit idly by,  and the Trump administration must adopt a unified strategy for Burma,  as both the Department of State and the Department of the Treasury have  done. It is time for the Department of Homeland Security to come to the  same conclusion. Democracy in Burma needs America's help.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bipartisan  bill that will have a lasting impact.