Recognizing Reverend Dr. Sammuel McKinney


Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the Rev.  Dr. Sammuel McKinney for what would be his 100th birthday on December  28, 2025 for the contributions he made to our Nation as a civil rights  leader who fought tirelessly for social justice and racial equality in  Seattle and who served devotedly as the beloved pastor of the Central  Area's Mount Zion Baptist Church.

The son of a Baptist minister and grandson of a Georgia sharecropper,  the Reverend Dr. McKinney was devoted to serving his community  throughout his life. McKinney bravely served during World War II in a  segregated unit of the U.S. Army Air Corps. He graduated from Morehouse  College in Atlanta after returning home from war, and then he went on  to earn a divinity degree from Colgate in 1952. He settled down in  Seattle, where he came to lead the congregation of one of Seattle's  oldest and largest African American churches for forty-three years as  pastor of Mount Zion Baptist Church. He was not only a spiritual guide,  but a community builder who tripled the size of his congregation during  his time as pastor at Mount Zion. McKinney was a founding member of  Seattle's First Human Rights Commission, which successfully fought for  the Seattle's first Fair Housing Act, establishing protection for  tenants of protected classes and marginalized communities. A lifelong  champion for racial justice, McKinney founded Liberty Bank, Seattle's  first black-owned financial institution which countered racially biased  restrictions on loans to African Americans and expanded opportunities  for homeownership in Seattle.

McKinney was a friend to many, including the noted fellow pastor and  civil rights leader, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. The pair had known  each other from childhood but grew closer friends at Morehouse College.  Dr. King visited Seattle only once, after his old friend requested that  he come to give a speech in 1961. During his visit, Martin Luther King,  Jr. spoke of McKinney's influence in the civil rights movement and his  commitment to racial equality.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Rev. Dr. Sammuel McKinney for a lifetime of  service to the United States of America and to the city of Seattle. I  am deeply grateful for his important efforts towards protecting our  country, advancing social justice, and fostering economic development.  His legacy will not be forgotten.