District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692372/district-of-columbia-federal-immigration-compliance-act-of-2025


Mr. TIMMONS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R.  2056, the District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act.

I have to be honest. I am kind of disappointed in the debate right  now. My colleague from Massachusetts is talking about how we have  previously granted the authority to the District of Columbia to do X,  Y, and Z. He is correct, but with us granting power, there comes  responsibility.

My colleague from Washington, D.C., is talking about the home rule  and this and that. This city makes me sad. I mean, I have hope now that  President Trump is here that the D.C. Government is starting to do  things that they should have been doing all along.

What about Representative Cuellar, who was mugged, robbed at gunpoint  in a carjacking?

What about the Rand Paul staffer who was stabbed in a bar five blocks  from here? I don't go there anymore. I don't go there anymore because  it is not safe.

What about Brad Finstad, who got robbed at gunpoint?

What about the staffers who got robbed 6 months ago?

Justice Sotomayor's detail shot an 18-year-old multiple times because  he was trying to rob the Supreme Court Justice.

In what world are you living in that you think that the power that we  granted to the District of Columbia is being executed responsibly?

We are talking about something very simple: Abide by Federal  detainers. If the Federal Government says you have arrested an illegal  immigrant who has a criminal detainer, you have to follow the law.

We didn't give the billion dollars to the District of Columbia  because they need to understand that actions have consequences. When I  don't feel safe at night, when my constituents come here and I tell  them to be careful, when my commanding officer stays at a hotel three  blocks from here and I tell him not to walk to the baseball game, to  take an Uber, what world are you living in? This is unacceptable.

We will have law and order in this city. The President has said so  much. We are going to use every tool in our toolbox to make this  District what it should be.

A nation's capital in decline is a nation in decline. We are not a  nation in decline.

The city of D.C. needs to live up to its obligations to keep us safe.

Get the homeless people help. Letting them live in the streets is not  helping them. You are hurting them. Get them mental health counseling.  Get them a shower. Get them a job. Get them help. Letting them live  under bridges is not helping them. It is wrong. The fact that I have to  sit up here and tell you this makes me sad.

We are going to make this city safe. We are going to show the world  that we are not a nation in decline. We are going to not only Make  America Great Again, but we are going to make the United States Capital  great again.