Skills-Based Federal Contracting Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700121/skills-based-federal-contracting-act-of-2025


Mr. TIMMONS. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5235) to amend title 41, United States Code, to prohibit  minimum educational requirements for proposed contractor personnel in  certain contract solicitations, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5235

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Skills-Based Federal       Contracting Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. USE OF REQUIREMENTS REGARDING EDUCATION OF CONTRACTOR                     PERSONNEL.

(a) Flexibility in Contractor Education Requirements.--      Chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, is amended by       adding at the end the following new section:       ``Sec. 3313. Flexibility in contractor education requirements

``(a) Prohibition.--A solicitation may not set forth any       minimum education requirement for proposed contractor       personnel in order for a bidder to be eligible for award of a       contract unless the contracting officer includes in the       solicitation a written justification that explains why the       needs of the executive agency cannot be met without any such       requirement and clarifies how the requirement ensures the       needs are met.

``(b) Executive Agency Defined.--In this section, the term       `executive agency' has the meaning given that term in section       133 of this title.''.

(b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of       sections for chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, is       amended by adding at the end the following new item:  ``3313. Flexibility in contractor education requirements.''.

(c) OMB Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date       of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of       Management and Budget shall issue guidance to the heads of       executive agencies for implementing the amendment made by       subsection (a) that includes the following:

(1) Instructions for contracting officers for the       justifications under section 3313(a) of title 41, United       States Code, as added by subsection (a), including a       requirement that each use of an education requirement be       determined, justified, and reviewed.

(2) Instructions for contracting officers that encourages       the use of alternatives to education requirements.

(d) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section       shall apply with respect to solicitations issued on or after       the date that is 15 months after the date of the enactment of       this Act.

(e) Repeal.--Section 813 of the Floyd D. Spence National       Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law       106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-214), as implemented in subpart       39.104 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, as in effect on       January 3, 2025, is repealed as of the date that the guidance       required by subsection (c) becomes effective.

(f) GAO Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall       submit to Congress an evaluation of executive agency       compliance with section 3313 of title 41, United States Code,       as added by subsection (a).

(g) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Education.--The term ``education'' means an associate,       baccalaureate, graduate, or professional degree, specified       coursework, or other form of educational attainment awarded       by a junior or community college, college, or university that       is accredited as a collegiate institution by a recognized       accrediting agency or approved by the appropriate State       education authority under State law (or the appropriate       education authority of the District of Columbia) to grant       associate or higher degrees.

(2) Education requirement.--The term ``education       requirement'' includes a requirement that can be met either       through--

(A) education alone;

(B) education or experience; or

(C) a combination of education and experience.

(3) Executive agency.--The term ``executive agency'' has       the meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41,       United States Code.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5235, the Skills-Based Federal  Contracting Act, which reins in unnecessary degree requirements in  Federal contracting.

The Federal Government relies heavily on contract employees. Many  jobs in fields like IT and building construction are available through  nondegree pathways such as apprenticeships and boot camps. That is why  private-sector employers have pared back degree requirements for hiring  in recent years.

Unfortunately, Federal solicitations sometimes include requirements  mandating that individuals who perform the work hold certain education  credentials. We should not prohibit those with the right technical  skills from performing Federal contract work just because they lack a  traditional degree.

The companies who employ them, those that offer apprenticeships and  engage in skills-based hiring, should be encouraged to compete for  government contracts, not be excluded from competition.

This bill helps ensure that Federal contractors are able to hire who  they want to hire without additional red tape by prohibiting contract  officers from stipulating education and experience requirements in  contracts, unless the contracting officer can justify in writing that  they are necessary to meet the needs of the agency.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I thank Ms. Mace, the  chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Information  Technology, and Government Innovation, for her work on this important  reform.

Mr. TIMMONS.  Mace).

Mr. TIMMONS. Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this bill. I encourage  my colleagues to support this legislation, which puts merit back into  Federal contracts.