President Trump is Getting It Done for the American People


Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, it is a great day in America.  We heard from President Trump last night. Clearly, he loves our  country. He is amped up to fulfill his promises and get things done  that matter to Americans.

Thank God for a landslide victory. We can only imagine the dreadful  consequences if Kamala would have been our President. I am afraid that  Barack Obama's dream of fundamentally transforming our country would  have been complete.

President Trump is getting it done for the American people, America  first as every President should have been. Americans have been abused  by a bloated, unaccountable government. We all knew that taxpayers were  being abused, but the level of abuse to use the hard-earned money that  taxpayers have had to cough up to promote evil in our country and to  fund terrorists around the world, it is unbelievable.

Thank God for Elon Musk and for DOGE to uncover all the waste, fraud,  and abuse. I thank President Trump for securing our border and  deporting the murderers, rapists, terrorists, and gang members. I thank  him for going after terrorists. I thank him that we are not going to be  taken advantage of anymore by unfair tariffs, trade agreements, and  funding wars around the world.

Instead of driving our manufacturing overseas, I thank President  Trump for incentivizing companies to come back and create jobs and  leave the money here in our country. I thank him for incentivizing  production, for deregulating so Americans can be creative and  productive like they want to be. I thank him for getting our economic  machine going.

Finally, I thank President Trump for standing up for women, for  declaring that there are two sexes, that we were created by God, and  that we need God's help.

Mr. Speaker, I urge our country, as it says in 1 Timothy, to pray for  those who are in authority. To every child in America, we agree with  President Trump. They are perfect exactly the way God created them.