Chiricahua National Park Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700696/chiricahua-national-park-act


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 6380) to establish the Chiricahua National Park in the State  of Arizona as a unit of the National Park System, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 6380

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Chiricahua National Park       Act''.       SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF CHIRICAHUA NATIONAL PARK, ARIZONA.

(a) Designation.--

(1) In general.--The Chiricahua National Monument in the       State of Arizona established by Presidential Proclamation       1692 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note; 43 Stat. 1946) shall be known       and designated as ``Chiricahua National Park'' (referred to       in this Act as the ``National Park'').

(2) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the National Park shall       be the boundaries of the Chiricahua National Monument as of       the date of enactment of this Act, as generally depicted on       the map entitled ``Chiricahua National Park Proposed       Boundary'', numbered 145/156,356, and dated March 2021.

(3) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, or other record of the United States to the       Chiricahua National Monument shall be considered to be a       reference to the ``Chiricahua National Park''.

(4) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for the       Chiricahua National Monument shall be available for the       National Park.

(b) Administration.--The Secretary of the Interior shall       administer the National Park in accordance with--

(1) Presidential Proclamation 1692 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note;       43 Stat. 1946);

(2) Presidential Proclamation 2288 (54 U.S.C. 320301 note;       52 Stat. 1551); and

(3) the laws generally applicable to units of the National       Park System, including--

(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections       100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of title 54, United       States Code; and

(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States Code.       SEC. 3. TRADITIONAL CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS SITES.

(a) Protection of Sites.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure the protection       of traditional cultural and religious sites in the National       Park in accordance with the laws (including regulations)       applicable to the Secretary.

(2) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the       Secretary shall consult with Indian Tribes in accordance with       laws applicable to the protection of cultural and religious       sites.

(b) Access.--

(1) In general.--The Secretary, in accordance with Public       Law 95-341 (42 U.S.C. 1996 et seq.)--

(A) shall provide access to the sites described in       subsection (a)(1) by members of Indian Tribes for traditional       cultural and customary uses; and

(B) may, on request of an Indian Tribe, temporarily close       to general public use one or more specific areas of the       National Park to protect traditional cultural and customary       uses in the area by members of the Indian Tribe.

(2) Limitation.--In closing a portion of a designated area       under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall limit the closure       to the smallest practicable area for the minimum period       necessary for the traditional cultural and religious       activities.

(c) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' has the       meaning given such term in section 4 of the Indian Self-      Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).

(2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

Mr. WITTMAN.  6380, the bill before us for  consideration.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6380, the Chiricahua  National Park Act, introduced by Representative Ciscomani of Arizona.  This simple, bipartisan bill redesignates the Chiricahua National  Monument as Chiricahua National Park.

Located in southeast Arizona, Chiricahua is a remarkable place that  is known as the Land of Standing-Up Rocks. It is a home to unique  volcanic formations, miles of scenic trails, and a landscape shaped by  both natural forces and human history. From its ancient volcanic  hoodoos and pinnacles to historic sites conserving the history of  prehistoric and indigenous people, early pioneers, and ranchers, there  is truly no place in the country like Chiricahua.

Every year, visitors to this area enjoy unique outdoor recreational  activities, including hiking, stargazing, camping, bird-watching, and  horseback riding. Across the country, outdoor recreation contributes  $1.3 trillion to the U.S. economy. Last year, Arizona saw the second  highest growth rate in its outdoor recreation activity amongst all  States.

By creating the Nation's 64th national park and Arizona's fourth  national park, Representative Ciscomani's legislation would further  boost Arizona's outdoor recreation economy, create jobs, and support  small businesses in rural gateway communities.

Importantly, this bipartisan bill does not expand the site's  boundaries or change its management. It simply recognizes the national  significance of Chiricahua by elevating it to full national park  status. The change would place Chiricahua alongside other flagship  parks and help raise its profile and support increased tourism.

The bill has significant local support. Representative Ciscomani has  worked hard with all affected stakeholders to address any potential  concerns. Representative Ciscomani added new language to the bill this  Congress to ensure continued access for traditional uses for Tribes in  a way that respects cultural heritage while maintaining public access  to the park without creating new precedents.

In short, this bill honors a place of exceptional natural,  historical, and cultural value without changing its footprints or  management framework. I commend Representative Ciscomani for the years  of hard work that he has put in to make the dream of Arizona's fourth  national park a reality.

I cannot think of a better time than during America's 250th  anniversary to send this meaningful legislation to the President's  desk, and I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani), the lead sponsor of the bill.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, H.R. 6380 recognizes the national  significance of the Chiricahua in southeastern Arizona while helping  unlock more tourism and investment for surrounding communities.

Elevating this site to national park status will raise its profile,  attract more visitors, and support local jobs without expanding its  boundaries or changing its management.

I thank Representative Ciscomani once again for his strong  leadership, his dedication, and his passion for this effort.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and  I yield back the balance of my time.