Critical Minerals Are the Backbone of Our Country


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700180/critical-minerals-are-the-backbone-of-our-country


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to highlight the importance  of critical minerals. They are the backbone of our economy, but the  U.S. has ceded supply chain dominance to China, our primary adversary.

In recent decades, China has overtaken the United States and our  allies in production, processing, and smelting of critical minerals.  Take rare earth elements, for example. Rare earths, a type of critical  mineral, are crucial inputs into various consumer technologies,  including smartphones, laptops, batteries, and cars.

China controls 70 percent of rare earth mining, 90 percent of rare  earth separation and processing, and 93 percent of rare earth magnet  production.

They exercise their monopoly in two ways: first, by dumping their  product onto the global market to deliberately undercut U.S. producers;  and second, by threatening to cut off our access to their exports, as  they recently did in October of 2025.

We have outsourced our supply chains to them, allowing them to engage  in unfair trade practices that put our Nation's strategic and economic  security at great risk.

The Trump administration has long recognized the threat China poses  to our critical mineral supply chains and has taken bold actions that I  applaud. Additionally, I have introduced several pieces of legislation  that will help counter China's threat.

In January, I introduced the SECURE Minerals Act, which is aimed at  supporting domestic critical mineral supply chains. The SECURE Minerals  Act would establish a Strategic Resilience Reserve that would be tasked  with stabilizing critical mineral prices and supporting domestic  production and extraction supply chains.

The Strategic Resilience Reserve established under this bill would  send a signal to the private sector that the United States Government  is ready to take action, ultimately aggregating demand, stabilizing  mineral prices, and reshoring critical advanced manufacturing.

We cannot counter China's choke hold on the global mineral  marketplace alone. If we are to break their monopoly, we have to  coordinate with our allies. I have also introduced the Finding ORE Act,  which would enable the administration to work in coordination with our  allies to map critical mineral research around the globe.

Madam Speaker, the time is now to act to save our future. Our  economic and national security depend on it.                        Protecting Our Marine Wildlife

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, recently the House Committee on Natural  Resources voted favorably to report H.R. 4294, the Mitigation Action  and Watermen Support Act, better known as the MAWS Act. It is an effort  I co-led with Congresswoman Elfreth.

Having grown up on the Chesapeake Bay, I understand how important it  is to protect our marine wildlife and restore the Bay's ecosystem.  Since their introduction, the blue catfish have become an invasive  species, posing a growing threat to the biodiversity of the region's  waters and inflicting severe economic damage to seafood industries that  rely on the Bay.

This legislation aims to direct the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration through its existing Chesapeake Bay office to coordinate  with non-Federal partners to accelerate the removal of invasive blue  catfish from the Chesapeake Bay watershed.

This effort will incentivize the harvest and sale of blue catfish,  while providing valuable data for future efforts to combat invasive  species in our waterways.

I would be remiss if I didn't thank Representative Elfreth for her  work on this effort, as well as her staff member, Allie.

I also thank the House Natural Resources Committee staff. They  include Richie, Kirby, Doug, Jackson, and Hannah on the majority and  Rachel on the minority staff.

Finally, I thank the many stakeholders who have helped in  understanding the issues and supporting this legislative effort  including the National Fisheries Institute, the Pet Food Institute, and  the American Sportfishing Association, among many others.

Madam Speaker, I look forward to seeing the full House consideration  of this important bill very soon.