Gateway Partnership Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700707/gateway-partnership-act


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 5254) to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to enter  into an agreement with the Gateway Arch Park Foundation to host private  events in Gateway Arch National Park buildings, and for other purposes,  as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5254

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Gateway Partnership Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the Gateway       Arch Park Foundation, a nonprofit organization that serves as       the official philanthropic partner of the Park.

(2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means Gateway Arch National       Park.

(3) Park building.--The term ``Park building'' means--

(A) the Arch Visitor Center;

(B) the Old Courthouse; and

(C) any other building administered or managed by the       Secretary as part of the Park that is open to the public.

(4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.       SEC. 3. GATEWAY ARCH NATIONAL PARK PARTNER AGREEMENT PILOT                     PROJECT.

(a) In General.--The Secretary, in accordance with       subsection (b), may enter into a one-       time agreement for a period not to exceed five years with the       Foundation to host private events at the Park, which may       include the use of Park buildings.

(b) Terms and Conditions.--An agreement entered into under       subsection (a) shall include terms and conditions to protect       the resources and values of the Park, including--

(1) dates and times during which the Foundation may be the       exclusive organization that holds a special event in       specified Park buildings;

(2)(A) the maximum number of events that can be held per       month; and

(B) appropriate National Park Service staffing levels       necessary to ensure public safety and resource protection       during such events;

(3) liability insurance in an amount sufficient to protect       the interests of the United States that lists the United       States as additionally insured;

(4) a provision stating that the Federal Government and       agents and employees of the Federal Government will not be       held liable for claims for damages or suits for any injuries       or deaths from any cause resulting from the occupancy and use       of specified Park buildings by the Foundation;

(5) a provision allowing for the modification or       cancellation of the terms and conditions of the agreement,       except that any modified agreement shall still comply with       the terms and conditions described in subparagraphs (1)       through (4); and

(6) any other terms and conditions as the Secretary       considers appropriate.

(c) Use.--Private events hosted at the Park or in Park       buildings through an agreement entered into under subsection       (a)--

(1) shall be limited to activities--

(A) consistent with the purposes of the Park; and

(B) compatible with National Park Service programs;

(2) shall not include activities that degrade the       integrity, appearance, or purposes of the Park; and

(3) shall not take place during times or in locations that       prevent or disrupt public use or access to the Park or Park       buildings.

(d) Recovery of Costs.--In entering into an agreement under       subsection (a), the Secretary--

(1) shall charge a fee to cover the cost of maintaining the       Park and Park buildings with respect to wear and tear       resulting from the private events; and

(2) notwithstanding any other provision of law, may recover       all costs incurred as a result of the private events and use       of the Park and Park buildings, including maintenance,       utilities, administrative expenses, security, and personnel       costs.

(e) National Park Service-Sponsored Events.--Nothing in       this Act prevents the National Park Service from hosting       events or issuing permits to other individuals or entities       for special events or otherwise, as appropriate, in the Park       or Park buildings.

(f) Sunset.--

(1) In general.--The authority to enter into and carry out       an agreement with the Foundation pursuant to this Act shall       sunset on the date that is 7 years after the date of       enactment of this Act.

(2) Effect on existing agreement.--Any existing agreement       entered into under this section shall terminate,       notwithstanding any terms within such agreement, on the date       that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

(g) Saving Clause.--Nothing in this Act affects any other       authority of the Secretary to issue special use permits or       agreements.

(h) Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of       this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on       Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a       report evaluating the implementation of this Act, including       the--

(1) operational impacts of the agreement on visitor access,       security, staffing, and facilities management; and

(2) financial implications of the agreement, including fees       collected and costs recovered.

Mr. WITTMAN.  5254, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5254, the Gateway  Partnership Act. This is bipartisan legislation sponsored by  Representatives Bell and Wagner of Missouri. This bill creates an  innovative new model for public-private partnerships at our national  parks by authorizing the National Park Service to enter into an  agreement with the Gateway Arch Park Foundation to host events and  community programming at Gateway Arch National Park.

Gateway Arch towers over the city of St. Louis, Missouri, and  welcomes millions of visitors each year to the first city built across  the Mississippi River. With its silver curve soaring over 600-feet high  across the riverbank, Gateway Arch serves as a reminder of the grit and  bravery our Nation's early pioneers showed when they left all that they  had and all that they knew behind to venture out toward the American  West. The arch also links America's original pioneer spirit of the past  with the drive to forge new futures today.

Recently, the park's main philanthropic partnership, the Gateway Arch  Park Foundation, completed a trailblazing, multimillion-dollar public- private partnership that reconnected the city and waterfront area and  created a new visitor center and green spaces. It also revitalized  historic buildings around Gateway Arch.

H.R. 5254 helps ensure that these newly renovated facilities, such as  the Old Courthouse and Arch Visitor Center, are used to their full  potential by allowing the foundation to host events in these spaces.

Allowing the foundation to fully utilize these facilities would not  only create new jobs but also generate an estimated $780,000 in  additional revenue for the park. H.R. 5254 does this while maintaining  strict guardrails around the usage of the park to ensure public access  is not impeded and no park resources are damaged during these events.

The bill is narrow, limited, and bipartisan. It is a commonsense way  to leverage private expertise and local investment to strengthen a  signature national park and generate new revenue to support its  operation.

Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 5254, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, by creating a time-limited pilot program allowing  private philanthropic partners to host events at park facilities, H.R.  5254 creates an innovative new model for improved public access, better  visitor experience, and new revenue streams to support park operations.

This bill will create jobs, boost the local economy, and provide new  opportunities to celebrate America's 250th birthday at one of the most  iconic national park destinations in the Midwest.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 5254, and I yield  back the balance of my time.