Guaranteeing Reliability Through the Interconnection of Dispatchable Power Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695756/guaranteeing-reliability-through-the-interconnection-of-dispatchable-power-act


Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R.  1047, the GRID Power Act.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Balderson for leading on this  bill and Energy and Commerce Chair Brett Guthrie and his staff for  their incredible work on this. I thank the chairman for all of his  efforts to make sure that we have the energy grid that we need for the  future.

Mr. Speaker, we know where the demands are coming from. We know that  we have to have the additional high-performance data capability if we  are going to lead in artificial intelligence. We know we are in a race  with China. We know that, for the future of this Nation, for the future  of our children, we want to make sure that we are on the right path. We  know that we will use AI for the right purposes. I don't think anybody  believes that China is going to use AI for the right purposes.

Across the First Congressional District in the Commonwealth of  Virginia, I hear from my constituents about the rising costs of energy,  whether it is at the gas pump or their power bills.

I am proud to cosponsor this bill, H.R. 1047, because policies like  this ensure a supply of reliable, affordable electricity generation. In  turn, we want to do everything we can to lower costs for American  households while providing necessary energy.

We have challenges now. The demand is going to increase precipitously  in the years to come. How do we make sure we meet that demand? How do  we make sure we have not just the generation sources in place but also  the transmission systems that work together to make sure that we are  working against any sort of large-scale failure scenarios that make a  problem for us in the long term? We have to address those problems now.

To achieve this, we have to give our regional transmission  organizations and our independent systems operators the necessary  authority to prioritize projects that increase interconnectivity, to  make sure these systems interconnect so that if there is a problem  somewhere, we can bring power back in.

That is what makes our grid today so incredibly important. If there  is a breakdown in transmission somewhere, we can find other ways to  bring power to people's homes. If there is a breakdown there with  generation, we can find other ways to bring power to people's homes,  bring power to people's businesses. That is why maintaining and  increasing that reliability in the future is key.

Resiliency in that grid is key, too. How do we do that? We make sure  that we do even more to empower the decisionmakers to have maximum  flexibility to make sure that they can put new improvements to our grid  in place to make sure that every bit of power generation capacity and  every bit of transmission capacity is ensured so that it gets power to  the consumer, to our families, and to our businesses. They rely on  that.

We know the interruption that it has. If you have power that goes out  at your home or power that goes out at your business, that is a major  inconvenience and, in some instances, a major interruption in your  business. It can be a major safety factor, too, for families that rely  on that power for things that are critical to people's well-being at  their homes.

We have to make sure that we are doing everything we can to make this  happen. By expediting the resources necessary to advance this  reliability, increase the reliability, and increase the resiliency in  the grid, we know that this legislation will help achieve that.

We know that this will help us unleash American energy production in  vast, new, improved ways. Again, modernize the grid and increase  reliability. Those things are key.

We want to make sure that we are doing that because that brings down  the cost of living and brings down the cost of power. When things are  more reliable, we have more opportunities to provide power in many  different ways. That brings down costs. This bill will allow us to do  that.

It also helps us restore American energy dominance, where we are  using all of the above. We want to use every asset at our avail, both  our energy itself, with what we produce there on the grid, and the  transmission within the grid.

We know that this is key for our working families and our small  businesses. That is the foundation of strong communities, and it starts  with making sure that we have a grid that has maximum reliability and  maximum resilience. This bill achieves that.

In closing, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill.

Mr. Speaker, again, I thank Chairman Guthrie for his leadership and  Representative Balderson for introducing this bill.