Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program Amendment Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700754/lower-colorado-river-multi-species-conservation-program-amendment-act-of-2025


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 831) to establish an interest-bearing account for the non- Federal contributions to the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species  Conservation Program, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 831

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Lower Colorado River Multi-      Species Conservation Program Amendment Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INTEREST-BEARING FUND.

Section 9402 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of       2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1328) is amended by adding       at the end the following:

``(c) Interest-Bearing Account for Non-Federal       Contributions.--

``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:

``(A) Agreement.--The term `Agreement' means the agreement       entitled the `Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation       Program Funding and Management Agreement' and dated April 4,       2005.

``(B) Fund.--The term `Fund' means the Non-Federal Funding       Account for the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species       Conservation Program established by paragraph (2).

``(C) Non-federal contribution.--The term `non-Federal       contribution' means an amount contributed by a State Party       for the non-Federal cost share described in section 8 of the       Agreement.

``(D) State party.--The term `State Party' has the meaning       given the term in section 3 of the Agreement.

``(2) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury       of the United States a fund, to be known as the `Non-Federal       Funding Account for the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species       Conservation Program', consisting of--

``(A) any amounts deposited in the Fund under paragraph       (3); and

``(B) any interest earned on investment of amounts in the       Fund under paragraph (4).

``(3) Deposits to fund.--

``(A) In general.--Pursuant to section 8.4 of the       Agreement, the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit in the       Fund--

``(i) any unexpended non-Federal contributions provided       before the date of enactment of this subsection; and

``(ii) any non-Federal contributions provided on or after       the date of enactment of this subsection.

``(B) Availability of amounts.--

``(i) Expenditure.--Amounts deposited in the Fund under       subparagraph (A) shall be made available to the Secretary,       without further appropriation, for expenditure--

``(I) as provided in the Program Documents; and

``(II) in accordance with this section.

``(ii) Interest.--Amounts derived from interest earned on       amounts in the Fund under subparagraph (A) shall be made       available, subject to appropriation of amounts derived from       such interest, to the Secretary for expenditure--

``(I) as provided in the Program Documents; and

``(II) in accordance with this section.

``(4) Investment of amounts.--

``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury may invest       any portion of the Fund that is not, as determined by the       Secretary, required to meet the current needs of the Fund.

``(B) Requirement.--Investments under subparagraph (A) may       be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United       States.

``(5) Transfers of amounts.--

``(A) Transfer of previously contributed funds.--The       amounts required to be deposited in the Fund under paragraph       (3)(A)(i) shall be transferred from the general fund of the       Treasury to the Fund not later than 90 days after the date of       enactment of this subsection.

``(B) Transfer of future contributed funds.--As soon as       practicable after the date on which amounts described in       paragraph (3)(A)(ii) are contributed, those amounts shall be       transferred to the Fund.

``(C) Responsibility of state parties.--In accordance with       the Agreement, on deposit of amounts in the Fund under       paragraph (3), the State Parties shall not be responsible for       any losses due to investment of those amounts the Fund.''.

Mr. WITTMAN.  831, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 831, the Lower  Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program Amendment Act of  2025, sponsored by Representative Calvert from California.

The Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program aims to  conserve native fish populations, increase habitat for migratory birds  in the Lower Colorado River Basin, and allow for continued water and  power deliveries.

The Federal Government contributes 50 percent of its funding, and  three Lower Basin States provide the remainder. In recent years,  however, the pace of funding has outpaced the pace of work, leaving  available funds idle.

This legislation would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to place  the program's non-Federal funds in an interest-bearing account,  providing approximately $2 million annually that would otherwise be  borne by the Lower Basin States.

I commend Representative Calvert for his continued leadership, and I  urge my colleagues to support H.R. 831.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

I also want to reflect on Representative Elfreth's words, and that is  the incredible work by the Natural Resources Committee, the leadership  there with Chairman Westerman and Ranking Member Huffman, and an  incredible staff. They do a lot to bring these bills to the floor to  make sure, too, that they work through to make sure they can receive  bipartisan support. Truly, what Congress needs to do is get bills  through that have impacts on these districts.

Madam Speaker, you heard from Members today about the incredible  impact these bills have on people's lives and on their districts. That  is what makes legislating important. We should never forget that.  People send us here to get things done, to get bills like this done.  While they may be somewhat parochial in how they affect certain  regions, it is critical to the Nation that we understand that all of us  benefit when these great national treasures and natural resources are  enhanced and conserved. That is really what makes it great.

I appreciate Representative Elfreth's work and her cooperation on  H.R. 4294 in making sure we find a way to productively use a resource  that is now in overabundance and making sure that we do everything we  can within that realm.

It is key to us as members of the Natural Resources Committee to make  sure we get these things done. We are entrusted not only as  legislators, but we are entrusted by the people who elect us to be the  stewards of what they own: the great lands, treasures, and natural  resources of this Nation. That is what makes us great.

There is no other place on the planet that has this great abundance  of resources that have such great impact on communities. We are all  honored to be here today as advocates for that, along with our fellow  Members, to make sure these pieces of legislation see their way to  being signed into law.

I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. I thank the  incredible staff on the Natural Resources Committee for what has  culminated today in a number of fantastic pieces of legislation that  will make a difference in people's lives. We will continue to preserve  what we hold great in this Nation, and that is our true national  treasure, our natural resources.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.