Patricia Paige Post Office


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701600/patricia-paige-post-office


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of this piece of  legislation to designate the New Kent Post Office in honor of a  remarkable public servant, Patricia Paige.

Patricia was the very definition of a community leader, and her  impact will be felt for generations.

I knew Patricia. She was an incredible lady, one who served both her  country, her Commonwealth, and her community through those years.

After graduating from New Kent High School, she served our Nation  honorably in the United States Army Reserve for 21 years, embodying the  very best of service and sacrifice.

Patricia's commitment didn't end with her military service. Patricia  continued to give back at home. She stepped forward in 2015 to serve on  the New Kent County Board of Supervisors. Reelected by her community  multiple times, she earned the trust and respect of those whom she  represented through her tireless dedication and steady leadership.

When Patricia saw an issue, saw a problem, or saw a challenge, she  ran to that opportunity to make sure that she worked for her community.  She was fearless, and she was selfless.

During her time on the New Kent County Board of Supervisors, Ms.  Paige worked tirelessly to bring people together across generations.  She created new opportunities for young people by ensuring student  voices were included in local government, appointing high school  students to county committees for the very first time. At the same  time, she championed efforts to protect seniors by helping establish  the Chickahominy Triad to educate older residents about fraud and  technological threats.

Patricia was a fighter in every sense of the word. As a cancer  survivor, Patricia courageously battled the disease multiple times,  while supporting others who were facing similar struggles. She was so  brave in the face of this devastating disease that you would never have  known that she was facing countless challenges in her own private life  and her own personal health as you saw her out in the community serving  others.

Whether Patricia was organizing events like the Relay for Life or  standing beside fellow survivors, she brought strength, compassion, and  dignity to every effort that she pursued.

Beyond her many accomplishments, Patricia Paige will be remembered  for her character, a leader with an infectious smile, a steadfast  advocate, and somebody who never ever walked away from a challenge in  the community.

Patricia never saw a stranger anywhere she went. She worked across  the region to accomplish big things, like the extension and expansion  of Interstate 64 through New Kent County, which was a passion of hers,  and she made sure that that got done.

I can tell you that when members of the legislature and members of  the Regional Transportation Authority saw Patricia Paige, they knew  what she was going to come and talk to them about and to make sure that  her constituents had that modernized transportation system through the  county--one that kept travelers safe, but also made sure that there was  an economic opportunity in New Kent County based upon that main  thoroughfare of Interstate 64.

Madam Speaker, I am honored to speak on behalf of this legislation  today to rename the post office in New Kent County so that Patricia  Paige's life and her legacy will continue to be recognized for  generations to come.