Post-Disaster Reforestation and Restoration Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700732/post-disaster-reforestation-and-restoration-act-of-2025


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 528) to require the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a  program for Post-Disaster Reforestation and Restoration Program, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 528

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Post-Disaster Reforestation       and Restoration Act''.       SEC. 2. POST-DISASTER REFORESTATION AND RESTORATION PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the       Secretary, in coordination with the heads of the covered       agencies, shall identify covered lands requiring       reforestation and restoration following unplanned       disturbances that are unlikely to experience natural       regeneration without assistance.

(b) Priority Projects.--In consultation with the heads of       covered agencies, the Secretary--

(1) shall propose a list of priority projects for       reforestation and restoration for each fiscal year;

(2) may carry out priority projects through--

(A) competitively awarded grants;

(B) contracts;

(C) contracts established under the Indian Self-      Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et       seq.); and

(D) cooperative agreements, to be awarded in accordance       with applicable requirements established by the Secretary;       and

(3) may support any grant contract or cooperative agreement       that may be necessary to ensure adequate and appropriate seed       and seedling availability to further the objectives of       priority projects.

(c) Outreach.--To fulfill requirements of this section the       heads of covered agencies shall conduct outreach to--

(1) Indian Tribes;

(2) States;

(3) territories;

(4) units of local government;

(5) Alaska Native organizations;

(6) Native Hawaiian organizations;

(7) institutions of higher education;

(8) Federal agencies with jurisdiction over Federal land       adjoining or proximal to priority projects; and

(9) other stakeholders as determined by the Secretary.

(d) Reports and Recommendations.--Not later than 2 years       after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually       thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the relevant       Congressional Committees a report that includes the       following:

(1) An accounting of all covered lands requiring       reforestation and restoration.

(2) A list of priority projects and implementation progress       to address reforestation and restoration objectives       identified.

(3) An accounting of grants, contracts, and cooperative       agreements established in furtherance of priority projects.

(4) Outreach efforts by covered agencies to advance       priority projects.

(5) Assessments of, and recommendations relating to seed,       seedling, and implementation gaps to advance priority       projects and opportunities to establish dedicated funding       necessary to address any backlog of reforestation and       restoration needs.

(e) Sunset.--The authority provided under this section       shall terminate on the date that is 7 years after the date of       enactment of this Act.

(f) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means the       National Park Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife       Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of       Reclamation, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

(2) Covered lands.--The term ``covered lands'' means--

(A) any Federal land or interest in land administered by a       covered agency; or

(B) Indian Forest Land or Rangeland.

(3) Indian forest land or rangeland.--The term ``Indian       Forest Land or Rangeland'' means land that--

(A) is held in trust by, or with a restriction against       alienation by, the United States for an Indian Tribe or a       member of an Indian Tribe; and

(B)(i)(I) is Indian forest land (as defined in section 304       of the National Indian Forest Resources Management Act (25       U.S.C. 3103)); or

(II) has a cover of grasses, brush, or any similar       vegetation; or

(ii) formerly had a forest cover or vegetative cover that       is capable of restoration.

(4) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian Tribe'' means any       Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village,       or community individually identified (including       parenthetically) in the list published most recently as of       the date of enactment of this Act pursuant to section 104 of       the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25       U.S.C. 5131).

(5) Natural regeneration.--The term ``natural       regeneration'' has the meaning given the term in section       (e)(4) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources       Planning Act of 1974 (U.S.C. 36 1601).

(6) Reforestation.--The term ``reforestation'' has the       meaning given the term in section (e)(4) of the Forest and       Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (U.S.C. 36       1601).

(7) Restoration.--The term ``restoration'' means assisting       the recovery of an ecosystem that has been degraded, damaged,       or destroyed, including the reestablishment of appropriate       plant species composition and community structure.

(8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary       of the Interior.

(9) Unplanned disturbance.--The term ``unplanned       disturbance'' means any unplanned disturbance that disrupts       ecosystem structure or composition and may include a       wildfire, an infestation of insects or disease, or a weather       event.

Mr. WITTMAN.  528, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 528, the Post-Disaster  Reforestation and Restoration Act, sponsored by Representative  Pettersen.

Madam Speaker, this bipartisan legislation, which is also part of the  Fix Our Forests Act, would create a post-disaster reforestation and  restoration program at the Department of the Interior.

Across the country, catastrophic wildfires are burning hotter and  more severely, turning once-pristine landscapes into charred  moonscapes. Hurricanes, windstorms, mudslides, and other natural  disasters can also leave behind millions of acres of land in need of  reforestation.

In many cases, if Federal land managers don't move quickly to replant  and restore scorched or uprooted lands, once-lush forests can  permanently decay into low-lying scrublands that are unproductive and  vulnerable to future fire and erosion.

When these forests disappear, they take with them clean water,  wildlife habitat, and the livelihoods of communities that depend on  them for recreation and employment. With millions of acres of forests  lost to catastrophic wildfires and other disasters, our Federal  agencies are bearing the strain of an enormous backlog of replanting  and restoration work.

In 2021, Congress passed legislation to partially address the Forest  Service's priority reforestation needs, although no similar authority  was included for the Department of the Interior. H.R. 528 offers a  straightforward solution to tackle the crisis and provides consistency  across all Federal land management agencies.

This bill directs agencies within the Department of the Interior to  identify priority landscapes most in need of reforestation and to  proactively partner with States, Tribes, local communities, and  institutions of higher learning to advance high-priority restoration  projects.

This bill is a practical, bipartisan way to prioritize vital  restoration work that requires immediate action. By allowing Federal  agencies to work with trusted partners, we can clear the way for  reforestation, get to faster restoration, and serve the communities  that rely on healthy, resilient forests.

I thank Representative Pettersen for her work on this bill, as well  as for her work on Fix Our Forests Act.

House of Representatives,                                        Committee on Agriculture,                                  Washington, DC, September 5, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Chairman: This letter confirms our mutual       understanding regarding H.R. 528, the ``Post-Disaster       Reforestation and Restoration Act of 2025.'' Thank you for       collaborating with the Committee on Agriculture on the       matters within our jurisdiction.

The Committee on Agriculture will forego any further       consideration of this bill. However, by foregoing       consideration at this time, we do not waive any jurisdiction       over any subject matter contained in this or similar       legislation. The Committee on Agriculture also reserves the       right to seek appointment of an appropriate number of       conferees, should it become necessary, and ask that you       support such a request.

We would appreciate a response to this letter confirming       this understanding with respect to H.R. 528 and request a       copy of our letters on this matter be published in the       Congressional Record during Floor consideration            Sincerely,                                             Glenn ``GT'' Thompson,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                  Washington, DC, September 8, 2025.      Hon. Glenn Thompson,      Chairman, Committee on Agriculture,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Thompson:  I write regarding H.R. 528. the       ``Post-Disaster Reforestation and Restoration Act of 2025,''       which was ordered reported by the Committee on Natural       Resources on July 23. 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture and       appreciate your willingness to forgo further consideration of       the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee on Agriculture       will not formally consider H.R. 528 and agree that the       inaction of your Committee with respect to the bill does not       waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter contained       therein.

I am pleased to support your request to name members of the       Committee on Agriculture to any conference committee to       consider such provisions. I will ensure that our exchange of       letters is included in the Congressional Record during floor       consideration of the bill and will include such letters in       the committee report on H.R. 528. I appreciate your       cooperation regarding this legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                          Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, this bill is a bipartisan, commonsense step to help  land managers within the Department of the Interior tackle forest  reforestation after wildfires, storms, and floods by working with  capable non-Federal partners in the areas that need help the most. This  legislation will help restore desolate landscapes to thriving forests.

As I mentioned before, the legislation previously passed the House as  part of the bipartisan Fix Our Forests Act. I hope to see that  legislation sent to the President's desk soon so that land managers  have every tool they need to restore forest health, prevent wildfires,  and protect communities.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.