Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700847/protecting-access-for-hunters-and-anglers-act


Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 556, the  Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act. This legislation  safeguards the rights of sportsmen and -women who play such a critical  role in the conservation of our lands and resources across our Nation.

As a lifelong hunter and recreational fisherman, I know firsthand how  important access to our public lands and waters is for America's  sportsmen and -women.

Hunters and anglers are some of the Nation's most dedicated  conservationists. They care deeply about the lands, and they  demonstrate that. Through the license fees that they pay, the excise  taxes that they pay, and on-the-ground stewardship, they have helped  fund wildlife management and habitat conservation for generations and  have been responsible stewards of the land.

Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen efforts to restrict the  use of traditional lead ammunition and fishing tackle on Federal lands  and waters, policies that would have placed unnecessary burdens on  sportsmen and -women and limited the access to these outdoor traditions  that are so fundamental to what Americans cherish.

I appreciate the Trump administration and Secretary Burgum for taking  action through a Secretarial order to address this issue and protect  access for hunters and anglers, those true stewards of the great  resources that are part of this Nation.

This legislation builds on that effort by codifying these protections  in law, ensuring that future administrations cannot impose sweeping  restrictions that are not grounded in science or consistent with State  wildlife management authority.

The Protecting Access for Hunters and Anglers Act ensures that any  future restrictions on lead ammunition or tackle on Federal lands and  waters must be supported by sound science and aligned with State law.  Let me repeat that again. Counter to the gentleman from California's  statement, this requires a demonstration of sound science in  coordination with State management agencies.

State wildlife management agencies have primacy in managing the  resources in their States, and Congress should make sure that we honor  the regulations and requirements that they put in place to make sure  that hunters and anglers have access to the resources that belong to  them. These resources belong to the citizens of the United States of  America, everyone, not just a group that says, no, we want to restrict  access, or we want to use pseudoscience to say that there is a threat  here, or we want to state that a species that is actually on the road  to recovery is somehow threatened or endangered.

My colleagues can mislead, but the American people aren't going to  fall for that. The American people understand what this is about, and  that is allowing them to have access to the lands that they own and to  the resources that belong to all of us. That is what makes this Nation  great.

States have long been the primary managers of fish and wildlife. That  is their responsibility, and they are best positioned to make decisions  that balance conservation with continued access for hunters and  anglers. Congress should respect the States. The 10th Amendment tells  us to do so.

Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, this legislation will also help ensure that  participation in these outdoor traditions remains affordable, which  means they will be accessible.

Republicans want to reduce barriers that could prevent the next  generation of sportsmen and -women from getting involved. The young  folks of today want to be a part of the outdoors. Let's make sure we  don't stop that.

I was proud to see this bill pass the House last Congress, and I  remain committed to advancing it once again so that it can be sent to  the Senate and, ultimately, to President Trump's desk.

Protecting access for hunters and anglers means protecting the  conservation model that has sustained America's wildlife and public  lands for decades.