Recognizing Mathews Museum's May Faire


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702156/recognizing-mathews-museums-may-faire


Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Mathews  Museum in Mathews County, Virginia, as it proudly sponsors the County's  annual spring festival, May Faire, to be held May 2, 2026, and May 3,  2026. Now in its seventh year under the Museum's stewardship, this  year's celebration is especially significant as it honors our Nation's  250th Anniversary.

Founded nearly 14 years ago, the Mathews Museum has grown steadily in  both size and stature, becoming an integral part of the County's  cultural and economic vitality. Guided by a dedicated Board of local  residents, the Museum is committed to preserving, exploring, and  sharing the rich history of Mathews County, ensuring that its stories  remain vibrant for future generations.

Through the collection and preservation of books, documents,  artifacts, and cultural objects, the Museum brings the County's past to  life. Its exhibits and educational programs offer residents and  visitors alike a deeper understanding of Mathews County and highlight  the important role the Commonwealth of Virginia has played in our  Nation's history. Each year, May Faire invites attendees to explore a  different aspect of the County's heritage. This year's focus highlights  the area's rural way of life, its people, traditions, and enduring  stories

Festivities on the historic Court Green will include traditional May  Pole dances, musical entertainment, an archaeological dig led by the  Fairfield Foundation, and a children's area featuring live animals,  games, and hands-on activities. Inside the Museum, new exhibits will  further engage and inspire. Among them are the Hunley General Store and  a developing diorama of the Battle of Cricket Hill. Guests can also  explore the history of the Indigenous peoples who lived in the Mathews  area through original artifacts, a hands-on touch table, and a hand- carved dugout canoe.

I commend the citizens of Mathews County for their dedication to  preserving their history and sharing it with the public. Their efforts  enrich not only their community but also the Commonwealth of Virginia  and our Nation as a whole.