Shivwits Band of Paiutes Jurisdictional Clarity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700759/shivwits-band-of-paiutes-jurisdictional-clarity-act


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 3073) to confer jurisdiction on the State of Utah with  respect to civil causes of action arising on or within the Indian lands  of the Shivwits Band of Paiutes, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3073

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Shivwits Band of Paiutes       Jurisdictional Clarity Act''.       SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Indian lands.--The term ``Indian lands'' means lands of       the Shivwits Band of Paiutes that are--

(A) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of       the Shivwits Band of Paiutes; or

(B) subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by       the United States.

(2) Shivwits band of paiutes.--The term ``Shivwits Band of       Paiutes'' means--

(A) the Shivwits Band of Paiutes, a federally recognized       Indian Tribe restored by Congress pursuant to the Paiute       Indian Tribe of Utah Restoration Act (Public Law 96-227; 94.       Stat. 317);

(B) the recognized governing body of the Shivwits Band of       Paiutes;

(C) any Shivwits Tribal enterprise, including any       commercial activity, business, or entity managed, controlled,       or operated by the Shivwits Band of Paiutes, and any       subsidiaries thereto; and

(D) any corporation chartered by the Shivwits Band of       Paiutes under section 17 of the Act of June 18, 1934       (commonly known as the ``Indian Reorganization Act'') (48       Stat. 988, chapter 576; 25 U.S.C. 5124), and any subsidiaries       thereto.       SEC. 3. STATE CIVIL JURISDICTION.

The State of Utah shall have jurisdiction over any civil       cause of action--

(1) to which the Shivwits Band of Paiutes is a party; and

(2) that arises on or within the Indian lands.       SEC. 4. FEDERAL COURT JURISDICTION.

(a) In General.--Any contract or agreement, including a       lease, affecting or arising on the Indian lands, or to which       the Shivwits Band of Paiutes is a party, shall be considered       within the meaning of ``commerce'' as defined in section 1 of       title 9, United States Code.

(b) Causes of Action.--Any cause of action arising from any       contract or agreement, including a lease, affecting or       arising on the Indian lands, or to which the Shivwits Band of       Paiutes is a party, shall be deemed to be a civil cause of       action arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of       the United States within the meaning of section 1331 of title       28, United States Code.       SEC. 5. SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY NOT ABROGATED.

Nothing in this Act abrogates--

(1) the sovereign immunity of the Shivwits Band of Paiutes       from unconsented suit; or

(2) the authority of the Shivwits Band of Paiutes to waive       that sovereign immunity.       SEC. 6. SHIVWITS BAND OF PAIUTES LEASING AUTHORITY.

Subsection (a) of the first section of the Act of August 9,       1955 (69 Stat. 539, chapter 615; 25 U.S.C. 415(a)), is       amended, in the second sentence, by inserting ``, land held       in trust for the Shivwits Band of Paiutes'' after ``land held       in trust for the Confederated Tribes of the Chehalis       Reservation''.

Mr. WITTMAN.  3073, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, in 2022, a 10th Circuit Court of Appeals case studied  the Shivwits Band of Paiutes accordingly due to the opportunity for  economic development when the court ruled that Utah State courts lacked  the jurisdiction to hear cases involving on-reservation conduct. If an  issue were to arise between the Tribe and an outside investor, there  would be no guarantee that a State court could intervene. As a result,  outside groups have grown hesitant to work with the Shivwits Band.

H.R. 3073, the Shivwits Band of Paiutes Jurisdictional Clarity Act  introduced by Ms. Maloy of Utah would clarify in statute that the Utah  State courts hold jurisdiction over civil cases involving members of  the Shivwits Band on their Tribal land. In addition, this legislation  would follow congressional precedent by amending the Long-Term Leasing  Act to allow the Shivwits Band to lease land held in trust for up to 99  years.

I commend Ms. Maloy for her work on behalf of her constituency.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Utah (Ms. Maloy), the lead sponsor of this bill.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I am  prepared to close, and I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, H.R. 3073 ensures that the Shivwits Band  of Paiutes' sovereignty remains intact, while offering legal certainty  in economic development with outside investors. Additionally, the Tribe  would  be able to lease its land for up to 99 years, as Congress has  previously done for many other Tribes, creating new economic  opportunities for the Tribe, which are well-deserved.

Madam Speaker, I thank Ms. Maloy for her work. I urge the passage of  H.R. 3073, and I yield back the balance of my time.