Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695147/streamlining-procurement-for-effective-execution-and-delivery-and-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2026


Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Chair, I thank the chairman and ranking member of  the committee for their leadership throughout this year's NDAA process.

Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3838, the Streamlining  Procurement For Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense  and Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026.

As the United States faces pacing threats from China, this NDAA  ensures the United States remains peerless by reforming and modernizing  the Pentagon's acquisition policies. This bill includes my provision  instituting a minimum assignment period of 6 years for acquisition  program executive officers, strengthening institutional memory in the  acquisition process.

It also cuts through red tape by exempting smaller programs from  cumbersome regulatory burdens. It revitalizes the national defense  industrial base by establishing the defense industrial resiliency  consortium, and it bridges the ``Valley of Death'' by creating the  Bridging Operational Objectives and Support for Transition Program to  efficiently align high-potential technologies with unmet operational  needs.

As chairman of the Subcommittee on Tactical Air and Land Forces, we  have ensured this bill delivers on maintaining a capable and lethal  fighting force by authorizing over $38 billion for the development,  procurement, and modification of aircraft, including full funding for  the 6th generation F-47 and F/A-XX programs. It also authorizes $15  billion to restore America's ammunition arsenal.

Crucially, this bill addresses the emerging threat of unmanned  aircraft systems, or UAS. These systems are poised to be the IED of our  future conflicts if we do not successfully counter them at home and on  the battlefield.

The fiscal year 2026 NDAA fully funds the President's request for  counter-UAS systems and implements a pilot program to utilize  commercial data feeds to more accurately detect, identify, and track  UAS incursions near military installations.

Madam Chair, I thank the subcommittee's ranking member,  Don  Norcross, for his leadership in these efforts and for his shared,  bipartisan vision for our Nation's security.

Madam Chair, this year's NDAA is a strong, bipartisan bill that works  to keep the United States the most dynamic and lethal military power on  the planet.

Madam Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill.