Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act


Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his leadership.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1520, the  Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant Discrimination Prevention Act.

This legislation is deeply personal for many families across the  United States who have experienced unimaginable pain and loss simply  because their loved ones had a disability.

One of those families is from my district in Ocala, Florida, Bobbi  and Josh Sarmiento. Their infant son, baby Zion, was born with Down  syndrome and in need of a heart transplant. At just 6 months old, Zion  was denied that chance.

The doctors told the parents, Bobbi and Josh, that baby Zion's life  wasn't worth the heart, that it couldn't ``be wasted'' on a child with  a disability.

That is not just wrong, but it is inhumane. It should never ever  happen again.

This bill that we are considering here today is named after Charlotte  Woodward, a remarkable woman with Down syndrome who received a  lifesaving heart transplant over a decade ago.

Charlotte's story is a living, breathing testament to the truth that  we must affirm here today: Every life, regardless of disability, has  value and potential.

I am so pleased to announce that Charlotte is with us here today in  the gallery. I recognize you, Charlotte, and thank you for all that you  do.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1520 ensures that individuals with disabilities are  not discriminated against in organ transplant eligibility. It gives  families a mechanism for timely intervention, time that oftentimes  families just don't have, through the Department of Health and Human  Services, when medical decisions are clouded by bias rather than  compassion and science.

I am proud to work once again with my colleague and friend  Congresswoman Debbie Dingell in advancing this bipartisan effort. This  bill passed overwhelmingly in the last Congress,  and I am confident that this body will do what is right once again.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill and fight for  life.