Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Guthrie for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Unlocking Our Domestic LNG  Potential Act.

In 2024, America exported nearly 12 billion cubic feet of LNG every  single day. That is enough LNG to power almost 48 million homes in a  single day.

What we are now faced with is making President Trump's vision of  American energy dominance real.

LNG has a huge part to play in this vision, but we are fighting with  one hand tied behind our back.

American oil and gas producers are restrained by bureaucratic red  tape and the lingering rules and regulations of the Biden  administration.

The Unlocking Our Domestic LNG Potential Act stands as a pivotal  piece of legislation poised to bolster United States energy security,  foster economic growth, and promote environmental sustainability. At  its very core, the bill aims to streamline the regulatory process  surrounding the exportation of LNG, thereby unleashing the full  potential of America's abundant natural resources.

Now in north central Florida, not many people know this, but we are  home to one of the largest bunkering LNG hubs in North America. This is  critical to our domestic economy, as well as our national security.

The reason why this bill is so important is, first and foremost, it  addresses the Biden administration's extreme LNG permit ban. By  facilitating the exportation of LNG, we reduce our reliance on foreign  energy sources, mitigating the geopolitical risks, and enhance our  national security in the process.

By expanding LNG export capabilities, it means that this is job  creation. It stimulates investment in our energy infrastructure and  fosters innovation across the related industries.

Increased LNG exports translate into expanded markets, bolstering  domestic production, and will do more in the next 50 years than we can  imagine.

As I mentioned, the State of Florida is a dominant player in this  role. We need to make sure that we are doing everything we can to make  sure that the unelected bureaucrats are not hindering growth.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage all my colleagues to support this  legislation.