-9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today we mark 2 years since the  horrific attack in Israel on October 7, 2023.

Two years ago, Israel was the victim of one of the most vicious,  vile, terrible crimes in recent memory--maybe in all of history.  Thousands of Hamas terrorists poured across the border and slaughtered  more than 1,200 Israelis and abducted dozens more.

So today we remember, as we must, all who lost their lives, and we  remember the families who have lost their loved ones. And our hearts go  out to them, as they did in those days immediately following that  horror.

We cannot forget the 48 hostages still enduring unimaginable  suffering at the hands of Hamas, and we pray for their return. The  wound of October 7 is still healing. It may never heal, but it is also  a call to action and remembrance.

In the days immediately following October 7, I traveled to Israel. I  met with families of those hostages. I have spoken since then to  members of the IDF and to Palestinians. The war has never been against  Palestinians; it is against Hamas. And I have been so deeply moved by  the strength and bravery of those hostage families as well as many  others. I have family in Israel, so this war is personal, and in my  visits to Israel, I have also visited other nations and met with  leaders in the region.

And today, I have more hope than ever that there is a narrow path to  bringing those hostages home, to providing more humanitarian aid, and  meeting the crisis in Gaza--a humanitarian crisis--as well as a  permanent cease-fire, an end to Hamas's threat to Israel.

Today, I stand in solidarity with Israel. I believe in Israel's right  to self-defense against this kind of terror. We should commit ourselves  to take advantage of this window of opportunity. I hope that the peace  plan that is on the table will provide a path, as it should, to  everyone who wants an end to the suffering and bloodshed and the  humanitarian crisis that continues, a peace that guarantees the  security of the Israeli people, an end to the humanitarian crisis in  Gaza, and the end of Hamas, so that all may live free of fear and  oppression.

I hope that the memory of all who lost their lives on October 7 will  be a blessing and that we will never forget them and honor them through  action, honor them through the pursuit of peace and justice.

I am proud to have visited as well with members of communities in  this country that have stood with Israel, and I am hopeful that the  bipartisan unity consistently shown by this body over decades will be  continued. It needs to be strengthened. It has frayed, but  bipartisanship has always characterized support for Israel.

I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will treat this day  not only with the solemnity and seriousness that it deserves but also  with a renewed commitment to make this cause bipartisan, the pursuit of  peace, support of Israel, an end to the humanitarian crisis, and a  lasting, stable solution for the Middle East.