-9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, Americans are watching members of the  military patrolling the streets of major cities in the United States of  America. I never thought I would utter those words anywhere, let alone  on the floor of the U.S. Senate--members of the military in our  neighborhoods, on our streets, patrolling under authority.

What authority? That is the question. That authority has been  challenged, and it will continue under challenge because the courts are  continuing to decide whether Donald Trump has turned the National Guard  into an illegal police force, in effect, to serve his political ends  and personal whims.

But there is no question as to the fact that members of the military  are in major cities despite clear and consistent objections from  Governors, from mayors, from police chiefs, from community groups, from  citizens across the United States, and, yes, from Members of the U.S.  Senate.

Today, in DC, California, Oregon, and Illinois, these National  Guardsmen are not only patrolling the streets, they are aiding and  supporting ICE crackdowns--again, despite challenges to their legality.  Now, three district courts in California, Oregon, and Illinois have  said it is illegal. One court of appeals has allowed it to go partially  forward, but there remains a court order stopping it in Illinois, and  the litigation will go forward.

But here is the threat, the really dire and dangerous threat:  President Trump has said that if those challenges prevail, he will  invoke the Insurrection Act. He has said that if courts or Governors  delay the deployment, he will invoke an act that is 217 years old,  which was written after the Whiskey Rebellion and the Battle of the  Wabash, when local police simply didn't exist in most places or were  overrun in those areas by the farmers who were objecting to Federal  taxes. That original Insurrection Act was written at a time when police  forces were limited and poorly equipped. The Insurrection Act provided  for a Federal force when a genuine insurrection, rebellion, or armed  violence was occurring beyond the control of local or State officials,  and that is the point here.

The Founders found abhorrent the idea that there be a standing  military force that could somehow act as a policing mechanism. In fact,  they objected--many of them--to a standing army at all. But the concept  of a military force defending the United States was that it be aimed at  foreign adversaries and enemies. The threats from abroad were its  target, not internal policing, not problems of law enforcement within  the homeland.

That is precisely what President Trump is using the military now to  do--a violation of the Constitution, of the spirit and purpose of the  Insurrection Act, and the modern-day realities of law enforcement.  Those realities are that police forces are the ones equipped and  trained to contain the kinds of potential threats in cities or towns or  States that purportedly Donald Trump wants to use the military to  quell.

Well, the simple fact is, on the streets in those neighborhoods,  there is no threat of violence that justifies these kinds of police  state tactics. The court in Oregon specifically found that in the last  weeks and couple of months, there has been no violence on any  widespread scale. The same findings more or less have been done by  courts in other jurisdictions. But even if there were, police forces  there have state-of-the-art weapons, equipment, analysis tools,  communication platforms, and training--all that is necessary to do the  job of addressing the kind of threat or violence that President Trump  seems to feel exists there. There was no such professional force,  locally or statewide, when the Ninth Congress passed the original  Insurrection Act.

Today, in the 119th Congress, the problems that law enforcement was  designed to address simply are no longer commensurate with the dangers  it is creating now. And I will note that I introduced the Insurrection  Act of 2024 before the current administration took office. In fact, a  Democrat was President at the time.

But after the President's decision to deploy Active-Duty marines  along with the National Guard in Los Angeles, I reintroduced this  legislation with my colleagues from California and 16 other States.

The danger of the President invoking the Insurrection Act is no  longer hypothetical or abstract; it is real. It is happening now. The  President shows no signs of stopping these deployments. They are  becoming more widespread, not less. The President's threat to invoke  the Insurrection Act is real. It  has to be taken as real. And I believe the courts will continue to rule  against him and that he may well use the Insurrection Act as a weapon  to expand his deployments and turn these cities and States into armed  camps and police states. He will, in short, circumvent both Congress  and the judicial system because of the current breadth and expansive  powers under the Insurrection Act.

When it was written, there was no danger of abuse. Now, there is.

When 600 armed rebels attacked government troops during the Whiskey  Rebellion, there was a need for Federal troops there. Nearly 1,000  Federal troops, in fact, died at the Battle of Wabash.

We are not seeing armed rebels organized to resist Federal taxes  coming against local police. We are not seeing the troops in a pitched  battle with organized rebels here in DC or in Portland or Chicago. What  we are seeing are members of the military going through streets in  armed vehicles, enabling ICE to crack down.

Now, let's be clear, this issue is unrelated to enforcement of our  immigration laws. We can advocate strongly that immigration laws be  vigorously pursued and prosecuted. It just shouldn't be done by the  U.S. military. We have ICE to do it. And we can be critical of ICE for  the kind of masked raids in unmarked cars that occurred just recently  at an apartment building in Chicago, taking citizens as well as  immigrants out of their apartment.

We are here because of the need to specify in the Insurrection Act  when it can be invoked, and this measure that I have reintroduced would  very simply create checks and balances and limit the Executive's  authority to deploy troops domestically. It wouldn't interfere at all  or relate to his use of troops abroad, outside the boundaries and  borders of the United States.

It allows Congress to support the President's decision to extend the  deployment through a joint resolution of approval, but it requires that  he come to Congress for approval after a certain period of time. It  requires the Attorney General to certify that alternatives are  insufficient and for the Joint Chiefs of Staff to detail the size, the  scope, and the expected duration of deployment and certify that the  forces to be deployed can execute the mission.

And it provides for judicial review. It ensures that courts can  prohibit flagrant abuse--not substituting their judgment for the  President's but review whether there is a coverable basis for this kind  of action. And finally, it clarifies that the original Insurrection Act  does not allow the President to suspend habeas corpus and impose  martial law or deputize private citizens.

The President should have that power to use our military to quell a  genuine rebellion, organized and armed, creating violence that cannot  be contained by local and State police. It should not enable him to  deploy our military willy-nilly because of his unbridled authority  under the current law.

I have the utmost respect for our National Guard, our Connecticut  National Guard. As I say, when you call out the National Guard, you  call out America, and they should not be abused to police their fellow  citizens, to act as local police in missions that they are not trained  or equipped to handle.

I fear for the future of our National Guard and the future of our  military if the President is emboldened or enabled to use them for  partisan political purposes. He has already, I fear, damaged the  credibility and trust in our military by deploying them in the way that  he has done already.

Our National Guard is there when disaster strikes. They help to clear  the roads and enable people to go back to their homes. I have seen  them, in the wake of natural catastrophes, be lifesavers, literally,  for the people of Connecticut and, I am sure, for others all around  America.

They are vital to our defense when they are deployed abroad under the  President's authority to use them abroad against our enemies, as they  are now deployed from Connecticut and elsewhere all around the globe.

But we need to stem the tide of Executive overreach. We can protect  our civil liberties, our communities, and our military by imposing  these checks and balances in the Insurrection Act that I have  submitted. It well serves the interests of our States--indeed, our  States' rights--our military, and the traditions and ethos of our great  National Guard and Active-Duty military, and it serves the American  people in preserving rights and liberties that our Founders were  zealous to protect.

2070 and the Senate proceed to its immediate  consideration; that the bill be considered read a third time and passed  and the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the  table.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, before I turn to my distinguished  colleague Senator Welch from Vermont I have a few quick points in  response.

First, I would note that my friend from Texas has not mentioned at  all the Insurrection Act. My problem is not only with the use of the  National Guard as a police force but, even more alarmingly, the  potential use of virtually unchecked power under the Insurrection Act.

The measure that I seek unanimous consent on is the Insurrection Act  that I have offered to provide limits on the President's power, if the  court should tell him that he can't use the National Guard in the way  that he has done, and he makes good on his threat to invoke the  Insurrection Act.

Second point, the Senator from Texas and I have worked together on a  number of measures. I am proud of the work that we have done. One area  where we agree is that there ought to be law enforcement rigorously and  vigorously to stop crime, to deter it, to punish it, and to make sure  that our neighborhoods and streets are safer.

In fact, he and I both served as attorneys general of our States, and  we are both on the Judiciary Committee.

The question here is, really, fighting crime and how best to do it.  My feeling is that the best way to fight crime--local and State  offenses--is to bolster local and State police forces, not to cut them  and the resources supporting them, as President Trump has done.

He has, in effect, cut the Byrne grants from the Department of  Justice. He has stopped training programs. He has reduced the  provisions and programs for equipment.

So the restrictions that are imposed on resources going to the  Federal Government for local and State police were contrary to the  goals of fighting crime.

Using the National Guard as a substitute for local and State police  is not only contrary to law. It is also contradictory to the practical  demands of policing, which require a different kind of equipment and  training than our National Guard have.

Local and State police ought to be supported as enthusiastically and  fully as we can do, and not, in effect, use the National Guard as a  quick fix.

They won't stay in the District of Columbia for months or years. They  are here very temporarily. And if they have accomplished a reduction in  crime, the same could have been done by simply providing more  resources, more cops on the streets with the equipment that they need  to accomplish the same thing.

We are not talking about securing our borders. We are not talking  about nullification of Federal law. We are talking about overreach and  possible overuse, contrary to the spirit of our Federal system of a  National Guard force that should be fighting our adversaries abroad or  taking care of natural disasters or catastrophes, not employed as local  police, which they are not equipped or trained to do as readily as  civilian police.

With that, I will turn to my colleague from Vermont.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I thank the Senator from Vermont for  being here. We will be followed by others who have not yet come to the  floor. I expect them momentarily. I want to thank my colleague from  Vermont for being here today and for his very powerful remarks.

Despite the objection, we are committed to pursue this issue, to seek  a change in the law that will assure Americans that our military is  used properly for the purpose that the Founders and all of us want them  to do.

I am pleased to be followed now by my colleague from California  Senator Schiff.