-9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I am honored to follow my colleague  from Connecticut and to build on some of the arguments that he has made  so well. We are here because our democracy is in crisis. It is not some  potential catastrophe on the horizon that is distant or hypothetical.  It is real. It is now because of the lawlessness and recklessness of  this administration.

And it is the result of a contempt for the law, for legal norms that,  seemingly, is boundless. We have seen it in the Jimmy Kimmel episode  where the FCC Chair said, in mobster-like language: They can do it the  hard way or the easy way.

``You have a nice restaurant there. It would be a shame if anything  happened to it.'' I prosecuted mob cases. That is the kind of language  we see from organized crime.

And it was shown in the indictment of James Comey, a document signed  only by the U.S. attorney, not by any career official, and after only  14 members of the 23 people on that Grand Jury voted to do it on two of  the counts, rejecting a third.

All of this kind of procedure is so highly extraordinary. As a former  prosecutor, it would be an embarrassment. But this administration is  beyond shame when it comes to lawlessness.

And we have seen it in immigration, in healthcare, in education, in  the VA, where countless people have been illegally fired, some of them  hired back.

And that is why we are insisting that there be a guarantee that the  President will follow the law when we pass a budget. It is not a  hypothetical danger that he will disobey it. In fact, he has ordered  rescissions, impoundments, clawbacks. If we pass a law, we have to be  sure the President will follow it. Otherwise, there really isn't any  point to this branch of government.

And so I say to my Republican colleagues, as a matter of your self- respect, as a matter of protecting this institution, you should agree  with us that there must be a guarantee that the rule of law will  prevail.

And I say to my constituents in Connecticut: We are going to stand up  for you to save your healthcare because you can't wait to get sick. You  don't choose to get sick on November 22 or January 3 when it is  convenient for Donald Trump and the Republican majority.

You need to know, when there is open enrollment on November 1,  whether or not your insurance will be affordable for you. You need to  know whether those subsidies will make it affordable for you because  otherwise you won't be able to buy insurance through the ACA. In fact,  90 percent of all people in Connecticut who buy insurance through the  ACA marketplace receive some kind of subsidy, and their insurance  premiums will skyrocket by 75 percent if that subsidy is ended. They  need to know now, when open enrollment starts, whether those subsidies  will be there for them.

And it will affect insurance premiums for everyone if we fail to  extend those subsidies as part of this continuing resolution now. Why?  Because healthier people who see their insurance premiums rise by 20  percent--right now, they are projected to rise at least 18 percent for  everyone because that is the cost of this failure to extend the  subsidies. The healthier people are going to say: I am not bothering. I  won't need it.

The sicker people may try to buy it, and the insurance companies will  have to cover illnesses, more of them, with fewer premiums, and they  will have to charge more to everyone to cover it.

So this failure to do the right thing has impacts for everyone who  seeks healthcare and tries to buy insurance to pay for it.

The Republican proposal is an abject failure when it comes to  ensuring that the American people don't pay more for healthcare. And I  heard from constituents just over this past weekend as I went to the  Durham Fair, as I went to the mum parade in Bristol, as I went to  Norwalk and Stamford and Milford, all around the State, people asking  me: What will happen to my health insurance? What will happen to my  healthcare?

Nothing is more important than health, and we are saving healthcare  for the American people by insisting that this extension of government  funding include a reversal of the cruel and stupid ``Big Blatant  Betrayal''--it is not a Big Beautiful Bill, the ``Big Blatant  Betrayal'' that failed to extend those healthcare subsidies--and insist  that whatever bill that is passed be obeyed by the President.

The ACA premium tax credits have protected millions of Americans from  those higher healthcare costs, and they have reduced the numbers of  Americans without health insurance coverage. They have provided robust  choices for consumers and provided stability for healthcare providers,  especially in rural areas.

And I have heard from those providers who are as worried as their  patients about what will happen to this program.

What the Republicans are doing is cruel. It is unnecessary. There is  a straightforward, simple solution. It should not be a partisan issue.  Republicans know we have to extend those subsidies. Why not now? That  is the mystery to the American people.

And there will be no credit for a shutdown. The American people know  that we are not seeking it. We hope to avoid it. It will be on  Republicans who have refused to come to the table. House Republicans  have refused even to come to town, come back to go into session, and  they are having discussions, reportedly, about whether they can have  fundraisers during the shutdown if there is one.

So we need some wiser heads and stronger conscience to prevail, and I  am hopeful there is still time to reach that kind of agreement.

I choose to stand with working families, and I urge my Republicans to  do the same.