-9999


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, today, marks the 60th anniversary of  the day that President Lyndon Baines Johnson signed the Social Security  Amendments of 1965, establishing Medicare and Medicaid--cornerstones of  American healthcare. These programs provide millions, including 1.5  million people in Connecticut, with access to comprehensive and  affordable healthcare.

Nothing is more important than our health. As the saying goes, if you  don't have your health, you don't have anything; and if you don't have  healthcare coverage, which for most Americans guarantees treatment,  diagnoses, effective healthcare, you don't have your health.

I am here--I wish I could say--to celebrate these vital programs,  but, really, I am here to defend them, to defend them against deep and  damaging cuts made by Senate Republicans and the Trump administration.  Their budget decimates Medicaid benefits. It threatens rural and  pediatric hospitals. It increases health insurance premiums for the  majority of Americans. Let me repeat: It increases premiums paid by  everyday Americans--the majority of our fellow citizens.

Health insurers are already proposing a median premium increase of 15  percent in 2026. That will be the largest in 5 years, and that is just  an estimate. You know, if you have had any experience with health  insurers, that if they are estimating 15 percent, it could well, in  fact, likely be higher. These cuts are not about eliminating fraud or  waste in the Federal government; they are about delivering tax breaks  to billionaires on the backs of working Americans.

This bill is an absolute disgrace. The American people should hold  every Member who voted for it accountable when they are next up for  election.

It is the biggest Medicaid cut in our history. Over 900,000 people in  Connecticut rely on Medicaid for their health insurance coverage; 30  percent of them are children.

In fact, in Connecticut, Medicaid covers 41 percent of births and 68  percent of people living in nursing homes. The majority of people in  nursing homes, in other words, depend on Medicaid, and they could well  be thrown out of those nursing homes.

Under this bill, up to 158,000 people in Connecticut will lose  Medicaid, and 53,000 will lose their ACA coverage. Even those who keep  their health coverage will see reduced benefits and strained providers  as the State struggles to make up the difference. People in Connecticut  are lucky because there will be an effort to make up the difference,  but many other States won't have that ability.

Just to be clear, these cuts are going to have an impact on everyone  because the Medicaid Program is a huge source of funding for all  hospitals. All hospitals depend on Medicaid. Even if you are not there  with Medicaid coverage, the quality of care that you will receive will  suffer as a result of these cuts. So even if you have private health  insurance, your nearest hospital could close. You may have to wait  longer for an appointment to see a doctor. Your out-of-pocket costs may  increase. Hospitals will attempt to recoup that lost funding on your  back. They have no choice. They have to stay open, and they have to  cover their costs.

To make matters worse, my Republican colleagues refuse to extend the  ACA enhanced premium tax credits. And 112,000 people in Connecticut  rely on these credits to lower their monthly premiums. They are a  lifesaver. They are a lifeline to health insurance coverage.

Without the extension, 10,000 children are at risk of losing  essential services, and 81 small business owners in the State will see  their premiums skyrocket. Premiums will rise for small businesses as  well as individuals.

These numbers are staggering. They are stunning. But they fail to  capture  the human costs, the impact on everyday people who look out the window  in the morning as they have their first cup of coffee or see their  children at night for dinner as they come home and wonder what will  happen in the event of a healthcare emergency--not even an emergency.  What will happen in the event of the flu, COVID, or any of the other  kinds of healthcare challenges that may arise?

So the net result here in human terms is couples forgoing children,  grandparents losing independence, people seeing preventable deaths,  skipped checkups, burned out healthcare workers. That is the real cost,  the human cost, the impact on people's state of mind, their level of  anxiety, their ability to focus on work because of physical pain they  may have because of illness but also anxiety about how that illness is  going to be covered by health insurance.

These cuts aren't just numbers. They are children, they are families,  they are grandparents, people with disabilities, your neighbors, your  friends, and probably you at some point.

Republicans knew the consequences. There was no mystery here. They  knew the data. They chose cruelty. These cuts are cruel, and they are  stupid. They are dumb because we all know that preventing health  emergencies, providing diagnoses, catching illnesses early, and  providing care and treatment early, in the long run, saves money for  all of us.

It is unforgivable that they decided to turn their backs on millions  of Americans, including their own constituents whose health and well- being is on the line.

Since this bill passed, of course, some Republicans are trying to  walk back their vote--buyer's remorse. They had mixed feelings at the  time, perhaps. They are supporting tweets like repealing the Medicaid  provider taxes or boosting rural hospital funds because they see that  those rural hospitals in their own States are going to be closing. They  know the impact of Medicaid cuts on hospitals in all areas and people  in every part of their States.

But those efforts are doomed to failure. They fall short. The rural  healthcare fund doesn't come close to offsetting the losses rural  providers will face from the cuts of Medicaid, just to give you one  example. That is why I have joined Senator Wyden and Senator Schumer in  introducing a bill that will repeal the health provisions in the ``Big  Blatant Betrayal.'' It is not a Big Beautiful Bill; it is a ``Big  Blatant Betrayal.'' This measure would extend the ACA premium tax  credits.

Again, Medicaid cuts are reprehensible and reckless. Cutting the ACA  premium tax credits affects hundreds of thousands of people in  Connecticut and millions around the country, everyday middle-class and  working Americans who have to cover healthcare bills.

I am going to keep fighting against any legislative efforts that put  the interests and desires of billionaires over the needs of working and  middle-class Americans.

This ``Big Blatant Betrayal'' is, in fact, simply cruel and stupid,  and I hope my Republicans colleagues will join us in these efforts to  truly walk back and compensate for the disastrous impact, the  devastating affect it will have on families and working people all  across this great country.

I am honored to yield to our distinguished leader.