Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, last year, I was privileged to lead a  bipartisan delegation of 20 of our colleagues to Normandy, celebrating  the  80th anniversary of the historic landing there, where American boys-- and they were boys, 17 and 18 years old--stormed the beaches of France  to liberate Europe. It was one of the most moving experiences of my  lifetime.

I believe the Presiding Officer was there. We were part of a  bipartisan group, evenly divided--10 Republicans and 10 Democrats. What  we heard and saw I think will stay with us for a lifetime, particularly  from the veterans who remembered that day. They are in their hundred- year-old ages of their lives.

After speaking to them, we heard speeches from the President of the  United States, of France, and leaders of Europe. But what stuck with me  was what I heard from the veterans.

One of them said to me, ``This was our moment.''

``This was our moment.''

We walked through the American cemetery, those silent rows of white  grave markers, down to the beach, Omaha Beach, where I thought of those  18- and 20-year-old boys jumping out of landing craft with 80 pounds on  their backs, into 8 feet of water, under a hail of machine gun bullets  and mortar fire, onto a beach three football fields long--three  football fields long--without any cover. There were no trees, there  were no dunes, and the hail of gunfire and mortars kept coming.

I think 90 percent died in the first wave, maybe 80 percent in the  second. They kept going--a third and a fourth wave, storming the  cliffs, taking back Europe, and saving democracy.

I kept thinking, as I walked on that bleak beach, windswept, waves  crashing, ``That was our moment.'' I kept thinking about the veteran  who said that to me. It was an American moment, and our reason for  going to Normandy was to honor those young men who saved democracy.

This is our moment. This is our moment to save democracy. I know it  sounds like an exaggeration to say that our democracy is now under  attack, but it is from adversaries and enemies abroad--China, Russia,  Iran, North Korea. But we also have to make sure that we safeguard our  liberties at home against attack and efforts to undermine them, even if  some may feel they are well-meaning.

One of them and only one of them is the illegal and unconstitutional  use of our military and the deployment of National Guard into American  cities to do what local law enforcement--our police and others, State  and local law enforcement--are supposed to do under our scheme of  government, where our military protects us from adversaries abroad, and  the FBI, the DEA, and our State and local police make sure we are safe  at home.

For 250 years, the military has defended our great Republic without  fail. It is the bulwark of freedom for this Nation. It is the hope for  millions and millions around the world who yearn for freedom. It is  nonpolitical. It remains one of the few institutions the American  people still revere. Americans have faith in the military because it is  nonpolitical.

So what the President is risking by using our military, whether it is  the National Guard or Active-Duty marines or another branch of service,  is not only a threat to the individual liberties of people in those  cities but also the credibility and reverence that the American people  have for this venerable institution that has protected us from  aggression and threats abroad.

By pursuing political goals with our young men and women in uniform,  he risks recruitment for the military; he risks the respect that our  constituents have that enables us to work for full funding and support  for our military, embodied by the National Defense Authorization Act  that we will consider hopefully just within a few hours.

When the Armed Services Committee considers the National Defense  Authorization Act, the votes at the end are almost always near  unanimous. In fact, in my 15 years on that committee, they have been  nearly unanimous every year. And we vote on it in a timely way to make  sure that we show support for this necessary institution.

The risk to our military as well as to our individual rights and  liberties is what prompted me to introduce the Insurrection Act of  2024.

We all know that the Insurrection Act has a long history. It was  written over 200 years ago, in the aftermath of the Whiskey Rebellion  and the Battle of Wabash--in those instances, probably not at the tip  of the tongue of most of us.

The forces of law enforcement were limited and poorly equipped. They  were barely existent. Local police. Virtually no State had its own  police. So there was a need for potential use of the military in those  instances. But even then, use of military was limited under the  original Insurrection Act because Americans feared a permanent standing  police doing local law enforcement.

I drafted this legislation in an effort to amend that outdated law,  which gives the President enormous, unchecked powers to deploy the  military to quell domestic rebellion.

Now, the lack of defining terms, the absence of real accountability,  and the vagueness of that statute are the reasons we now need reform.

Limits were imposed, but the limits are filled with loopholes,  practical gaps that fail to check the President's power. The problems  the act was designed to address are no longer commensurate with the  dangers it is now creating.

I reintroduced this legislation for this Congress, and I thank my  colleagues for supporting this effort.

The President's actions over the last 8 months demonstrate the need  for this urgent reform and increased congressional oversight.

Earlier this week, the President suggested that he would invoke the  Insurrection Act to deploy more guardsmen in major cities if the courts  or Governors delayed deployment. So I stand here with my colleagues  from Oregon, Illinois, and California, whose constituents are living  through this threat. It is now a reality as much as a threat.

I warned this body 2 years ago of this reality--unchecked power  deployed unconsciously.

I should say that this kind of use of the military poses a tremendous  threat to all of our civil liberties even if we are not from California  or Oregon or Illinois. It could happen in Connecticut. And the lack of  a factual basis for it is well documented in the district court  decision issued by a Federal judge days ago citing the absence of any  real need on the ground in real time, with evidence before her court-- statements from ICE officers that there was no need.

Her findings, which are airtight and persuasive, are the reason why I  am here to say the National Guard should not be deployed there.  Reliance should be placed on local and State police. There should be  challenges to any deployment in Illinois or California to test whether  it is actually needed to preserve order.

The National Guard has always been a symbol of hope for communities.  We have seen it in Connecticut when disaster struck. When there are  weather catastrophes, the National Guard is in our neighborhoods to  help remove downed trees or provide access to homes and to preserve  order when local police can't do it. But now, they are being used to  turn the military into the President's personal army.

The Founders warned of threats to liberty that a standing army would  create. It was one of their biggest fears because they had lived  through a time when the British had a standing army in their  neighborhoods--in fact, went into their homes and, without permission,  used their homes and shelters and food.

Through the years, through great force of effort at times, the  military has remained politically independent. It is under the  Commander in Chief, but it is nonpolitical. My bill would protect not  only American citizens from Executive overreach but also the military  from becoming pawns in any kind of political game.

This legislation would create checks and balances, limit the scope of  these deployments, authorize extensions via joint resolution, and  create a judicial review process. These commonsense solutions would  amend an outdated law that no longer fully serves the interests of this  Nation.

For the sake of our military and the constituents we represent, I  hope my colleagues will support this effort because this use of the  military is part of a larger effort to shift the focus of our national  defense to policing the homeland rather than protecting us from threats  abroad.

We need to provide strong, vibrant, vigorous law enforcement and  support  local and State or Federal policing funds, and that is why I have been  so upset and angry that this administration has cut funding--hundreds  of millions of dollars that aid and train local police, that increase  their numbers and provide aid for victims. The programs have been  decimated in the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security.

We need to put our money where our mouth is. This administration  needs to support our State and local police not just in rhetoric but in  reality. The reality is that there must be reform in the Insurrection  Act, not just to protect our citizens and our liberties at this  moment--this is our moment--but also the well-being and strength of the  American military.