Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Relating to ``Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Fuel System Integrity of Hydrogen Vehicles; Compressed Hydrogen Storage System Integrity; Incorporation By Reference''


Mr. BLUMENTHAL.  Res. 242, S. Res.  243, S. Res. 244, and S. Res. 245; that there be up to 2 hours for  debate on each resolution, individually; and that upon the use or  yielding back of that time, the Senate vote on adoption of the  resolutions, individually; and that if any of the resolutions are  adopted, the preambles be agreed to and the motions to reconsider be  considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, the purpose and effect of these  resolutions, very simply, is to provide votes. That is what we do in  the U.S. Senate--we vote. And on these votes, the Constitution is  involved. The provision of the Constitution commonly known as the  emoluments clause enables officials of the Federal Government--from a  sergeant in the Air Force or some other military branch to the  President of the United States--to accept payments or benefits from a  foreign power or other foreign entity or individual but only if there  is approval by the U.S. Senate and Congress.

We need to take those votes if the President of the United States is  to accept any benefits or payments. And that is what is happening in  plain sight, openly, for all to see.

Literally, tomorrow night, in the White House, individuals who have  invested to the President's benefit in his meme coin and World Liberty  Financial will have dinner with him in the White House. He has  literally put a ``For Sale'' sign on the White House. But money in his  pocket will come from some anonymous donors, some foreign investors,  and others in violation of the emoluments clause, unless there is  approval from the U.S. Congress. That is tomorrow night in the White  House.

And today, the Trump administration formally accepted a $200 million  Boeing 747-8 jumbo jet as a gift from the Government of Qatar. Now,  that plane may be used as Air Force One while he is in office before it  is transferred to the Trump Presidential Library Foundation before the  end of his term.

The Department of Defense has confirmed that the Secretary of  Defense, Pete Hegseth, has ordered the Air Force to plan rapid  modifications to upgrade the plane for use as Air Force One. They are  no small modifications. The plane has to be stripped down virtually to  its shell to ensure the installation of multiple top-secret systems.  The work will take, potentially, years to complete. And the estimate to  taxpayers--all of us American taxpayers--is about $1 billion.

That plane probably won't even be ready before the end of President  Trump's term when the foundation--his foundation--takes ownership of  it. It is a gift, in effect, to him from Qatar.

The Air Force is a passthrough entity. That is the arrogance of this  step--corruption--but also a violation of the emoluments clause, unless  there is approval from the U.S. Congress.

Majority leader Thune has said:

If and when the plane is no longer a hypothetical, I can       assure you there will be plenty of scrutiny of whatever that       arrangement might look like.

Well, it is no longer a hypothetical. Selling out American interests  began the first days and hours of this administration in President  Trump's second term. How did he celebrate his inauguration? Well, he  launched a cryptocurrency scheme, a meme coin. The only purpose of it  was to enrich the President. Unsurprisingly, by design, foreign  governments, unscrupulous foreign individuals, and anonymous foreign  nationals are competing with themselves--literally, there is a  leaderboard--to line his pockets and make known how they are lining his  pockets.

There is no reason for them to write him a letter or file with some  government Agency. Face-to-face, he will be with them in the White  House tomorrow evening. They are competing--and I mean literally  competing--with each other for access, and he has put his office and  the White House on the auction block.

Tomorrow evening, he will be hosting that dinner--personally hosting  it for 220 holders of that meme coin. Wherever the dinner occurs,  whether it is in the White House or someplace else, the effect is the  same: to be selling access.

And after the dinner competition was announced--alongside a ``Special  VIP White House Tour'' for the top 25 holders--President Trump cashed  in. The price of that meme coin rose more than 50 percent after the  announcement of that dinner. In total, President Trump and his sons and  his business partners have now earned $350 million in sales and related  fees from that scheme.

Come tomorrow evening, he will have pumped up the price. And  sometimes the price goes down. He may have dumped part of his holding-- pump-and-dump--raise the price and then dump the stock. It is a classic  Wall Street corrupt move that would normally go to the SEC. But, of  course, there is no regulation.

Bidders aren't hiding the pay-for-play scheme either. The winner of  Trump's contest--the grand winner--is Justin Sun, who faces a civil  fraud case from the SEC over allegations of market manipulation and  unregistered asset sales.

Since the election, Justin Sun has poured nearly $100 million into  Trump's crypto ventures. And guess what. Trump's SEC--poof--it is not a  legal term, by the way--poof--the SEC paused the litigation and now is  in negotiations to settle that case. It is out in the open.

One shipping firm with operations in Mexico announced it has raised  $20 million to purchase the Trump coins for the express purpose of  influencing tariff policy in the United States of America.

When Donald Trump negotiates tariffs, is he protecting American  consumers and small businesses? No, not so much. More likely, he is  cutting deals for his crypto friends. That is the essence of selling  public office, and it is corruption.

But put aside the criminal violations of law that may be involved  because the U.S. Supreme Court has given him immunity for what he is  doing in the White House, the emoluments clause forbids him from taking  those payments--benefits--without coming to the U.S. Congress and  seeking our consent and approval.

Foreign governments are paying President Trump through another one of  his cryptocurrency ventures, in addition to the FIGHT, FIGHT, FIGHT  meme coin. World Liberty Financial, on May 1--literally, this month-- World Liberty Financial announced an investment fund backed by the  United Arab Emirates. The government of that country, using Trump's  digital coins, is completing a $2 billion transaction that, once again,  puts money in his pocket. From this deal, Donald Trump and his family  stand to gain hundreds  of millions of dollars--apart from the $350 million I mentioned  earlier--hundreds of millions more from this foreign government.

His sons are traveling around the world getting VIP treatment in  Pakistan and elsewhere, using the President and the White House to  strike deals for World Liberty Financial. We simply cannot accept this  kind of practice as normal or legal. We can't abdicate our  responsibility. We cannot seem to endorse or encourage this kind of  corruption. That is the reason we have the emoluments clause. That is  the reason the Founders wanted Congress to be involved whenever there  is any benefit or payment to a member of the executive branch. Again,  it applies not only to the President of the United States but all of  the Federal officials, down to the rank and file.

Right now, the Senate is considering legislation to promote the  growth of cryptocurrencies. This legislation has no ethical rules or  conflict of interest provisions that would stop the President or his  family from using the White House to enrich himself--none applying to  the President. It fails to provide many basic consumer protections and  national security rules. It invites Big Tech into our financial system.

We are considering this legislation at the very same time as Trump's  crypto dinner will be happening literally within about 24 hours. Is  there any wonder that the public's esteem for the U.S. Congress has  sunk to the kinds of lows we are seeing right now? We are adding to the  perception that Congress somehow is legitimizing or overlooking his  behavior--in fact, looking the other way. That is not the message we  ought to be sending at this moment in our history, and it is not  legally right under the Constitution.

We ought to be voting on his emoluments, every one of these benefits.  That is the reason I have separate resolutions--simply to preserve our  own authority and power and our integrity and send a signal about the  independence of this branch, the legislative branch.

Foreign governments have figured out a lot of ways to line Donald  Trump's pockets. The Trump Organization--he is still the owner. It may  be in trust. He maybe figured out some technical legal way to seem to  insulate or isolate himself from it. But that organization is doing  business deals with Saudi Arabia, with Qatar, and with Oman and Serbia.

LIV Golf, backed by the Saudi Arabian Government, hosted a tournament  at Trump National Doral in April--April--of this year. The Trump  Organization has signed $5.5 billion in real estate deals with a Qatari  Government-owned firm, and it is going to build a new development on  government-owned land in Serbia and Oman. The Trump Organization has  already received $5 million from Oman. These are violations of the  emoluments clause plainly, simply, in plain sight.

We have no excuse for failing to vote. We have no excuse for  remaining silent. We have no excuse for ducking or dodging.

The foreign emoluments clause states:

[N]o Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under       them, shall, without the Consent of Congress, accept of any       present, Emolument, Office, or Title of any kind whatever,       from any King, Prince, or foreign State.

Foreign states are clearly involved in these transactions.

The purpose of this clause is basic and unassailable, indisputable.  It is to prevent undue foreign influence and foreign corruption.

The Founders knew about the dangers of a foreign government trying to  influence our President or anyone under him. They knew about those  powerful Kings in France and England. We had just liberated ourselves  from England. We were a small, struggling country, and they were afraid  that our executives would be influenced by those more powerful  countries.

It was to ensure our government officials work for the American  people and the Nation rather than their own financial self-interests or  on behalf of any foreign government that the emoluments clause was  adopted. But President Trump seemingly doesn't care about working for  the American people; he cares about his own pocketbook. Not once has he  come to Congress for consent on any of these deals. He hasn't even  hinted at it. And he will continue pursuing these corrupt foreign deals  until we, as Congress, have the gumption to act.

Today, I am introducing resolutions that condemn President Trump's  violation of the foreign emoluments clause and demand the transfer to  the U.S. Government of any gifts, benefits, or payments recovered or  received from foreign governments or others through his illegal  dealings.

I have asked for unanimous consent to schedule floor votes--I want  floor votes--on each of these resolutions. I think the American people  deserve to know where we stand, who is going to allow him to go forward  with these deals, who is going to sacrifice the integrity and  independence of this branch of government, and where every Senator  stands on Donald Trump's self-enrichment schemes. We need to know  whether the Senate is willing to stand up and show up against this  corrupt self-dealing.

Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleagues Senator  Durbin and Senator Welch for being here today. I know my resolutions  reflect unanimity on our side, and I believe sincerely the reservations  and doubts on the other side as well. And I regret the objection to  these resolutions because I think that my colleagues deserve a vote. We  deserve a vote on both sides of the aisle.

This violation of the Constitution benefits nobody. Many of the votes  we take here, there are differing interests, there are contrasting and  sometimes conflicting points of view on the merits, on who benefits and  who may be hurt. Here, there is only one beneficiary: Donald Trump and  his family--maybe some of the foreign investors, maybe some of the  others who have donated or contributed to his campaign and have  invested in the meme coins or in World Liberty Financial stablecoin.

This plane should be built by an American company. It should be built  so that President Trump can use it--or any other President--on time, on  schedule. It is now already delayed. Boeing should be held accountable.  And if it can't deliver it when the President needs it, somebody else  ought to be required to build it.

So I am deeply disappointed we are not going to have these votes, at  least right now. I am going to be coming back to the floor and asking  for these votes on the emoluments clause because it is part of our job,  it is part of our constitutional responsibility, and Donald Trump is  violating the Constitution by accepting gifts in the plane,  investments, and money in his pocket from his cryptocurrency ventures  and other schemes that he is enabling in plain sight. This corruption  should not be allowed to continue.