Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, what has always separated America from  other nations around the world is the right to vote. It is a right that  everybody in this body cherishes, as do the American people. Every  person who approaches the ballot box generally has confidence that  their votes are going to be counted and their voice will be heard.

But, as we stand here, this cherished right is coming under attack  because, in 2026, we can expect a continuation of what is happening in  these last 9 months: that the Trump administration is doing everything  it can to undermine the confidence in elections and sow distrust in the  election process.

It is like a spider weaving a web. The Trump administration has  crafted multiple strands that, when combined together, attack and  change the voting landscape in a way that America will not recognize.

Trump is attempting to strip power from the States, consolidate it  for himself, and subvert the will of the people. It is systematic, it  is strategic, and it is deeply and urgently serious.

Today, I am beginning an extended effort to elevate this issue and  sound the alarm--because voters will go to the polls this Tuesday, and  my fear is that it could be the last free and fair election, unless we  rise up and we act. And this fear is not mine alone. I have heard it  all around Connecticut and from my colleagues all around the country,  and it is well founded.

President Trump's crusade of voter suppression and election  subversion started on day one of the administration, when he pardoned  the individuals who participated in the violent attack on the Capitol  on January 6. That January 6 attack was not a protest or even just a  riot. It was an assault on the very heart of our democracy. In  attempting to stop Congress from certifying the results of the 2020  election,  the January 6 insurrectionists sought to nullify the votes and shatter  the peaceful transfer of power that has characterized our democracy for  nearly 250 years.

President Trump provided a blanket pardon to the January 6 attackers  and thereby endorsed and placed the Presidential seal of approval on  their actions and their direction and goal of seeking to overturn the  will of the people. So it was no accident that these pardons were one  of President Trump's very first acts in office. It was an unmistakable  signal that his administration would be obsessed with suppressing votes  and undermining free and fair elections.

And since that very first day in office, President Trump and his  administration have been praising and hiring into leadership positions  the very people who attempted to subvert our democracy. In fact, just  this past month, the White House reportedly hired Kurt Olsen, a lawyer  who attempted to overturn the 2020 election results, and he is working  officially as a ``special government employee'' tasked with looking  into the 2020 election and current voting machines.

But rewriting the history of January 6 was only the beginning of a  relentless, purposeful campaign to stoke fear among voters and sow  seeds of distrust in American elections. They have employed Federal  Agencies to help do some of the dirty work. In fact, President Trump  has weaponized several Federal Agencies against you, the voters. He is  using these Agencies as instruments to suppress your vote.

The Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice  have both taken alarming actions in recent months targeting the vote.  At DHS, a senior Department leader, Heather Honey, an election denier  and conspiracy theorist in her own right, reportedly told State and  local election officials that the administration could declare a  ``national emergency'' based on the claim that the 2020 election was  stolen to obtain ``additional powers that don't exist right now'' and  act ``without Congress'' to ``mandate that States'' adopt her  preferred, radical election rules.

In addition, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency,  known as CISA, a critical Agency within DHS that works with State and  local officials to protect the security of our elections, has been  gutted. CISA has been instrumental in protecting our elections from  cyber attacks and threats by foreign and domestic actors. These attacks  are growing, not diminishing.

I don't have to reveal any classified information for the American  people to know that attacks by our adversaries on our election system  are an increasing threat, but instead of bolstering CISA, President  Trump has placed on administrative leave or reassigned nearly all of  its election experts. In their place, President Trump has installed  inexperienced political activists who sought to overturn the results of  the 2020 election.

Marci McCarthy, named director of public affairs at CISA, was  responsible for spreading false claims about faulty voting machines in  Georgia.

This past July, Sean Plankey, the nominee to head CISA, refused to  answer me when I asked him in a hearing if he believed that the 2020  election was stolen.

President Trump has also chosen to attack CISA officials. In April,  President Trump issued an Executive order directing the Department of  Justice and DHS to investigate Chris Krebs, the former head of CISA,  calling him a ``bad-faith actor'' who ``weaponized and abused'' his  authority--all because Krebs refused to lie and say Trump's 2020  election was rigged. And because Krebs said there was no evidence in  2020 that ``any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, or  was in any way compromised,'' he was attacked, and that Executive order  asked DHS to target him.

At the same time, President Trump has dismantled CISA's election  security programs, including by terminating initiatives that monitor  foreign disinformation and cutting the funding of systems that detect,  deter, and alert States and localities about cyber and physical attacks  on election infrastructure.

This dismantling of CISA is fundamental and deeply alarming, but at  the Department of Justice, things are no better. President Trump took  an ax to the Department of Justice's Voting Section within the Civil  Rights Division, that historic section established to protect and  uplift the vote.

First, he decimated the Voting Section staff. In January, it was  estimated that the section had 30 attorneys on staff to enforce voting  rights laws. Today, it is three. Then he decimated its mission,  transforming the section from a bulwark against voting suppression into  its opposite: a mechanism to suppress voters and stoke fears of voter  fraud.

So instead of lifting up the work of voting rights and serving as a  staunch defender of voters in the courts, the section has withdrawn its  engagement in seven active voting cases. Where it does remain involved,  in redistricting cases such as Louisiana v. Callais, it has taken a  sudden and staunch anti-voter stance.

The Department of Justice has decided to make a mockery of poll  monitoring as well. The Trump DOJ will now use poll monitoring--which  began as an effort to secure minorities' votes when they were denied it  following passage of the Voting Rights Act--to potentially intimidate  and surveil voters and officials alike at polling sites in California  and New Jersey. He is doing it at the request of the Republican Party  officials in those States, ahead of the November 4 election.

Those anti-voter campaigns are coupled with efforts to distort the  electoral maps. Since President Trump took office, he has pressured  Republican State legislators to ignore the will of their voters and  effectively elect representatives through extreme and unabashedly  partisan gerrymandering. This flagrantly abusive redistricting occurred  in States like Texas, representing a top-down campaign directed by  President Trump to eradicate as many congressional districts as  possible that could conceivably elect a Democrat.

For example, the new Texas redistricting seeks to gift Republicans 80  percent of its House seats in a State where Democrats routinely receive  between 40 and 50 percent of the vote in congressional districts. It is  plainly a move designed to target minority voters.

The same playbook follows in Missouri and North Carolina. These are  the actions of desperate politicians--desperate because they know how  deeply unpopular their policies are with voters, policies of stripping  people of their healthcare, cutting taxes for the rich, and sending the  military into American streets. Instead of changing those policies to  win over voters, the Trump administration is seeking to disenfranchise  the voters, suppress votes, and rig these elections by shamelessly  moving voters to new districts.

President Trump and Republicans have started a tit-for-tat  redistricting arms race where Democrats are forced to fight fire with  fire and play catchup to undo Republicans' damage and restore balanced  representation. And the ones who suffer are the voters. Their voices  are ignored and often silenced by frightened partisan politicians.

But it isn't just the voters who are undermined; it is our States as  well. Under the Constitution, it is the States that have the power to  oversee the time, place, and manner of their elections, subject only to  legislation enacted by Congress. The President is given no role--zero-- in that process. States are not agents for the Federal Government,  hamstrung to Presidential orders when it comes to elections. In this  space of elections, they have their own independent, sovereign  authority. Yet President Trump believes he can dictate the rules over  our elections and seize power from the States for himself, and he has  sought to do it in a number of important ways that ought to concern  this body, especially because we represent our States.

Foremost among his tactics, he wants to supplant States in  determining the means, methods, and mechanisms for placing our votes.  Those mechanisms vary. For example, some States use more mail-in voting  than others, and States don't always have the same approach to early  voting. Rather than the States making those calls, he wants to be Big  Brother himself, watching how elections must be run, dictating how it  is done.

The DOJ has already unsuccessfully sought access to voting machines  in  Missouri, sending a request to ``access, physically inspect and perhaps  take physical custody of election equipment used in the 2020 November  general election.''

In March 2025, President Trump issued an Executive order--another  Executive order--that attempted to mandate that the independent,  bipartisan Election Assistance Commission rescind all previous  certifications of voting equipment and recertify systems under amended  guidelines. That order is currently being challenged in court. It is  plainly unlawful, it is reckless, it is unfair to the States, and it is  a false solution in search of a problem that doesn't exist.

President Trump has called voting machines ``highly inaccurate, very  expensive, and seriously controversial.'' There is zero evidence-- zero--to support these claims. It is all just a pretext to insert  Federal control over States' rights. States do have rights, and  President Trump is trying to override them roughshod.

His tactics are similar with mail-in ballots. In the 2024 election,  nearly one-third of Americans voted by mail. Mail-in voting is  instrumental in helping our troops and making sure that every voice is  heard, even when they are overseas.

President Trump has stated that he wants to ``lead a movement'' to  get rid of mail-in voting, and he posted this past week on social  media: ``No mail-in or `Early' Voting.'' He has assigned lawyers to  craft another Executive order to stop it.

The irony is not lost on anyone that President Trump himself voted by  mail in the 2020 election when he cast his ballot in Florida.

In some States, such as Oregon and Washington, mail-in ballots are  the primary mechanism used by voters. Attempting to illegally strip  States of this right will decimate the way our citizens are heard and  the foundational principle of States' rights.

By law, by tradition, by history, and sound public policy, States  make this call, not the President, and attempting to strip States of  these rights is flagrantly illegal and unconstitutional.

President Trump's lackeys have attempted to bully States into handing  over sensitive and personal information contained within State voter  rolls. DOJ has requested information or meetings about election  administration from States and has demanded 40 States--40 States-- provide their full voter registration lists. In a private meeting,  Michael Gates, a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Department of  Justice Civil Rights Division, disclosed that all 50 States will  eventually receive these requests. The eight States that so far have  refused to turn over that data are now being sued by the Department of  Justice.

Trump is attempting to compile the largest list of voter roll data  ever in our history in order to bolster unsubstantiated and false  claims of illegal voting by noncitizens, despite the fact that  noncitizen voting is essentially nonexistent.

This type of national voter roll collection is totally unprecedented  in our history. Nothing like it has ever been done before. Nothing like  this invasion of privacy and promises to voters would have been  imaginable before January of this year.

The information he is requesting includes your driver's license  number, your Social Security number, your name, your address, your  political party, and your voting history. He wants to know who you are  and potentially use that information however he pleases. He wants to  use that information against States as well--more broadly, to be the  judge and jury of whether States are effectively running their own  elections, despite the fact that States--and I apologize for repeating  it--States are tasked with administering elections under the  Constitution.

In case Trump's DOJ can't dismantle elections using all of these  maligned tactics, the administration is also targeting election  officials who seek to run efficient, fair, honest elections and to  calculate and certify election results in a nonpartisan way. They are  at work in every election. Everybody in this body knows what they do  and knows how important they are to free and fair elections.

President Trump's DOJ has a new weaponization working group with a  focus on targeting election officials as a result of supposedly  widespread voter fraud. It is the product of fever imagination.

The Department of Justice is also exploring whether they can bring  criminal charges against State and local officials if they believe that  those officials have not adequately safeguarded their computer systems  from harm, despite gutting CISA--the very Agency tasked with assisting  them in safeguarding their computers and software.

To instill fear in election workers, the administration is doing  everything it can to signal that it will punish anyone who doesn't bow  to them.

Since 2020, Trump has been posting on social media and publicly  calling for prosecution against election officials he accuses of  working against him. Prosecuting election officials won't make  elections any safer or fairer; it is simply about creating fear and  anxiety. It will lead to an exodus of individuals--it already has  begun--that we need to rely on to run our elections.

The fearmongering seems to be having its effect ever since Trump  began espousing false claims of stolen elections in 2020 and putting  this kind of pressure on the dedicated men and women who show up for  elections to help run them. Election officials have reported  harassment, threats, and abuse locally.

Election officials with institutional knowledge of how local systems  run and who are imperative to registering voters and maintaining voter  processes are leaving their roles at an alarming rate. The turnover was  especially pronounced in large jurisdictions where the Trump campaign  focused its misinformation campaign around 2020 elections.

Now, each of these individual actions of anti-election assault is  serious and significant, but each action needs to be seen together as  something deeper and broader. It is the sum and substance of  totalitarianism--not at some distant point in the future, not a vague  storm cloud on the horizon, but the destruction of democracy here and  now.

As we approach our democracy's 250th anniversary, we can't afford the  luxury of defeatism or despair or complacency. We need to join together  and sound the alarm across differences of political party, geography,  financial interests, personal background, and all the rest. Join in  this body--come together because we have a common interest in making  sure that elections are free and fair.

More than words, we need action--your action as voters registering to  vote and enabling others to do so, volunteering to work at the polls  and supporting election officials and administrators, contributing to  organizations that defend voting rights in court, demanding that public  officials unite against the sabotage of our democracy, and uniting at  rallies, townhalls, and every other forum available to make your voice  known.

I will be reaching out to colleagues on both sides of the aisle and  coming to the floor and reaching out to the American people. Just as we  threw off the yoke of monarchy 2\1/2\ centuries ago, the American  people still have the power to determine their own future. They still  have the courage to make ``good trouble,'' as John Lewis, the historic  voting champion, famously said. Most of all, the American people have  the will and fortitude to stand up to this assault.