504 Program Risk Oversight Act


Mr. TRAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5788,  the 504 Program Risk Oversight Act, bipartisan legislation that  strengthens one of SBA's most successful financing programs.

For decades, the SBA's 504 loan program has been a cornerstone of  economic development in communities across America. Through public and  private partnership with certified development companies, the 504  program helps small businesses to grow, create jobs, and invest in  their communities.

Since its inception in 1986, the program has provided approximately  $400 billion in total project financing and created over 3.3 million  jobs. In California alone, that translates to $95 billion in total  capital and the creation of over 715,000 good-paying jobs.

For entrepreneurs in California's 45th District and across the  Nation, the 504 loan program's unique model provides them with access  to long-term, fixed-rate financing to help them to expand operations,  purchase property, and make lasting investments in their local economy.

In Orange County and Los Angeles County alone, the 504 program has  injected more than $27 billion into local businesses and helped to  create over 175,000 jobs over the last 25 years.

My bipartisan bill, the 504 Program Risk Oversight Act, builds on  that success by ensuring that all partners--the SBA, Congress, and  industry--have access to clear, consistent, and transparent data about  the health of the program.

Currently, SBA is not required to conduct an annual risk analysis of  the 504 loan program and provide Congress with any performance data. My  bill addresses this problem and requires the SBA to conduct an annual  risk assessment of the 504 program and provide Congress with detailed  insights into overall health of the program and information needed to  strengthen program performance.

Madam Speaker, transparent data is the cornerstone of a productive  partnership between the SBA, Congress, and industry and the work that  we do collectively to keep the 504 program healthy for future  generations of entrepreneurs. Now more than ever, small businesses need  what the 504 loan program provides: certainty and affordable patient  capital.

Madam Speaker, I am proud to lead this bill, and I thank my  colleague, Representative  Jimmy Patronis, for his partnership in co- leading this important piece of legislation with me. Of course, this  bill would not be possible without the leadership of Ranking Member  Velazquez and Chair Williams.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.