Authorizing the Use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers Memorial Service and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the  concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 9) authorizing the use of the  Capitol Grounds for the National Peace Officers Memorial Service and  the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition.

The Clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution.

The text of the concurrent resolution is as follows:                               H. Con. Res. 9

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate       concurring), That       SECTION 1. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL PEACE                     OFFICERS MEMORIAL SERVICE.

(a) In General.--The National Fraternal Order of Police and       its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a public event,       the 44th Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service (in       this resolution referred to as the ``Memorial Service''), on       the Capitol Grounds, in order to honor the law enforcement       officers who died in the line of duty during 2024.

(b) Date of Memorial Service.--The Memorial Service shall       be held on May 15, 2025, or on such other date as the Speaker       of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules       and Administration of the Senate jointly designate, with       preparation for the event to begin on May 9, 2025, and       takedown completed on May 16, 2025.       SEC. 2. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL HONOR GUARD                     AND PIPE BAND EXHIBITION.

(a) In General.--The National Fraternal Order of Police and       its auxiliary shall be permitted to sponsor a public event,       the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition (in this       resolution referred to as the ``Exhibition''), on the Capitol       Grounds, in order to allow law enforcement representatives to       exhibit their ability to demonstrate Honor Guard programs and       provide for a bagpipe exhibition.

(b) Date of Exhibition.--The Exhibition shall be held on       May 14, 2025, or on such other date as the Speaker of the       House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and       Administration of the Senate jointly designate.       SEC. 3. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

(a) In General.--Under conditions to be prescribed by the       Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the       event shall be--

(1) free of admission charge and open to the public; and

(2) arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.

(b) Expenses and Liabilities.--The sponsors of the Memorial       Service and Exhibition shall assume full responsibility for       all expenses and liabilities incident to all activities       associated with the events.       SEC. 4. EVENT PREPARATIONS.          Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol,       the sponsors referred to in section 3(b) are authorized to       erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, sound       amplification devices, and other related structures and       equipment, as may be required for the Memorial Service and       Exhibition.       SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.          The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of       the restrictions contained in section 5104(c) of title 40,       United States Code, concerning sales, advertisements,       displays, and solicitations on the Capitol Grounds, as well       as other restrictions applicable to the Capitol Grounds, in       connection with the events.

Mr. PERRY.  Con. Res. 9.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have introduced this bipartisan resolution  along with the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency  Management Subcommittee Ranking Member   Greg Stanton of Arizona.

This resolution authorizes the use of these Capitol Grounds for the  44th Annual Peace Officers' Memorial event to honor the law enforcement  officers who died in the line of duty in 2024.

According to the Fraternal Order of Police, last year, there were 342  on-duty officers who were shot, 50 of whom were killed.

In February of this year, tragedy occurred in the district I am  honored to represent when multiple police officers were shot while in  the line of duty. One, Officer Andrew Duarte of the West York Borough  Police Department, made the ultimate sacrifice. Mr. Speaker, he was  only 30 years old.

Police officers across the country put their lives on the line every  single day to keep us safe. Every day that they go out, they put their  uniforms on and leave their families, and they don't know what they are  going to run into. Every day can be a boring day where nothing happens.  They can go through a whole career that way, but they never know and  their families never know. Every single day, they are prepared. They  are ready to give everything as a sacrifice to their communities to  make sure that safety is preserved.

That is why I and my friend, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.  Stanton), are extremely honored to once again be able to sponsor this  resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this resolution, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, like my friend, the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.  Stanton), implied, these are heartbreaking, heart-wrenching stories  about real people. Oftentimes, in our country, people look for heroes.  They look to sporting fields. They look to pop culture for their  heroes, but their heroes walk right among them, right in their own  communities every single day, again, being willing when they put on  that uniform, when they sign up, to say, ``I will give all for my  community,'' running to the sound of the gun, running to the danger,  unlike most other people whose senses, whose sensibilities, tell  them to go the other way.

This is the smallest thing we can do to acknowledge the enormous  sacrifice that law enforcement makes every single day in our community,  to acknowledge that sacrifice and to honor those heroes who are near  and far.

In closing, I reiterate my support for H. Con. Res. 9, which will  honor the fallen men and women serving our Nation as law enforcement  officers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this resolution, and I yield back the  balance of my time.