Ice Under Attack


Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas, and I  surely appreciate his passion. It is well-deserved.

I am so heartbroken for our country. In the past, Democrats and  Republicans might not have agreed on maybe the path to get to where we  were going, how we were going to do it, sometimes not even where we  were going. Yet we loved our country, and we understood what our job  was here: to support and represent America.

How can it be that we live in a society--people will say--I am sure  they say it to you, Chip: You are so divided. Why can't you people in  Washington, D.C., get along?

They will say to me: Representative, why can't you work with your  colleagues on the other side of the aisle?

I want to. We look for every opportunity to, and I am just going to  tell you: Look, I am going to call it the way I see it because my eyes  aren't lying.

My friends on the other side of the aisle will tell you, will tell  everybody, will try and get pictures: We stand with law enforcement. We  stand with the police. We support them. Whatever they need, we are  there.

They want to convince you of that because, of course, as law-abiding  American citizens, it is the right thing to do.

Representative Roy, when I was growing up, if there was a criminal  running down the street and an officer was chasing him, somebody would  be a Good Samaritan and stick their leg out or say: He went that way  and help out. But we are literally living in some dystopia where they  say that somehow it is different because it is ICE. It is different  because we can say ICE; Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

It is no different. These officers are no different than your local  township police; the State police; Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms; the  U.S. marshals. The good guys, that is who they are.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle literally are defending  these people who came here to murder, rape, and rob. That is who they  are defending. They are literally defending--there is no other way to  cut it.

Rachel Morin died about 30 miles from my house. I don't live close to  the Texas border. This is everywhere. Representative Roy and I both  have daughters, 12 years old. Jocelyn Nungaray was 12 years old and was  heinously murdered by two people allowed to come and stay here  illegally. These are animals who did this.

Mr. PERRY. You are right, Chip. There are the good guys, and,  unfortunately, there are the bad guys; there just are.

No one would think--I will just try to put it in any context I can.  If I am driving down the highway and I see a police officer who has  pulled somebody over for a traffic infraction, I don't stop and get  involved and say: Whoa, whoa, whoa, what is going on here, Officer? How  do you know--what do you think you are doing?

I don't understand why people who are getting involved in law  enforcement activities don't understand that they are obstructing  justice. Pulling in front of Immigration and Customs Enforcement  officials who are trying to remove people from our country, who are  here illegally and have had their due process, is not acceptable in any  manner, shape, or form.

There is no one here who will do more to defend your First Amendment  liberties to protest and seek redress from your government.

Mr. PERRY. But protesting does not mean impeding law enforcement. It  does not mean blocking streets. It does not mean getting on an app on  your phone--that is supported by George Soros--to track Immigration and  Customs Enforcement, law enforcement officers, the law enforcement  police, and track them down and impede their work to keep everybody  else in the community safe.

Do you know what that is, Representative Roy? I have the definition  right here. That is sedition is what that is. That is exactly what it  is. No one wants to say it, but we are seeing it happen.

This is among Americans in our country. These are our neighbors.  These are people right here in every town who somehow think that,  suddenly, it is okay. Now, there unfortunately has been a death.

The death that happened recently is so tragic and unfortunate. Ms.  Good, who lost her life, she could have protested peacefully and sought  redress for the things that she thought were wrong about her government  that should be changed. But she made a decision to inject herself into  law enforcement, impede law enforcement, and make it a dangerous  circumstance where an officer of the law had to make a split-moment  decision about his life and also the lives of other people in his  community.

Madam Speaker, Representative Roy, Immigration and Customs  Enforcement officials live in your town. They are just like the  township cop that you know who stands by your school in the morning  when your kids are getting off the bus. They are the same people. They  are the same people.

How is it that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle can  somehow make book and tell you that you must support violent murderers,  rapists, robbers, gang members, drug traffickers, and human  traffickers? It couldn't be more black and white, and it is so  disappointing.

Mr. PERRY. I just have to ask you in this colloquy, Representative  Roy from Texas: You say, ``the radical left,'' but I listened to you  rattle off the statements of elected officials.

Mr. PERRY. Not just Members of Congress, but Members of the United  States Senate.

Mr. PERRY. Governors of States, including the one that I come from.  Is this the radical left, or are they our Democratic colleagues on the  other side of the aisle?

Which one of our Democrat colleagues from the other side of the  aisle, whether at the Federal level, the State, or the local level has  come out to denounce the treatment by law enforcement at the hands of  these people that are trying to thwart them and put their lives in  danger for the sake of murderers? Which ones? Do you know of any?

Mr. PERRY. It is so outrageous.

Mr. PERRY. Representative Roy, you and I have stood in this Chamber  countless times, for countless hours, having the same discussion over  the same people, the same people in this picture, over and over. There  are countless others that aren't here who died from drunk driving  incidents, died from drug overdose, human trafficked, lives destroyed  forever. If only they got to stay alive, if they even had that  opportunity to stay alive.

There is so much outrage from my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle. Yet, I can't remember, and so I am going to ask you,  Representative Roy from Texas. I can't remember one time my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle came to talk about Laken Riley, Rachel  Morin, Jocelyn Nungaray, the officer, the young lady, not one.

Mr. PERRY. No.

Mr. PERRY. President Trump did not. President Trump is credited with  having the most secure border in history.

Mr. PERRY. No. As I recall, about 10,000 people a week were coming  across the border illegally.

Mr. PERRY. Secretary Mayorkas told us, President Biden told us he  could not solve that problem unless we passed legislation. We needed  to--this Chamber was delinquent. There was nothing that could be done  until we took action. As it has been said, we didn't need to take  action. We needed a different President.

Mr. PERRY. Tens of thousands.

Mr. PERRY. None of mine.

Mr. PERRY. I don't want to speculate either. I will leave that to  people that are listening and people that are thinking through the  situation.

You talked about things that are untrue. I want to let you know that,  of course, I represent 760,000 great people, hardworking, tax-paying,  America-loving individuals in south central Pennsylvania, and I have  gotten some complaints. There is some rhetoric and some claims being  made about Immigration and Customs Enforcement in central Pennsylvania.

I talked to Immigration and Customs Enforcement today and asked them,  because there were claims that enforcement officers were chasing people  down the street, demanding their papers, going door to door looking for  people, staking out certain activities, business activities, or  recreational activities to just see who would come in and ask for their  papers.

Representative Roy, I am proud to report what I knew inherently that  that is all a lie. That is all propaganda meant to scare people and  meant to stop law enforcement from doing its job.

I am so disgusted by the names that our men and women that wear the  uniform, that make a commitment to put their lives in danger to keep  everybody else safe that they are characterized by elected officials  and leaders in our community the way that you have described to me this  evening. It is outrageous. Not only is it outrageous, it is dangerous,  and it is irresponsible. It is leading to not only the division of our  country and our communities, but it is leading to people suffering  injuries and worse. That, Representative Roy, is on them.

Mr. PERRY. Sure.

Mr. PERRY. Of course, I agree. As you bring it up, I think to myself  how heartbreaking it is knowing--I look at these pictures here of these  wonderful young people with their whole lives ahead of them. If we had  been able to do that during the first administration, these five people  would be alive, likely would be alive, right?

Mr. PERRY. Because we have failed here--not because Chip has failed,  not because I am not willing to vote for it. We have to get it on the  floor. Let's face it, Representative Roy, the great  Representative Roy from Texas, how many votes are you going to count on  for Laken Riley, for Jocelyn Nungaray, for any of these people? How  many votes are you going to count on to keep them alive from our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle?

Mr. PERRY. Of course. We passed it in the House, but that is not  enough. That doesn't change anything. We can pass everything we want to  in the House, with or without our friends on the other side of the  aisle, but if we can't get a vote and passage in the Senate, it doesn't  get to the President's desk.

I would just say this: What I think would be interesting to see, when  we talk about--look, quite honestly, it is a travesty to me that we  should have to pass such a bill that only American citizens vote in  American elections. That should be obvious.

You don't invite some person from some other State or some other town  into your home to ask them about your important family decisions. Yet,  somehow in America, my friends on the other side of the aisle, my  colleagues over there, think that that is what we should do.

They should put a vote up in the Senate to show the American people  who stands with them and who stands with letting those people in our  country illegally, killing, raping, robbing, and giving them the vote.  If they can't get the vote, then they need to find a way to break the  filibuster and make sure that we stand up for Americans.

Madam Speaker, to my friend from Texas, we weren't elected by people  from other countries. We weren't elected by Tren de Aragua or the  Cartel of the Suns. We were elected by the American citizens. That is  who we are here to represent.

If somebody wants to represent them, well, God bless them, but they  should let the American people know by their votes and go out and decry  it to everybody. Amazingly, in some cases, some of our colleagues  actually are.

Mr. PERRY. It is their country. Of course, the United States of  America is the most generous country ever in history. Certainly with  immigration it is more generous than every other nation and more  generous than all nations combined.

However, what no one ever envisioned was tens of thousands, daily or  weekly, in the amount of tens of millions of people pouring into our  country illegally with no interest in being American but being in  America.

Now what do we do about it?

We have a President who has vowed to solve that and who has vowed to  fix that. He got elected on that promise, and now my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle reject following the law if it means following  the law.

So I think that it is the height of disrespect, quite honestly, for  people to come to our country illegally, tell us that we are awful  people, try and change our country into the country they came from,  have us pay for it, and then disrespect us while they are doing it by  killing our citizens and while sending our tax dollars to the terrorist  organizations in the country that they left.

It is unacceptable at any and every single level.