Recognizing Chief Master Sergeant Robert S. Smith


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I am honored to recognize Chief Master  Sergeant Robert S. Smith on his retirement from service to our Nation  in the United States Air Force and Air National Guard.

Chief Smith entered the U.S. Air Force in December 1987, completing  the Aerospace Ground Equipment Apprentice course in June 1988. During  his active component service from June 1988 to October 1999, Chief  Smith performed numerous support functions within the Maintenance Group  and Logistics Group, as well as Quality Assurance Inspector and  Exercise Evaluation Team Member.

Chief Smith deployed in support of myriad missions, including  Operation Provide Comfort, Northern Watch, Southern Watch, Iraqi  Freedom, Enduring Freedom, and Unified Protector. In 2013, he completed  a tour at the Air National Guard Readiness Center as the subject matter  expert for the A4/M Equipment Management section.

Currently, Chief Smith is the Command Chief Master Sergeant of the  193d Special Operations Wing based in Middletown, Pennsylvania--not  only one of the largest Air National Guard units in the Country, but a  premiere one unlike any other--a profound testament to his leadership  skills. He serves as the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Wing Commander  on all issues affecting mission effectiveness, health, morale,  readiness, enlisted development, and mentoring of approximately 1,900  Airmen.

Throughout his decorated career, Chief Smith earned a multitude of  awards and decorations, to include the: Meritorious Service Medal (w/4  OLC); Air Force Commendation Medal (w/4 OLC); Air Force Achievement  Medal; Pennsylvania Commendation Medal; General Thomas J. Stewart  Medal; and the Major General Thomas R. White, Jr. Medal.

Chief Smith is a member of the National Guard Association of the  United States, the Pennsylvania National Guard Association, the 193rd  Special Operations Wing Association, and VFW Post 9738.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored and privileged to recognize Chief Master  Smith on his retirement upon more than 38 years of service to our  Nation in uniform--26 of those in the Pennsylvania Air National Guard.  His tireless service and dedication to his fellow Airmen and the United  States of America set the standard by which we all should be judged.