Recognizing Mr. Stanley R. Lawson, Sr.


Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I am humbled and honored to recognize the  life and legacy of Stanley R. Lawson, Sr., a veteran and trailblazer in  Pennsylvania.

Born and raised in Harrisburg, Stan was a loving father, son,  community leader, and public servant whose life's work was defined by  service to others. He was a proud combat veteran of the United States  Navy, serving in Vietnam from 1960 to 1964. After returning home, he  began his 50-year career in politics and public service.

Stan made history in 1969 by becoming the first African American to  be elected to the Harrisburg City Council, eventually serving as the  Vice President in the early 1970's. His journey in public service  continued as the first African American President of AFSCME Council No.  13, the first African American President of the Susquehanna Township  Board of Commissioners, and the first African American Chairman of the  Dauphin County Republican Committee. In 1986, Stan stood alongside  Governor Dick Thornburgh for the signing of House Bill 1855, which  conveyed funding and property designated for Susquehanna Township,  while he was the President of the Susquehanna Township Board of  Commissioners. Those funds were used to create the Susquehanna Township  parks, an example of how Stan's leadership directly improved Citizens'  quality of life.

In addition to his public service, Stan was deeply committed to the  local community, civil rights, and his faith in God. Throughout the  1990's, he established and managed Lawson's Grocery, Stan Lawson's  Palace, and multiple residential and commercial real estate  enterprises. In 2006, he became the President of the Greater Harrisburg  Area NAACP, where he served for over 10 years. In 2009, he was ordained  as a Deacon at the First Spirit Filled Missionary Baptist Church.

Over the course of his life, Stan earned several meaningful honors  that meant a great deal to him, including the Man of the Year Award  from the Dauphin County Teenage Republicans in 1971, a Resolution of  Recognition from the Black Republican Council of Pennsylvania in 1982,  and a Presidential Award from the IMC of Greater Harrisburg in 2012.

Mr. Speaker, I am honored and privileged to recognize Mr. Stanley R.  Lawson, Sr. for his tireless, dedicated, and faithful service to God,  family, friends, the Harrisburg community, our Commonwealth, and the  United States of America. His lifetime of public service, his  pioneering contributions to civil rights, and his enduring commitment  to community leadership will endure into eternity. Stan's life example  of ``service above self'' set the standard by which all should be  judged.