Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, yesterday the Senate passed my resolution  to honor the life of Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who heroically  tried to warn his fellow citizens and the world about the Wuhan  coronavirus late last year. Dr. Li tragically fell victim to that very  disease but not before he was victimized by his own government, the  Chinese Communist Party. Li was 34 years old when he passed away of  coronavirus on February 7. He had a wife, a young child, and another  child on the way. His whole life was ahead of him, and now his wife is  widowed, his child has no father, and his second child will never know  his father. 

  As Li knew, when you become a doctor, you pledge to care for the sick  and the dying--whatever the hardships, whatever the cost, whatever the  risks to yourself. So when patients with a severe pneumonia began  appearing in Li's hospital late last year, he sounded the alarm to  fellow doctors, and the Chinese Communist Party responded with  lightning speed--not to contain this epidemic but to intimidate Dr. Li  and attack his reputation. 

  Local Communist goons paid him a visit a few days later, forcing him  to retract his statements and apologize for so-called illegal behavior.  China's state media piled on, denouncing Li and other whistleblowers as  rumormongers who were spreading fear among the Chinese people. 

  That has been the pattern of the Chinese Communist Party's response  to the coronavirus from the very beginning--first coverup and then  catastrophe. 

  When Chinese internet users flooded social media with indignation  following Dr. Li's death, their cries were  scrubbed from the internet by the Communist Party's army of censors. 

  When a Chinese human rights activist called for Chairman Xi to step  down, he was detained and then disappeared. 

  When Wall Street Journal columnist Walter Russell Mead wrote a  bracing article about the Chinese Communist Party's failure to contain  the coronavirus, the Chinese Communists kicked three of the paper's  reporters out of the country. 

  The Chinese Communist Party's deception has been so thorough that its  rare moments of candor, however obviously helpful, have been quickly  suppressed and punished. 

  When the number of reported infections spiked upward due to an  improvement in data reporting, the party purged local officials who  were likely responsible. 

  After Chinese scientists gave the world a headstart in developing a  vaccine by publishing the disease's genome online, what happened? Were  they given awards? Were they celebrated? No. Their lab was shut down  the very next day. These scientists deserved awards. They deserved a  medal. Instead, they were given a professional death sentence. 

  The Chinese people have suffered greatly from this coronavirus. They  are, in fact, the first and the worst victims of their own Communist  government. But now the whole world is suffering with them. Just as the  Bubonic plague spread to Europe via traders on the Silk Road, the Wuhan  coronavirus is traveling China's new Silk Road. It turns out that the  Belt and Road Initiative exports not just China's money and Chinese  debt but China's viruses as well as its repression. It threatens not  only economies around the world; it threatens peoples around the world. 

  Right next door to China, Iran is suffering a devastating outbreak of  the coronavirus. Birds of a feather flock together, I would have to  add. The mullahs in Tehran have emulated the Chinese Communist Party's  shameful response to coronavirus, first denying and then downplaying  the outbreak until it was no longer possible to ignore the bodies  stacking up in clinics, a mysterious sickness spreading through the  Cabinet of Iran's Government itself. 

  Remember the suffering people in these countries when you hear  triumphant, self-congratulatory messages coming from Chinese propaganda  rags like Global Times and China Daily--or even the World Health  Organization, which, I have to say, seems more interested in protecting  the feelings of the Chinese Communist Party than protecting the health  of people around the world. China's propagandists are reportedly hard  at work on a book exonerating Chairman Xi for his negligent response to  this virus. 

  The official line is that the coronavirus is contained and China is  back to work, but don't believe it. Do not believe the hype. The  Chinese Communist Party lied from the very beginning of this outbreak,  and it is lying still. It is responsible for the scale of this virus  outbreak around the world. This outbreak didn't happen in spite of the  Chinese Communist Party's efforts to contain it; it happened because of  the Communist system of government. 

  Three months later, we still don't know how many people have been  infected or killed by coronavirus on the Chinese mainland. All we have  are bogus statistics that just so happen to track perfectly-- perfectly--with the Communist Party line day after day. 

  I will cite just one example. Barron's, the financial publication,  discovered that the official number of deaths could be predicted  perfectly in advance--in advance--in China using a simple mathematical  formula. This coronavirus isn't just contagious and deadly; it is good  at math as well--if you believe the Chinese Communist Party. But that  doesn't just happen in nature. They are obviously cooking their books.  It is not hard to see why. China's economy has ground to a halt. The  Chinese Communist Party is desperate to restart it and avoid the first  contraction in the last 30 years, whatever it may cost in lives of the  Chinese people. If China is truly back to work, as the Chinese  Communists claim, it is only because it has employed Communist tactics  that evoke the worst horrors of Soviet communism, from Stalin's 5-year  plans to Leningrad in 1943. 

  After shutting down almost half the country's factories to stop the  spread of coronavirus, the Chinese Communist Party is opening them  again, barely 1 month later. Investors around the world beware: That  decision is motivated not by confidence but by desperation. It will  almost certainly lead to more outbreaks as workers congregate on  crowded subways and factory floors, all because the Chinese Communist  Party mandarins, living safely behind armed guards and walls in  Beijing, decided that hitting their growth target was more important  than the peasants' lives. 

  When I first called for travel restrictions on China back in late  January, Dr. Li was still alive and the coronavirus was, thankfully,  far from our shores. Tragically, it is now a global disease, and we  have to do all we can to arrest its spread. 

  The most vital thing China can do is still be fully open and  transparent about the origins and extent of the coronavirus. 

  I say to the Chinese Communist Party: Stop hiding behind your fake  numbers and politically correct bureaucrats at the World Health  Organization. Let truly independent experts into Wuhan to investigate  this virus. The United States has offered repeatedly--repeatedly--to  send a team and would do so tomorrow if you would just have the  humanity to let them in and help save your own people. 

  Finally, give those people the freedom to speak candidly about the  disease that has devastated your nation. Do not stifle the next  whistleblower, the next doctor or nurse who speaks up to save the lives  not just of their own people but of the people around the world. 

  Here in America, only time will tell how this virus will run its  course. We have many advantages, though, to help us in this fight. We  have the world's best doctors, nurses, and healthcare professionals. As  important, we live in a republic that protects the liberty of our  citizens and gives every American the freedom to speak, to write, to  dissent, to sound an alarm--loudly sound an alarm--when we see  something that isn't right and we think we can make it right. 

  Tragically, for himself, for his family, for the world, Dr. Li  Wenliang enjoyed no such freedom. Yet he still spoke up to try to save  his neighbors and to save the world. For that he was punished, and now  he has passed. 

  May he rest in peace, and may his memories inspire other selfless  heroes who will speak truth and hold the Chinese Communist Party to  account, no matter the cost. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT