Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, this week the Senate has another chance to  vote on basic pro-life protections for babies, both born and unborn. 

  This week we have another choice to live up to our Nation's highest  principle--that every person has the right to life--or to stoop down to  a narrow vision of humanity peddled by the abortion industry and its  cronies. 

  The first bill we are considering--the Pain-Capable Unborn Child  Protection Act--would prohibit abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy,  when there is clear, scientific evidence that these young babies can  feel pain in their mother's womb. 

  The abortion lobby and all of its defenders will dispute this  science, claiming that babies or fetuses--which is the euphemism they  like to use for babies--can't feel pain at all or at least until the  very latest stages of pregnancy. Anyone pedaling that myth must have  never visited a neonatal intensive care unit, or the NICU, as they are  usually called. Ask any one of those NICU nurses who cares for little  preemies, even micro-preemies, and they will tell you how they can hold  that small infant sometimes even in the palm of their hands, and they  can see it grimace at a poke or a prod, maybe even slap away a tube or  a needle as they approach--just as older kids do, just as some grownups  do. 

  The undeniable fact of fetal pain in these young babies influences  every aspect of how we care for the young in our hospitals. We swaddle  them with only the softest fabrics because their little bodies are so  easily stimulated. We give them pain medicine during surgery, whether  they are in the womb  or outside it. But we offer no such comfort during abortions, even in  the latest stages of pregnancy, when abortionists crush a baby's skull  and dismember it. 

  Indeed, a scientific paper published earlier this year in the Journal  of Medical Ethics noted a curious fact: Abortion is the only--the  only--invasive procedure performed on unborn infants without pain  medication. Then again, abortion is unusual in so many ways, as so few  hospital procedures are designed to end a life, not to save a life. 

  Are we comfortable with this state of affairs? Are we comfortable  with the fact that more than 11,000 abortions were performed after 21  weeks when, again, we have clear, scientific evidence that these babies  feel pain and that many of them could survive outside their mother's  womb? 

  I would suggest the American people are not comfortable with this  situation, and we can do something about it in the U.S. Senate this  week. 

  The second bill we are voting on, called the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act, is even more modest but perhaps even more  urgent. This bill would simply protect babies when they are born alive  during an abortion. 

  I know it is amazing to even hear this, but there are rare and  horrible cases in which babies are intended to be aborted, yet they are  born alive, and the doctors are under no obligation to provide medical  care for that young baby with a spark of God living in its soul. So  this bill would simply obligate abortionists to render lifesaving  medical care to a baby struggling for life on the operating table. It  would require abortionists to act as those babies' friends and their  doctors, consistent with their oath--not act like the baby's mortal  enemy. 

  Of course, the abortion lobby will tell you: Oh, this never occurs.  All of their defenders in the media will say that it never occurs. But  if you are being honest, the facts are, they do occur. 

  The implication here is clear. They simply want us to look away from  this horror. That doesn't mean we should, though, because, in fact, we  do know--we do know--that babies can survive abortions. We have the  numbers to prove it from a handful of States that require abortionists  to confess when they fail to kill a baby in the mother's womb and,  instead, murder it on the operating table. 

  In Florida, 11 babies were born alive during abortions in 2017;  another 6 were reportedly born alive in 2018; and another 2, last year.  There were 19 precious little babies born alive during abortions in  just 1 State in just 3 years. Other States have reported dozens more  cases. 

  Still, the abortion industry will dismiss these lives as a mere  rounding error: Let's not even focus on it. It is not a serious matter. 

  But forgive us if most Americans see the matter differently. These  are precious little children, made in the image of God and endowed by  him with the same worth and dignity as you and me and all of us. 

  We have a duty to these little children. We have a duty not to look  away from them. 

  These pro-life bills are modest and humane. They have the strong  support of the American people--clear majorities. But the real reason  we must protect these babies is not because it is popular but because  it is right. 

  Every human being is created equal and deserves recognition and  protection under our laws. It says so right in the preamble to our  Declaration of Independence. 

  Our country doesn't always live up to that noble principle. But right  now we have an opportunity to live up to it just a little bit more, if  only in just a few more cases--but those cases in which life is most  vulnerable and most innocent. 

  So I urge my colleagues to seize this opportunity and protect life by  acknowledging the humanity of these precious little children. We must  not look away any longer. 

                        Recognition of the Minority Leader  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT