Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, this holiday season, the ancient  darkness of anti-Semitism cast a shadow over New York City during  Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights. The New York Police Department  recorded at least nine separate attacks against Jews--more than one  attack for each day of Hanukkah. New attacks are reported seemingly on  a daily basis. 

  In Crown Heights, the site of deadly anti-Semitic riots incited by Al  Sharpton in 1991, a group of men beat up an Orthodox Jew and attacked  another with a chair. 

  In Williamsburg, another group terrorized an elderly Jewish man on  the street. ``Jew, Hitler burned you,'' one of the criminals reportedly  said. ``I'll shoot you.'' 

  Just outside the city, in Rockland County, a man with a machete  stormed a celebration in a rabbi's home and injured five worshippers,  leaving two in critical condition. The family of one victim, Josef  Neumann, says he may never wake up from his coma.  

  These heinous attacks are part of a growing storm of anti-Semitism  that has made Jewish Americans fearful to worship and walk the streets  in their own communities. They come in the wake of the deadly rampage  at the kosher market in Jersey City that left four innocent people  dead, including a police detective, and of course they come in the wake  of the deadliest anti-Semitic attack in our Nation's history: the  massacre of 11 Jews at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh by a  White supremacist. 

  According to the FBI, our country suffered a 37-percent increase in  anti-Semitic crimes between 2014 and 2018. According to the New York  Police Department, the city suffered a 26-percent increase in anti- Semitic crimes in the past year alone. That increase is alarming  enough. So is the fact that most hate crimes reported in New York are  crimes against Jews. While some of the increase is due to better  reporting, much of it is not. 

  Jewish Americans bear witness to this harsh reality. Anti-Semitism is  an ancient hatred, and today it appears in new disguises. It festers on  internet message boards and social media. It festers in so-called  Washington think tanks like the Quincy Institute, an isolationist,  blame-America-first money pit for so-called ``scholars'' who have  written that American foreign policy could be fixed if only it were rid  of the malign influence of Jewish money. It festers even on elite  college campuses, which incubate the radical boycott, divestment, and  sanctions movement--a movement to wage economic warfare against the  Jewish State. These forms of anti-Semitism may be less bloody than  street crime in New York, but they channel the same ancient hatred, the  same conspiratorial and obsessive focus on the Jewish people. 

  Anti-Semitic attacks are a symptom of a larger breakdown of public  order in our major cities caused by politicians who are letting  dangerous criminals roam our streets. 

  While Jews were being attacked in New York City, a law went into  effect eliminating pretrial detention and bail for most crimes,  including serious crimes like stalking, arson, robbery, and even  manslaughter and negligent homicide. This law was a gift to criminals  just in time for the holidays. In some cases, it came with an actual  gift. New York City's criminal justice system gives goodies like  taxpayer-funded movie tickets to criminal suspects just for showing up  to court--movie tickets for criminals. I wish I were joking, but the  joke is on the law-abiding citizens of this Nation. 

  These soft-on-crime politicians are doing their best to make crime  pay in New York. Releasing criminals is the logical next step for the  criminal-leniency movement. 

  Thanks to the new bail law, an estimated 3,800 criminal suspects were  released from New York jails before New Year's Day. Many of those  suspects were arrested for new offenses within hours--within hours--of  their release. 

  Case in point: On the sixth day of Hanukkah, December 27, Tiffany  Harris was arrested for attacking three Jewish women in Crown Heights.  She shouted ``F-you Jews'' as she slapped them in a rage. Despite the  violent nature of her crime, Harris was amazingly released without bail  the very next day, December 28, the seventh day of Hanukkah. On the  eighth day of Hanukkah, Harris was arrested yet again for assault. She  was released for a second time the day after that and is in custody now  only because she was arrested for now a third time for failing to  comply with a court order. 

  I can only imagine how demoralizing it must be for New York's police  officers to arrest a violent criminal, only to risk their safety  arresting them the next day for harming somebody else and the next day  and the next day. How terrifying it must be for the witnesses of those  crimes to contemplate giving evidence while the criminals they  witnessed stalk the streets the very next day. And how enraging it must  be for New York's Jews to suffer constant anti-Semitic attacks and know  that the perpetrators will slide through a revolving door from the  lockup back into their communities to spread more of their virulent,  anti-Semitic hatred. 

  Soft-on-crime politicians claim that cash bail and strong policing  punish the poor, but is there a worse punishment for poor communities  than flooding them with dangerous criminals, making them unlivable for  many law-abiding Americans who call those neighborhoods home? Guess  what. Those dangerous criminals aren't going back to live in fancy  penthouses in the Upper East Side. They aren't living behind gated  communities in Bethesda and Arlington. They are living in the very  communities that most need policing. That is why the consequences of  criminal leniency never fall on the rich elites who praise it the most.  Instead, the consequences fall on the less fortunate and on the brave  officers who are duty-bound to uphold the law, even as they receive  less and less support from the political class. 

  The real solution to disorder in our cities is the same as it always  has been: more and better policing. New York's finest and police  officers all across the country have broken crime waves in the past  using steely resolve and superior force. They can do it again, if only  we give them the freedom and support they need. 

  Thankfully, most Americans know whose side we are on in the fight  against crime. We stand with cops, not criminals. We stand for the  Jewish people against the ancient hatred that stalks them even to this  day. 

  America liberated Nazi death camps in World War II, and we have  served as a haven for persecuted Jews for longer than that. We must not  allow the bigotry so common in Europe and the Middle East to spread  here to our free shores. We must not allow our city streets to be  plunged into the lawlessness of the not so distant past.                                     Iran  

  Madam President, I want to commend our brave troopers and our  intelligence officers and the President for the daring strike last week  on Qasem Soleimani. Qasem Soleimani had the blood of thousands of  Americans on his hands, and he was plotting to kill more Americans just  like his terrorist proxies had killed in Iraq on December 27. He even  was picked up, when he landed at Baghdad International Airport, by a  terrorist culpable for the bombing of our Embassy in Kuwait in 1983. 

  You would think that everyone would celebrate the death of a  terrorist monster, but, no, you would be wrong. You would be wrong. Our  Democratic friends have been criticizing and complaining ever since  Qasem Soleimani died Thursday night. 

  Two particularly surprising complaints I have heard are that the  Democrats weren't notified in advance and that Qasem Soleimani's plot  wasn't imminent. Let's think about those criticisms. 

  The Speaker of the House and the minority leader weren't notified in  advance of a target of opportunity against a terrorist mastermind. I am  sorry, but what did you expect? Is the President or Secretary of  Defense or Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff supposed to call hours  in advance when they don't even know if the target will show up where  our intelligence expects? 

  Were they supposed to call when the missile was in the air? Give me a  break. Give me a break. 

  I will share what the majority leader told us yesterday about the  raid on Osama bin Laden. Do you think he got notified in advance? No.  Did he expect to be notified in advance? No. He said the Secretary of  Defense called him after the strike to give him a brief summary of what  had happened, and the majority leader, in 2011, simply said:  ``Congratulations.'' He put out a public statement to the exact same  effect. Where is that sense of patriotism and pride from the Speaker of  the House and from the minority leader today with the elimination of  Qasem Soleimani? 

  Second, this critique that, well, Qasem Soleimani wasn't plotting an  imminent attack--I mean, we are talking about how many terrorists can  dance on the head of a pin here. Qasem Soleimani had been killing  Americans for 30 years. He was flying around the Middle East to meet  with his terrorist proxies in Syria and Lebanon and Iraq to plan how to  kill more Americans. 

  We just had a briefing downstairs with the Director of the CIA and  the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of  the Joint Chiefs of Staff in which they said: Yes, the plot was  imminent. Intelligence is never ironclad, though. It can rarely say a  strike is going to happen at this  time on this day at this target. That is apparently the standard the  Democrats want to hold the President to--not weeks, not even days, not  even a period of days against a hard target that presented an  opportunity, as Qasem Soleimani did last Thursday night. 

  Let me say this: Imminence is ultimately a question of judgment that  has to be made by the people we have elected to make those decisions  for our country. It is not a question of intelligence. Our intelligence  officers have great skills and capabilities. They can tell us the best  intelligence they have that suggests the timing of such attacks. But it  is ultimately the people's elected representatives who make those  judgments. 

  I will just submit that if you are a soldier sitting in Iraq with  Qasem Soleimani flying around trying to decide when to kill you, the  question of imminence probably looks a lot different than if you are a  comfortable Senator sitting behind guarded doors with armed security  details protecting your every movement. 

  I will simply say yet again that Qasem Soleimani got exactly what he  deserved. All those Americans he killed and their families also got  what they deserved: justice. America and the world are a safer place  because Qasem Soleimani is no longer a part of this world. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT