Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, today is the 31st anniversary of the  Tiananmen Square massacre, when thousands of peaceful students asking  for their freedom were gunned down by Chinese Communist tanks and  troops. Because of Beijing's relentless censorship and control over  information, we never learned the true death toll of that dark day, but  it is certain that thousands of peaceful protesters were murdered in  the streets. 

  Beijing's savagery was exposed during that massacre, reminding the  West that this was the same, unreconstructed Communist Party that  killed millions--tens of millions--of its own people without batting an  eye in Mao's Cultural Revolution and Great Leap Forward. A tiger never  changes its stripes. 

  Now the Chinese Communist Party is threatening another atrocity in  Hong Kong, a city whose traditions and freedoms it once promised to  respect--but that it, secretly and increasingly openly, loathes as a  gleaming repudiation of Chinese Communism. 

  Last year, an extradition bill that could have allowed Hong Kong  residents to be ``disappeared'' to mainland China sparked mass  protests. Hong Kong residents flooded the streets to display their  disapproval and protect their freedoms. 

  These are not anarchists trying to tear down the law--as the Chinese  Communist Party's shrill organs falsely claim--but they were free  citizens fighting to preserve the rule of law they love so much,  against a Communist power that knows no law above itself. They are  fighting for the very same freedoms we enjoy in the United States: the  freedom of religion, speech, and assembly; private property; the rule  of law. 

  The Hong Kong protesters won the battle over the extradition bill,  but the war for Hongkongers' freedom isn't over. While the world has  been distracted by the coronavirus pandemic and other upheavals, the  Chinese Communist Party has seized the opportunity to finally enact  what it euphemistically calls a national security law but what is, in  reality, an attempt to extinguish Hong Kong freedom--a law that will  allow Beijing's agents to take broad action against Hong Kong  residents, including those who protested against the extradition bill  last year. 

  Seven million residents of Hong Kong now face the very real  possibility of losing their freedom and possibly their lives. Political  dissidents risk being jailed arbitrarily--or worse. Hundreds of  thousands of Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs, and other religious  minorities risk being driven underground like their brethren on the  Chinese mainland--or perhaps put in a gulag of concentration camps like  the Uighurs in China's Xinjiang Province. 

  The free world cannot stand by while the Chinese Communist Party sets  fire to the venerable laws and freedoms of Hong Kong. Already the  administration is moving to revoke Hong Kong's special trade status,  which has allowed Chinese Communist Mandarins to get rich off a free  economic system while denying those very freedoms for more than 1  billion of their subjects on the mainland. 

  And our great ally, the United Kingdom, has announced it will extend  visas to 3 million Hongkongers--many of whom took part in last year's  pro-democracy protests so that they can escape the Chinese Communist  Party. I highly commend Prime Minister Boris Johnson for striking this  bold blow for freedom, but the United States can also do more. 

  Today, I call upon the administration to prioritize the admission of  persecuted Hongkongers to the United States through the U.S. Refugee  Admissions Program. In coordination with our allies, this action could  save these brave Hongkongers from a horrific fate under authoritarian  Communist rule. 

  While this refugee program has been abused in recent years, it has  always served the noble purpose of allowing those who are truly  oppressed by their governments to immigrate safely to the free world.  Now it can be used again in this worthy cause to help noble Hongkongers  flee the grasp of the Chinese Communist Party before it is too late. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT