Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I will soon join a majority of the Senate  in voting down the Articles of Impeachment brought against the  President by his partisan opponents. The time has come to end a  spectacle that has elevated the obsessions of Washington's political  class over the concerns and interests of the American people. 

  This round of impeachment is just the latest Democratic scheme to  bring down the President. I say ``this round'' because House Democrats  have tried to impeach President Trump at least four times--first, for  being mean to football players; then for his transgender military  policy; next for his immigration policy. And those are just the  impeachment attempts. Along the way, Democrats also proclaimed that  Robert Mueller would drive the President from office. Some even  speculated that the Vice President and the Cabinet would invoke the  25th amendment to seize power from the President--a theory that sounds  more like resistance fan fiction than reality. 

  What is behind this fanaticism? Simply put, the Democrats have never  accepted that Donald Trump won the 2016 election, and they will never  forgive him, either. 

  It is time for the Democrats to get some perspective. They are  claiming that we ought to impeach and remove a President from office  for the first time in our history for briefly pausing aid to Ukraine  and rescheduling a meeting with the Ukrainian President, allegedly in  return for a corruption inquiry. But the aid was released after a few  weeks and the meeting occurred, yet the inquiry did not--even though, I  would add, it remains justified by the Biden family's obvious, glaring  conflict of interest in Ukraine. 

  Just how badly have the Democrats lost perspective? The House  managers have argued that we ought to impeach and remove the President  because his meeting with the Ukrainian President happened in New York,  not Washington. 

  When most Americans think about why a President ought to be impeached  and removed from office for the first time in our history, I suspect  that pausing aid to Ukraine for a few weeks is pretty far down the  list. That is not exactly ``treason, bribery, or other  high crimes and misdemeanors.'' And that is especially true when we are  just months away from the election that will let Americans make their  own choice. Indeed, Americans are already voting to select the  President's Democratic challenger. Why not let the voters decide  whether the President ought to be removed? 

  The Democrats' real answer is that they are afraid they will lose  again in 2020, so they designed impeachment to hurt the President  before the election. As one Democratic congressman said last year,  ``I'm concerned that if we don't impeach this president, he will get  reelected.'' Or, as minority leader Chuck Schumer claimed earlier this  month, impeachment is a ``win-win'' for Democrats; either it will lead  to the President's defeat or it will hurt enough Republican Senators in  tough races to hand Democrats the majority. Or maybe both. 

  The political purpose of impeachment was clear from the manner in  which House Democrats conducted their proceedings. If impeachment was  indeed the high-minded, somber affair that Speaker Nancy Pelosi  claimed, House Democrats would have taken their time to get all the  facts from all relevant witnesses. Instead, they barreled ahead with a  slipshod and secretive process, denying the President's due-process  rights, gathering testimony behind closed doors, leaking their findings  selectively to the press, and ignoring constitutional concerns such as  executive privilege. 

  The impeachment vote itself contradicted the pretensions of House  Democrats. Speaker Pelosi said last year that she wouldn't support  impeachment unless there was something ``so compelling and overwhelming  and bipartisan'' that it demanded a response. Likewise, Congressman  Jerry Nadler said that the House had to ``persuade enough of the  opposition party voters'' before it voted to impeach. Democrats failed  on both counts. Indeed, the only bipartisan aspect of the whole  proceeding is that both Republicans and Democrats voted against  impeaching the president. Not a single Republican voted for either  article of impeachment in the House, resulting in the first party-line  impeachment of a President in our Nation's history. 

  So instead of doing their work, House Democrats simply impeached the  President and declared their job complete. Yet after piously declaring  the urgency of this impeachment, they waited a month to send the  articles over to the Senate. Maybe they had to wait for the gold- encrusted souvenir pens to arrive for Speaker Pelosi's ``signing  ceremony.'' 

  And once in the Senate, the political theater continued. The House  Democrats repeatedly asserted a bizarre logical fallacy: their case was  both ``overwhelming'' and in need of more evidence. Yet we heard from  17 witnesses--all hand-selected by the House Democrats--and received  more than 28,000 pages of documents. The House could have pursued more  witnesses during its impeachment, yet it instead chose to rush ahead  rather than subpoena those witnesses or litigate issues in Federal  court. In fact, when one of the House's potential witnesses asked a  Federal court to rule on the issue, the House withdrew its subpoena and  asked to dismiss the case. The House Democrats complain that the courts  would have taken too long. Yet they expected the Senate to delay our  work to finish theirs. And in a final, remarkable stunt, Congressman  Adam Schiff suggested that we depose witnesses--only his, of course,  not the President's--with Chief Justice Roberts ruling on all questions  of evidence and privilege, dragging him into this political spectacle. 

  But the curtain will soon come down on this political theater. The  Senate will perform the role intended for us by the Founders, of  providing the ``cool and deliberate sense of the community,'' as it  says in Federalist 63, over and against an inflamed and transient House  majority. Were we to do otherwise, were the Senate to acquiesce to the  House, this process might have dragged on for many weeks, even for  months, shutting down the normal legislative business of Congress even  longer than it already has. 

  Even worse, by legitimizing the House's flawed, partisan impeachment,  we would be setting a grave precedent for the future. Just consider how  many times we heard about the impeachment trial of President Andrew  Johnson during this trial. The Founders didn't intend impeachment as a  tool to check the Executive over policy disagreements or out of  political spite. And the House has never before used impeachment in  this way, not when the Democrats claimed that President George W. Bush  misled the country into the Iraq war or when President Barack Obama  broke the law by releasing terrorists from Guantanamo Bay in return for  the release of an American deserter, Bowe Bergdahl. Indeed, the  Republican House did not impeach President Obama for, yes, withholding  aid from Ukraine for 3 full years. 

  No House in the future should lead the country down this path again.  By refusing to do this House's dirty work, the Senate is stopping this  dangerous precedent and preserving the Founders' understanding that  Congress ought to restrain the executive through the many checks and  balances still at our disposal. More fundamentally, we are preserving  the most important check of all--an election. It is time to teach that  lesson to this House and to all future Houses, of both parties. 

  Nancy Pelosi and Adam Schiff have failed, but the American people  lost. Now it is time to get back to doing the people's business. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT