Justice in Policing Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, a free society depends on the rule of law,  which is the foundation for public order and peace. Police are the  indispensable guardians of that law. We rightfully honor them for the  risks they assume every morning when they put on the badge and  sometimes the bulletproof vest, knowing they may not come home at night  to take them off. 

  But the police have a sworn duty to wield their power with justice.  They take an oath never to betray their character or the public trust.  They must hold themselves to the highest standard and overwhelmingly do  so. 

  But in the cases when they do not, the consequences can be  devastating. What happened last week to George Floyd in Minnesota was  horrific. He was killed by police officers--dying at the hands of men  who pledged to protect and serve their communities. 

  I am glad that justice appears to be moving swiftly in George Floyd's  case. The officers who participated have been terminated from the  department, and the criminal process is well underway. 

  But this is little consolation to many Americans, including many  Black  Americans, who feel they have experienced unjust, unequal interactions  with law enforcement. Many have protested peacefully for change in the  finest tradition of our country. And in sharp contrast to the rioters  and looters, who have exploited this tragedy for their own purposes, we  must now seek to reveal national unity from the wreckage of broken  trust and broken glass on our streets. To do this, we will need to be  guided by our Nation's noblest principles, while rejecting the anti- American suggestions of radicals who want a revolution. 

  Every American deserves to be treated equally by their government, as  guaranteed by our Constitution and our country's most fundamental  principle that all men are created equal. There is no greater bulwark  to tyranny and injustice than that old, simple proposition. But we must  reject efforts to scapegoat and demonize all police for the actions of  a few, and we must reject radical proposals to dismantle and defund  police departments, as some have suggested. 

  These proposals are offered in the spirit of revenge that would lead  only to more crime, more lives lost, and more sorrow. The communities  that would be hit the hardest by the disappearance of police would be  the most disadvantaged. When police are understaffed and undertrained,  there is greater risk of mistakes and misconduct, not to mention higher  rates of crime. 

  By contrast, a well-staffed, well-trained, and well-respected force  is a blessing to its community and a scourge to criminals who threaten  it. Defunding the police would be deadly. It isn't a solution but an  insult to good officers, and a threat to law-abiding citizens. 

  Americans are not blind to injustice. We all understand the hard work  that is needed to repair trust in this country, but defunding the  police is not the answer. We need the rule of law and equal just under  law. We need them both. 

  I urge my colleagues to join with us in passing this resolution,  which calls for justice for George Floyd and other victims of excessive  use of force, while also honoring the law enforcement officers who keep  us safe. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, if the Senator from New York would like to  enter into a colloquy, I did not hear an objection to a single sentence  of that resolution, to a clause of that resolution, to a word in that  resolution, which calls for justice for George Floyd and other victims  of excessive force and also says that the Senate opposes radical ideas  to defund the police. 

  So if the Senator from New York would like to explain to the Senate  what part of that resolution he opposes and why he is objecting, I  would welcome to hear his answer. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Reclaiming my time, I have not yielded the floor. 

  So I would just point out this. Let's be clear what just happened  here. We have a resolution. It is a couple of pages long. The Democrats  have had it for 24 hours. Until just moments ago, we had no indication  that they planned to object or that they had any other contrary  resolution. 

  We have heard objection from the Senator from New York not to a  single word of that resolution itself--a resolution which, I will say  again, calls for justice for George Floyd and for all victims of  excessive force, as well as opposes radical efforts to defund the  police. 

  So I will only conclude that the minority leader is here to speak on  behalf of the Democratic Party and defend this radical idea to defund  the police, since he is unwilling to cite what part of that resolution  he opposes. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON.  We had a resolution on the  floor, a couple of pages, calling for justice for George Floyd and  victims of excessive use of force, as well as condemning the radical  idea of defunding the police. 

  Now, the minority leader wants to offer a resolution that would  immediately make the pending business of the Senate--at some distant,  speculative time in the future--a piece of legislation which, if I am  not mistaken, hasn't even been written and filed yet in the House of  Representatives. Now, maybe it has been written in the last day or two  and I am not aware that they filed that bill, but it certainly hasn't  been debated and voted on in the House of Representatives. 

  There is all the time in the world to decide what is going to be the  pending business in the U.S. Senate when the Senate acts, but we have a  resolution  right in front of us that condemns the unjustified killing of George  Floyd, calls for justice for his death and all those victims of  excessive use of force, and also--since the Senate opposes the radical  idea--of defunding the police. 

  Yet, the Democratic leader, on behalf of his party, objected to that  without citing a single word, a single clause, a single sentence that  he finds objectionable. I assume it is because they do, in fact, want  to defund the police. 

  I know he keeps talking about rhetoric versus action. I will just  remind you that the Senate, on almost every day we are in business,  passes multiple resolutions by unanimous consent. If I am not mistaken,  I think the Democratic leader was on the floor last week trying to pass  a resolution condemning the President once again. So the idea that we  don't pass resolutions expressing the sense of the Senate or, for that  matter, there is a choice between passing such a resolution and taking  action is simply foreign to the way the Senate acts every single day. 

  I will just say again that what we are seeing here is the Democratic  leader apparently objecting on behalf of the Democratic Party in  defense of the radical idea that we should defund the police.  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, if the Democratic leader, again, would  like to engage in a colloquy, I will ask him, is the bill that he wants  to make the immediate pending business of the Senate even written in  the House of Representatives? 

  Since he has departed, I guess the answer to my question is, no, that  bill is not even written and filed in the House of Representatives, and  certainly it has not been voted upon in the House and sent to the  Senate for us to make it the pending business. 

  So the objection you just heard, again, didn't object to a single  word in our resolution, much less a clause or a sentence--a resolution  that calls for justice for George Floyd and the victims of the  excessive use of force, while at the same time opposing radical  Democratic proposals to defund the police. I can only infer, since I  didn't hear a single objection to the language of our resolution, that  the rub of the matter is that the Democrats really do support defunding  the police. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT