MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, the United States is in the middle of a  global pandemic, probably the worst public health crisis in over 100  years this country has faced. Every minute matters, every hour, every  day. I have been saying this for 2 months now. Yet where are the  Democrats? There is not a single one of them down here right now. Where  have they been all afternoon? There was maybe one, two, or three.  Probably every Republican over here has spoken because twice in less  than 24 hours, the Democrats have refused to even start debate on  legislation that would help the American people and our economy survive  this crisis; that would provide over $3,000 to your average working  family in just the coming weeks; that would provide extra unemployment  benefits to the millions of Americans who already lost their jobs and  regrettably are going to lose their jobs; that would provide loans to  our small- and medium-size businesses so they won't have to lay off  those Americans as they struggle to pay the bills; that would help  industries that have been devastated, like the hotel industry.  Thousands and thousands of hard-working Americans clean the rooms, make  the beds, cook the food--all of whom desperately need help. The  Democrats won't even start debate on that legislation. That is what  they have done twice. They have not voted to defeat any legislation;  they have voted to not even start debate. 

  In fact, earlier today, Susan Collins--probably the kindest, most  decent, most bipartisan Senator--took the floor to speak, and Chuck  Schumer blocked her. He refused to allow her to speak, probably because  he was scared of what she had to say and probably, just like there are  no Democrats here right now, because they know they don't have anything  to say. They have no case to make. 

  Earlier today, Sherrod Brown was accusing us of not acting quickly  enough on Nancy Pelosi's legislation that the House passed, popped  smoke, and left town for more than a week. I asked a simple  question: When did the House bill arrived in the Senate? He refused to  answer. I asked him again that simple question. He refused to answer  and rather engaged in ad hominem attacks, which is his weak and sad way  of saying he has no answer, which is so often the case with the Senator  from Ohio.  

  They come down here and they attack the Republicans for wanting  corporate bailouts. They say we want to bail out corporations. Nothing  could be further from the truth. Any large company that borrows money  from the Treasury or takes advantage of Federal Reserve programs will  have onerous terms attached to it and will have lots of strings as  well. We insisted that only loans be available, not grants, not cash  handouts. 

  Do you know what the Democrats are advocating for behind closed  doors? Behind closed doors, the Democrats are demanding free cash  handouts for the airlines. Right through that door right there is Chuck  Schumer's office. They are demanding free cash giveaways for major  corporations, and they have the nerve to come down here and accuse us  of bailouts? Go right through that door and ask Chuck Schumer what he  is demanding in secret behind closed doors. 

  Don't forget about all of their cities and all their States. Dick  Durbin represents one of the most bankrupt States in America and the  most bankrupt city in America--Chicago. Behind those closed doors, they  are demanding straight cash bailouts for States and cities that have  been fiscally irresponsible for years. Yet they come down here and  accuse us of bailouts. We are willing to help these cities and States.  They are overwhelmed by this pandemic. Yet we simply say they have to  repay the money on the back end. That is not what the Democrats are  asking  for behind those closed doors over there. They want straight cash  payments. 

  You ask yourself, why would they not even start debate? Remember,  that is all we have been talking about here over these last 18 hours.  Why would they risk your life and your loved ones' lives and your job  and your lifetime of retirement savings? Now we know. 

  Nancy Pelosi is circulating a 1,400-page bill that she wants Congress  to pass that she claims will help save this Nation from this terrible  crisis. It is 1,400 pages. It is almost three times longer than our  legislation, by the way. 

  To give you a sense of what might be in that bill, because, let me  tell you, she is not hiding the good stuff in her bill--I don't have  1,400 pages here, but I have a few pages. Let's just go through what is  a priority for Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats as they dither while  Americans die. 

  Corporate board diversity. The Democrats want to impose quotas for  race and sex on corporate boards. I know they have wanted to do that  for a long time. Is that going to stop anyone from getting sick from  the coronavirus? 

  Here is another one: bailing out the Postal Service, wiping all the  debts that the post office has towards the Treasury. That is another  issue we have been debating for a long time. The Postal Service needs  relief. I greatly respect and praise the hard work of the men and women  who are still delivering the mail, but is a survival package for the  coronavirus the right time to be talking about Postal Service debt to  the Treasury? 

  Here is another one: a $10,000 minimum of student loan forgiveness  across the board. That is another ideological wish-list item for the  Democrats. What does it have to do with stopping a pandemic, especially  when Donald Trump has already waived student loan payments for  Americans who are affected by this terrible pandemic? 

  Early voting mandated in every single State. That is the same kind of  early voting that almost doomed the Democrats' favorite Presidential  candidate, Joe Biden, for whom Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer worked  tirelessly to beat their colleague Bernie Sanders. 

  Combine that with same-day registration. Every single State has to  register voters on the same day. Now they want to pile election rules  on a bill that is designed to stop a pandemic. Let me remind you, these  election rules were written by the same partisan geniuses who couldn't  even count their own votes in the Iowa Democratic caucuses. 

  Here is a good one too: airline carbon emission offsets. Every  airline that benefits from these programs--which is probably going to  be all of them--has to go carbon neutral by 2025. Gee, it is going to  be a pretty amazing feat of engineering to get jet engines you can plug  into the wall and fly across the continent. Democrats have a lot of  faith in American ingenuity. I wonder if that will apply, by the way,  to the private planes that Nancy Pelosi and her family fly in or all  their buddies in Hollywood. 

  What about this one: Every airline has to tell you on every single  flight what the greenhouse gas emissions of that flight are. You get  your departure time and your seat number and your gate number and, oh,  by the way, how many greenhouse gas emissions your plane will have.  What will that do to help a vitally important and devastated industry  get back on its feet? 

  Subsidizing retirement plans for community newspaper employees. Look,  this has been a longstanding debate in Congress. It almost sank the  retirement reform bill last year, and here it is again in a bill  designed to stop a pandemic. Are you kidding me? 

  There is a $15-an-hour minimum wage. Unfortunately, millions of  Americans are learning that the true minimum wage is zero when you lose  your job because of a global pandemic that is killing your fellow  citizens and our elected leaders won't even have a debate on the bill. 

  Here is a beauty too: mandating that Federal public employee unions  get paid for the union work they do. That means you, as a taxpayer,  will pay Federal bureaucrats when they are doing work not for you, the  taxpayer, but for their unions. Again, is that going to stop the  pandemic? 

  I could go on and on and on. The Democrats' bill is 1,400 pages,  after all. But the point is this: There is a good bill that was  negotiated in good faith over the weekend with many Democrats--no  matter what they say--that they are now blocking, that they will not  even start debate on because of ideological wish-list items like those.  It is disgraceful and it is dangerous to the lives of our people and to  their economic well-being. It is time for the Democrats to get serious  and to do their job. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT