Rubio Joins Senate Colleagues in Introducing Taiwan Symbols and Sovereignty Act


U.S. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) joined Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Senate colleagues in introducing the Taiwan Symbols of Sovereignty (Taiwan SOS) Act, which would allow visiting dignitaries and Taiwanese service members to display their flag and wear their uniforms while in the United States on official business. 

This legislation reverses the Obama Administration policy, formalized in the State Department's internal guidelines, prohibiting the display of the Taiwanese flag among other things. These guidelines have restricted U.S. support for Taiwan by prohibiting both the Department of State and Department of Defense from posting such symbols on social media. Additional co-sponsors include Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Josh Hawley (R-MO), Todd Young (R-IN), Rick Scott (R-FL), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ben Sasse (R-NE), and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). 

"I'm proud to join my Senate colleagues in introducing this bill that will allow Taiwanese visiting dignitaries and military personnel to wear their national emblems or military uniform while in the U.S.," Rubio said. "This bill further strengthens U.S.-Taiwan relations at a time when Beijing is increasing its efforts to internationally isolate Taiwan.  

"America should not do the bidding of the Chinese Communist Party in forcing service members and diplomats of free, democratic governments to hide their flag or discard their uniforms," Cruz said. "As China grows more hostile toward Taiwan and our friends in the region, it's critically important for the United States and the rest of the world to stand unshakably with Taiwan. Allowing Taiwanese officials to proudly display their flag while in the United States is a step in the right direction."

"The United States continues to self-impose counterproductive restrictions on our relations with Taiwan," Cotton said. "The Taiwan SOS Act and the Taiwan Assurance Act would both deepen economic and security cooperation with our democratic Taiwanese partners."

"At every turn, China is attempting to coerce countries around the globe to accept their worldview and sadly, this even applies to the U.S government," Young said. "It is time to stand up to the Chinese Communist Party and recognize our friends and allies regardless of how China may respond. This begins with Taiwan. Taiwan and members of the Taiwanese military and government should be treated the same as every other sovereign nation."

"As Communist China continues to try to crack down on Taiwan's freedoms, it's more important than ever that the United States stand strong with our ally," Scott said. "Taiwan is an incredible reminder of the power of democracy around the world, and I'm proud to co-sponsor this important bill to support our friends in Taiwan."

"Chairman Xi and the rest of the Beijing commies have redoubled their efforts to isolate Taiwan. Americans will defend our ally," Sasse said. "This bill is a small, but meaningful, sign of solidarity by allowing the Taiwanese flag to fly on American soil and appear on State Department and U.S. military social media."

"Accountability starts at home," Blackburn said. "The U.S. should allow Taiwanese to express their patriotism with the symbols they see fit, and private companies should have the flexibility to resist Chinese pressure. If the United States is to fully support the people of Taiwan, we ought to recognize the Taiwanese people's desire to express the patriotism they have, just as we may express ours."