Terminating the National Emergency Declared with Respect to Energy


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696118/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-with-respect-to-energy


Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, incredibly, the Democrats are here to  condemn President Trump's recent strikes against narcoterrorists  operating in their backyard. Maybe they want to distract from the  Schumer shutdown by tying the President's hands and siding with  narcoterrorists who have the blood of hundreds of thousands of  Americans on their hands. Whatever the reason, this would be foolhardy.

If you think I am exaggerating here, let me remind you of the kind of  depraved savages we are dealing with. Recall the Tren de Aragua gang  member who tried to rape 22-year-old Laken Riley while she was out for  a jog on a college campus. After Laken fought back, this savage smashed  her head with a rock and strangled her to death.

Also, recall the two Tren de Aragua gang members who, after being  released into our country by Joe Biden, raped and murdered 12-year-old  Jocelyn Nungaray. These animals threw this innocent little girl's body  off a bridge.

Finally, consider the recent arrest of the Tren de Aragua gang leader  who kidnapped three women and shot them in the back of the head in an  alley in Chicago. Only one survived to call for help.

These are the sorts of horrific acts of violence that narcoterrorists  commit against Americans. And, of course, these narcoterrorists--many  affiliated with Tren de Aragua--also flood our country with dangerous  drugs that have taken the lives of tens of thousands of Americans every  year after year after year. They target every State in our Union with  their poison.

This is among the many reasons why President Trump was well within  his constitutional authority to take action against these  narcoterrorists who put American lives at risk. These recent strikes  fulfilled President Trump's constitutional duty to protect Americans as  their elected Commander in Chief.

This should come as no surprise. President Trump stated very clearly  and repeatedly during the campaign that he would attack these cartels  if necessary. This is simply him keeping his word to the American  people.

Also, the President's strikes were lawfully sound and extremely  limited. Because they have been going on for less than 60 days, they  don't even fall within the War Powers Resolution threshold.

I would also note that Presidential action like this is hardly  unheard of or unique. For context, as of the mid-20th century, scholars  identified more than 100 military deployments or actions that lacked  express prior congressional authorization.

I could go back to the beginning of the Republic, with the Barbary  pirates off the coast of North Africa, but there is another example  much closer in time and, for that matter, on the border. That would be  President George H. W. Bush's decision to invade and topple the  Government of Panama in 1989. Without prior congressional approval, he  ordered 12,000 American troops into that country. We toppled Panama's  illegitimate regime. We apprehended the country's dictator, and he  spent the rest of his life in foreign custody.

Let's compare these two cases. In both cases, you had the leader of a  country who is indicted by the U.S. courts for drug trafficking. In  both cases, that leader is not recognized by the U.S. Government as the  legitimate leader of his country. I would say the comparison ends there  because the case is much stronger here than it was in 1989.

Maduro also has I think a $50 million reward on his head from our  government. Maduro is associated with a designated foreign terrorist  organization. Noriega didn't have a reward. Noriega wasn't associated  with a designated foreign terrorist organization. Maduro is in league  with China, Russia, Iran, and Cuba. Noriega was not. Yet George Bush  invaded Panama and overthrew its government.

I don't hear many Democrats, in retrospect, saying that this was an  unwise action or it made our country less safe. And somehow Donald  Trump is doing those things merely by striking a few boats of drug  traffickers in international waters?

Even if you had misgivings about these strikes, even maybe if you  were a Democrat in Congress in 1989--as some of our colleagues were-- and you condemned President Bush for taking action to defend our  country, I would still point out that the resolution before us is  overbroad.

The resolution prevents the President from taking offensive action  against any foreign terrorist organization designated on or after  February 20 of this year. This includes the Iranian-backed Houthi  terrorists in Yemen.

It appears our Democratic friends have forgotten that the Houthis are  responsible for at least--at least--150 attacks against the United  States and allied naval and commercial ships, which have killed at  least 3 people. These terrorists have also targeted our friends in  Israel, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates--mostly civilians,  for that matter.

So if the Democrats had their way, President Trump would not be able  to, for example, strike a secret meeting of senior Houthi leaders;  wouldn't be able to strike imminent attacks on our friends in countries  like Israel, Saudi Arabia, or United Arab Emirates.

I think we should all agree that we want a President, when terrorists  are gathered together for the purpose of planning attacks against  American civilians, our troops, or our friends abroad, to have the  authority necessary to take action.

The Democrats claim: Oh, there is a carve-out in our resolution. Oh,  we have a saving clause. We have a rule of construction that says our  troops can defend themselves.

Once again, they are misleading the American people. I invite you to  read it closely. They may allow our sailors to defend themselves if  these Houthi terrorists shoot a missile or a drone directly at their  ship, but it absolutely ties the President's hands if, for instance, we  have intelligence about a senior meeting of Houthi terrorist leaders.  It absolutely ties the President's hands from protecting our friends in  places like Jerusalem and Riyadh and Abu Dhabi. There is no question  about that. It is the black letter of the resolution. It only goes for  about three lines. I would invite anyone to read it, and you will  understand that the Democrats are once again dissembling.

No reasonable person denies the authority of the President to strike  a terrorist threat on foreign soil. Yet the Democrats are here tonight  questioning the President's authority to do the exact same thing in our  own backyard--in international waters, no less; not even foreign  territory. This is a dangerous double standard.

Therefore, I encourage my colleagues to vote no on this resolution  and to get back to the more pressing business of reopening our  government.