Unanimous Consent Requests--The Calendar


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698421/unanimous-consent-requests-the-calendar


Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I am sad to share that Norman Podhoretz, a  towering figure of American letters and politics, passed away last  night.

Not many men change the course of history. Those who do usually do it  through their actions, like GEN Ulysses Grant's brilliant military  campaigns in the Civil War. Fewer still do it with a combination of  words and actions like Abraham Lincoln.

Perhaps rarest of all are men like Norman Podhoretz, who changed  history with mere words--and what words they were. Norman was not only  the longtime legendary editor and soul of Commentary Magazine but also  a prolific author of a dozen books, hundreds of essays, articles and  columns and no telling how many speeches.

He could turn out 10,000 words of elegant, sparkling, cogent prose,  seemingly, at a moment's notice while identifying for his readers the  deeper meaning of the day's news. Norman was an original  neoconservative and proud to be so.

These days, some historically illiterate podcasters and so-called  influencers use the term ``neocon'' as an all-purpose slur for anything  they don't like. But the neocons were just that, new conservatives, a  collection of anticommunist liberals between World War II and the  Vietnam war who were, as the saying goes, mugged by reality--in this  case, the reality of the New Left's turn against America.

Norman followed this path and blazed it for others. Born in 1930 to  working-class Jewish immigrants in Brooklyn, Norman later said the  first Republican he met was in high school. Blessed with natural  abilities and good teachers, Norman earned a scholarship to Columbia,  while at his father's insistence, he also studied concurrently at the  Jewish Theological Seminary and earned a degree in Hebrew literature.

After more studies at Cambridge and 2 years in the Army, he returned  to New York and wrote for magazines such as The New Yorker and Partisan  Review and ran in the liberal intellectual social circles of the times  with the likes of Norman Mailer and Allen Ginsberg.

He also wrote for and worked at Commentary, a journal of Jewish  thought which, at the time, fit well into those circles. He became  editor-in-chief in 1960, on the eve of the disorder, chaos, and anti- Americanism that would be unleashed by the New Left that decade.

They considered this country to be evil--

Norman said of the New Left in 1995.

We neoconservatives were not only outraged by this attitude       and thought it intellectually wrong in almost every detail,       but also thought it was morally outrageous, contemptible, and       dangerous.

Soon enough, Norman and Commentary defined this neoconservative  movement, especially on foreign policy. They published famous path- setting essays, such as Jeane Kirkpatrick's ``Dictatorships and Double  Standards'' and ``The United States in Opposition'' by Pat Moynihan.

No less a titan than Ronald Reagan called Norman a ``must-read'' for  conservatives of all stripes.

Norman, Kirkpatrick, and other neocons both followed and led Reagan  into the Presidency, helping to shape a strong and confident foreign  policy of defending American interests and free peoples against the  menace of Soviet Russia and anti-American insurgencies around the  world.

Norman maintained a friendly dialogue with Reagan over the years and  received a richly deserved Presidential Medal of Freedom from President  George W. Bush.

Norman turned over the reins of Commentary in 1995, but he never put  down the pen. I am thankful he didn't because that was also the year I  discovered the magazine and became a 30-year subscriber.

Norman and Commentary were there to chronicle the threat from  militant Islam, communist China, and growing anti-Semitism and  radicalism at home.

Thanks to great thinkers like Norman, I cannot claim to be a  neoconservative. I was, if I could borrow the phrase, ``right from the  beginning.'' Generations of young readers learned the easy way from  Norman what he had learned the hard way, never flirting with liberalism  in our youth.

As, in his own words, ``a filthy little slum child'' of Jewish  immigrants from Eastern Europe, Norman was eternally grateful to  America for welcoming his  family and providing him with unlimited opportunity. Norman said that  he had ``a love affair with America.''

A love affair with America--I think that is a very apt way to put it,  something we should all try to emulate and instill in our kids and  grandkids.

Norman's love affair with America, I suspect, was behind his dogged  support for Donald Trump when so many of his old friends abandoned our  party in 2016. But Norman saw President Trump's election as ``a kind of  miracle.'' He believed that President Trump could, in his words, ``save  us from the evil on the Left.''

Despite all their differences, with their shared love of America,  their hatred of communism, their shared New York roots--indeed their  shared Brooklyn-to-Manhattan journey--Norman and the President may not  be quite the strange bedfellows they first appeared to be.

I am confident that Norman was pleased with the President's muscular  defense of the American way of life upon his return to office and  especially pleased that Norman lived to watch America join with Israel  to devastate Iran's nuclear program on President Trump's watch.

One of the great benefits of my work as a Senator is the opportunity  to cross paths with great men like Norman Podhoretz. After learning  from his writing for so many years, I have had the occasion to meet him  and share a modest correspondence. I can share that Norman may have  receded from public writing in recent years, but he remained as witty,  brilliant, and courageous as ever in his private correspondence.

Yet, as we all sometimes do when we reflect on our lives, Norman too  acknowledged that he at times wondered ``what it all amounted to'' and  sometimes feared the answer was ``not much.'' But nothing could be  further from the truth, I assured him. For nearly 70 years, Norman  informed, educated, persuaded, and succeeded with his words. He taught  multiple generations not just to love our country but also why we  should love it and how to defend it. His words reached to the U.S.  Congress, the Oval Office, and into the councils of nations.

Without Norman and the little magazine he led, the course of  history--the Reagan revolution and the Cold War in particular--might  indeed have been very different.

I, therefore, join Norman's family not only in mourning the loss of  this great man but also in celebrating the highly consequential life of  a true American patriot.