War Powers Resolution


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. COTTON. Madam President, in the next few days, Senate Democrats  will move to discharge a War Powers Resolution to tie the President's  hands in defending this Nation against Iran and terrorist masterminds  like Qasem Soleimani. Let's think about how we got here and the  implications of this reckless action. 

  Qasem Soleimani has the blood of thousands of Americans on his hands  and hundreds of thousands of innocent souls across the Middle East. For  more than 20 years, he was the Supreme Leader's most trusted  lieutenant, Iran's terror mastermind, and the man responsible for the  deaths of hundreds of American soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan by  supplying the most deadly kinds of roadside bombs soldiers ever faced.  He and his proxies and Iranian leaders like him are responsible for  bombings of our Embassies in places like Lebanon and Kuwait. They are,  in no small part, responsible for the ongoing horror of the Syrian  civil war, for the civil war in Yemen. There is no doubt, based on the  intelligence we have and this bloodthirsty past, that Qasem Soleimani  was in Baghdad on January 2 to plot something very dangerous and very  big that was going to target Americans once again. 

  We should all be thankful that Qasem Soleimani no longer walks the  Earth, and we should be proud of the troops who executed that mission.  The world is a safer place and America is a safer nation because of it.  The people of Iran have been given a voice against the man who was  responsible for mowing them down in protests over the years and whose  death they have been out on the streets celebrating even though they  risk being mowed down by their own security forces once again. 

  Yet, over the last 2 weeks, the Democrats have been able to do  nothing but express their regret for the President's decision to  eliminate Qasem Soleimani. And make no mistake--this War Powers  Resolution is not about the future; it is about delivering an implicit  or, if you listen to their words and don't just read the resolution, an  explicit rebuke to the President for ordering the killing of Qasem  Soleimani. They certainly want to prevent the President from doing  anything like that in the future. That is why they have introduced this  War Powers Resolution. 

  We should always remind ourselves when we are having a war powers  debate, as we do from time to time, the War Powers Resolution is  unconstitutional. It was passed by a liberal Congress in 1973 at the  height of Watergate, and not a single President since then has  acknowledged its constitutionality--not a single one, to include all  the Democrats. 

  I hear a lot about the Constitution these days and reclaiming our  authority to declare war and to constrain the Executive. I guess all  those constitutional experts missed the Federalist Papers and their  authoritative explanation of the Constitution and why we have the  government we do. We have a House of Representatives with 435 people to  be the institution that is most closely tied to popular opinion. We  have a Senate to act as the cool and deliberate sense of community. And  we have a single President--a single President--to act on behalf of the  entire Nation in moments of peril. 

  Federalist 70, if they would just open up that authoritative  explanation of the Constitution, says why there is one President, not a  council of two or three or four, as some of the States had at the time  of the founding. Because of the division of opinion and perspective and  temperament that an executive council would have, there is one  President--one President--who can act, as Federalist 70 said, with  energy and dispatch and, yes, in some occasions, with secrecy. So if  the Founders didn't think we should have an executive council of 3 or 4  or 5 people, imagine what they would have thought about 535 commanders  in chief making operational decisions about when to take action on the  battlefield. 

  These debates about War Powers Resolutions are really about how many  lawyers and armchair rangers can dance on the head of a pin. Do you  think wars and battles are won with paper resolutions? Those wars and  battles are won with iron resolution. Do you think the ayatollahs are  intimidated by ``whereas'' clauses and joint resolutions? The  ayatollahs are intimidated, deterred, and scared when we incinerate  their terror mastermind and we tell them that we will do it again if  they harm another American. 

  Even if you grant the War Powers Resolution constitutional, look at  the actual text of this resolution. It makes no exception for Iran  developing a nuclear weapon. The ayatollahs could hold a press  conference tomorrow or the Supreme Leader could tweet that they are  going to rush to a nuclear breakout. The President would have to come  to Congress if he would want to take any kind of action to deter it. It  makes no exception for designated terrorist organizations and  individuals, like the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and its Quds  Force, who have killed so many Americans and continue to target them  today. It makes no exception for attacks on our allies in the Middle  East, nations like Israel.  

  The sponsor of this resolution will say: Oh, it makes an exception  for imminent attacks. 

  We have seen what that gets us over the last couple of weeks--again,  lawyers and armchair rangers arguing about the meaning of  ``imminence.'' Well, I have to say that whether an attack is imminent  looks pretty different if you are a soldier on patrol in Iraq than if  you are a comfortable Senator sitting behind secure walls and armed  guards. 

  None of this means Congress has no role in matters of life and death  on the battlefield. It is very far from it, in fact, and I will take a  back seat to no one in asserting that constitutional authority. I would  remind my colleagues that when we had an opportunity to insist that  Barack Obama's nuclear deal with Iran be submitted to this Chamber as a  treaty, there was one Senator who voted to insist on that--only one.  This guy. Ninety-eight other Senators were perfectly willing to create  some made-up, phony-baloney procedure that allowed Barack Obama to  submit a nuclear arms agreement with a sworn and mortal enemy that  chants ``Death to America'' and put it into effect with a large  majority opposed to him, as opposed to the two-thirds majority that our  Constitution requires for treaties.  

  We do have a tremendous degree of constitutional authority in the  Congress. We regulate interstate commerce, which means sanctions. We  confirm Ambassadors. We confirm the President's Cabinet. We declare  war, which we have done only a few times in our past despite hundreds  of instances of introducing troops. But most importantly, and the way  to constrain the Executive if this Congress thinks he should be  constrained in a particular case, we have the spending power--in  particular, the spending power for our Armed Forces. That is the way  the Congress--any Congress with any President--can control the use of  the Armed Forces by the President. It is something this Congress has  done a lot in the past. We did it in Vietnam, did it in Nicaragua, and  did it in Somalia. 

  There were plenty of times where the President has acted in some ways  in a much more aggressive and far-reaching fashion than President Trump  did just a couple weeks ago--the first Taiwan Strait crisis, Granada in  1983, Libya in 1986, and Iran in 1988. I would even say Libya again in  2011, although most of my Democratic colleagues like to send that down  the memory hole since it was a Democratic President. 

  So I would simply say that if you disagree with the President's  decision to kill the world's most sadistic, bloodthirsty, terrorist  mastermind and you want to stop him from doing so again, file your bill  to prohibit the use of any taxpayer funds for such operations. It is  very simple. It is one page. I will help you write it, if you need  help--one page: No funds will be used to support operations by the  Armed Forces against the Government of Iran or any of its officials. Do  it. Have the courage of your convictions. 

  Why are we not seeing that bill? Because it failed just last year.  All of these same politicians offered language on our annual Defense  bill to try to prohibit the use of any funds in operations like we just  saw, and it failed. We passed a defense bill, as we always do, by  overwhelming majorities, which means they don't have the votes because  they know their position is not popular with the American people. Not  surprisingly, the American people don't want their elected leaders to  act as lawyers for the ayatollahs. 

  So if you are not going to act in what is our true constitutional  power, spare us the unconstitutional and dangerous War Powers  Resolutions and simply let the people who are serious about our  national security--from troops on up to the top--do what is necessary  to keep this country safe. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT