Recognizing Annissa Fragoso


Mr. GRAY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Annissa Fragoso,  Director of the Merced County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, for her  service and accomplishments as she retires after a decade of service to  the MCHCC.

Annissa Fragoso was born and raised in the City of Tracy and moved to  the community of Merced in 1995 where she has resided for 30 years. She  earned her Associate of Arts degree in Criminal Justice from Merced  Community College in 2012. Ms. Fragoso has owned the Farmers Insurance  Agency in downtown Merced, with more than 20 years of insurance  expertise.

During her tenure at the Merced County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,  Ms. Fragoso helped secure an ARPA grant as part of the Re-open Merced  Businesses initiative. She was instrumental in another grant for the  Arts Community to host 2 Art Corners, where local artists participate  and are paid. Under her watch, the MCHCC launched Vamanos Magazine  which showcased Merced's agricultural landscape, small businesses, and  local activities.

In 2022 and 2023, Ms. Fragoso's work allowed the MCHCC to partner  with Mayor Matthew Serratto to host an annual Mayor's Ball that would  raise over $50,000 distributed to local non-profits within the City of  Merced.

She was a co-collaborator of the Mercado Night Market with the City  of Merced, designed and created by Gil Cordon. This post-pandemic  creation assists the small business community and Arts Community who  suffered during the economic challenges of the Covid-19 Pandemic. The  MCHCC assisted in 150 micro-businesses, artisans and brick and mortar  stores getting the licensing needed to do  business legally and be part of the Mercado. This Mercado Night Market  has become a community staple for five consecutive years.

She also served on the board of directors for the Kids Discovery  Station, a museum dedicated to children and currently sits on the board  for the Merced Main Street Association.

During her professional career, she has been recognized with many  awards, most recently the Minerva Empresaria Award 2022 from the  California State Hispanic Chamber of Commerce which recognizes  businesswomen who empower others by leading with wisdom and passion.

Please join me in honoring Annissa Fragoso for her dedication,  commitment and selfless service to the people of Merced County.