Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


Mr. DesJARLAIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member  Smith, and Ranking Member Seth Moulton on the Subcommittee on Strategic  Forces.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the compromise bill for the  fiscal year 2026 National Defense Authorization Act. This bill  continues the fundamental reforms to defense acquisition that started  in our committee and supports a fighting force that will stand against  those who threaten the United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, as the chair of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, I  am proud the compromise product builds on the subcommittee's work to  enhance our National Security Space capabilities, strengthen our  nuclear forces, and expand our missile defense, all critical elements  of our national security.

First and foremost, this bill supports the continued modernization of  our Nation's nuclear triad, our nuclear command and control systems,  and the scientific capabilities that maintain our nuclear stockpile. We  also established a new Rapid Capabilities Program within the National  Nuclear Security Administration to enhance our ability to respond to  growing nuclear threats from China and Russia.

Our adversaries, China in particular, continue to rapidly develop and  deploy new nuclear weapons, while U.S. nuclear capabilities can take  over a decade to design, develop, and produce.  This bill will apply innovative and rapid acquisition approaches to  keep pace with the dynamic threat environment and ensure our Nation  continues to field a nuclear deterrent that is second to none.

For the defense of this homeland, the bill supports development of  the Golden Dome system to achieve President Trump's bold vision. It  also includes multiyear procurement authority and additional resources  to expand production of critical missile defense interceptors.

In space, we push to sustain the growth and development of Space  Force Guardians. We must ensure we have the highly skilled and  technically proficient acquisition cadre capable of bringing online the  next generation of systems necessary to fight and win in space.

As we develop those space systems, we are going to need both better- trained acquisition Guardians and more of them. The joint force will be  looking to these professionals to deliver significant portions of the  Golden Dome architecture. This bill helps them do that.

We also ensure that the National Security Space Launch enterprise is  led by one individual who has the authority to make decisions and make  trades to support the warfighter.

This bill revitalizes the defense industrial base and American  manufacturing, supports a well-deserved pay raise for our  servicemembers, creates a more lethal and agile force to counter our  adversaries, and secures our Nation's borders, all while saving  taxpayers over $20 billion through cutting inefficient programs and  government bureaucracy. This is a compromise bill that meets the moment  and the need to support our warfighters and protect our Nation.

Mr. Speaker, I applaud the work of this committee to bring forth this  strong bipartisan bill, and I encourage all my colleagues to vote  ``yes.''