Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. DesJARLAIS. Madam Chair, I thank Chairman Rogers for the time.

Madam Chair, I rise today in favor of the fiscal year 2025 National  Defense Authorization Act. This bill fundamentally reforms defense  acquisition to support a fighting force that will stand against those  who threaten the United States of America.

As the chairman of the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, I was proud to  work in a bipartisan fashion to support some of the most critical  elements of our national defense. First, and perhaps most importantly,  we continue to support the modernization of our nuclear triad, as well  as the scientific capabilities and the NC3 architecture that underpin  it. We also established a new rapid capabilities program within the  NNSA to enhance our ability to respond to growing nuclear threats from  China and Russia.

As China's recent military parade demonstrated, our adversaries  continue to rapidly develop and deploy new nuclear weapons. On the  other hand, U.S. nuclear capabilities can take over a decade to design  and develop. This bill would apply innovative and rapid approaches to  address this and ultimately ensure our deterrent continues to keep pace  with the dynamic threat environment.

For defense of the homeland, this bill supports development of the  Golden Dome system to achieve President Trump's bold vision.

In space, we established the Tactical Surveillance, Reconnaissance,  and Tracking program as a formal program of record to provide badly  needed space products from commercial providers to combatant commands.  We also provide tools to sustain the growth and development of United  States Space Force guardians to ensure we have the highly skilled and  technical proficient acquisition cadre capable of bringing online the  next generation of systems to fight and win in space.

This bill revitalizes the defense industrial base and American  manufacturing, supports a well-deserved pay raise for our  servicemembers, creates a more lethal and agile force to counter our  adversaries, and secures our Nation's borders, all while saving  taxpayers over $20 billion through cutting inefficient programs and  government bureaucracy.

This is a bill that meets the moment and the need to support our  warfighters to protect our Nation. I applaud the work of the committee  to bring forth this strong and bipartisan bill. I encourage all of my  colleagues to vote ``yes.''