Welcoming the Honorable Matt Van Epps to the House of Representatives


Mr. DesJARLAIS. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today with our Republican  colleagues, including Mr. Fleischmann, who joins me as the dean of our  Republican delegation, to welcome our new colleague to the House.

Matt Van Epps brings a great personal story to us here in the  Congress. He is a West Point graduate and a lieutenant colonel, and he  has a distinguished record of combat service as a helicopter pilot and  mission commander.

He is a proven leader with government experience as a member of  Governor Bill Lee's Cabinet, serving as the commissioner of the  Department of General Services for the State of Tennessee, managing the  day-to-day operations of just about every aspect of Tennessee State  government.

Most importantly, he is a husband and father, titles much more  important than the one he will soon have as Congressman. We are also  happy that Meg and Emilia are here, as well as so many other family and  friends joining him on this momentous occasion.

Matt has lived his life to the values of duty, honor, and country,  and I know that he will carry those values into the Congress. We are  excited to have him working with us, and I know so many in this Chamber  on both sides of the aisle will also appreciate and enjoy serving with  him, as well.

Matt, let me quickly interject here. This institution is built on  debate, and as every Member in this Chamber can tell you, we don't  always agree on things. Matt, let me give you your first chance at  providing a rebuttal. As the father of a Naval Academy graduate, we  have a pretty important game coming up, so I will simply say: Go Navy,  beat Army.

Mr. Speaker, I now welcome and yield to the gentleman from  Tennessee's Seventh Congressional District, Congressman Matt Van Epps,  for his response.

Mr. VAN EPPS. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today humbled by the trust  the people of Tennessee's Seventh District have placed in me.

I come to this distinguished body as a Christian, a husband and  father, and an Army Special Operations helicopter pilot with nine  combat tours, who has seen firsthand what makes this Nation  exceptional.

America's strength comes from our enduring belief that freedom is  worth fighting for and from our commitment to protect and empower the  hardworking families who make the American Dream possible.

My commitment is simple: Lower prices for Tennesseans, bring down  healthcare costs, protect communities, and restore American energy  independence and economic strength.

I will work every day with President Trump and my colleagues in this  House to deliver on the America First agenda.

Our constituents are looking for results. The people of Tennessee  didn't send me here to just give a speech. They sent me here to  deliver, and that is exactly what I intend to do.

Today, we make history as this is the first time a West Point  graduate will succeed another West Point graduate for the exact same  congressional seat, so respectfully, sir: Go Army, beat Navy.