Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. TURNER of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I thank Representative Scott for  offering this amendment.

Mr. Chair, it is incredibly important to secure the funding for the  Baltic Security Initiative. The Baltic Security Initiative has assisted  the states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, which are important NATO  allies. They have contributed well above the 2 percent NATO benchmark,  have committed to reaching the 5 percent GDP of defense spending in the  upcoming years, and are vulnerable NATO allies.

We are debating this amendment at a time when Russia's bombs have  just fallen upon NATO ally Poland. It is important that we secure this  funding.

The Baltic states have contributed about $10 for every $1 of U.S.  funding that has gone into the Baltic Security Initiative.

Why this is important is that this is the U.S. portion of funding for  training that has been the U.S. participation as part of Baltic  exercises in the area that has ensured and been a part of deterrence to  say to Russia: We will be there. We are part of the NATO alliance and  are ensuring that the Baltic will be secured.

It has also been a statement against Russian aggression as we tried  to secure and make a statement as they have been attacking with their  murderous attacks against Ukraine, as we have also been trying to stand  up and ensure that as they look to expand and threaten Poland that we  will be there for them.

Mr. TURNER of Ohio. Mr. Chairman, I oppose this amendment. Russia is  murdering innocent civilians in Ukraine.

Our support to Ukraine opposes Russia's murderous aggression. Ukraine  is fighting on the front lines against Russian aggression. Vladimir  Putin is threatening NATO's eastern flank, including the Balkans.  Russian drones have flown over Poland. It is unbelievable that, after  Poland has been threatened, we are even debating this amendment today.

It has been warned that U.S. disengagement in Ukraine would fracture  NATO unity, undermine deterrence, and invite broader conflict in  Europe.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.