Artificial Intelligence Wisdom for Innovative Small Enterprises Act


Mr. DOWNING. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5784,  the AI-WISE Act. This legislation will provide essential resources for  small businesses to support their efforts to adopt AI.

Small businesses are optimistic about the potential of AI.  Capabilities like machine learning and language processing are becoming  critical tools for businesses seeking streamlined operations, like  workforce recruitment, marketing, and strategy development.

However, businesses with substantial and stable access to capital  tend to be better positioned for technology adoption and dealing with  its ramifications. Small businesses, on the other hand,  including businesses in rural communities like my home district in  central and eastern Montana, often lack the resources and information  needed to facilitate technology adoption.

For example, according to a 2025 report from the U.S. Chamber of  Commerce, 59 percent of small businesses in Montana have adopted AI  into their operations. While this figure may seem significant, it pales  in comparison to the near-universal adoption of AI that is seen with  Fortune 500 companies. That is why I am proud to co-lead H.R. 5784, the  AI-WISE Act, with my colleague, Representative Scholten.

The AI-WISE Act directs the Small Business Administration, the SBA,  to establish educational resources on AI for small businesses through  its online learning platform. In doing so, this legislation seeks to  provide small businesses with the technical and practical knowledge  needed to best navigate AI adoption.

The scope of this educational material will include resources for  small businesses on how AI models work, how businesses can identify  tasks that AI can effectively perform, and the best practices for  coordinating with third-party providers and protecting data privacy.

Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Scholten, for co- leading this legislation with me. The AI-WISE Act will ensure small  businesses have the information that they need to most effectively  utilize AI to bolster their entrepreneurship.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this  legislation.