Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689840/disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions


Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill for his leadership in  bringing this important legislation to the floor.

The bill we have before us today reverses perhaps the most  misunderstood rulemaking in financial services. On its face, you may  look at a proposal to cap overdraft fees and think, wow, that sounds  like a great idea. After all, who wants to pay more in fees?

However, in reality, the CFPB's rule capping overdraft fees is  nothing more than an eleventh hour effort from Biden's rogue financial  regulators to score political points at the expense of everyday  Americans.

Financial institutions have to be able to generate profit from the  products they offer. Otherwise, they will not be able to offer them at  all.

By capping overdraft fees, the CFPB has made it increasingly more  costly for banks and credit unions, especially those that service folks  in rural districts like mine, to offer overdraft protection.

When these lenders are no longer able to charge competitive rates,  they may be forced to cover the cost by increasing other critical  services or stop offering the services altogether.

What does that result in? It results in less choice and less  protection.

Imagine a single mother trying to make ends meet. She needs to feed  herself and her son, the rent is due, but she doesn't have enough in  her account to cover both. If she is not able to access overdraft  protection or other far riskier means of short-term liquidity, imagine  the outcome.

This rulemaking doesn't help people in these positions as it pretends  to. It jeopardizes their survival.

When governments act as though they know better than the consumers  and the markets, everyday people pay the price. Let's not make that  mistake today. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.