Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692758/expanding-access-to-capital-for-rural-job-creators-act


Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, small businesses are the backbone of Montana's Second  District. According to the Small Business Administration, small  businesses employ roughly 67 percent of all Montanans. That is well  above the national average.

These businesses historically have difficulty accessing the funding  they need to grow and create jobs. Their location presents an added  challenge.

According to the Center on Rural Innovation, 12 percent of U.S.  businesses are located within rural areas, yet they receive less than 1  percent of venture capital funding.

Many of the communities that I represent have populations of under  500 people. It places them among this underserved group. These  overlooked people and places have inspired my legislation, H.R. 1190,  the Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators Act.

As any small business owner can attest, the number one barrier to  growth is access to capital. Through my own experiences, I know how  difficult it can be for businesses to secure the funding that they need  to grow. I have built businesses in technology, manufacturing,  distilling, and real estate, and a primary driver in the success of all  of these businesses was access to capital.

The SEC's Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital Formation  was created for just this reason: to identify capital access problems  that small businesses face. However, rural small businesses are  currently excluded from the required categories of businesses that the  office monitors for these problems.

My legislation simply requires this office to identify and report to  Congress the challenges faced by rural small businesses when trying to  access our capital markets. H.R. 1190 will make it easier for Members  of Congress to do our jobs to make sure rural businesses, like in  Montana, are not left behind.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Bynum for partnering with me on  this legislation. I was happy to see it pass out of the Committee on  Financial Services with unanimous support. I urge my colleagues to  support this commonsense legislation.