Sba Fraud Enforcement Extension Act


Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, waste, fraud, and abuse fundamentally  undermine the American people's trust in the government. When well- intentioned Federal programs are defrauded by criminal bad actors,  taxpayer dollars are wasted, and funding for businesses and individuals  in need of this vital support is squandered and stolen.

Over the course of the COVID pandemic, the Small Business  Administration carried out an extensive effort, channeling funding to  small businesses facing unprecedented economic challenges. In total,  SBA provided over $1.2 trillion in emergency loans and grants during  this period.

While COVID-era SBA programs in many cases delivered much-needed  emergency aid to small businesses, these programs were sometimes  exploited by criminals seeking to defraud American taxpayers and  illegally secure illegitimate loans and grants. According to a 2023  report from the SBA's Office of Inspector General, SBA distributed over  $200 billion in potentially fraudulent funds in its COVID-era programs.

This level of fraud undermines the integrity of the SBA. It is  essential that we track these criminal fraudsters down and hold them  accountable for their actions.

Two of these SBA COVID-era programs, the Restaurant Revitalization  Fund and the Shuttered Venue Operators Grant, directed financial  assistance toward small businesses that were disproportionately harmed  by lockdown policies due to their reliance on confined gathering  spaces.

The statute of limitations for prosecuting fraud within these  programs is set to expire beginning early next year. If Congress does  not act, law enforcement will not have the necessary time to  investigate and prosecute these crimes.

Along with my colleague, Representative Conaway, I have introduced  H.R. 4495, the SBA Fraud Enforcement Extension Act. This bill extends  the statute of limitations from 5 years to 10 years for fraud with  respect to SBA's Restaurant Revitalization Fund and the Shuttered Venue  Operators Grant. This extension will provide critical time for law  enforcement to track down criminals who have defrauded the U.S.  Government and hold them accountable.

Small businesses across our country, including in my home district of  central and eastern Montana, deserve an SBA that efficiently supports  local job creators and isn't undercut by fraud.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Representative Herb Conaway, for  co-leading this legislation.

The fraudulent spending of Federal taxpayer dollars undermines our  trust in the government. It is essential that law enforcement is given  the proper tools, time, and authority to punish those who subvert the  integrity of the SBA programs and ensure that fraudsters face  consequences for their actions.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.