Work Highlights of Western Caucus


Mr. DOWNING. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for  yielding.

Montana has many mottos, official and unofficial: The Last Best  Place, Big Sky Country, the Treasure State. This last one recognizes  the rich natural resources we have in the great State of Montana right  underneath our feet.

Up until recently, Biden's anti-American policies have allowed  foreign actors to dominate mineral markets, and this has stifled  domestic energy production to the detriment of Western States like  Montana.

I had the opportunity to return home last week, and I heard about  these issues firsthand from miners across the Second District. In fact,  I probably spent more time below ground than I did above it. Actually,  I really enjoyed that.

I am going to talk first about Stillwater County. In Stillwater  County, the miners of the Sibanye-Stillwater Mine are hard at work  producing the only platinum and palladium that is mined in America.  Years of feckless trade policy on the part of the Biden administration  has allowed malign foreign actors like Russia to flood commodities  markets, crippling smaller producers like Sibanye-Stillwater.

Russia, which represents more than a third of the market, has been  subsidizing and dumping these critical minerals, causing artificially  low commodity prices.

This resulted in the layoff of approximately 700 hardworking miners  just last year as the negative effect from dumping has not only  affected the commodity price, but it has made it so that the commodity  price is below the actual cost to extract it. The ripple effects are  still being felt throughout my district.

This is why Montana's congressional delegation is stepping up. I  stand shoulder to shoulder with Congressman Zinke and Senators Daines  and Sheehy. We introduced the Stop Russian Market Manipulation Act.  This bans imports of critical minerals from Russia.

We are creating a competitive market for U.S. mineral producers not  driven down by dumping from foreign actors and extending a vital  lifeline to operations like Stillwater. This not only allows these  mines to support their work forces, but this also drives the local  economy, my State economy, and is also a factor in the security of the  United States of America.

Our bill encourages domestic production, decreases reliance on  foreign minerals, shores up supply chains, and significantly bolsters  national security, all while dealing a critical blow to Putin's war  machine. These factors combine to make a real difference in the lives  of hardworking Montanans who rely on these jobs to make ends meet.

Signal Peak Mine, in Musselshell County, has faced a similar reality  after years of regulatory foot-dragging and America-last energy policy  threatened Montana's only underground coal mining operation.

I spoke with miners who expressed concern about Signal Peak's future  amidst permitting uncertainty and resource unavailability. My Crow  Revenue Act eliminates this uncertainty by facilitating a critical land  transfer that unlocks access to minable Federal coal while providing  the Crow Tribe with a piece of the revenue. With bicameral support, I  am confident we will get this bill across the finish line for our  Tribal communities and our State economy. More importantly, this is  another step in ensuring American energy dominance.

In closing, let me make one thing abundantly clear: There is a new  sheriff in town. None of these efforts would stand a chance of becoming  law without this administration. President Trump has taken swift  executive action to declare a national energy emergency, reopened  exploration on Federal lands and waters, appointed an all-star Cabinet  with the likes of Secretary Wright and Secretary Burgum to streamline  permitting and unleash American energy.

This is why I am hopeful for projects like Black Butte Copper near  White Sulphur Springs that are committed to unlocking the Treasure  State's resources and driving rural economic development, all in a  responsible manner. I can't wait to see what these next 4 years bring  for my State and others like it. Let us not squander this opportunity  and work together to make American mining great again.