Halo Act


Mrs. MOODY. Mr. President, last week, across America we were shocked,  astonished, gutted. The night before our Nation paused to give thanks  for the blessings in our lives--the night before Thanksgiving--two of  our country's finest were shot down mere blocks away from the White  House. Two young National Guardsmen, who had served their country like  the Presiding Officer, who were doing their jobs of keeping us safe,  were ambushed by a gunman here on asylum.

It was 20-year-old Sarah Beckstrom who tragically perished from her  injuries and 24-year-old Andrew Wolfe who remains in critical, yet  stable condition.

We all in the Senate and across America continue to pray for these  guardsmen, for Andrew's recovery, and for their families and loved  ones.

After the suspect started firing--and many missed the news on this--a  National Guard major who was just doing his rounds was nearby, checking  on other troops. He started running toward the gunfire, and all he had  was a pocketknife. I would like to think everyone in this room would  have the immediate response to do the same, but I think we would all  pause and question: Would you, with a pocketknife, run toward gunfire  to protect others?

There are heroes in this Nation who sign up to do that, like the  Presiding Officer, who say that they will put their safety behind  others. They will stand as a guardsman of their fellow countrymen, and  that is what this man did. He rushed toward danger to protect other  people. I am so grateful that there are heroes like him in our country.

Last week--just a few days ago--in my home State of Florida, Sergeant  Erik LeVasseur, from Port St. Lucie, while doing his job as a law  enforcement officer, was shot in the face when he responded to a call  for help. These attacks, threats, and harassment cannot begin to feel  commonplace in our country--not in our States, not in our cities. We  cannot get used to this, and we should always be outraged when they  occur.

Unfortunately, a tragedy like this is happening time and time again  in a growing stream of incidents across our country, wherein our  Nation's guardians, with whatever badge they wear and whatever oath  they have taken--from our guardsmen to our Federal law enforcement, to  our State law enforcement heroes--are being targeted.

Then I hear dire language from the speaker before me--using the term  ``death warrant'' as it related to an issue--but they won't fully  engage and stand up against those who are supporting groups that are  targeting our heroes.

An attack on those who enforce our Nation's laws is an attack on what  this country was built on. It is an attack on the people's law. Indeed,  it is an attack on the rule of law.

Over the last 10 months, our Federal officers and agents have faced a  dangerously escalating pattern of violence, ranging from hitting,  spitting, kicking, and biting during arrests to vehicle-ramming, open  gunfire, and throwing Molotov cocktails--all because they are doing  their jobs that they took an oath to do to protect other human beings.  From January 21, 2024, through November 21, 2024, there were only 19  recorded assaults against ICE law enforcement. At the same time this  year, ICE law enforcement has faced 238 reported assaults. It is a  1,153-percent increase in assaults on those law enforcement officers.

These nationwide incidents show how officers are being targeted  because of the badge they wear, because of the oath they take. And you  know in many, many instances, they are going after people who have  repeatedly harmed American citizens. The attacks are not just on the  enforcement operations; they are an attack on the officers themselves.

Incredibly, incredibly radical, Democrat-led cities and States in  this country are using taxpayer money to encourage the harassment and  obstruction of our law enforcement officers in the United States of  America.

I just introduced the Halo Act to protect Federal officers while they  conduct their official duties, and I am proud to say that this week,  more of my colleagues have signed up to cosponsor this important  legislation. They have said: No more. Our heroes have to be able to do  their jobs to protect us without feeling threatened in the execution of  their duties.

The legislation would make it illegal for anyone, after being told to  stay back, to knowingly come within 25 feet of a Federal officer that  is trying to do their job if the intent is to interfere with the  officer's work or threaten physical harm.

You know, personally, I am the wife of a law enforcement officer. It  is incredibly dangerous, as they are trying to execute official duties,  to have people interfere with them. The distraction of not being  totally focused on what they are doing endangers not only them but  those around them, and we have seen that happen in this country.

I expect every one of the colleagues in this U.S. Senate to speak out  against that, to stand up for the people we ask to take an oath to  stand in harm's way to protect us. It is the very least they could do-- to use words of support for them. My guess is you will hear utter  silence on that side of the Chamber.

This act is modeled after something we have done in my great home  State of Florida, where we are the most pro-law enforcement State in  the Nation. I was proud to say that, and I worked towards that in my  time as attorney general in the great State of Florida. That is why not  only are we leading in the Nation in people wanting to move to our  State for protection, the people who are doing that protection, our law  enforcement officers, are coming from all over this Nation, uprooting  their families, to be Florida heroes because they know we have their  back. We need to do that for all of our heroes across this Nation, and  it needs to start right here in the Senate.

It takes a truly special person to answer that call, whether that is  in our military or in our law enforcement professions--and I am proud  to be the wife of a law enforcement officer--to be the one that runs  towards danger to help others like that courageous National Guard major  last week.

They shouldn't be worried while they are doing their jobs  unnecessarily by people wanting to target them or attack them. Indeed,  if it weren't for our Nation's heroes, our society would fail, our rule  of law could not exist.

I came here to DC to fight for these heroes like you, and it is a  battle. There are those that will stand up and fight for our heroes,  and there are those that will not even remain just silent, they will  actively work against them and support groups that are targeting them.  It is battle, and it is one we must win. There is not an option.

For our heroes' sake, for our country's sake, for the success of this  great American experiment, living as a free man under the rule of law,  I urge my colleagues to have our officers' backs while they cover ours.

I hope they will join me in supporting my Halo Act.