Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Global Tariffs


Mrs. MOODY. Mr. President, I rise today on the 100th day as a U.S.  Senator--in fact, Florida's newest U.S. Senator--to urge my colleagues  to support H.J. Res. 75, a Congressional Review Act resolution to  rescind burdensome energy efficiency requirements on commercial  refrigerators and freezers that were imposed by the Biden-Harris  administration at the 11th hour just before President Trump's  inauguration.

The Biden-Harris administration, as we all know, in many of these  agenda-driven regulations pushed out of Agencies, was a disaster for  American families, businesses, and industries across our Nation. Their  reckless regulatory agenda prioritized Green New Deal virtue signaling  over good fiscal stewardship and the interests of the American people  by exposing manufacturers and other stakeholders in our industries to  regulatory uncertainty and forcing American families to shoulder the  burden.

As Florida's attorney general, I was proud many times to lead the  fight against regulations that made no sense and were driven by  partisan, unelected bureaucrats by filing challenges against these  regulations in court.

While it is regrettable that the Biden-Harris administration ignored  our concerns and the complaints by Floridians and, instead, forced  these harmful regulations into our States and into our industries in  the waning hours of their administration, I am proud to now be here in  the Senate to help continue the fight against these sprawling, harmful,  nonsensical policies that were pushed by these Agencies at the very,  very last minute of the Biden administration.

If this regulation were allowed to remain on the books, Biden's  shortsighted harmful energy standard would force commercial fridge and  freezer manufacturers to discontinue product lines and close factories  in the U.S. The results would be layoffs and open the door for other  foreign competitors to step in instead of those here in our own  country.

Food producers, distributors, wholesalers, grocery stores, consumers  would be severely impacted by a sudden unavailability of these  commercial-scale appliances at the center of America's food supply  chains. That would expose yet another critical supply chain risk  associated with foreign dependence and this would be a disaster.

We need to focus right now on prioritizing American businesses,  reducing costs for American people, and we need to be focused on  opening factories in America, not closing them, especially for such  critical products as these that allow for large-scale food distribution  and storage.

The government should be making it easier to plan and establish food  distribution chains rather than undermining them with harmful  regulatory uncertainty.

We saw time and time again in the last administration the attempt to  force costly and burdensome regulations onto the American people and  businesses in an effort to advance a partisan ``green new scam''  agenda. The effects of prices on American families and businesses were  devastating.

I firmly believe Biden bureaucrats gave no thought to the effects,  jumped right in. And the motto became, frankly: Above everything else,  politics first, Americans last. I am proud to take this fight head-on  to ensure that Americans are not shouldering the cost of the last  administration's regulatory state.

I would like to thank Congressman Craig Goldman of Texas for leading  this effort in the House, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to  vote for this resolution. I look forward to the legislation heading to  the President's desk to become law.