Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of 2025


Mr. PFLUGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation. I am proud to offer  H.R. 1949 today, Unlocking our Domestic LNG Potential Act.

It has been a long time coming. For 4 years, we suffered as a nation  under the Biden administration's disastrous energy policies that put  our energy security and the security of our allies at serious risk.

The White House launched a whole-of-government assault on American  energy production: slow-rolling permits; killing infrastructure  projects, like pipelines; and, most importantly, pandering to radical  climate activists. Then they delivered perhaps the most damaging and  egregious move of all: They banned new exports on LNG. This wasn't to  help the environmental laws or to lower prices for American families.  It was to satisfy the radical green activists.

Let me be clear that this ban put politics over people by  jeopardizing the American economy and handing Vladimir Putin a lifeline  as our European allies were forced to scramble for energy. That was not  leadership. That was failure.

It gets worse. After independent experts uncovered major flaws in the  study used to justify the freeze, the Biden administration doubled  down, and senior officials deliberately hid reports that completely  contradicted their argument.

The administration knew the truth, and they hid it. They buried it.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve the truth that exporting  American LNG strengthens our country. U.S. LNG exports replace dirtier  fuels from adversaries like Russia and Iran. In fact, during Biden's  LNG export ban, Russia overtook the U.S. as the lead supplier of gas to  Europe. In no world was this good for the American consumers or our  allies.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to say that Republicans and Democrats have  similar goals, but that is just not true. We had 4 years to study this.  We had 4 years of evidence on this. Democrats want to kill  hydrocarbons, plain and simple.

Republicans are moving to lower prices, and anybody who knows this  industry, anybody who has studied this industry, and anybody who has  been to where this industry happens, knows for certain that this is a  good bill because they understand not just the economics of it, but  they understand the long-term implications of this industry. If Members  vote against it, they are telling me and the American people one thing:  They haven't studied this industry.

Gas exports strengthen our economy. They stabilize prices, and they  drive much-needed investment in energy infrastructure that bolsters our  energy security.

The facts are clear: We must reform the broken approval process and  unlock LNG's potential. My bill does exactly that. It eliminates the  politicized DOE, which was weaponized by the previous administration,  and gives FERC sole authority over that authorization process.

This is common sense. FERC already leads the review of LNG facilities  under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act. It completes the environmental  work. It completes the technical review. It completes the full  analysis. We are cutting the red tape.

This is promises made, promises kept. The Unlocking Our Domestic LNG  Potential Act removes that red tape and replaces it with a streamlined,  transparent process that gives producers certainty, strengthening  global energy security, and lowering the cost for all of our domestic  consumers.

We have to depoliticize the export process. Once again, when the  Biden administration banned LNG exports, they weaponized and they  politicized that aspect, but today we have the opportunity to stand  with American families and businesses and lower the cost and restore  energy dominance.

This legislation should be an easy, bipartisan bill. If you support  affordable, reliable energy, then this bill strengthens our economy. It  lowers prices, and it signals that you have studied the industry and  that you know your facts.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support this and am proud to  offer H.R. 1949.