Recognizing Mr. Bob Sanders for Cycling Across the United States


Ms. BYNUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the outstanding  efforts made by one of my own constituents, Mr. Bob Sanders. Mr.  Sanders' feat of cycling across the continental United States at the  age of 85 is a true accomplishment. I include in the Record the  following article, written by Peyton Thomas in the Central Oregon  Daily, highlighting the 44-day journey.

85-Year-Old Bend Man Bikes Across America, Eyes World Record                         (Peyton Thomas, Reporter)

Bend, Ore.--After 44 days, thousands of miles and every       imaginable type of road, Bob Sanders is back home in Bend.

The 85-year-old just finished biking across the country,       becoming the oldest man to complete the feat from coast to       coast. Sanders started in San Diego and wrapped up his ride       in St. Augustine, Florida, relying on sheer determination and       a couple of close companions to get there. ``Jack, and then       Kathryn. It couldn't have been done without,'' Sanders said.

His longtime friend Jack Hoker served as his support driver       for nearly a month, following Bob's every move across the U S       ``He said, `Jack, I'm thinking about biking across the United       States. Would you be interested in being my support vehicle?'       '' Hoker recalled. ``I thought it over and got back to him       and said, `Yeah, I'll do it.' '' The ride       wasn't just about miles. It became a journey of connection       with the country and its people.

``I have a good feeling about America now because people       were so kind and helpful and friendly,'' said Bob's wife,       Kathryn Sanders. ``The very best thing about it is to realize       Americans and America is still one country,'' Bob added. ``We       all still love our country without a doubt.'' Sanders is now       preparing to submit all the necessary evidence to the       Guinness Book of World Records, including GPS data, photos,       and witness accounts, in hopes of officially claiming the       title as the oldest man to bike across America. ``He has       determination. He has grit,'' said Kathryn. ``And I think he       could show a lot of people what you can do with that.''       Still, when asked if he'd do it again? ``I'm glad I did it,''       Sanders said ``But I'll tell you one thing without       hesitation--I wouldn't do it again.''