Wildfire Aerial Response Safety Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701175/wildfire-aerial-response-safety-act


Ms. BYNUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 6618,  my Wildfire Aerial Response Safety Act.

Mr. Speaker, wildfires are no longer seasonal. They are year-round  threats that are growing more intense, destructive, and dangerous for  the communities that we serve and the responders that we rely on.

In 2020, Oregon experienced one of the most devastating wildfire  seasons in our State's history. More than 1 million acres burned.  Entire communities were displaced. For days, the air across our State  and much of the West was among the worst in the world.

What struck me from that moment wasn't just the scale of the  destruction but the importance of fast-acting firefighting to slow the  spread and protect lives. One of the tools that firefighters use in  Oregon is aerial firefighting, but personal aircraft like drones can  prevent that tool from being used.

That is because aviation rules require the grounding of all aircraft  when an unauthorized drone is sighted in active response zones. When  that happens, it can stop water drops, delay rescues, and interrupt  information gathering, which puts nearby communities at risk. Our  ground crews lose critical visibility and protection, which increases  the danger for firefighters, rescuers, and residents.

Just last August, in my home State of Oregon, a recreational drone  delayed the initial air attack of the Flat fire by nearly 30 minutes.  This is the window of time when it is most critical in fighting a fire.  That is exactly the problem that my bill is designed to address.

The Wildfire Aerial Response Safety Act ensures that our aerial  wildfire response is not just fast but safe, coordinated, and  effective.

This bill improves the safety and effectiveness of aerial wildfire  response by addressing the growing threat of drone interference. It  directs the FAA to evaluate recent disruptions, develop solutions, and  to prevent future interference. It makes sure that the public  understands the risks of flying drones near active wildfires, because  the reality is simple: When the airspace isn't managed well,  firefighting slows down, and lives are put at risk.

This is a commonsense, bipartisan bill that reflects how wildfire  response is evolving in real time. It supports the pilots and the first  responders doing this dangerous work, and it helps ensure we are giving  them the tools and conditions that they need to succeed.

I thank Representatives Neguse, Crane, and Ciscomani for working with  me on this bill and the leadership of the House Committee on  Transportation and Infrastructure for passing the bill through  committee without opposition.

Protecting firefighters and improving how quickly we respond to  wildfires will always remain my top priority.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 6618.