Veterans Law Judge Experience Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699209/veterans-law-judge-experience-act-of-2025


Ms. BROWNLEY. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding,  and I thank him for the very kind words. I appreciate it very much. I  thank the chairman and the ranking member for their support of this  bill, the Veterans Law Judge Experience Act, and for their work to  bring it to the floor today.

Every day, far too many veterans across this country are waiting for  a VA benefit decision, but not only for the benefits they are due, but  for the stability, the security, and the relief that comes with these  benefits.

Too often, that wait stretches from months and sometimes into years.  During that time, veterans are left in limbo, unable to work,  struggling to support their families, and forced to navigate a system  that moves far too slowly for the urgency of their lives.

Across our district offices, our caseworkers hear directly from  veterans who are desperate for answers about their claims and appeals.  In many cases, a timely VA decision could change a veteran's life. Yet,  even after waiting for an initial decision, they may need to appeal  their case to the Board of Veterans' Appeals where they face more  months and often years of additional delay.

Veterans deserve a system that works with the same urgency and  seriousness with which they served our Nation. In recent years, despite  hiring new veteran law judges, the board has often lacked the  experienced personnel needed to move cases efficiently and accurately.  This is in part due to the fact that in February 2020 the longstanding  experience requirement for the veteran law judges was eliminated,  opening the door to hiring judges without a background in veterans law.

While we respect the commitment of those entering this workforce, the  reality is that lengthy training periods slow decisions, increase  errors, and leave veterans waiting even longer for answers.

The Veterans Law Judge Experience Act takes a practical, commonsense,  and targeted step to address this challenge to encourage the Board of  Veterans' Appeals to prioritize hiring judges with at least 3 years of  veterans' law experience. That means more cases decided, fewer delays,  and stronger retention of professionals who already understand this  complex and deeply consequential area of the law.

Hiring experienced veteran law judges will help speed the appeals  process, improve the accuracy of decisions, and reduce unnecessary  appeals to the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veteran Claims.

According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, there are  approximately 200,000 pending appeals before the board today--200,000  pending appeals before the board today.

Further, a GAO audit spanning 2019 to 2022, showed the U.S. Court of  Appeals for Veteran Claims either partially or fully remanded more than  80 percent of veteran cases back to the board, resting the clock and  compounding delays.

Madam Speaker, our obligation to veterans does not end when they no  longer serve in uniform. It continues in how we care for them, how we  honor their service, and how seriously we take the responsibility to  deliver the benefits they have earned. That is what guides my work on  the House Veterans' Affairs Committee and why I am proud to see this  bipartisan bill move forward.

By strengthening the expertise of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, we  can reduce the backlog, restore trust in the system, and ensure  veterans receive the timely and fair decisions they deserve.

Madam Speaker, I respectfully urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on  this bill which passed the House Veterans' Affairs Committee with  overwhelming bipartisan support.