Americans Deserve A Say in Decisions to Go to War


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700890/americans-deserve-a-say-in-decisions-to-go-to-war


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, to the American people watching, I am here  to say clearly on the floor of the House of Representatives:

You deserve a say in whether our country goes to war.

You deserve a say in whether our children are sent into combat.

You deserve a say in whether your tax dollars are fueling a $1  billion-a-day conflict.

You deserve a voice because the decision to go to war needs to  reflect the will of the people who fight in and pay for that war. That  will is exercised through the American people's elected Representatives  in Congress. It is not about bureaucratic process. It is about the fact  that you should have a say in whether your country goes to war.

The White House has cut the American people out of that conversation  to launch a war without articulating a compelling imminent threat. They  are taking our children to war with no goal, no justification, and no  off-ramp. Yet, I will be clear that we still do have the power to stop  this.

Public support for Trump is collapsing. If the American people stay  loud, more Republicans in this body will have to decide whether they  stand with their constituents or with the war. People in red States and  blue States want and need the same things: good jobs, safe  neighborhoods, a stable economy, affordable healthcare and housing, and  the ability to thrive in their communities.

They do not want war, especially not a war being led by Pete Hegseth  from day one, who has been failing to demonstrate that he can keep  Americans safe. At least 13 soldiers have already died on his watch,  and over 1,000 civilians have been killed. It is becoming increasingly  clear that the U.S. military is responsible for bombing a school full  of elementary school children, killing at least 168 people. The  American people do not support this horror.

To my Republican colleagues: Do the right thing. Stand up for our  constituents.

To the American people: Do not look away from the truth of what is  happening. Refuse to normalize being silent and complicit. You must  stay loud.