Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690482/providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision


Ms. DEXTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to these  resolutions that strip away a State's right to protect its residents  from dangerous air pollution.

As a pulmonologist, a lung doctor, I have spent my career caring for  people struggling to breathe--patients with asthma, COPD, and lung  cancer. However, I am also a mother, deeply concerned about the world  we are leaving our children.

I came to Congress after years of treating the consequences of  inaction. I could no longer stand by while politicians ignored the root  cause--the pollution poisoning the air we breathe. The truth is, Madam  Speaker, our air is making us sick, and we have the power and  responsibility to do something about it.

More than 156 million people in this country live in counties with  dangerous levels of ozone and particulate matter, and yet instead of  empowering States to raise the bar on clean air, Republicans are  telling them to stand down. Let me say this another way. Republicans  are telling States they cannot take action to protect their people,  their health, and their future.

They want to prevent States that are at the forefront from using  their authority to cut tailpipe pollution, a move that guts local  authority in favor of polluters. We must let our communities lead.  Repealing these waivers would undermine stronger vehicle emissions  standards that reduce dangerous pollution and are essential to fighting  the climate crisis.

Make no mistake: That would have immediate impact for our  communities, for every family living near a busy highway, every child  using an inhaler, and every senior who can't go outside on a high  pollution day. This is a direct attack on over 50 years of precedent  that recognizes that EPA has the authority and the obligation to allow  States to do what is required to protect their residents.

I am, frankly, stunned that my Republican colleagues in the House  want to undermine States' rights. Repealing these waivers is an illegal  expansion of the use of CRAs, which the Government Accountability  Office and the Senate Parliamentarian have conclusively determined  cannot be used for this purpose. This is government overreach at its  most reckless.

It is a distraction--a deliberate one--from the fact that President  Trump's agenda is failing to meet the needs of working families. It  doesn't lower prescription costs. It doesn't fix our crumbling  infrastructure, and it certainly doesn't improve the air our children  breathe or the water they drink. At the end of the day, every American  deserves the right to breathe clean air.  Clean air shouldn't be political. Clean air shouldn't be anything but  fundamental.

The people of Oregon should know that I see these attacks for what  they are. I hear their concerns, and I will not stop fighting to  protect them, their children, and their future. I will fight to ensure  that science, not politics, guides how we safeguard our communities.                            Parliamentary Inquiry