Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689408/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding and for  his actions today.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak on one of my eight amendments to  the SAVE Act, which will be offered as the previous question today.

Let me be clear: The SAVE Act is an antiwoman, voter suppression  bill. Under the guise of election integrity, the SAVE Act would  penalize millions of women just for taking their spouse's name,  requiring them to present additional documentation that many women  don't have or don't have the resources to obtain to exercise their  constitutional right to vote.

My amendment would prevent this bill from being implemented unless we  get certification that it would not bar a single married woman in this  country who is eligible to vote from the ballot box.

If this amendment fails, we are putting 70 million American women at  risk of disenfranchisement. Seventy million is one in four voters in  this country. This burden will fall hardest on women already forced to  navigate broken systems with fewer resources and less time: working  mothers, caregivers, women juggling jobs and families.

I cannot believe that in the year 2025, I have to stand here on the  House floor of the United States to defend a woman's right to vote, but  I will. I will continue to stand here every single day if that is what  it takes because this isn't theoretical. This is personal.

It is for the mom in Gresham who can't take unpaid time off to track  down new documents. It is for the woman in Hood River whose name no  longer matches her birth certificate after marriage and who lacks the  $160 it costs to get a passport. Are we really going to tell her she  doesn't have a right to vote?

I ask my Republican colleagues to show courage in this moment for  your mothers, your daughters, and every woman in your life that you  love. Please join your Democratic colleagues in defeating the previous  question so that we can vote on my commonsense amendment.

American women cannot afford to go back.