Providing for Consideration of H.R. 2550 to Nullify the Executive Order Relating to Exclusions From Federal Labor-Management Relations Programs, and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697870/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-2550-to-nullify-the-executive-order-relating-to-exclusions-from-federal-labor-management-relations-programs-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding and for  your leadership.

I rise today in defense of the people who make our government work,  our Federal workers. They are scientists, nurses, engineers, and  caseworkers, people who have dedicated their lives to public service.

Unfortunately, these workers have found themselves under attack once  again, as efforts to strip them of their collective bargaining rights  continue. This is not just about national security. It is about  ensuring these workers have a voice in their workplaces and the ability  to negotiate for fair wages, decent working conditions, and dignity.

As a former union member, I understand the critical importance of  standing together for workers' rights. I know how unions can be a  powerful force for change, ensuring working families have a fair shot  at the American Dream. That is why the Protect America's Workforce Act  is so vital. It is time for Congress to come together in a bipartisan  way to pass this legislation that will protect Federal workers from  attacks that threaten their livelihoods and their families.

Federal workers are the backbone of our Nation. From FEMA teams  helping wildfire survivors to VA staff caring for our veterans to  Social Security workers making sure seniors can live with dignity,  these are the people who serve us every day. They are not faceless  government employees. They are our neighbors, our friends, and our  families.

These attacks on their rights are not abstract. They are real, and  they are personal. Over the past few months, I have heard from many  Federal workers in Oregon who have faced illegal firings, threats, and  mistreatment. They have shared how these actions are creating fear and  instability in their lives and communities. One Federal worker, a  disabled combat veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, was  recently fired from his job at the USDA. He summed it up perfectly when  he said: ``This is not the America I swore an oath to protect.''

That is the sentiment I know many of us in this Chamber share.  Federal workers, like that veteran, swore an oath to protect this  country. Their dedication and service have been unwavering. We owe them  the same commitment in return. I am grateful for the way we have come  together across party lines to ensure the rights of working people and  protect those who serve our Nation.

I stand strong with our Federal workers and with all working families  across Oregon. I commend my colleagues for coming together to fight for  what is right. I am eager to continue this work alongside all of you to  prioritize the needs of working families.

Mr. Speaker, it is time we act. It is time we pass the Protect  America's Workforce Act because our workers cannot wait. Congress must  honor their service and ensure their rights are enshrined today.