Stop the Republican Affordability Crisis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699588/stop-the-republican-affordability-crisis


Ms. DEXTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from California for  leading this important discussion today and for her leadership in  bringing this to the floor.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the affordability crisis and  the reality the vast majority of American families are facing.

Across Oregon, people are doing everything they are supposed to do.  They are working extremely hard and playing by the rules, and still  they are falling behind. They are living paycheck to paycheck, unable  to save for a vacation, retirement, or their children's education  because the cost of living has outpaced what most people earn.

Rent keeps climbing. Childcare can cost more than a mortgage. Health  insurance premiums, copays, and deductibles eat up paychecks before  families ever get to groceries. Too many parents are lying awake at  night running the numbers, wondering which bill they can delay paying  this month.

A report from the Joint Economic Committee found that the average  American family spent $1,625 more because of inflation than the year  prior. In Oregon, families paid $1,791 more than the year before.

It doesn't have to be this way.

I grew up working class. I left home at 17, and with the security of  a union job, I was able to be the first in my family to graduate  college and then go on to medical school.

It was because this country chose to invest in families like mine  that I had a shot at the American Dream. Well-funded public schools,  safe neighborhoods, excellent transit, union jobs, accessible and  affordable healthcare, housing and higher education are the building  blocks that every family in this Nation deserves to count on.

Today, our kids cannot count on these things. They are cynical that  the American Dream is even achievable. They don't believe government is  trustworthy, let alone effective. That is a failure of leaders right  here in this Chamber.

I came here to fight to make sure my district has the opportunities  that I had for a better life. It is time that the Federal Government  chooses working families. It is time for our government to work for  working families, to empower people with opportunity and stability, not  terrorize and undermine their dreams and hard work.

We must raise the Federal minimum wage. We must help seniors age with  dignity and independence. We must ensure healthcare and housing are  affordable and readily available. We must protect our air, water, and  open spaces for all to enjoy health and the joy of getting outside in  our beautiful State.

A better future is possible if we fight for it. I can assure you all,  I came here to do just that. It is time for the Federal Government to  stand up for working families and break up the monopolies and power  circles that are holding them down.