Adams Memorial-Great American Heroes Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697633/adams-memorial-great-american-heroes-act


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2306) to reauthorize the Adams Memorial Commission, and for other  purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2306

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Adams Memorial-Great       American Heroes Act''.       SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY; LOCATION OF MEMORIAL.

(a) Adams Memorial Commission.--

(1) Extension.--Section 2406(l) of the John D. Dingell, Jr.       Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (Public Law 116-      9) is amended by striking ``2025'' and inserting ``2032''.

(2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1)       shall take effect as if enacted on December 1, 2025.

(b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--      Section 1(c) of Public Law 107-62 (115 Stat. 411; 124 Stat.       1192; 127 Stat. 3880; 133 Stat. 750) is amended--

(1) by striking ``The establishment'' and inserting       ``Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40, United States       Code, the establishment''; and

(2) by striking ``2025'' and inserting ``2032''.

(c) Location of Commemorative Work.--Section 1 of Public       Law 107-315 (116 Stat. 2763) is amended to read as follows:       ``SEC. 1. APPROVAL OF COMMEMORATIVE WORK.

``(a) Site.--Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40,       United States Code, and subject to subsection (b), the Adams       Memorial shall be located within the area generally depicted       as `Adams Memorial: Eligible Additional Area' on the map       titled `Adams Memorial: Eligible Additional Area' prepared by       the Adams Memorial Commission and dated February 25, 2025.

``(b) Additional Locations.--If the Commission determines       that the location described in subsection (a) is not suitable       or feasible due to physical or security constraints, the       commemorative work shall be located within the Reserve.

``(c) Definitions.--In this section:

``(1) Adams memorial.--The term `Adams Memorial' means the       commemorative work authorized to be established under section       1(b) of Public Law 107-62 (115 Stat. 411).

``(2) Commission.--The term `Commission' means the Adams       Memorial Commission established under section 2406(a) of the       John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation       Act (Public Law 116-9).

``(3) Reserve.--The term `Reserve' has the meaning given       such term in section 8902(a)(3) of title 40, United States       Code.''.       SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

Section 2 and section 3 of Public Law 107-315 (116 Stat.       2763) are hereby repealed.

Mr. CRANK.  2306, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2306, the Adams  Memorial-Great American Heroes Act, led by my colleague, the gentleman  from Michigan (Mr. Moolenaar).

Mr. Speaker, although our Nation's Capital contains towering and  iconic tributes to many of our Founding Fathers, we still have no  memorial for President Adams and his family.

Their remarkable dynasty of public service gave America not one but  two Presidents, a Secretary of State, an ambassador, an abolitionist,  and one of our most accomplished first ladies.

John Adams was a chief architect of independence, our Vice President,  and our second President, whose lifelong correspondence with his chief  political rival, Thomas Jefferson, stands as a shining example of the  power of speech and shared principles.

Abigail Adams was an early advocate for women's rights and shaped the  second Presidency through her letters and advice to her husband. Their  son, John Quincy Adams, served as our sixth President and later was a  fierce opponent of slavery in this very body, as the only former  President to be elected to the House of Representatives.

In 2001, Congress sought to finally cement the legacy of the Adams  family in our Nation's rich history by approving the creation of a  memorial to the Adams family in Washington, D.C. In 2019, Congress  further authorized the Adams Memorial Commission, a bipartisan panel  comprised of Members of Congress and Presidential appointees, tasked  with spearheading planning, raising private funds, and educating the  public on the Adams family legacy of patriotism and civic duty. With  the majority of commission members approved as of last year, the  commission has begun the site selection process for the memorial.

Representative Moolenaar's bill extends the authorization of the  Adams Memorial Commission until 2032, allowing its members to continue  their work to create the first memorial in Washington, D.C., dedicated  to honoring the Adams family. The bill would authorize a new site for  the memorial just south of the White House, where John and Abigail  Adams were the first Presidential family to reside.

During a legislative hearing in the Federal Lands Subcommittee,  Jackie Gingrich Cushman, the chair of the Adams Memorial Commission,  testified: ``The Adamses exemplified strength of character, belief in  God, and the importance of family, education, and public service. John  Adams and his family demonstrated that ideas, hard work, and  determination can change an entire nation for the better. This memorial  will inspire new generations of Americans by reigniting pride in our  shared American values and our constitutional Republic.''

This bipartisan bill will give our Nation the opportunity to honor  John Adams and his family with the memorial they deserve. As America  approaches its 250th birthday, there is no better time to honor a  family whose ideas and sacrifices helped build our Nation and protect  its principles for generations to come.

I commend Representative Moolenaar for his leadership in this effort  and take a moment to recognize the late Representative Gerry Connolly  of Virginia, who we sadly lost earlier this year. Representative  Connolly not only sat on the Adams Memorial Commission but also was the  main Democratic sponsor of this legislation and a champion for the  Adams Family Memorial.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.

Just down the hall from this Chamber, we get to take our constituents  many times on a tour through Statuary Hall and we see the desk location  where John Quincy Adams served as President.

Some of our Founding Fathers tolerated slavery. John Quincy Adams  knew it for what it was, a stain on our soul, and he worked so hard,  dedicating his life to eliminating slavery. I can't help but think of  the divine providence that allowed John Quincy Adams for one term to  serve in the same Chamber as Abraham Lincoln. I think God smiled upon  our Nation when he did that to pass the torch on to Abraham Lincoln and  end that scourge for America and for mankind.

Mr. Speaker, by reauthorizing the Adams Memorial Commission, H.R.  2306 would provide the time needed to thoroughly design, locate, and  construct a memorial truly worthy of the Adams family's commitment to  America.

I, once again, recognize Representative Moolenaar for his bipartisan  commitment to honoring one of America's most accomplished founding  families ahead of our Nation's 250th birthday.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.