Children's Savings Accounts


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700423/childrens-savings-accounts


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, America often faces difficult moments and difficult  choices. Presidents are no different. They oftentimes have to face  difficult decisions, and I hope that Members of this body will think  about their vote as they decide whether to support the President in  this effort or not and apply the same standard.

I have always thought to try and apply the same standard, whether the  President belongs to the Republican Party or the Democratic Party,  apply the same standard.

I rise today in support of President Trump's action against Iran. The  Iranian regime has been threatening America for nearly 50 years. It has  killed countless American citizens, and it has brutally killed our  servicemembers.

I had a gentleman in my district come up to me the other day. This  was before the President took action, and he said: We must take action.  He said: I have lost 20 of my friends to the Iranians, to their terror  throughout the years. He had served 24 years in the United States Army.

In years prior, we have had Presidents use strikes against our  enemies and have done it without congressional approval because the  Constitution does a couple of things. In Article I, it gives Congress  the power to declare war, but in Article II, it gives the President the  power to be the Commander in Chief. Our Founders intentionally made it  inherently contradict in that way.

They wanted to diffuse power. They didn't want to give all the power  to Congress, and they didn't want to give all the power to the  President of the United States, so they intentionally did that.  Presidents throughout time have used that.

Thomas Jefferson in the First Barbary War did not come to Congress.  He deployed troops in the Barbary War. The War of 1812, the same thing  was done, although Congress did come back and authorize and declare  war. It wasn't done at first.

We have had Presidents use these strikes against our enemies without  congressional approval in modern times, like President Obama in Libya  or President Clinton in Kosovo. Yet, for some reason, the other side of  the aisle wants to make a political statement on this particular issue  because of who the President is.

Mr. Speaker, that is not a standard any of us should apply. I would  hope, as a legislator--I wasn't here when Bill Clinton was President. I  wasn't here when Barack Obama was President. I can say that I had a  public life then. I didn't go out and attack the President of the  United States at that time.

I am here to support the men and women of the military and the  Presidents who have to make tough decisions from time to time. For some  reason, on the other side of the aisle, many want to make a political  statement rather than just let the President use his legal authority as  Commander in Chief, as stated in the Constitution.

Both Republican and Democratic Presidents have attempted to negotiate  deals with this Iranian regime, only to be met with lies and deception.  We have seen it time and time again.

Mr. Speaker, I want to be clear. If President Trump had not acted,  every American life in the region would have been in immediate peril.

The President and his administration have set clear goals. What are  they? They are to annihilate their nuclear capabilities, to annihilate  their Navy, and to annihilate their missile and delivery capability.  This will save the globe from Iran's regime of terror.

Time and time again, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  have claimed that any military action will draw us into a long-term  war. They say it is going to happen. Just a few short months ago in  Venezuela, we had folks who said: Well, why didn't the President come  to Congress and have us declare war?

Did we declare war on Venezuela? No. Are we at war with Venezuela?  No. It was a 1-day action that the President has the authority to  undertake as Commander in Chief of the United States military.

It didn't happen in Venezuela. They told us that the President will  draw us into a long-term conflict. It didn't happen in Operation  Midnight Hammer when the President ordered B-2 bombers to deliver  strikes on Iranian nuclear sites. It is not going to happen now.

President Trump made every effort to find a peaceful and negotiated  solution to this crisis. Ayatollah Khamenei only sought death to  America. He had no intention of negotiating.

In fact, for 47 years, this regime has simply used deception, lies,  and deals to kick the can down the road so that they could pursue their  nuclear ambitions. They were never giving up on that. They didn't give  up on it after Operation Midnight Hammer and not until this regime has  ended.

Due to Khamenei's death, I believe the United States has avoided a  prolonged conflict that would have killed many Americans. I find some  of the comments by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  outlandish, and I hope that they will choose.

So many say they support the nation of Israel. So many can stand up  and say they support our men and women in the military. It is time to  choose. Will they choose to defend our Nation first instead of their  political games directed at a President? If they choose political games  directed at a President, when this President is gone, they will have  damaged the institution of the Presidency. They will have damaged the  honor of this House of Representatives.