Events This Week


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691164/events-this-week


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Utah for yielding  me time.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand here today on National Police Week  to honor the great men and women who protect us every single day, who  wear the badge, and who protect our communities.

Mr. Speaker, I thank specifically our El Paso County Sheriff's Office  and our Colorado Springs Police Department and all of the local law  enforcement in Colorado. They put themselves on the front lines every  single day.

I have had the pleasure of doing ride-alongs with our sheriff's  office and our Colorado Springs Police Department. I say to my  colleagues, Mr. Speaker, that if you haven't stood in their shoes,  don't be critical of the job that they do because if you take the time  to go do it--and many times we have people who come and want to shadow  a Member of Congress for a day--it is a great opportunity to do that.  Take a minute and shadow a police officer for a day. Go on a ride-along  and learn what they do. I have, as I said, had the privilege to do that  many times.

I recall being on a ride-along in the middle of the night, total  darkness, walking up on a car. The police officer has a flashlight, and  had I not been there, that police officer would have been there by  themselves, and essentially they were there by themselves. I  wasn't armed. Imagine doing that for a living day in and day out.  Imagine pulling a car over on the side of the road and not knowing if  it is just a lady or a man who had a little bit of a lead foot or  whether it is an escaped killer who is going to gun you down.

That is the danger that the men and women of law enforcement face  each and every day.

It is easy for us to come here to Washington, D.C., and to the  Capitol every day and cast our votes. Why? Because we have police who  protect us each and every day, back in our home communities, but also  right here at the U.S. Capitol.

In my former life, I was a talk show host. I did many other things,  but as a talk show host, in my community one time, there was a  shooting. It was unfortunate. It was a young man who got pulled over.  Police were questioning this young man, and as he was talking to the  police, he turned and started to run. As he turned and started to run,  he reached into his shorts, and he started to pull out a gun. By the  way, they had been told before a description of this young man and that  he had a gun. As he turned to run, he was fired upon by the police  officer, one shot, and it killed the young man, sadly. There was  another man with him who didn't resist. By the way, he survived and did  well.

There were some members of my community who stood up and wanted to  make an issue out of that, and I kept reiterating the fact that unless  you stood in their shoes, what would you do? What would you do if you  were the person who had to make that split-second decision about  whether or not you were going to fire to save your life or to take the  life of another person?

I also met, by the way, with that police officer after that. He was  very emotional, and he told me that he had spent nearly 20 years  patrolling that community, 20 years sitting with young girls who had  been sexually assaulted as victims and with their families and helping  them through that, 20 years dealing with someone in that community who  had been murdered. He was their advocate. He was their protector for 20  years.

All of a sudden, when his life was threatened and a gun was pulled on  him, there were some in the community that didn't support him.

We don't ever want that to be the case in the United States of  America. For me, unless you stand in their shoes, you can't be  critical.

They protect our communities, and I want to emphasize that our local  law enforcement in Colorado Springs, in El Paso County, in southern  Colorado, choose to work with Federal authorities. They are not ICE  agents, but they go to a lot of places. They work with our Immigration  and Customs Enforcement agents to root out people who are breaking the  law. They help protect our communities.

That same police officer who you complain about when you get pulled  over because you had a lead foot, Mr. Speaker, that same police officer  is the police officer who you call in the middle of the night when you  hear a noise in the backyard and something at the door.

We have to protect the rule of law, and we only do that through  protecting our men and women of law enforcement.

A few weeks ago in Colorado Springs, we had a raid by the DEA of a  nightclub where over 100 people were detained and arrested for criminal  activity. There was trafficking of adults and trafficking of children.  There were drugs. There was all sorts of illicit behavior there.

The men and women of the El Paso County Sheriff's Office, the  Colorado Springs Police Department, the Drug Enforcement  Administration, and many others worked hand in hand to make sure that  the citizens of my community stayed safe through that all.

I also thank the men and women of the United States Capitol Police,  whom I walk past every day. Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member, as they  go past our police officers, not to grumpily look at them, not to pass  by and act like they don't exist, but to take a moment to shake their  hand, tell them thank you, and look them in the eye and tell them how  much you appreciate them.

We couldn't conduct our business, the business of the United States  Government, in this Capitol Building if we didn't have those men and  women who stand watch for us each and every day, and we need to be very  thankful for them, as well.

I will continue to support the police as long as I serve here in the  people's House. It is important to me, to my community, and, most  importantly, to the rule of law. If we don't respect the rule of law,  we will lose everything in the United States of America.

We have to have a system that our Founders established that allows us  to know that we will be treated fairly. We pass the laws, and those  laws are then carried out by law enforcement all across the country. We  expect them to be carried out in the traditions of our Founding  Fathers, in the tradition that people are treated fairly, that if they  get pulled over for speeding, they will be treated the same way.

We have the protections of our Constitution that our police abide by.  We are so fortunate in America to have the men and women who protect us  each and every day, and we must continue to protect them and stand with  them.