Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701962/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. CRANK. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Alabama, and I  thank my colleague from Colorado (Mr. Evans) for sponsoring this bill.

Colorado, my home State, is facing years of severe drought. Last  year, Colorado saw one of the worst wildfire seasons since 2020, with  more than 200,000 acres burned statewide.

This past winter didn't deliver the snowpack that Colorado relies on  to help tamp down that wildfire risk. As many Coloradans already  expect, this year could be even worse.

At the same time, wildfire mitigation has not been carried out at the  pace or scale needed to reduce the risk of catastrophic fires. Across  the West, wildfires are becoming more intense. They are destroying  homes and businesses, damaging soil and watersheds, and making it  harder for the land to recover.

Of course, they produce more emissions, and that creates a real  problem for States like Colorado that are struggling to maintain  compliance with the Federal air quality standards.

Along the Front Range, ozone levels already exceed Federal limits,  and wildfire smoke has contributed to some of the highest ozone days on  record. Yet, the EPA's current process for handling wildfire emissions  does not provide States with enough certainty to secure exemptions for  these so-called exceptional events.

In fact, some of Colorado's highest ozone readings have been driven  by wildfire emissions, pollution that is entirely outside the State's  control. If those wildfire days were excluded in 2024, Colorado's  highest ozone reading would have been 73 parts per billion instead of  88, well within the Federal standard of 75.

Without these exemptions, States and local communities are forced to  bear the consequences of nonattainment, whether that means new  regulatory burdens, higher costs for consumers, or barriers for  businesses trying to operate and grow.

It also makes it harder to carry out the very actions that would  reduce wildfire risk in the first place. Prescribed burns, one of the  most effective tools we have, become more difficult because their  emissions count against compliance.

Research from Stanford University shows that prescribed burns can  reduce wildfire severity by 16 percent and net smoke pollution by an  average of 14 percent. That is backward.

I am proud to cosponsor the FIRE Act, led by my colleague, Gabe  Evans, which brings much-needed clarity to how the Clean Air Act treats  wildfire emissions and ensures that States aren't penalized for taking  proactive steps to reduce risk. We should not have environmental  policies that lead to worse environmental outcomes.

Right now, by discouraging prescribed burns, we are making it harder  for States like Colorado to do proper fire mitigation. We are  contributing to more emissions, not less, and that just doesn't make  sense.

Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague for his leadership on this issue,  and I urge my colleagues to support the FIRE Act.