Public Lands Military Readiness Act of 2025


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 5131) to extend military land withdrawals in Alaska, New Mexico,  and California for a period of 25 years and to make technical  corrections to descriptions for certain military land withdrawals, and  for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 5131

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,            SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Public Lands Military       Readiness Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN MILITARY LAND WITHDRAWALS AND                     CORRECTION OF CERTAIN LAND DESCRIPTIONS.

(a) Extension of Withdrawal and Reservation for Military       Use of Certain Lands.--

(1) Yukon training area, donnelly training area east, and       donnelly training area west, alaska, and mcgregor range, fort       bliss, new mexico.--Section 3015(a) of the Military Lands       Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113       Stat. 892) is amended by striking ``25 years after November       6, 2001'' and inserting ``on November 6, 2051''.

(2) Fort irwin military lands.--Section 2910(a) of the Fort       Irwin Military Land Withdrawal Act of 2001 (title XXIX of       Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1339) is amended by striking       ``25 years after the date of the enactment of this Act'' and       inserting ``on December 31, 2051''.

(b) Correction of Land Descriptions.--

(1) Mcgregor range military lands.--Section 3011(d)(2) of       the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title XXX of       Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 892) is amended by striking       ``608,385 acres of land'' and inserting ``approximately       605,401 acres of land''.

(2) Fort irwin military lands.--Section 2902(c) of the Fort       Irwin Military Land Withdrawal Act of 2001 (title XXIX of       Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1336) is amended--

(A) by striking ``110,000 acres'' and inserting ``117,710       acres''; and

(B) by striking ``as `Proposed Withdrawal Land' on the map       entitled `National Training Center--Proposed Withdrawal of       Public Lands for Training Purposes', dated September 21,       2000'' and inserting ``on the map entitled `Fort Irwin       Withdrawal' dated February 28, 2025''.

Mr. CRANK.  5131, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5131, the Public  Lands Military Readiness Act of 2025, sponsored by Representative  Begich of Alaska.

This is an important bill that ensures our military continues to have  access to the lands they need to train, test, and remain ready to deter  and defeat our Nation's adversaries abroad.

H.R. 5131 extends critical land withdrawals for an additional 25  years at Fort Greely and Fort Wainwright in Alaska, Fort Irwin in  California, and the McGregor Range at Fort Bliss in New Mexico. These  lands provide unique training environments, restricted airspace, and  infrastructure that cannot be replicated elsewhere. They are essential  for Arctic operations, brigade-level exercises, missile defense  testing, and joint training with our allied forces.

The importance of this legislation cannot be overstated. It is vital  that we continue to allow the Army to use these unique areas. Fort  Greely and Fort Wainwright in Alaska have the only Arctic training  environments in this Nation. Fort Irwin, in California's Mojave Desert,  houses the National Training Center, the Army's premier site for  brigade-level, force-on-force training exercises. Finally, the McGregor  Range in southern New Mexico supports Patriot missile live-fire  exercises, aerial gunnery, and large-scale mobilization training.  Without these vital training areas, we would risk losing our military's  strategic advantage over hostile foreign nations.

I commend Representative Begich for his leadership on this effort.  His bill provides long-term certainty to the U.S. Army so they can  continue training and testing effectively as they prepare for the  threats of tomorrow. By advancing this legislation, he is not only  helping Alaska, but the entire Nation, by ensuring we have the most  capable, prepared Armed Forces in the entire world.

I also thank the U.S. Army for their continued service to our Nation  and for their collaboration on this effort. They strongly support this  bill, and we were grateful to work alongside them to advance this  legislation.

This is a good bill. It strengthens national security, provides  certainty for our servicemembers, and ensures America remains prepared  to deter aggression and protect our interests around the world. This  legislation also directly reflects the priorities set forth in  President Trump's executive order on prioritizing military excellence  and readiness, which reaffirmed America's commitment to the military  superiority necessary to counter new and emerging threats.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Begich for his hard work on this  legislation which helps our military.                                           House of Representatives,                                     Committee on Armed Services,                                   Washington, DC, December 8, 2025.      Hon. Bruce Westerman,      Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Westerman: H.R. 5131, the ``Public Lands       Military Readiness Act of 2025'', was referred primarily to       the Committee on Natural Resources, with an additional       referral to the Committee on Armed Services.

H.R. 5131 contains provisions within the Committee on Armed       Services' Rule X jurisdiction. As a result of your having       consulted with the Committee and to expedite this bill for       floor consideration, the Committee on Armed Services will       forego action on the bill. This is being done based on our       mutual understanding that doing so will in no way diminish or       alter the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services       with respect to the appointment of conferees, or to any       future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters       contained in the bill or similar bills.

I would appreciate your response to this letter confirming       this understanding, and would request that you include a copy       of this letter and your response in the committee report or       in the Congressional Record during floor consideration of       this bill. Thank you in advance for your cooperation.            Sincerely,                                                       Mike Rogers,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                  Committee on Natural Resources,                                   Washington, DC, December 8, 2025.      Hon. Mike Rogers,      Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Rogers: I write regarding H.R. 5131, the       ``Public Lands Military Readiness Act of 2025,'' which was       ordered reported by the Committee on Natural Resources on       November 20, 2025.

I recognize that the bill contains provisions that fall       within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Armed Services       and appreciate your willingness to forgo further       consideration of the bill. I acknowledge that the Committee       on Armed Services will not formally consider H.R. 5131 and       agree that the inaction of your Committee with respect to the       bill does not waive any jurisdiction over the subject matter       contained therein.

I will ensure that our exchange of letters is included in       the Congressional Record during floor consideration of the       bill and will include such letters in the committee report on       H.R. 5131. I appreciate your cooperation regarding this       legislation.            Sincerely,                                                   Bruce Westerman,                          Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.

Mr. CRANK.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I, again, thank Representative Begich for his  leadership on the Public Lands Military Readiness Act of 2025. This  bill ensures that our military's capabilities and readiness will remain  strong as we move into the future.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5131,  and I yield back the balance of my time.