Recognizing Pastor Stewart McWilliams


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the contributions  of Pastor Stewart McWilliams and numerous churches in the Pikes Peak  region in organizing and participating in the citywide prayer across  Colorado Springs as part of the National Day of Prayer events earlier  this year.

During these events, one moment stood out: when Pastor McWilliams of  Fellowship of the Rockies Church offered a model of the Olympic torch  to be passed from week to week and church to church as a picture of the  growing unity in prayer in our community.

For Colorado Springs, which is known as Olympic City USA, this was a  vivid and meaningful picture for the community and an homage to the  powerful impact of prayer.

I also recognize and appreciate the united prayers of groups like:  Boulder Street Church, Springs Community Church, The Navigators,  Victory Life Church, New Life Midtown, Iglesia Nueva Vida, Heart of the  Springs Church, Story Church, Youth With a Mission, and Decision Point,  who participated in the National Day of Prayer events in Colorado  Springs.

Celebrating National Day of Remembrance for Aborted Children

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Colorado  Springs Catholic Diocese and the Sanctity of Life Apostolate led by  Mrs. Julie Bailey as they celebrate the National Day of Remembrance for  Aborted Children at St. Mary's Cathedral in downtown Colorado Springs.

The National Day of Remembrance for Aborted Children is focused on  helping to humanize our aborted brothers and sisters and deepening the  commitment to ending the injustice of abortion and providing healing to  those who have experienced an abortion.

I honor the Colorado Springs Diocese and other faith-based  organizations in the Pikes Peak region such as: 40 Days for Life,  Students for Life, the Bishop's Respect Life dinner, Rachel's  Challenge, Mater Filius, Sidewalk Advocates for Life, the Knights of  Columbus, and many other ministries to mothers, fathers, children, and  those who are recovering from loss.           Celebrating 40th Anniversary of Springs Community Church

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate the  40th anniversary of Springs Community Church, located strategically on  the major thoroughfare of Woodmen Road in Colorado Springs and  symbolically placed on the top of a hill in our community.

Springs Community Church has been a light on a hill in the Pikes Peak  region since their founding. Their ministry to children and families  through the largest church-run preschool in our community, combined  with their emphasis upon discipleship and depth of a believer's walk  with the Lord, and their heart for international missions has shined  like a light throughout the community.

I congratulate and celebrate this anniversary and thank Springs  Community Church for their 40 years of shining God's light in the Fifth  Congressional District.                              10 Days of Prayer

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the efforts of 10  Days of Prayer. A united group of Christian churches in Colorado  Springs are joining the international and ecumenical emphasis of prayer  between the Jewish holidays of Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. These  significant spiritual days are being recognized by daily prayers in a  variety of churches and ministries in Colorado Springs.

I thank The Road Church, Gateway Prayer Garden, World Prayer Center,  Awakening Church, Iglesia Venga tu Reino, Living Hope Church, Cross  Fellowship Church, Revival Springs International, Dream Centers,  Academy Christian Church, Zeal Church, COSILoveYou, and Springs First  Church of the Nazarene for joining in hosting these 10 Days of Prayer  as well.