Recognizing the U.S. Figure Skating Community and American Airlines Flight 5342


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700715/recognizing-the-us-figure-skating-community-and-american-airlines-flight-5342


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 67 lives that  were lost on the tragic flight last year on American Airlines Flight  5342. Amongst the 67 lives lost, 28 of them were members of the U.S.  Figure skating community, many of them calling my district of Colorado  Springs their training ground. These skaters were some of the brightest  in their sport, returning from the U.S. Championships and National  Development Team Camp in Wichita, Kansas.

They had spent nearly a week with their training mates on the  National Development Team, training mates who had built a bond, many  over several years, a bond that was extremely close due to the nature  of their training. When they said goodbye, they said goodbye knowing  that they would soon all meet again in Colorado Springs for another  training opportunity.

The United States and the international skating community had  suffered a great loss, and the surviving members of the United States  skating community had suffered a great trauma.

When the news of Flight 5342 broke, the skaters on the National  Development Team knew exactly who was on that flight. They sent  countless group messages begging for responses, but all their responses  went unanswered. A tertiary trauma to that of the incident and the  survivor's guilt many of them hold.

On that flight were Alydia Livingston, Olivia Eve Ter, Everly  Livingston, Brielle Beyer, Jinna Han, Cory Haynos, Edward Zhou, Angela  Yang, Lily Li, Sean Kay, Spencer Lane, Alexandr Kirsanov, Vadim Naumov,  Evgenia Shiskova, Inna Volyanskaya, Peter and Donna Livingston, Luciano  Aparicio, Franco Aparicio, Justyna Magdalena Beyer, Jin Hee Han, Roger  Haynos, Stephanie Haynos, Julia Kay, Christine Lane, Olesya Taylor,  Kaiyan Mao, and Yu Zhou, all members of the U.S. Figure Skating  community.

They were the United States' world-class coaches, dedicated loving  parents, and the next generation of elite Olympian athletes, who we  will never forget. I thank Candence Floyd for being a shining light in  a moment of tragedy and for helping honor her lost teammates.

Mr. Speaker, I ask that you join me in praying for the families and  friends of all these lives lost during this tragic flight.