World War II Women's Memorial Location Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697726/world-war-ii-womens-memorial-location-act


Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2290) to provide that the memorial to commemorate the sacrifice  and service of the women who worked on the home front to support the  efforts of the United States military during World War II may be  located on the National Mall, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2290

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``World War II Women's       Memorial Location Act''.       SEC. 2. LOCATION OF COMMEMORATIVE WORK.

Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40, United States       Code, the commemorative work to commemorate the commitment       and service of the women who worked on the home front during       World War II authorized by section 702 of division DD of the       Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note;       Public Law 117-328), may be located within--

(1) Area I, as depicted on the map entitled ``Commemorative       Areas Washington, DC and Environs'', numbered 869/86501 B,       and dated June 24, 2003; or

(2) the Reserve.       SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act, the term ``Reserve'' has the meaning given       such term in section 8902(a)(3) of title 40, United States       Code.

Mr. CRANK.  2290, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2290, the World War II  Women's Memorial Location Act, led by Representatives Dingell and  Fulcher.

During World War II, more than 18 million women stepped up to serve  this country on the home front. While many Americans recognize the  image of Rosie the Riveter, their work went far beyond the factory  floor. My grandmother served as a Rosie the Riveter, stepping up to  fight on the home front, as well. Women became welders, code breakers,  pilots, medical professionals, truck drivers, and community caretakers.  Their contributions were essential to the Allied victory, supporting  our troops overseas and redefining women's roles in American society.

In 2023, Congress authorized the creation of a memorial to honor the  women who worked on the home front during World War II. Under the  Commemorative Works Act, placing that memorial on The National Mall or  in the surrounding area requires an additional act of Congress. H.R.  2290 provides that authority, ensuring this memorial can be located in  a place of national prominence alongside other monuments honoring  wartime service and sacrifice.

This bill is bipartisan and straightforward. It properly recognizes  the contributions of millions of American women whose work was  essential to victory in World War II. By authorizing this memorial to  be placed on or near The National Mall, we affirm their legacy and  ensure future generations will learn from their examples of patriotism,  responsibility, and service.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 2290, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time. I am  prepared to close, and I continue to reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. CRANK. Mr. Speaker, this bill is about ensuring that the  contributions of millions of women on the World War II home front are  remembered alongside other monuments in Washington, D.C. This bill  commemorates America's wartime service and sacrifice. H.R. 2290  guarantees that future generations will see their stories represented  in a place of national prominence.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan measure,  and I yield back the balance of my time.