Introduction of the District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer Salary Home Rule Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  Chief Financial  Officer Salary Home Rule Act, which would give the District of Columbia  authority to increase the pay of its Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The  D.C. CFO is a local D.C. official and is paid with local D.C. funds.  D.C. should have authority to set the pay of all its employees. In the  117th Congress, the House Committee on Oversight and Accountability  passed this bill.

Under the D.C. Home Rule Act, Congress established a maximum rate of  pay of the CFO, and the D.C. Council does not have authority to  increase that rate. Congress does not cap, or otherwise establish, the  pay of any other D.C. employee. Under this bill, the CFO would be paid  at the greater of a rate equal to the current maximum rate of pay or a  rate established in law by D.C.

D.C. requested that I introduce this bill to enable it to retain and  recruit the best CFOs. The CFO was established by Congress in 1995.  Congress vested the CFO with extraordinary powers and designed the CFO  to be independent of the Mayor and Council. D.C. cannot obligate or  expend funds without the CFO's approval that there are sufficient  funds. The CFO manages a $22 billion budget that consists of state,  county, and city functions, and the CFO has more than 1,700 employees.  The CFO may be removed only for cause by the Mayor, subject to the  approval of two-thirds of the Council and a 30-day congressional review  and comment period. This bill would help maintain the independence of  the CFO by establishing a permanent floor on the CFO's pay and by  prohibiting the Council from reducing the CFO's pay during the CFO's  term.

Although the D.C. CFO is the most powerful non-elected official in  D.C., a number of D.C. employees are paid more than the CFO. D.C. must  compete with both the private and public sectors for high-quality CFOs,  and there are many private and public-sector CFOs who are paid more  than the D.C. CFO.

This bill is critical to the financial operations of D.C. and is an  important step to increase home rule for D.C. I urge my colleagues to  support this bill.