Introduction of the District of Columbia Local Juror Non-Discrimination Act of 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today I introduce the District of Columbia  Local Juror Non-Discrimination Act of 2025. This bill would clarify  that D.C. residents may not be excluded or disqualified from jury  service in the local D.C. trial court, the D.C. Superior Court, based  on sexual orientation or gender identity. Specifically, this bill would  clarify that the term ``sex,'' which is a protected class under the  non-discrimination law that applies to jurors in the D.C. Superior  Court, includes sexual orientation and gender identity. The term  ``sex'' would also include a sex stereotype; pregnancy, childbirth or  related medical condition; and sex characteristics, including intersex  traits. In the 117th Congress, the House Committee on Oversight and  Reform passed a version of this bill.

D.C. has one of the strongest non-discrimination laws in the country,  including protecting individuals based on sexual orientation and gender  identity. However, under the D.C. Home Rule Act, the D.C. Council does  not have the authority to amend title 11 of the D.C. Code, which  contains the non-discrimination provisions that apply to jurors in the  D.C. Superior Court. Therefore, until D.C. is given authority to amend  title 11 of the D.C. Code, which one of my bills would do, an act of  Congress is required to clarify that LGBTQ+ jurors in the D.C. Superior  Court are protected from discrimination.

As the Supreme Court said in Edmonson v. Leesville Concrete Company,  ``discrimination within the courtroom raises serious questions as to  the fairness of the proceedings conducted there. . . . [B]ias mars the  integrity of the judicial system and prevents the idea of democratic  government from becoming a reality.'' Similarly, the Court, in Batson  v. Kentucky, which was a juror discrimination case based on race, said,  ``The harm from discriminatory jury selection extends beyond that  inflicted on the defendant and the excluded juror to touch the entire  community. Selection procedures that purposefully exclude black persons  from juries undermine public confidence in the fairness of our system  of justice.''

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.