Introduction of the Union Station Redevelopment Corporation Funding Eligibility Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Union Station  Redevelopment Corporation Funding Eligibility Act, which would make the  Union Station Redevelopment Corporation (USRC) eligible for funding  under the Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail (FSP)  Program, the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements  (CRISI) Program, the Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage  Development (BUILD) Program and the National Infrastructure Project  Assistance Program, also known as the Mega Program. Funding under these  transportation programs is essential to implement the planned expansion  and modernization of Union Station in the District of Columbia, known  as the Washington Union Station Expansion Project (USEP). Senator Chris  Van Hollen has introduced this bill in the Senate.

Union Station is owned by the federal government, and USRC, a  nonprofit, manages and operates the station under a lease with the  federal government. The members of USRC's board of directors are the  Federal Railroad Administration, Amtrak, the Federal City Council, the  District of Columbia and the USRC President and CEO. USRC is the only  entity exclusively dedicated to the management and operations of Union  Station and therefore should be eligible for funding under the FSP  Program, the CRISI Program, the BUILD Program and the Mega Program.

Union Station is a vital local, regional and national intermodal  transportation hub that, pre-pandemic, welcomed more than 100,000  travelers and visitors each day--more than either Ronald Reagan  Washington National Airport or Washington Dulles International Airport.  Located five blocks from the U.S. Capitol, Union Station serves as a  gateway to the Nation's Capital, as well as the backbone that connects  East Coast passenger rail lines to the north and south. People rely on  Union Station every day to get to work and to visit the Nation's  Capital.

Despite the vital role Union Station plays in the Nation's Capital,  it has not undergone major renovation since the 1980s. The USEP  represents a historic transportation and economic development  opportunity for the Nation's Capital and the national capital region,  but billions of dollars are needed to carry it out. This bill would  give USRC access to critical funding.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.