Introduction of A Bill to Provide for Interim Appropriations for the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts with Respect to Any Fiscal Year for Which Appropriations Are Not Otherwise Provided for the Commissions


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce a bill that would exempt  from federal government shutdowns the National Capital Planning  Commission (NCPC) and the Commission of Fine Arts (CFA). This bill is  modeled on a provision I have gotten enacted each year since the 2013  federal government shutdown to exempt the District of Columbia  government from federal government shutdowns.

NCPC and CFA are both closed during the current federal government  shutdown. Although NCPC and CFA are both federal agencies, they have a  significant role in local D.C. land-use decisions. This bill would  allow these agencies to reopen during the current shutdown and to  exempt them from future shutdowns to prevent interruptions in local  D.C. land-use decisions during federal government shutdowns. I have  separately introduced bills to remove the authority NCPC and CFA have  over local D.C. land-use decisions. Until Congress passes those bills,  the agencies should be exempt from federal government shutdowns.

Under federal law, NCPC has approval authority for the development of  D.C.-owned buildings located in the ``central area,'' including the  location, height, bulk, number of stories and size of such buildings.  D.C. is required to consult with NCPC on the development of D.C.-owned  buildings outside the central area, but NCPC has only advisory  authority in those areas. The central area is defined by the concurrent  action of NCPC and the D.C. Council and currently consists of the  Downtown and Shaw Urban Renewal Areas.

Under presidential executive orders (EOs) and federal law, CFA has  review authority for D.C.-owned parks and buildings, as well as for  certain private land in D.C. Under EOs, CFA has review authority for  the design of D.C.-owned parks and buildings. Under the Shipstead-Luce  Act, CFA has review authority for the design of private buildings in  D.C. ``adjacent to public buildings and grounds of major importance,''  such as Rock Creek Park and the Potomac riverfront. Under the Old  Georgetown Act, CFA has review authority for the design of private  buildings in the part of Georgetown referred to as ``Old Georgetown''  in the act.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.