Introduction of A Bill to Permit Commercial Filmmaking and Photography on the Grounds of the U.S. Capitol


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce a bill that would permit  commercial filmmaking and photography throughout the grounds of the  U.S. Capitol Complex. Currently, such filmmaking and photography is  only authorized in Union Square. Film and television productions that  involve the Capitol should not have to go to other cities or use a fake  building.

This bill would allow commercial filmmaking and photography outside  of the Capitol and congressional office buildings by permit, as long as  neither chamber is in session. The policy allowing commercial  filmmaking and photography in Union Square shows that the Capitol  Police can handle commercial filmmaking and photography at the Capitol  Complex, especially when Congress is not in session. However, the Union  Square vantage point captures the least familiar view of the Capitol.  Preventing commercial filmmakers and photographers from shooting  throughout the Capitol Complex is neither business-friendly nor true to  the Nation's democratic traditions. Encouraging commercial filmmaking  and photography at the Capitol would help spread the story of democracy  around the world.

This bill would give the Capitol Police complete discretion to issue  a permit for commercial filmmaking and photography throughout the  Capitol Complex under the same terms and conditions as those for  commercial filmmaking and photography in Union Square. No policy or  security reasons exist to justify limiting commercial filmmaking and  photography at the Capitol Complex to Union Square, especially  considering that permits are necessary. Visitors are regularly seen  taking videos and pictures around the Capitol Complex, demonstrating  the arbitrary nature of limiting commercial filmmaking and photography  to Union Square.

This bill would provide the Capitol Police authority to charge fees  to cover any costs incurred by the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) for  permit approval. The fees would be deposited into the Capitol Trust  Account, which was established to accept fees collected from commercial  filmmaking and photography permits for Union Square. Amounts in the  Capitol Trust Account would be available without fiscal year limitation  for maintenance, improvements, and projects the AOC considers  appropriate, subject to the approval of the Appropriations Committees.

Views of the Capitol are among America's most iconic. Limiting  commercial filmmaking and photography of the Capitol, an important  vehicle for telling the Nation's story, does not serve the American  people. Commercial films and photographs of the Capitol, the seat of  our democracy, are perhaps the best modern vehicles for telling the  Nation's story and showcasing its democratic system of government.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.