Introduction of the District of Columbia National Guard Home Rule Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  National Guard Home Rule Act, which would give the mayor of the  District of Columbia control over the D.C. National Guard.  Representative Jamie Raskin is the co-lead of this bill in the House,  and Senator Chris Van Hollen is the sponsor of this bill in the Senate.

The governors of the states and territories control their National  Guards while the president controls the D.C. National Guard. This bill  would give the D.C. mayor, who knows D.C. better than the president,  the same control over the D.C. National Guard that the governors of the  states and territories have over their National Guards. The president  would have the same authority to federalize the D.C. National Guard  that the president has to federalize the National Guards of the states  and territories.

The attack on the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021, the events at  Lafayette Square on June 1, 2020, and the current deployment of the  D.C. National Guard in D.C. are prime examples of why the D.C. mayor  should control the D.C. National Guard. During January 6th, the D.C.  National Guard was not deployed to the Capitol for several hours,  likely costing lives and prolonging the attack. At Lafayette Square,  the D.C. National Guard forcibly removed peaceful protestors.  Currently, the D.C. National Guard is deployed in D.C. in response to a  crime emergency declared by President Trump.

Not only does presidential control over the D.C. National Guard  violate D.C. home rule, it also may create a loophole in the Posse  Comitatus Act, which limits the military's involvement in civilian law  enforcement. The Department of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel has  opined that when the D.C. National Guard is operating for non-federal  purposes, even though it is an exclusively federal entity, it may be  used for civilian law enforcement without violating the Posse Comitatus  Act.

In the 117th Congress, the House passed this bill as part of the  fiscal year (FY) 2022 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and the  FY 2023 NDAA.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.