Introduction of the Federal Police Camera and Accountability Act of 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I, along with Representative Donald S. Beyer  Jr., introduce the Federal Police Camera and Accountability Act of  2025. This bill would require federal law enforcement officers to wear  body cameras and marked federal law enforcement vehicles to have  dashboard cameras. It would also require the Government Accountability  Office to conduct a study on federal law enforcement officers'  training, vehicle pursuits, use of force and interaction with the  public. In the 116th and 117th Congresses, the House passed this bill  as part of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act.

Cameras can increase transparency, strengthen public trust and even  deter criminal behavior. With the surge of federal law enforcement  officers in the District of Columbia this month, this bill has become  even more important.

We first introduced this bill after Bijan Ghaisar was fatally shot on  November 17, 2017, in his car by U.S. Park Police officers in Fairfax  County, Virginia, after a vehicle pursuit on the George Washington  Memorial Parkway. Video of this shooting only became available through  a camera in a Fairfax County Police Department patrol car that was  providing backup. Had it not been for that footage, which was recorded  and released by that local police department, the public would not have  had access to the circumstances surrounding Mr. Ghaisar's death.  Moreover, the footage revealed concerns about the Park Police's pursuit  and engagement policies.

Body and dashboard cameras for federal law enforcement officers are  particularly important for the officers stationed in D.C., where the  Park Police and the U.S. Secret Service Uniformed Division have full  local police powers. Many other federal law enforcement agencies also  have local police powers near their respective agency buildings in D.C.

In 2022, President Biden issued an executive order (E.O.) requiring  federal law enforcement agencies to use body cameras. President Trump  rescinded this E.O.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.