Opposition Letter Led By the American Civil Liberties Union on the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025 (H.R. and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025 (H.R.


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, the House of Representatives debated  the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of  2025 (H.R. 5107) and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of  2025 (H.R. 5214). I include in the Record a letter opposing these bills  led by the American Civil Liberties Union.                                                 November 18, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: On behalf of the       ACLU, ACLU DC, National Urban League, and The Bail Project we       write to express our opposition to the D.C. Cash Bail Reform       Act (H.R. 5214) and the Common Sense Law Enforcement and       Accountability in D.C. Now Act (H.R. 5107).

We urge all Members to ``Vote NO'' on H.R. 5214 and H.R.       5107. The ACLU will score these votes.                        The D.C. Cash Bail Reform Act

H.R. 5214, the DC Cash Bail Reform Act, requires mandatory       detention on a wide range of cases and is almost certainly       unconstitutional under the requirements set out by the       Supreme Court in United States v. Salerno. This bill would       reverse more than 30 years of successful, data-driven       pretrial policy reforms in D.C. and replace it with a wealth       based system that fuels mass incarceration, racial       disparities, and benefits the 2 billion dollar bail industry.

D.C.'s pre-trial system is grounded in individual       assessment, not based on wealth. The federal Pretrial       Services Agency for the District of Columbia evaluates each       person's likelihood of appearing in court and assesses       individualized conditions of release to support community       safety. The results of D.C.'s current risk and safety based       pretrial system outperform most cash-bail jurisdictions in       the country. Ninety-two percent of people released pretrial       in D.C. remain arrest-free before trial, 87% appear for their       court dates, and 86% complete the pretrial period without any       compliance violation.

H.R. 5214 would replace D.C.'s current risk and safety       based system with a cash bail system that requires mandatory       detention for a wide range of conduct. Cash bail would       disproportionately harm Black D.C. residents. Nearly 90% of       the D.C. jail population and 80% of the people released       through the Pretrial Services Agency are Black, due to       systemic overpolicing. Abolishing D.C.'s pre-trial system       which balances risk and safety and on an individualized       basis, and replacing it with a cash bail system which favors       release for wealthy defendants and imprisons those who cannot       afford bail, would deepen existing racial disparities and       disproportionately separate Black families from their       communities, jobs, and housing.

The District of Columbia has operated a successful risk and       safety based system for more than three decades. These       policies were informed by input from local stakeholders       including courts, prosecutors, police, and community members.       Congress should not override the local policy making process       of D.C. stakeholders and the will of D.C. residents and       democratically elected leaders.

A pre-trial system that relies on regular check-ins,       targeted social-service referrals, and text message reminders       consistently outperforms cash bail systems at securing       appearance and protecting public safety. Maintaining housing,       employment, child-care, and medical care substantially       reduces recidivism and promotes community safety. D.C.'s       current pre-trial system is a calibrated approach to public       safety that appropriately weighs public safety risks while       also considering the need of individuals to maintain critical       supports such as housing and employment on a case by case       basis. In contrast, H.R. 5214 would implement a cash bail       system that would financially ruin many of D.C.'s lower       income families, force many parents, disproportionately women       and Black women, out of the workforce, and expose children to       the well-documented harms of parental detention, all of which       increase long-term risks to public safety and community       wellbeing. The D.C. Cash Bail Reform Act will harm D.C.       residents and will not make D.C. safer because it ignores the       evidence and data on pretrial detention and thirty years of       local input and governance.

The Common Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability in D.C. Now Act

H.R. 5107, the Common Sense Law Enforcement and       Accountability in D.C. Now Act, would repeal D.C.'s       Comprehensive Policing       and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022 (CPJRAA), which       enacted several recommendations to improve public safety,       accountability, and trust. These recommendations came from       the D.C. Police Reform Commission, a body of retired law       enforcement, community leaders, experts, and directly       impacted residents. Among the critical provisions that H.R.       5107 would repeal are reforms to officer discipline       processes. These reforms were recommended after several       officers in D.C. were reinstated despite major misconduct       including sexual assault and domestic violence. D.C.       residents, D.C. police chiefs, and the D.C. Auditor all       opposed the laws that H.R. 5107 would reimpose, which allowed       police to keep their jobs even when they committed a crime or       broke the law. As the D.C. Auditor reported, ``MPD management       expressed frustration over the reinstatement of `bad cops'       and concern that MPD officers are demoralized when their       colleagues are reinstated despite breaking the rules. They       suggested that officers may be more likely to engage in       misconduct when they believe they have a good chance of       overturning any resulting discipline.''

H.R. 5107 would also repeal many other common-sense reforms       of D.C.'s laws that have been adopted across the country,       including:

Timely and thorough investigation of incidents that involve       deadly use of force by an officer or a death in custody.

Release of body camera footage in cases of serious bodily       injury or death in custody.

Background checks so only highly qualified officers are       hired, and those who engage in misconduct cannot simply leave       one jurisdiction to be hired in another.

With appropriate safeguards and limits, preservation and       dissemination of officer disciplinary records that are       subject to open records requests.

Strengthening use of force review boards.

Increased training, as well as clearer guidance on use of       force.

Limiting the possession or use of certain military-grade       equipment by law enforcement agencies.

H.R, 5107 would repeal a locally approved law that provides       transparency and accountability for police misconduct and       promotes community safety.

For these reasons, the ACLU, ACLU DC, National Urban       League, and The Bail Project strongly urge Members to vote NO       on H.R. 5214, the DC Cash Bail Reform Act, and vote NO on       H.R. 5107, the Common Sense Law Enforcement and       Accountability in D.C. If you have any questions, please       contact Nina Patel, Senior Policy Counsel ACLU Justice       Division.            Sincerely,

American Civil Liberties Union, American Civil Liberties       Union of the District of Columbia, The Bail Project, National       Urban League.