Recognizing Michele Manatt for Her Service to the George Washington University Graduate School of Political Management


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and commend  Michele Manatt for her service at The George Washington University  Graduate School of Political Management (GSPM), where she has served on  the board since 2021, and for her contributions to our Nation.

A native Washingtonian, Ms. Manatt graduated from the University of  California, Berkeley, where she studied political economy. After  graduation, she returned to the District of Columbia to begin her  career in public policy and international affairs.

Ms. Manatt served as a professional staff member on the House  Committee on Foreign Affairs, where her portfolio included oversight of  the United States' relationships with Canada and Mexico and countries  throughout Central and South America. She went on to serve as Senior  Policy Advisor to three consecutive Assistant Secretaries of State for  Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. Department of State, helping to  manage policy in the region. She continued her public service as  Director of Legislative Affairs at the White House Office of National  Drug Control Policy.

Since 2006, Ms. Manatt has worked as an independent consultant,  providing strategic insight into hemispheric policy and social  integration. She contributed to a multiyear initiative with the  Americas Society/Council of the Americas to document and explore  successful models of Hispanic integration in midsized American cities.

Ms. Manatt has been a leader in public diplomacy. She currently  serves on the board of the Diplomacy Center Foundation, the private  partner supporting the completion of the National Museum of American  Diplomacy at the U.S. Department of State's headquarters campus. She  was the founding chair of the Council on Women's Leadership at the  Meridian International Center, fostering dialogue and leadership  development for women in support of Track II diplomacy. She has always  been fascinated by the power of fashion. She says diplomats defend U.S.  interests not in uniforms, but in suits, blouses, ties and, in her  case, scarves.

As a member of the GSPM board, Ms. Manatt has provided strategic  counsel to ensure that students benefited from a strong, bipartisan  academic environment and were exposed to diverse career paths. Through  her family's philanthropy, she has also supported other parts of The  George Washington University, including the law school, the Graduate  School of Education and Human Development, the Elliott School of  International Affairs and the Textile Museum.

Mr. Speaker, as Ms. Manatt concludes her service on the GSPM board, I  ask my colleagues to join me in thanking her for her contributions to  The George Washington University and to our Nation.