Recognizing Myesha Watkins


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Cuyahoga  County's Myesha Watkins on her latest and well-earned recognition for  serving the people of northeast Ohio.

Last month, Myesha received the Capstone Achievement Award from the  University of Chicago's Community Violence Intervention Leadership  Academy. This distinction highlights her as a local and national leader  when it comes to violence prevention.

As the executive director of the Cleveland Peacemakers Alliance and  in her current role as the administrator of the Cuyahoga County Office  of Violence Prevention, Myesha has dedicated herself to the hard work  of public safety.

For years, she has been there for the people of Cleveland--in our  schools, our community centers, our emergency rooms, and our most  overlooked and underserved neighborhoods. She has been there taking  direct action to mediate conflict, deescalate crises, and stop the  cycle of violence.

This work isn't easy, but as Myesha often says, it is a calling, and  it makes a difference.

That is why I was outraged earlier this year when the Trump  administration rescinded Federal grants awarded to the Cleveland  Peacemakers Alliance. Grants that had been awarded by the past  administration were stripped away. It was a betrayal of northeast Ohio,  but Myesha and our community have never stopped doing the work to make  our neighborhoods safer because we know that community-oriented  solutions work and are needed.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Myesha on her recognition from the  University of Chicago. On behalf of a grateful district and a grateful  nation, I thank her for her service and commitment to making our  Cleveland communities safer.                       Trump's Attacks on Black America

Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, there is a saying: When America catches a  cold, Black America gets pneumonia.

Since January 20, make no mistake, this country has been running a  fever, a moral sickness, one that begins at the very top, a twisted  agenda that pardons the powerful, protects the predators, and punishes  the people. Black Americans are paying the price.

Mr. Speaker, buried in the last jobs report was this number: The  Black unemployment rate is now 7\1/2\ percent. That is a recession- level rate, the highest rate since the pandemic.

Do you think they care at Mar-a-Lago? I will tell you who does care:  the people in the community I represent. They are watching as prices  keep going up while funding for programs people need, like SNAP,  Medicaid, and the ACA, keep going down.

It doesn't stop at the kitchen table. No, we are witnessing a whole- of-government effort to erase Black history, to diminish Black voices,  and to stifle Black progress.

More than $3 billion in Federal funding has been cut from HBCUs,  Black communities, and Black entrepreneurs. Over 6,000 Federal research  programs and datasets related to racial disparities have been deleted,  putting us in the dark on everything from sickle cell anemia to  maternal health.

We have seen Black authors pulled from school shelves and government  websites quietly erase information on figures like Harriet Tubman and  Jackie Robinson.

Just last month, we learned that memorials honoring the contributions  of Black American soldiers during World War II were stripped from a  military cemetery in the Netherlands.

This is not a coincidence. This is an all-out attack on our past, our  present, and our future.

Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. Black Americans will not be erased. We  will not be silenced, and neither will the millions of people of all  backgrounds who are being harmed by this White House.

It is time for us to take up their voice and carry on their fight  before this sickness spreads further.