Strengthening Agency Management and Oversight of Software Assets Act


Ms. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5457, the  Strengthening Agency Management and Oversight of Software Assets Act.

The SAMOSA Act is a straightforward, good-government bill that has  strong bipartisan support from members of the Oversight Committee. I  reintroduced this legislation earlier this year with Congresswoman  Mace, the chair of the Oversight Committee's Subcommittee on  Cybersecurity, Information Technology, and Government Innovation;  Congressman Pat Fallon; and Congresswoman April McClain Delaney as co- leads. I thank them for their support.

I will also take a moment to recognize the late Congressman Connolly,  who worked tirelessly on this legislation and who had introduced the  SAMOSA Act prior to his passing.

This is legislation that will improve the acquisition process for  Federal agencies, help the government better manage software needs, and  ultimately save taxpayer dollars.

Agencies across the Federal Government spend around $33 billion in  taxpayer money on software every year, but right now, many agencies  don't actually have a list of what they own, what they are fully using,  or whether they are buying the same thing twice.

That doesn't make any sense, and this bill solves the problem.

This bill streamlines how agencies track, manage, and report their  software assets by requiring complete assessments on the software paid  for, used, or deployed at each agency.

It also requires agencies to submit these assessments to the Office  of Management and Budget, the General Services Administration, and  Congress so that Congress and these agencies can oversee spending and  contracting software practices.

By requiring agencies to do these assessments and review software  assets, this bill can improve planning for software management,  automate processes, train staff, and improve our cybersecurity.

Here is a key point: Industry experts estimate the bill could save up  to $750 million each year in taxpayer funding. This is real government  efficiency, and it is from legislation that has gone through committee  with support and input from both sides of the aisle.

As the legislative year comes to a close, let's pass the SAMOSA Act  and lower costs for taxpayers.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.