Lessons From Caracas


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, there is much to unpack from the arrest  of Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro. Above all, there is the stark  contrast between the American socialists who are bitterly denouncing  the ouster of this socialist dictator and the masses of ordinary  Venezuelans celebrating their deliverance from him.

Socialism under Chavez and Maduro utterly destroyed the prosperity  and freedom of Venezuela, reducing it from one of the wealthiest  nations in the world to one of the poorest. Like all socialist regimes,  the Chavistas depend on brutal intimidation, terrorism, and violence to  maintain their grip on power. A third of the population has now fled  that afflicted nation. With Maduro's ouster, this diaspora of  socialism's victims finally see a cause for hope, and they are  rejoicing in the streets.

This should be a warning to our fellow Americans who today are  flirting with the same socialist movement in our own country. It has  long been foretold that when socialism comes to America, it will come  as a smile.

Venezuelans are not the first to be seduced by the siren song of a  benevolent and all-powerful government. Like every people who have  blundered down that road, they awakened one morning to find the  benevolence was gone and the all-powerful government was still there.  Let that be a lesson to our misguided countrymen.

This should also be a warning to our adversaries around the world  that the Monroe Doctrine has been revived and that America is again  willing and capable of defending the New World from the intrigues of  the old.

Every thug and despot around the world has new reason to fear the  ancient warning: sic semper tyrannis.

Mr. Speaker, has the President acted within his inherent authority as  Commander in Chief? The Federal courts have already answered that  question time and again including the attacks on Libya by Obama and the  arrest of Noriega by Bush. They have consistently ruled that these  nearly identical precedents were within the prerogatives of the  President and that Congress just as consistently has acquiesced.

As law professor Jonathan Turley put it: ``If Obama can vaporize an  American citizen without even a criminal charge, Trump can capture a  foreign citizen with a pending criminal indictment without prior  congressional approval.''

This is an important debate that goes to the heart of the separation  of powers and one that we ought to have. The Constitutional Convention  originally considered giving Congress the exclusive power to make war.  Elbridge Gerry successfully replaced ``make war'' with ``declare war.''

Madison explained this distinction as ``leaving to the executive the  power to repel sudden attacks.'' That distinction has been widened over  the centuries, and perhaps it is time to take a fresh look at this  question of what distinguishes declaring war from making war.

In 1847, Congressman Abraham Lincoln addressed this very point and  unsuccessfully argued that once the executive initiates a hostile act  against a foreign power, it has, in fact, declared war by giving that  power casus belli. He said that reacting to a military attack is one  thing, but initiating an attack is quite another.

Personally, I think he had a point. I disagree with the current  precedents, although I find it hard to fault the President from acting  within them.

Restoring the many guardrails that separate executive, legislative,  and judicial powers in our Constitution would be a fitting way for  Congress to celebrate our Nation's 250th anniversary. The Supreme Court  is doing its part by restoring the President's exclusive control over  executive agencies, and perhaps it will soon restore Congress'  exclusive control over tariffs. I certainly hope so.

Reasserting Congress' supremacy and the momentous question of war and  peace will require a serious and sober discussion in Congress. When I  hear the hyperbolic and hyperpartisan rhetoric of the Democrats in this  House with their hatred of Donald Trump dripping from every word, I  fear that discussion  must await calmer times, cooler heads, and wiser voices.

In the meantime, let us rejoice in the fruits of this action. They  include the removal of the worst despot in the Western Hemisphere; the  revival of the Monroe Doctrine; the ejection of malignant powers  insinuating themselves into Latin America; the unmistakable warning to  tyrants around the world that America is back; the triumph of American  arms; and most of all, setting the stage for the return of liberty,  justice, and prosperity to the people of Venezuela.