Mourning the Passing of Bob Phelan


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mourn the passing of Bob  Phelan of Modesto, a valued and beloved member of my congressional  staff for these past 3 years. His was a remarkable life and one that  should inspire every American to realize the opportunities that freedom  provides.

When Bob's father died, he was forced to drop out of high school to  work odd jobs to support their family. For nearly 10 years, he worked  as a crab cracker at Alioto's restaurant on Fisherman's Wharf in San  Francisco.

Searching for a better life, he came to Modesto where his outgoing  personality made him an ideal salesman and a manager for such well- known companies as Keebler cookies and Earl Scheib.

There in Modesto, he met his wife of 31 years, Alta, and raised their  family.

When his son joined the Navy in the Gulf war, Bob's attention turned  to politics. He became a devotee of Rush Limbaugh and began working for  local candidates. He ended up starting his own political consulting  firm. Ultimately, he served as a trusted adviser to state assemblymen  and then-State senator and also county supervisor Tom Berryhill for  nearly 15 years.

When reapportionment brought my district into Stanislaus County, I  was fortunate to bring him into my congressional office where he served  ably as my district representative.

His work ethic, his love for people, his sunny disposition, and his  simple decency made him an exemplary figure in our community.

He was always the picture of fitness and health until he was  diagnosed last year with cancer. He never let that slow him down, and  until the very end he continued to attend to his duties.

He was an exemplary father, husband, grandfather, citizen, and human  being, the kind of person who holds a community together even through  trying times, and he will be particularly missed.

Mr. Speaker, it was a great loss for our community, a great loss for  our office, but most of all, a great loss for his family. We mourn his  passing today.                           Honoring Marlee Lauffer

Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, on May 17, the College of the Canyons  Foundation will honor Marlee Lauffer with the 2025 Silver Spur  Community Service Award in recognition of her longtime philanthropic  work.

I first met Marlee as a high school student leader in Tustin, and she  was my first and only choice as chief of staff when I was elected to  the California State Assembly in 1982.

Somehow, she was able to clean up every mess I made in those years.  She continued in that capacity until Newhall Land and Farming Company,  the largest land developer in California, recognized her talents and  offered her a senior position in their company when she was still in  her twenties.

Well, four decades later, she is still in her twenties, and her  energy and devotion to the community has never been stronger. I am  deeply gratified to see her honored by her community and to join in  their accolades of her work.