No Rogue Rulings Act of 2025


Mr. McCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, in order for the Supreme Court to issue  a ruling that affects the entire Nation, at least five Justices of the  Supreme Court must concur. Yet today, individual district court judges  are asserting this authority by themselves. This is an outrageous abuse  of public trust and judicial power, and it has opened a Pandora's box  that threatens the fundamental constitutional order.

The Congress is elected to make law, and the President is elected to  enforce it. The judiciary is appointed for the sole purpose of  resolving cases and controversies brought to it by individual injured  parties. Traditionally, that means an injured party seeks redress  through his local district court. This simple process ensures decisions  are limited to the unique circumstances of the individuals involved and  are restricted to cases within that district, subject to appeal first  to the circuit court and ultimately to the Supreme Court.

This ensures that multiple voices contribute to the development of a  legal consensus before the matter reaches the Supreme Court. A single  district judge seizing this authority for himself utterly short- circuits this process and does incalculable injury to our Constitution.

The fact that 92 percent of the nationwide injunctions blocking  President Trump have been issued by district court judges appointed by  Democrats, many with long histories of political activism, gravely  undermines the public's confidence in the impartiality of the  judiciary.

I am disappointed that the Supreme Court has not set its own house in  order by restoring the judicial guardrails that protect us from judge  shopping, from political activism masquerading as judicial  deliberation, and from the usurpation of the constitutional powers  conferred upon the elected President and Congress.

Four Justices have signaled their readiness to do so. Yet, without a  fifth, Congress is left with no alternative but to act on its own  authority. With this bill, it does.