Reverend Harold Middlebrook Post Office Building


Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy  of my dear friend and fellow east Tennessean, Reverend Harold  Middlebrook.

Reverend Middlebrook moved to east Tennessee, my district, actually,  in 1977. Of course, I was in the seventh grade then. I don't know if  technically it would be called my district, but he was the pastor of  the Canaan Baptist Church of Christ.

Before moving to Knoxville, Reverend Middlebrook played a crucial  role in the civil rights movement. He was a close friend of Dr. King.  He joined the Memphis sanitation workers strike, and that was a labor  and civil rights movement where sanitation workers protested unsafe  working conditions and low wages. He was at the Lorraine Motel when Dr.  King was assassinated.

In 1986, he founded the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Commemoration  Commission in Knoxville. I will say, for the record, every time they do  the parade, it is the coldest day of the year, just for the record.

He was also president of the Bolivar Human Development Corporation  and adviser to the Hardeman County Bi-Racial Commission. He was a co- coordinator of the Hardeman County Political Action Commission, and he  was an advisory member to the Tennessee Public Service Commission.

Beyond his leadership, Reverend Middlebrook is a loving father to  three children, as was stated earlier, two of whom followed in his  footsteps to work in public service.

Reverend Middlebrook spent his life befriending and mentoring folks  in our community. Many friends of mine and I have sought his counsel.  Just for the record, Mr. Speaker, he has never voted for me. He is not  a member of my political party, but we are still very good friends. I  think that is something that is missing in this country.

When I was mayor of Knox County, I would always invite a bunch of  young people from the office to go down to Calhoun's, and we would all  eat a bunch of barbecue. I would want those young people to understand  that the civil rights movement was not something in black and white on  the History Channel. It was real life. People got their heads cracked,  and people lost their lives. Dr. Middlebrook, I think, got arrested  over 40 times during all of that. He is an inspiration to me.

One other story: We were at an NAACP dinner one night, and they were  asking everybody to sit at the head table. I was mayor at the time, and  they asked me to sit at that head table. I noted that Dr. Middlebrook  and his bride were not sitting at that head table, and I said: No, my  wife and I will sit over here off to the side. I like to run with the  ones that brought me to the table, and Dr. Middlebrook is one of those  guys. He believed in dignity for all, and he is a testament to his  faith in Jesus.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support this.