Sanction Sea Pirates Act of 2025


Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 1998) to require the imposition of sanctions with respect to  foreign persons engaged in piracy, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1998

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Sanction Sea Pirates Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) In 2011, there were 212 attempted attacks against       vessels off of the Somali coast, more than 1,000 crew were       held hostage, and 35 seafarers were killed.

(2) Over the past decade through the beginning of 2023,       rates of piracy in the Western Indian Ocean subsided.

(3) Houthi attacks against commercial vessels in the Red       Sea and Gulf of Aden since the Hamas terrorist attack against       Israel on October 7th have impacted global shipping markets.

(4) There has been a surge in Somali pirate attacks,       beginning in the fall of 2023 and lasting into 2024, that has       coincided with and taken advantage of Houthi aggression.       SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

It is the sense of Congress that--

(1) the United States Government should seek to stop piracy       all around the world, including off the Somali Coast and in       the Gulf of Aden; and

(2) the United States should seek to work with allies and       partners around the globe to combat piracy around the globe       and to curb the surge in piracy off of the coast of Somalia       and in the Gulf of Aden.       SEC. 4. SANCTIONS.

(a) In General.--The President shall impose sanctions       described in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign       person the President determines knowingly engages in piracy.

(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following:

(1) Asset blocking.--Notwithstanding the requirements of       section 202 of the International Emergency Economic Powers       Act (50 U.S.C. 1701), the President may exercise of all       powers granted to the President by that Act to the extent       necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all       property and interests in property of the foreign person if       such property and interests in property are in the United       States, come within the United States, or are or come within       the possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Visas, admission, or parole.--

(A) In general.--An alien who the Secretary of State or the       Secretary of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of such       Secretaries) knows, or has reason to believe, is described in       subsection (a) is--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible for a visa or other documentation to enter       the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--

(i) In general.--The issuing consular officer, the       Secretary of State, or the Secretary of Homeland Security (or       a designee of one of such Secretaries) shall, in accordance       with section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8       U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or other entry documentation       issued to an alien described in subparagraph (A) regardless       of when the visa or other entry documentation is issued.

(ii) Effect of revocation.--A revocation under clause (i)--

(I) shall take effect immediately; and

(II) shall automatically cancel any other valid visa or       entry documentation that is in the alien's possession.

(c) Exceptions.--

(1) Exception to comply with international obligations.--      Sanctions under subsection (b)(2) shall not apply with       respect to the admission of an alien if admitting or paroling       the alien into the United States is necessary to permit the       United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the       Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success       June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947,       between the United Nations and the United States, or other       applicable international obligations.

(2) Exception relating to the provision of humanitarian       assistance.--Sanctions under this section may not be imposed       with respect to transactions or the facilitation of       transactions for--

(A) the sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine,       or medical devices;

(B) the provision of humanitarian assistance;

(C) financial transactions relating to humanitarian       assistance; or

(D) transporting goods or services that are necessary to       carry out operations relating to humanitarian assistance.

(3) Exception for intelligence, law enforcement, and       national security activities.--Sanctions under this section       shall not apply to any authorized intelligence, law       enforcement, or national security activities of the United       States.

(d) Classified Information.--In any judicial review of a       determination made under this section, if the determination       was based on classified information (as defined in section       1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act) such       information may be submitted to the reviewing court ex parte       and in camera. This subsection may not be construed to confer       or imply any right to judicial review.

(e) Implementation; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and       205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50       U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.

(2) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections       (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency       Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person       that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or       causes a violation of regulations promulgated to carry out       this section to the same extent that such penalties apply to       a person that commits an unlawful act described in section       206(a) of that Act.

(f) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of       sanctions imposed with respect to a foreign person under this       section if the President certifies to the Committee on       Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate not later than       15 days before such waiver is to take effect that the waiver       is crucial to the national security interests of the United       States.

(g) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--

(1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions authorized under this section shall not include the       authority or requirement to impose sanctions on the       importation of goods.

(2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term ``good''       means any article, natural or man-made substance, material,       supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test       equipment, and excluding technical data.

(h) Definitions.--In this section:

(1) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means an       individual or entity that is not a United States person.

(2) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means--

(A) a United States citizen;

(B) a permanent resident alien of the United States; or

(C) an entity organized under the laws of the United States       or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a       foreign branch of such an entity.

(3) Piracy.--The term ``piracy'' means any act in violation       of one or more provisions of chapter 81 of title 18, United       States Code.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1998, the Sanction Sea Pirates  Act, introduced by my dear friend Representative Jackson.

This legislation is a strong statement of intent that Congress will  not tolerate the sea piracy which threatens trade across the globe. By  modern standards, sea piracy may seem like an age-old problem, but the  reality is it is very brutal. Sea piracy is a violent crime that  endangers the lives of merchant sailors, disrupts global trade, and can  cause massive economic losses.

America has long stood strong against sea piracy. However, in recent  years, piracy has been on the rise, Mr. Speaker. Pirates, often based  out of Somalia, have taken advantage of disruptions created by Houthi  aggression in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden. The result has been a  disturbing spike in pirate attacks in the waters surrounding the Horn  of Africa.

This bill uses economic power to support ongoing military efforts by  the U.S. and its partners to combat piracy and safeguard trade in this  vital strategic waterway. The bill imposes full financial and visa  sanctions against any foreign person who engages in piracy.

By leveraging the economic power of the United States to supplement  the work of our Armed Forces, we can help end sea piracy and ensure the  safety of our merchant sailors. I support this legislation and reserve  the balance of my time.                                           House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                      Washington, DC, June 16, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 1998, the       Sanction Sea Pirates Act of 2025. Provisions of this bill       fall within the Judiciary Committee's Rule X jurisdiction,       and I appreciate that you consulted with us on those       provisions. The Judiciary Committee agrees that it shall be       discharged from further consideration of the bill so that it       may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 1998 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in the future on matters of shared       jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                      Washington, DC, June 23, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Committee on Foreign Affairs and agreeing to be discharged       from further consideration of H.R. 1998, the Sanction Sea       Pirates Act of 2025, so that the measure may proceed       expeditiously to the House Floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I would       support your effort to seek appointments of any appropriate       number of conferees from your committee to any House-Senate       conference of this legislation.

I will submit the exchange of letters to be published in       the Congressional Record. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to       work together on matters of shared jurisdiction during this       Congress.            Sincerely,                                                     Brian J. Mast,                                                          Chairman.

Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers. I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I urge the body to pass the Sanction Sea  Pirates Act and send an unmistakable message: The United States of  America stands firmly against sea piracy and is committed to ensuring  freedom of navigation against crime in the high seas. I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.