The First 100 Days


Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to congratulate  President Trump on a successful first 100 days in office.

Under President' Trumps leadership, he has successfully closed the  southern border. For the past 4 years, our country has been invaded by  illegal aliens, many of whom are on the terrorist watch list, members  of the Taliban, members of the Chinese Communist Party, not to mention  MS-13, gangbangers, human traffickers, and fentanyl distributors. They  have also trafficked over 300,000 children, and who knows what hell  those young people are in right now because of our callousness.

That has not happened under this President, though. Under President  Trump's leadership, the border is now completely shut down. That means  safer streets, safer schools, and safer communities, Mr. Speaker.

In my own community, some dear friends of mine, the Corcoran family,  lost their dear son at the hands of an illegal. I see them and talk to  them on a regular basis, I don't know anything that could ease their  hurt except prayer.

However, as we now pass the 100 days since President Trump has taken  office, it is time for us to do our jobs and codify these executive  actions that he has taken to make America great again. If Republicans  are serious about backing the President's agenda, let's do something  about it, dadgummit.

That means making sweeping reforms that may actually involve some  sacrifice, like passing a bill that I have--a shameless plug--End  Congressional Stock Trading Act, which would level the playing field  and help restore America's faith in Congress once again.

There is no reason in the world, Mr. Speaker, that we are  individually trading stocks. Everybody ought to do like I do and have  my buddy, Tommy Seiler, manage my portfolio of $11,000. I do not trade  any individual stocks. It is all a mutual fund.

President Trump said if Congress passed a bill banning stock trading  for Members of this body, he would sign it. I say let's give him that  opportunity. Let's first see if Congress has the guts to stand up and  do what is right. I sure as heck know that is what I will do.