Condemning the Attacks on Minnesota Lawmakers in Brooklyn Park and Champlin, Minnesota, and Calling for Unity and the Rejection of Political Violence in Minnesota and Across the United States


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692857/condemning-the-attacks-on-minnesota-lawmakers-in-brooklyn-park-and-champlin-minnesota-and-calling-for-unity-and-the-rejection-of-political-violence-in-minnesota-and-across-the-united-states


Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a heavy heart and  growing concern for the safety of our democracy.

On June 14, in Minnesota, Speaker Emerita Melissa Hortman and her  husband, Mark, were gunned down in their home. That same night, State  Senator John Hoffman and his wife, Yvette, were shot and wounded in a  separate attack. These were not random acts of violence. The shooter  left notes with the names of other public officials, including my own  name.

The Minnesota murders were a warning. If we are to respond  meaningfully, we must confront three hard truths.

First, political violence is no longer an abstract threat. It is  real. It is here. It is escalating. Public servants across this country  face rising threats simply for doing their jobs.

Second, these attacks are about more than individuals. They are  destabilizing our institutions. The only offense that these Minnesota  public officials and Leader Scalise were committing was serving their  communities. When acts of violence are aimed at silencing civic  participation, our entire democracy is at risk.

Third, we must meet this moment with unity and resolve. We must  reject the violent rhetoric and conspiracies that fuel this hatred. We  must defend civil dialogue. We must stand together as Republicans and  Democrats to condemn political violence and, for that matter, violence  of all kinds.

Just as an aside, I hope that the American people have a chance to  watch this particular debate because I think that it really illustrates  the unity and resolve that I think all of us must exhibit at all times.

Representative Hortman and Senator Hoffman deserve more than our  thoughts. They deserve our commitment to ensuring that this never  happens again.