Benefits That Endure for Lifetimes of Service Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691051/benefits-that-endure-for-lifetimes-of-service-act


Mr. EVANS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of  this bill, H.R. 1682, the Benefits that Endure for Lifetimes Of Service  Act, or BELO'S Act, named after Marc Belo, a fellow veteran, aviation  legend, and friend with whom I had the great honor of serving.

This bill would honor our Nation's fallen heroes and their loved ones  by expanding free access to national parks to the families of veterans  who pass away from a service-related illness or accident.

As a former Army Black Hawk helicopter pilot, I had the blessing of  serving with countless men and women across the Active-Duty, Reserve,  and National Guard components of our Armed Forces. During that time, I  took on many roles, from supporting wildfire fighting efforts to  deploying as part of Operation Enduring Freedom. Mr. Speaker, any  soldier or veteran will tell you that service to the Nation takes many  forms, but that also means sacrifice does, too.

When I learned that, under existing law, only the families of  soldiers who died in Active-Duty combat operations were eligible for  free lifetime national parks passes, I immediately thought of my friend  and fellow veteran, First Sergeant Marc Belo.

I served alongside Sergeant Belo for a decade in the Colorado Army  National Guard. Belo was already a senior sergeant and crew chief when  I was a young lieutenant. He took me under his wing from day one.  Whether it was a domestic operation, including fighting fires and  conducting search and rescues, or whether it was deployment overseas to  the Middle East as part of Operation Enduring Freedom, Marc and I were  in it together.

He was the heart and soul of our company, Alpha Company ``Wolfpack,''  and the 2-135th General Support Aviation Battalion ``Blackjacks.'' An  amateur photographer and a true patriot who was a 9/11 first responder  and who gave his life to his Nation for more than 30 years, the passage  of this bill could not come at a more timely, if tragic, moment.

Unfortunately, 1 year ago this week, Marc passed away from cancer  related to his military service. His family, friends, and all who  served with him were devastated.

Mr. Speaker, a friend you served with being taken far too soon by a  service-related illness or injury is a story that, unfortunately,  sounds all too familiar to veterans all across our country. The  circumstances of their deaths can never minimize the magnitude of their  sacrifice.

That is why I am so proud to sponsor the bipartisan BELO'S Act, along  with the gentleman from California (Mr. Panetta). This ensures that the  families of servicemembers who die in circumstances not related to  combat, like training accidents or service-connected illness, are still  honored with free lifetime passes to enjoy America's beautiful national  parks.

While this will benefit military families from coast to coast, it  will especially make a difference for the military families in my  district, who are blessed to live so close to some of the most  beautiful public lands and national parks in the country. It is truly  the least that we can do to thank these veterans' families for serving  right alongside their loved ones.

Veterans and military families often find solace, peace, and healing  in the great outdoors. Whether it is coping with PTSD, undergoing  physical training, or coming to terms with the loss of a loved one,  national parks play a vital role in their health and well-being.

It is my sincere hope that this bill can play a small role in helping  military families, like the Belos, find peace in their loss and honor  their loved ones who are taken from them too soon.

This week marks 1 year since Marc left us, but his legacy lives on  and is now helping other veterans to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring American  heroes like Marc Belo and their families by passing this important  bill.