Expediting Federal Broad- Band Deployment Reviews Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701933/expediting-federal-broad-band-deployment-reviews-act


Mr. EVANS of Colorado. Madam Speaker, today I rise in strong support  of my bipartisan bill, the Expediting Federal Broadband Deployment  Reviews Act. This legislation, which I am proud to lead with my  colleague from Minnesota, will help streamline broadband permitting to  help deliver fast, reliable internet to the communities that need it  most by creating a new system for prioritizing broadband deployment  requests on or across Federal land.

It is a commonsense piece of legislation that, as we have heard,  directs the National Telecommunications and Information Administration  to establish a strike force to support Federal land management  agencies' review of requests to deploy broadband across and through  Federal land.

My home State of Colorado is the heart of the Rocky Mountain West  with more than 24 million acres of Federal land, which is about the  size of Indiana. Roughly 36 percent of the total acreage of Colorado is  Federal land, and it serves countless roles, from conservation and  recreation to other activities. These diverse uses also mean that  multiple agencies have jurisdiction over these 24 million acres from  the National Park Service to the United States Forest Service to the  Bureau of Land Management. These agencies often have duplicative or  redundant permitting processes which can delay what should be a simple  permit.

In all parts of Colorado, from the Front Range to the Western Slope,  rural communities are often surrounded by Federal lands which means  they face greater difficulty building out infrastructure, including  broadband. These are the communities that are often left behind when it  comes to critical service such as internet access and easy  communication.

It is 2026. Reliable, high-speed internet should not be considered a  luxury. It is a necessity. Families, students, and small businesses  need to be able to easily access this important service.

As a cop for 10 years, I also know that law enforcement and public  safety rely on broadband access to promptly identify and interdict  threats in our communities and respond to natural disasters. Without  these reliable services, public safety operations are going to be less  coordinated, which causes first responders to face delays and  disorganization.

By law, Federal agencies are required to grant or deny broadband  applications within 270 days, but these deadlines are often missed. The  U.S. Government Accountability Office recently reported that roughly  half of the communications use applications submitted to BLM and the  United States Forest Service from 2018 to 2022 either exceeded the 270- day deadline or didn't have enough information to reveal whether the  deadline had even been met.

As a result, broadband developers report that deploying fiber in  rural areas can take an average of 5 to 10 years to complete. This is  completely unacceptable, and it is a complete slap in the face to rural  communities that are already underserved.

I am proud to serve as a leading voice for permitting reform in this  Congress, not just for broadband but for many other types of permits,  such as energy generation and distribution, that rely on broadband.

Madam Speaker, this legislation is key to fixing our broken  permitting process. I am proud that it is bipartisan. I am proud that  it is common sense. I urge all of my colleagues to join me in  supporting this bill.