Recognizing the High Plains Honor Flight


Mr. EVANS of Colorado. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate our  Nation's brave men and women and to recognize the High Plains Honor  Flight Network, which conducts trips for veterans to Washington, D.C.,  to tour the monuments built to honor their bravery and service. The  High Plains Honor Flight gave some of our fellow brave men and women  the chance to visit our Nation's Capital. As a fellow veteran myself, I  am pleased to honor the High Plains Honor Flight and to recognize the  Korean War, Cold War, and Vietnam War veterans of Colorado who took  part in it.

Mr. Speaker, the veterans who participated in this flight are as  follows:

Veterans of the Korean War: Howard Kennedy and Robert Kinnison.

Veteran of both the Korean and Vietnam Wars: James Myers.

Veterans of the Cold War: Marvin Clark and Charles Portz.

Veterans of the Vietnam War: Leron Allred, Albert Amen, Walter  Anderson, Sammy Archer, John Babich, Clifford Baker, Virgil Barnhart,  Weslie Bater, Selby Batty, Richard Block, Louis Branch, Jr., Miles  Brekke, C. Brown, Charles Brown, John Bunning, Jens Burnett, Bruce  Carlson, Daniel Carson, James Coleman, Bruce Conley, David Cook, Rhonda  Corchado, Charles Cowan Jr., Daniel Cutler, Douglas Davenport, Steven  Davison, Eugene Dorsey, George Dowell, Jerry Downie, Joseph Eddins,  Richard Edens, Rodney Ellner, Bryan Ericson, Daryl Frank, Timothy  Fulton, John Goodman, Michael Graff, Lester Greene, Duane Hahn, Gary  Hausman, James Hawkins, David Hedgpeth, Joseph Heide, Jr., Larry Hobbs,  James Hoefer, David Holm, George Horgan, Richard Horwat, Donnie Huff,  Donald Huss, Larry Johnson, Martin Jones, Sidney Keller, Bruce Kemp,  Michael Kennedy, Ronald Kessinger, Thomas King, John Knespel, Bruce  Koerwitz, Michael Konshak, Robert Kronberg, John Kupfer, William  Langridge, Gerard Lemke, Cecelia Long, Johnny Lorenzini, John Loth,  Gary Marison, Karen Marison, Cisco Martinez, Harry Marxmiller, Rudolph  Mazur, George McCambridge, Daniel McKinney, Maurice Mertens, Allan  Miller, Dean Nelson, Ron Nelson, Wesley Nelson, Joseph Novak, Stephen  Olt, Cameron Paterson, Kenneth Pearce, Paul Piper, Thomas Redmond,  Randolph Reed, James Rippeth, Rolando Romo, James Ronk, Sylvester  Roubideaux, Gail Rowse, Steven Sample, Donald Sanchez, Lyndel Saxbury,  Kenneth Schossow, Earl Seahorn, Barry Sittlow, Richard Skinner, Richard  Steedley, Marion Stille, Harry Stordahl, Ashley Sumerford, Robert  Tramp, Raymon Valdez, Gerald Vargo, Daniel Warren, Floyd Watson, Jr.,  Larry Weickum, Donald Weightman, James Widlar, Linda Wingate, David  Wining, Juan Zavala, Joe Zavala, Jr., Donald Zeidler.

It is my honor and privilege as a veteran and the United States  Representative of the 8th District of Colorado to recognize the  sacrifice and service of these men and women and all other members of  our Nation's military. I thank them for their bravery and service to  our Nation.