Application of Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands to Hardrock Minerals


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698230/application-of-mineral-leasing-act-for-acquired-lands-to-hardrock-minerals


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, if critical minerals like lithium are  essential to our military and to our national security, if that is the  case, then why are we still relying on our number one global adversary  to supply them?

China is mining about 18 percent of all the lithium in the world.  With the United States, that percentage is less than 1. As far as  refining, China is about 67 percent, some estimates up to 80 percent,  where the United States is at 2 percent.

For years now, the United States has been overly reliant on the  communists in Beijing. It is in America's best national security  interest to maintain deterrence against the CCP, not only in the Indo- Pacific, but especially here at home in our supply chains and critical  industries. This is why I first introduced H.R. 3872, the MERICA Act,  which would allow for the expanded extraction of critical minerals on  Federal lands.

In fact, we already have some of these critical minerals in  abundance. A portion of the district I am privileged to represent falls  within what is known as the Smackover Formation, a geological formation  that encompasses areas from east Texas all the way to the Florida  panhandle.

Thanks to a recent U.S. Geological Survey-led study, we know there  are an estimated 5 to 19 million tons of lithium reserves in the  Smackover Formation, and it is ready for extraction.

Lithium is essential for military and defense applications. It  includes batteries and power systems used in unmanned aerial systems,  such as the ones planning to be assembled under the Army's SkyFoundry  Initiative, which is also absolutely critical for our Nation's future  defense.

Under current law, these valuable lithium deposits are locked up on  Federal lands, preventing their usage. The MERICA Act would amend the  Mineral Leasing Act for Acquired Lands by adding hardrock minerals as  part of the listed deposits subject to leasing so that all federally  acquired lands can be considered for hardrock mineral leasing.

The MERICA Act would also give the Secretary of the Interior the  authority to follow through on President Trump's executive order by  ramping up mineral extraction and production on our own Federal lands.

We can't continue to play into the hands of Beijing by granting them  de facto control of the global lithium supply chain--it makes  absolutely no sense--whether through domestic mines or ones they have  gained through other means, such as the Belt and Road Initiative.

The demand for lithium will only continue to increase as the days go  by. We must bolster our national capabilities and work to address the  ever-growing burden on our Nation's power grid. By passing the MERICA  Act, we would take the commonsense step to utilize Federal lands to  their full and utmost potential.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues very much for their consideration.  For the sake of America's security, I urge all of my colleagues in this  august Chamber to support H.R. 3872.