Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Corbett Howard


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Corbett Howard  of Celina, Texas, and present him with the Congressional Patriot Award.  Corbett has dedicated himself to faithfully serving our community.

Corbett was born in Roswell, New Mexico. He received his Bachelor of  Arts in History and Political Science from Southern Nazarene University  and graduated from Engineer Officer Candidate School in Fort Belvoir,  Virginia. After graduation, Corbett commissioned in the United States  Army and served with the Military Assistant Command, Vietnam (MACV) as  an advisor for the South Vietnamese Army. For his meritorious service,  he was awarded the Bronze Star, Air Medal, and Vietnam Cross of  Gallantry.

Corbett was first elected to the Celina City Council in 1999. In  2002, he was elected to serve as the Mayor of Celina and was reelected  twice. Under Corbett's leadership, Celina transformed economically  through increased job growth and critical business investments. As a  result of his advocacy for Celina residents, he was recognized as a top  influential leader in Collin County. After his tenure as mayor, Corbett  served as the Executive Director of the Celina Economic Development  Corporation for ten years. He also served on the Board of the Upper  Trinity Regional Water District and the McKinney Urban Transit  District. He is the past President of the Preston Trail Rotary Club and  the current Chairman of Government Affairs for the Celina Chamber of  Commerce. Corbett currently serves as the Market President of Lamar  National Bank and is a board member of the Military Warriors Support  Foundation, which donates homes and cars to wounded veterans. A devoted  man of faith, he attends the Stonebriar Community Church in Frisco,  where he has led Bible study classes for over 33 years. I am proud of  the work Corbett has accomplished, and I wish him continued success for  many years to come.

It is an honor to bestow Corbett with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to the people of North Texas.