Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Mark Metdker


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690240/recognizing-congressional-patriot-award-recipient-mark-metdker


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Mark Metdker  of Celina, Texas, and present him with the Congressional Patriot Award.  Mark has dedicated himself to faithfully serving our community.

A native of Dallas, Mark graduated from Lewisville High School in  1975 as a star football and track athlete. He began his career working  for the McKinney Fire Department and in the oilfield industry. From  1983 to 2007, Mark worked for the Addison Fire Department before being  selected to serve as the Assistant Fire Chief and Fire Marshal for the  Celina Fire Department in 2008. He served in a variety of roles,  including firefighter, arson investigator, and fire prevention captain.  As a result of his contributions to the city and exceptional public  service abilities, Mark attained the positions of Fire Chief, Chief of  Police, and Director of Public Safety, before retiring in November  2023.

In addition to his public service, Mark has participated in many  community service initiatives throughout North Texas. He previously  served as a member of Collin College's Fire Science Program steering  committee and the North Texas Council of Governments 911 Communications  Commission. Moreover, Mark is a member of the Texas Fire Chiefs  Association, Texas Police Chiefs Association, Collin County Fire Chiefs  Association, Denton County Fire Chiefs Association, and the National  Fire Protection Agency. For his exceptional work, he has earned two  Meritorious Service awards, the Career Achievement Medal, the City  Builder award, and the Agency Best Practices award from the Celina  Police Department and Fire Department. I would like to thank Mark for a  lifetime of public service and dedication to our community.

It is an honor to bestow Mark with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to the people of North Texas.