Recognizing the Service of Major Robert Coleman


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694101/recognizing-the-service-of-major-robert-coleman


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Major Robert Coleman's  exemplary and distinguished record of service to our country. Rob is an  active-duty Military Police Officer in the United States Army, and he  served as my Defense Fellow throughout last year.

A native of Monterey, California, Rob earned his degree in Psychology  from Gonzaga University in 2009 as a Distinguished Military Graduate.  He also attended the Marine Corps University and George Washington  University, where he earned master's degrees in military studies and  legislative affairs, respectively. During his 16-year career in the  Army, Rob served in key tactical and strategic positions. He has  successfully completed the Basic Officer Leader's Course, Air Assault  School, Marine Expeditionary Warfare School, and the Marine Command and  Staff College. Upon commissioning, Rob became a military police platoon  leader in Kandahar, Afghanistan, where he was charged with training and  coordinating with the Afghan National Police. He later deployed with  the 101st Airborne Division to Afghanistan as an advisor to the  National Directorate of Security. Following the deployment, Rob served  for two years as a Company Commander in the 101st Airborne's 3rd  Brigade Combat Team.

After his tenure as a company commander, Rob was stationed at the  Pentagon as an Army Staff operations officer. He worked directly for  the chief of the Integrated Personnel Pay System--Army (IPPS-A) program  and later returned to the 101st Airborne to serve as its Chief of  Operations and executive officer for battalion operations. For his  outstanding service, Rob has earned two Bronze Star Medals, three  Meritorious Service Medals, the Army Commendation Medal with Valor, the  Army Achievement Medal, the Air Assault Badge, and the Combat Action  Badge. While serving as my Defense Fellow, Rob also played a critical  role in drafting my NDAA priorities for FY2025, which ensured the Army  and Department of Defense could adapt and modernize at the speed of  warfare. He also helped enact an important law to grant military  recruiters the same physical access to high school campuses in the same  manner as colleges and industries, which allowed our Nation's Armed  Forces to adequately address its recruiting crisis. I would like to  thank Rob for his continued selfless service and contributions to our  country. I am excited to see what lays ahead for him in the future.