Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Dennis Lewis


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696848/recognizing-congressional-patriot-award-recipient-dennis-lewis


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and celebrate Mr.  Dennis Lewis of Texarkana, Texas, and to present him with the  Congressional Patriot Award. Dennis has dedicated his life to  faithfully serving his community and country.

Born in Texarkana, Texas, Dennis attended Maud High School,  graduating in 1970, before pursuing higher education at United  Electronics Institute, Texarkana College, the University of North  Carolina, and Army Management Staff College, Army Logistics Management  College, where he completed the Leadership Management Program and  Logistics Management program. In 1971, he married his high school  sweetheart, the love of his life, Paula Graham Lewis, with whom he has  shared 54 years of marriage, three kids, six grandchildren, and five  great grandchildren.

After graduating, Dennis began his professional career with the  Department of Army at Red River Army Depot in 1972, where he would  serve for 39 years until his retirement in 2011. He applied his  expertise in electronics by working on cobra helicopter systems and  subsequently advanced from technician to senior management.

Beyond his professional career, Dennis has demonstrated exceptional  dedication to civic and political engagement. He gave back to his  hometown of Maud by serving as a school board member and city  councilman. He served for 20 years as Chairman of the Selective Service  Local Board, as a member of the Military Services Nomination Board for  Senator Cruz, as a Director for the Texarkana Chamber of Commerce, and  currently as Chair of the Red River Credit Union Supervisory Committee.

In 1986, Dennis was awarded the Outstanding Community Service Award  by the Army and later received the Department of the Army Meritorious  Civilian Service Award.  While Dennis has been recognized with numerous distinguished service  and leadership awards, he considers his greatest accomplishments to be  his three sons growing into dedicated fathers and his enduring marriage  to Paula.

Dennis Lewis' lifelong commitment to his community, his profession,  and his Nation truly exemplifies what it means to be a patriot. It is  an honor to recognize his exceptional contributions and to present him  with the Congressional Patriot Award in appreciation of his steadfast  service to the people of Texarkana his family, and the United States of  America.