Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Thomas Mccall


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695482/recognizing-congressional-patriot-award-recipient-thomas-mccall


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr. Thomas McCall  of Frisco, Texas, and present him with the Congressional Patriot Award.  He has served and uplifted our community through his leadership and  dedication.

Tom was born and raised in Yonkers, New York. Due to life hardships,  he was quickly educated in the meaning of mortgage payment and food on  the table. He attended Manhattan College, graduating in 1972 with a  BSBA in Accounting and his CPA designation, which led to the beginning  of a long and prosperous career in which he earned a reputation as a  determined accountant and executive. Over 30 plus years of work, Tom  had multiple assignments but only 3 employers. He launched his own  business, McCall Asset Management, in 1998 in Frisco, Texas and it is  still going strong. Tom met his wife, Karen, during college and they  married in 1975. They raised 2 kids and have 2 wonderful grandchildren.

Throughout his career, Tom has been present in his community through  his charitable giving of time, talent and treasure as seen in his  involvement with Boy Scouts of America, Leadership Council, St.  Baldrick's Children's Cancer Research, Hope for Vision, and Serving HIM  (Healthcare International Ministries). A devoted man of faith, Tom  attends Holy Cross Catholic Church The Colony with his wife, Karen,  where he serves as Volunteer Finance Chair, on the Pastoral Council and  as an Educator. Since 1985 he has been actively involved with Knights  of Columbus, Fourth Degree, and is a past Trustee. He lives the  Catholic Christian life of servitude. I am proud of Tom's lifelong  contributions to our community, and I wish him continued success for  many years to come.

It is an honor to bestow Tom with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to the people of North Texas.