Recognizing the Service of Lieutenant Colonel Kyle Frazer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694098/recognizing-the-service-of-lieutenant-colonel-kyle-frazer


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Lieutenant Colonel Kyle  Frazer's exemplary and distinguished record of service to our Nation. A  native of Minneapolis, Minnesota, Kyle was commissioned as an Infantry  Officer in 2008 through the University of Utah. He earned his master's  degree in Legislative Affairs from George Washington University in  2023.

Kyle was an honor graduate from the Army's Ranger School, Basic  Officer Leader's Course, and Air Assault schools. After completing  Airborne school and Master Jumpmaster school with distinction, Kyle  spent most of his 17-year career at the tactical level specializing in  combined arms maneuvers and large-scale combat operations. He deployed  three times in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring Freedom,  and Inherent Resolve. Kyle has served as a platoon leader and company  commander, senior observer controller, Deputy Chief of Operations of  Combined Joint Task Force-Operation Inherent Resolve, battalion and  brigade operations officer, and as a congressional staffer, where he  was my National Security and Defense Fellow.

Kyle currently serves as a Legislative Liaison for the Army in the  House of Representatives. Kyle has been the face of the Army for 435  members of the House of Representatives, with direct influence over 13  states covering 88 Members of Congress. Kyle built, promoted, and  facilitated lines of communication between Congress and the Army that  were instrumental in maintaining relationships between the executive  and legislative branches. Through his ability to clearly define the  Army's message and help navigate the needs of Congress to provide  essential oversight requirements, Kyle has made a lasting impact on our  Nation's ability to respond to global threats, modernize the Army, and  maintain the Army's readiness at the highest level.

I want to thank Kyle for his dedication and steadfast commitment to  our country. In August, he will be taking over the ROTC program at his  alma mater, the University of Utah, where I know he will continue to  lead with excellence and honor. I want to extend my deepest gratitude  to Kyle, his wife, Annie, and their two children, Eleanor and Theodore,  for their sacrifices and contributions to the strength and security of  our great Nation. I congratulate Kyle, and I wish him the very best.