Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Sheriff Lane Akin


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690196/recognizing-congressional-patriot-award-recipient-sheriff-lane-akin


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Sheriff Lane Akin  of Decatur, Texas, and present him with the Congressional Patriot  Award. Lane has dedicated himself to faithfully serving and protecting  our community.

A native of Greenville, Texas, Lane earned his bachelor's degree in  criminal justice from East Texas A&M University. He began his lengthy  law enforcement career in 1974 as a Department of Public Safety officer  at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport. He worked his way up the  ranks to become a Highway Patrol trooper, Narcotics Service Sergeant,  Texas Ranger, and Texas Ranger supervisor. After retiring from Texas  DPS, Lane served as the Office Enforcement Captain for the Wise County  Sheriffs office and was elected Wise County Sheriff in 2016. In  December 2024, he retired after five decades of distinguished service  as a law enforcement officer.

In addition to his law enforcement career, Lane is heavily involved  in community service initiatives to benefit North Texans. He serves as  the President of the NCT 911 Board and the Chairman of the Wise  County's Santa's Deputies to deliver toys and food to families in need  during the holidays. Moreover, Lane is an accomplished author, and in  2024, he published his first book, The Point: Dawn of the Texas Meth  War, which details the history of the drug epidemic and has been highly  rated by readers. He will be publishing his second book in Fall of 2025  titled Texas Ranger, Wise County. For his outstanding service as a  Texas Ranger, Lane has been recognized as Officer of the Year twice by  the Wise, Jack, and Montague County Criminal Justice Association. I am  proud to recognize Lane today for a lifetime of public service to the  North Texas community, and I look forward to his future endeavors and  publications.

It is an honor to bestow Lane with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to the people of North Texas.