Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Catherine ``trinka'' Taylor


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ms. Catherine  ``Trinka'' Taylor of Dallas, Texas and present her with the  Congressional Patriot Award. Trinka has dedicated herself to faithfully  serving our community.

A sixth-generation Texan, Trinka was born in Dallas, Texas, and grew  up in Houston. She attended Rice University before transferring to the  prestigious Cornell University, where she earned her bachelor's degree  in architecture. Her passion for architectural design pushed her to  pursue opportunities in some of our most storied cities like New York  City, Boston, and Dallas. No matter where she lived, her dedication to  upholding conservative values never wavered. For many decades, Trinka  served in leadership roles as an Election Judge, Precinct Chairman,  executive committee member of Southern Methodist University, board  member of the Southwestern Medical Foundation, and as President of the  Park Cities Republican Women.

Trinka has continued to stay involved in our community as a member of  the Texas Federation of Republican Women, Dallas County Republican  Executive Committee, and the Dallas County Council of Republican Women.  Her passion for freedom, opportunity, patriotism, and our nation's  values has pushed her to drive us forward to a better tomorrow. For her  outstanding contributions to the Republican Party, Trinka received the  Betty Marquis Award and was selected by former Texas Governor George W.  Bush to serve on the Nominations Committee for the Governor's Awards  for Excellence in Arts, Humanities, and Science. She also served as a  commissioner of the Texas Commission of the Arts from 1998 to 2002. In  her free time, Trinka enjoys fly fishing, Canoeing, and spending time  with her children and grandchildren. She is a devoted woman of faith  and attends Saint Michaels and All Angels Episcopal Church in Dallas.  Trinka has truly made an incredible impact on the world around us, and  I wish her continued success for many years to come.

It is an honor to bestow my friend Trinka with the Patriot Award for  her exceptional service to the people of North Texas.