Recognizing the Service of Our Vietnam Veterans


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688919/recognizing-the-service-of-our-vietnam-veterans


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the service of the  men and women who fought for our Nation during the Vietnam War.

During the Vietnam War, 8.7 million Americans served in our Nation's  Armed Forces, with over 2.7 million being deployed to Vietnam.  Tragically, 58,281 servicemembers would lose their lives in the  conflict, and many more were wounded in action. Moreover, there are  nearly 1,600 Americans who are still classified as missing in action or  having died in captivity as a prisoner of war. I am thankful for our  Department of Defense's continued commitment to searching for our  missing soldiers, and I am very hopeful that we can one day bring  closure to each and every family member and friend of our POW/MIA  servicemembers in this conflict.

At present, it's estimated there are just over 5 million Vietnam  veterans still alive today. Many have experienced hardships with little  recognition. Despite this, they have persevered and served our country  in other ways. A great number of Vietnam veterans have become fast  responders, industrial workers, farmers, truck drivers, and public  servants. We are exceptionally grateful for their continued selfless  service to our great Nation. Since the conflict, the relationship  between the United States and Vietnam has also progressed to remarkable  milestones. Vietnam has emerged to become one of our closest allies in  the Pacific and is a strategic partner in our efforts to account for  missing servicemembers.

On this occasion, I would also like to thank Captain Dave Carey for  his special keynote address. Capt. Carey is a distinguished American  patriot and aviator who served as a U.S. Navy pilot in Vietnam. After  enduring nearly six years as a prisoner of war, Capt. Carey served in  key leadership positions in the Navy and became a passionate  motivational speaker and author.

I have requested the United States flag be flown over our Nation's  Capitol to commemorate and honor our Vietnam Veterans to ensure their  heroism and sacrifices will never be forgotten.