Recognizing the Military Service of Nathan L. Hammond


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690077/recognizing-the-military-service-of-nathan-l-hammond


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Captain Nathan  L. Hammond for his recent promotion and recognize his distinguished  service to our nation in the United States Air Force.

Capt. Hammond began his military career in January 2014 when he  enlisted in the Oklahoma Air National Guard. In 2018, he graduated from  the University of Oklahoma and earned his commission through their ROTC  program. As an officer, Capt. Hammond initially served as a Gold Bar  Recruiter before being selected as the Assistant Flight Commander for  Air Freight at the 436th Aerial Port Squadron at Dover Air Force Base.  In this role, he led 226 military and civilian personnel to ensure  efficient flight operations at the Department of Defense's largest  aerial port.

For his outstanding service, Capt. Hammond received the Air and Space  Commendation Medal with two oak leaf clusters, the Air and Space  Achievement Medal with one oak leaf cluster, and the Army Achievement  Medal. He was also named the 2025 Company Grade Officer of the Year by  AFSOUTH and earned the prestigious John Levitow Award in Airman  Leadership School for his exceptional academic performance, among many  other accolades.

In July 2022, Capt. Hammond earned the rank of captain and began  serving as the Special Warfare Mission Support Flight Commander for the  720th Operations Support Squadron in Hurlburt Field, Florida. Since  October 2024, he has been the Logistics Flight Commander of the 612th  Air Base Squadron out of Soto Cono Air Base, Honduras. I'm pleased to  honor Capt. Hammond for his continued excellence in proudly serving our  country.

I have requested the United States flag be flown over our Nation's  Capitol in recognition of Capt. Hammond's extensive contributions to  our nation. Congratulations to Capt. Hammond, and I wish him the very  best.