Recognizing Congressional Patriot Award Recipient Walter Hunter


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690722/recognizing-congressional-patriot-award-recipient-walter-hunter


Mr. FALLON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Walter Eugene  Hunter of Celina, Texas, and present him with the Congressional Patriot  Award. Walter has dedicated himself to faithfully serving our community  and country.

As a young man, Walter was a decorated Boy Scout and Cub Scout leader  and worked as a messenger boy for Western Union. During the Second  World War, he heeded the call to defend our nation after witnessing the  surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, and he proudly enlisted in the United  States Marine Corps. Walter served in combat as a Field Communications  Specialist during the grueling battles of Guadalcanal, Bougainville,  and Green Island, in which he was awarded a Unit Citation for his  meritorious actions. He later worked in aviation electronics in North  Carolina before being honorably discharged in 1945. During the conflict  in Korea, Walter was also briefly called back to duty from the  Reserves.

After his service, Walter has continued to be an upstanding American  citizen, patriot, and family man. He met his late wife Irene, a US Army  cadet nurse, and they were happily married for a remarkable 77 years.  Together, they had three daughters and many more grandchildren and  great-grandchildren. Walter earned his doctorate degree from the  University of Colorado and guided the doctoral research of 65 graduate  students at the University of Missouri. For his excellent teaching  abilities and his students' achievements, Walter received cash awards  from the American Chemical Society, which he used to purchase science  books for the school library. He also raised thousands of dollars to  install an FM radio station for students interested in learning radio  communications. At the young age of 103, Walter frequently travels  across the country to spend time with his family and remains passionate  about learning. In his free time, Walter studies science and Chaos  theory. I am grateful for Walter's extensive contributions to our  community and country, and I wish him good health for many years to  come.

It is an honor to bestow Walter with the Patriot Award for his  exceptional service to the people of North Texas.