-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689612/9999


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the American  Hungarian Foundation (AHF) in New Brunswick, New Jersey as it  celebrates its 70th Anniversary this year. Since its incorporation in  1955, AHF has provided a cultural bridge between Hungary and the  Hungarian American community through history, arts, and tradition.

In 1989, AHF established the Hungarian Heritage Center. The Center  hosts a rich curation of historical archives which fosters a space for  meaningful lectures, cultural events, and workshops for all to enjoy.  Over the past few decades, AHF has amassed one of the most significant  collections of Hungarian American artifacts and records in North  America. Each artifact is a catalyst for cultural discovery, and often  a chance to highlight lesser-known Hungarian artists. For those with an  affinity for art and culture like me, frequenting the heritage center  is truly an incredible experience.

Since its founding, the foundation's museum has welcomed over 80,000  visitors. There have been more than ninety different exhibition areas  ranging from `Budapest in the 1900s' with a focus on looking into the  past to `40 years of the Hungarian Festival' to commemorate culture and  community. With these resources, local schools, organizations, and  residents can develop a deeper understanding to the folk immigrant  experience. After 70 years, the foundation has stayed true to their  mission: to preserve Hungarian American stories for future generations  through collection, conservation, and celebration. By working to  digitize their archive, AHF guarantees the long-term preservation of  American Hungarian historical records for generations to come. Here,  people can honor their roots and learn the special story of American  Hungarians. I commend AHF for serving as a research hub for scholars,  universities, and local organizations, and their unwavering dedication  to this meaningful cause. These efforts for historic preservation are  admirable, as such stewardship has really made our community a better  place.

Mr. Speaker, once again, please join me in celebrating the American  Hungarian Foundation as its supporters gather to celebrate its 70th  Anniversary. They are truly deserving of this body's recognition.