Assessment of Trans-Atlantic Submarine Fiber Optic Cable


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692700/assessment-of-trans-atlantic-submarine-fiber-optic-cable


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1737, a bill requiring  the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, or  NTIA, to assess the value, cost, and feasibility of a transatlantic  submarine fiber optic cable connecting the United States, the U.S.  Virgin Islands, Ghana, and Nigeria, and to submit a report to Congress  with its findings.

The bill also directs NTIA to report to Congress on the current state  of telecommunications connecting the U.S. Virgin Islands and the United  States, including an assessment of the lifespan and security of  telecommunications infrastructure linking the two.

This legislation will provide Congress with vital information on the  strength and resiliency of communications infrastructure in the U.S.  Virgin Islands. It will also help us determine whether American  interests can be served by connecting the U.S. and the African  Continent with undersea cable infrastructure by way of the U.S. Virgin  Islands.

This bill is an important step to enhance American communications  security and competitiveness around the world.

In recent years, Mr. Speaker, the United States and many allies have  recognized the threat posed by untrusted Chinese telecommunications  equipment to our national security. Thanks to the work of the Energy  and Commerce Committee and Congress, we have taken steps to remove  suspect equipment and software from American communications networks to  protect against sabotage and undue influence by our adversaries.

Much of this work has been done on a bipartisan basis. One noteworthy  example is the legislation Congress passed to force the divestment of  TikTok from ownership by companies controlled by the Chinese Communist  Party, which passed overwhelmingly with hundreds of Democratic and  Republican votes.

That is why I was frustrated to learn last week that President Trump  again unlawfully granted TikTok an extension, allowing China to  infiltrate American networks for another 90 days. President Trump's  disregard for the law is well known at this point, but I was more  disappointed that none of my Republican colleagues had the courage to  call on the President to enforce the law.

Trump's stall tactics are allowing China to continue to collect  massive amounts of information on Americans. There are American  companies that want to buy TikTok. It is long past time for Trump to  get this done.

There is also still work to be done because network security does not  end at the water's edge. For decades, China and other adversaries have  spent considerable time and money to deploy suspect telecommunications  equipment and infrastructure across the African Continent. The  assessment required in this bill is an important step to understand the  cost of securing the connection between the United States and our  African allies and how best to ensure a critical global communications  channel is protected from the prying eyes of our adversaries.

I thank Delegate Stacey Plaskett of the U.S. Virgin Islands for her  leadership on this bill, and I thank Representative Fulcher, as well,  for this effort.

Mr. PALLONE.  Plaskett).

Mr. Speaker, obviously, from what you are hearing from the  gentlewoman from the Virgin Islands (Ms. Plaskett), this is an  important bill in terms of not only the Virgin Islands but  strengthening our links, communications, and economy with Africa, as  well.

For all those reasons, I urge that we support the bill.