Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this  Republican budget resolution.

Make no mistake about it, this budget will lead to millions of  Americans losing their healthcare coverage, all so Republicans can give  giant tax breaks to billionaires and big corporations. The only group  that wants these tax breaks is Wall Street, not the average American.

Mr. Chair, if Republicans pass this resolution today, we will be  forced to cut a minimum of nearly $1 trillion from Medicaid, our  Nation's largest healthcare program.

For those who are saying that somehow the Medicaid program has a lot  of waste, let me remind us that Medicaid is the leanest Federal  healthcare program. Every independent study says  that Medicaid is financially sound, the most financially sound Federal  healthcare program.

The consequences of these cuts will be devastating. Medicaid provides  healthcare to one in three Americans, nearly half of the children in  the United States, and it is the largest source of funding for nursing  homes for seniors and people living with disabilities.

This is a lifesaving program for 80 million Americans. They count on  it every day. Yet, today, House Republicans are unnecessarily rushing  forward with a budget resolution that will impose the largest  healthcare cuts in our Nation's history.

Millions of people will lose their healthcare, but that is just the  beginning. Healthcare prices will sharply rise. Hospitals, particularly  those in underserved and rural communities, will be forced to close-- so, too, will nursing homes. Seniors will lose the care that they rely  on, and doctors and nurses will be laid off. Emergency rooms will once  again be overflowing, as people are forced to delay care until  absolutely necessary. States will be bankrupted and forced to make  painful cuts to important healthcare services. This is the reality, not  what the Republicans are telling you.

Mr. Chair, it doesn't have to be this way. If just a few of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle take a stand today, we can  stop this from happening.

I implore my Republican colleagues to think about the harm, the  devastating harm that will be done to their communities if this budget  resolution is adopted. Stand up. I urge my colleagues to think twice  and vote ``no.''