Deploying American Blockchains Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692732/deploying-american-blockchains-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1664, the Deploying American  Blockchains Act. For decades, our Nation's technological leadership has  helped build the largest, most dynamic economy in the world. We must  continue working to ensure that we outcompete the rest of the world  because our economic rivals are trying to close the gap.

This legislation commissions the Department of Commerce to support  the leadership of the United States with respect to blockchain  technology, which may have useful applications for supply chain  monitoring, data security, and financial transactions. Investments that  strengthen the ability of American industry to realize the benefits of  new technology are essential to our global competitiveness.

I am very mindful, Mr. Speaker, that the chaos of the Trump  administration is undermining U.S. leadership in technology development  and deployment. If my Republican colleagues are sincere in their desire  to win the race to adopt advanced technologies, they will start to  speak up rather than quietly stand by while the Trump administration  recklessly cuts critical Federal research programs, engages in mass  firings of crucial experts, and engages in wild swings in national  trade policy from week to week.

House Democrats have shown our commitment to American technological  leadership. The CHIPS and Science Act, for example, makes  transformational investments in research and development, science and  technology, and the workforce of the future. It will help us maintain  our Nation's leadership in the industries of tomorrow, including  nanotechnology, clean energy, quantum computing, and artificial  intelligence. The CHIPS and Science Act is already making a huge  difference, but we must build on this success rather than tear it down.

One other thing to note is that this bill should already be law. It  was agreed to last year as part of a bipartisan, bicameral legislative  package that was set to be passed and signed into law in December  before Elon Musk killed the agreement.

That package included important provisions that would have lowered  costs for hardworking Americans, but instead of passing it and sending  it to the President's desk to be signed into law, my Republican  colleagues caved to outside pressure from Elon Musk.

I do want to commend Representatives Cammack and Soto for their  leadership on this issue. This is an important bill, and I encourage  all my colleagues to support this legislation on a bipartisan basis.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers. I urge  support of this bill on a bipartisan basis, and I yield back the  balance of my time.