Don't Mess with My Home Appliances Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700165/dont-mess-with-my-home-appliances-act


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, we all know that American families are struggling to  make ends meet. President Trump promised to cut energy bills in half in  his first year, but that has not happened. In fact, electricity prices  are up by 13 percent across the Nation and 80 million Americans are  struggling to pay their utility bills.

These increases did not just happen. They were a direct result of the  Trump administration's disastrous policies, policies that have been  rubber-stamped by House Republicans.

It is bad enough that Trump and congressional Republicans have  ignored the affordability crisis and have instead done everything they  can to help out their rich and big corporate interest buddies, but  House Republicans are bringing up a bill today that will actually  increase your monthly energy bill and make the appliances in your home  more expensive to operate. It is hard to imagine being more out of  touch with the needs of everyday Americans.

First, I have to mention that H.R. 4626 would make the appliances in  your home more expensive to operate, sending your already high  electricity bill even higher. Like all other appliance-related debates,  this bill is just another way to kill floor time for Republicans who  seem to only be able to garner enough Republican votes for bills to  help their corporate polluter friends.

This bill guts the appliance energy conservation standards program at  the Department of Energy. This program is credited with helping  American households save $6,000 on their energy bills over the last  decade. The standards are projected to help reduce peak demand by 32  gigawatts by 2040. In a world where data centers are popping up all  over the country, driving up costs and demand, we can't ignore the  benefits from appliance efficiency.

Instead of recognizing energy efficiency as a helpful tool against  rising costs and increasing electricity demand, House Republicans have  made it the enemy. This bill gives the Trump  administration the power to eliminate efficiency standards, and it even  prevents States from setting their own standards when the Federal  Government fails to act. It creates arbitrary thresholds for new  efficiency standards and eliminates the system of periodic reviews to  examine if more savings are possible for certain products.

Together, these changes to the program will ensure that new energy  efficiency standards get caught in a confusing and arbitrary process  that delays finalization of new efficiency standards and allows for the  roll back of existing standards. Basically, this bill guts the program  and makes it unworkable.

Mr. Speaker, the Department of Energy already has a robust process  for finalizing energy efficiency standards. New standards must be  technologically feasible and economically justified. The current  process already has the buy-in and participation from a wide range of  stakeholders, including consumer advocates, manufacturers, and energy  efficiency advocates.

In fact, many of the efficiency standards that were finalized over  the last few years are the result of a consensus agreement between  these parties.

Rather than recognizing that the current process is successful at  bringing everyone to the table, House Republicans have chosen to  villainize it. Rather than celebrating the savings that Americans see  as a result of efficiency standards, House Republicans mislead the  public by misrepresenting how these standards work and how consumers  save money.

With this bill, House Republicans are making the affordability crisis  worse. They are gutting a successful and established program that saves  Americans money.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, I will say, first of all, that energy conservation  standards are not bans. We have to keep repeating this over and over  because Republicans are adamant about misleading the public.

Energy conservation standards improve the efficiency of new  appliances. They do not mandate the removal of existing appliances, and  they do not mandate the removal of an appliance based on its fuel  source. It is also important to note that, by law, the Department of  Energy is prohibited from setting standards that would eliminate a  product based on fuel type, such as gas appliances.

Mr. Speaker, I rise again in strong opposition to this bill.

Tonight, President Trump will be in this very Chamber to deliver his  State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress. We will  continue to hear a series of mistruths, empty promises, and  gaslighting, I would say, to the American public, so just let me  provide a dose of reality here on the issue at hand.

Electricity prices are up 12 percent across the Nation, a far cry  from President Trump's promise of cutting electricity costs in half in  his first year. Residential natural gas prices are up 20 percent since  the President's inauguration. When families struggle to pay their  utility bills, they often fall into debt.

Since December 2023, household utility debt has risen over 30  percent, climbing to a whopping $23 billion. Families are having to  choose between keeping the lights on or paying for food or medicine.  That is because President Trump and congressional Republicans have been  more focused on lining the pockets of their corporate polluter friends  instead of providing relief to the American people.

The affordability crisis is real. It is quite literally hitting homes  as well, as the cost of buying a home feels out of reach for far too  many and rent is increasingly unaffordable. Families are struggling to  afford childcare and groceries. As the American public knows all too  well, President Trump and Republicans have caused their healthcare  costs to rise too.

Let's also not forget about the President's disastrous tariffs, which  cost the average American household nearly $1,200 in 2025. Apparently,  the affordability crisis isn't real. The President says it is not  happening, or sometimes he says he fixed it. However, the American  people know when they are not being told the truth.

As much as I wish it did, it doesn't stop there. With the help of his  Republican colleagues, President Trump has eliminated more than 172,000  clean-energy jobs, shuttering factories and projects across the  country, and canceled enough renewable energy. As we know, renewable  energy is cheap. It is clean. It helps American families.

People would think that Republicans would be prioritizing legislation  to address affordability, but that is not the case. Look at what is  happening here today. Right now, this bill that we have before us is a  retread from last Congress. It is the same bill that we voted on in the  last Congress. It says it is about affordability, but it is only in  name. In actuality, this bill will raise household utility bills.

In case my Republican colleagues haven't been listening, the American  people can't afford any more price hikes. The American people have been  crystal clear. They are in need of help. I hear from my constituents  all the time about the rising cost of living, and it is time that  Republicans stand up to President Trump and actually do something about  it. I don't see it happening, but I hope we will see it.

I urge a ``no'' vote on this bill, and I yield back the balance of my  time, Mr. Speaker.