Extension of Time to Commence Construction of Certain Hydropower Projects


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702017/extension-of-time-to-commence-construction-of-certain-hydropower-projects


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of S. 1020, which will grant  an extension to hydropower projects impacted by the COVID pandemic.

The Federal Power Act requires hydropower projects to start  construction within 2 years of receiving a license from the Federal  Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC. Subsequent amendments have  allowed FERC to grant extensions of up to 8 years to a project's  construction deadline.

While I think it makes sense to have a hydropower license expire if a  project can't start construction within a decade of the license being  issued, I recognize that the COVID pandemic and resulting supply chain  issues wreaked havoc on the hydropower industry. Therefore, this bill  would allow FERC to grant up to 6 additional years for projects whose  licenses were issued prior to COVID to start construction and would  allow FERC to reinstate the licenses of projects whose authorizations  have since expired.

Madam Speaker, I will note that this authority is not a blank check  to any developer with a license issued pre-COVID. The bill explicitly  only allows FERC to grant an extension for good cause. I expect FERC to  adhere to that restriction.

In addition, I will also note that while the House has been able to  complete work on this bill, my colleagues from the Energy and Commerce  Committee, Representatives Schrier and Fulcher, have another bill on  hydropower, H.R. 3657, that has been sitting in the Senate for 9  months. I certainly hope our friends over in the Senate can pass that  bill, which grants additional transparency into the hydropower  licensing process as soon as possible.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I close by saying, again, that our  committee is always concerned about hydropower. I urge my colleagues to  support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.