Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701961/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 6387, the FIRE Act. The  FIRE Act is yet another dishonest attempt, in my opinion, by  Republicans to weaken the Clean Air Act, which will make Americans  sicker while healthcare costs skyrocket.

Republicans are peddling this dangerous bill as an attempt to promote  prescribed burns and combat wildfires. As has been true for the other  dirty bills that we considered over the last week or so, this bill  fails to address the stated goal and instead provides overly broad  exemptions to the Clean Air Act that will harm American families and  children.

The FIRE Act does little to make it easier for States to use  prescribed burns as a tool for wildfire management. Instead, it expands  the definition of exceptional events that States can claim when  demonstrating compliance with air quality standards, to include  regularly occurring weather like drought and heat. To put it simply,  the FIRE Act would give corporate polluters a free pass on the Clean  Air Act and use a hot day as an excuse to ignore the harm inflicted on  the health of Americans.

Prescribed fire is an essential tool for wildlife management,  particularly as climate change increases the occurrence of large, high- intensity wildfires. When done properly, prescribed fires can  effectively manage wildfires while reducing smoke exposure to wildfire- prone communities. When disaster strikes and wildfires occur, States  should not be punished for pollution that is beyond their control.

Fortunately, the Clean Air Act already gives EPA the flexibility to  qualify wildfire and prescribed burns as exceptional events under the  Clean Air Act, which States can claim when demonstrating compliance  with air quality standards. In fact, Trump's EPA issued a memo clearly  stating that the agency will not count emissions from prescribed fires  toward attainment designations under the National Ambient Air Quality  Standards, making provisions of this bill essentially redundant and  unnecessary.

It is worth highlighting that this bill goes much further than  wildfires and prescribed burns. As I mentioned, the FIRE Act  drastically changes the definition of exceptional events to include  regularly occurring weather events, like drought and hot days. If  signed into law, the FIRE Act would allow States to write off all  pollution that occurs during a dry spell or heat wave, events we know  will occur more often due to climate change.

I find this provision to be deeply troubling. We know climate change  is making drought and heat waves more persistent. Republicans want to  use them as justification to increase pollution, which will worsen  public health and accelerate climate change, without any consequences.

It is another line of evidence that Republicans are more interested  in helping out their polluter friends than protecting the health and  well-being of Americans.

Unfortunately, Republican attempts to undermine the public health  protections at the core of the Clean Air Act are commonplace. The  health harms of air pollution are well documented and being felt by  communities across the country.

Today, over half of Americans live in an area with unsafe levels of  air pollution. These communities see more diagnoses of diseases like  asthma, COPD, heart disease, and certain types of cancer, all of which  require long-term treatment and medication.

These things are becoming more common, but now Republicans and the  Trump administration want to make it easier for industry to pollute  more. Worse, they want to cover up these harms.

House Republicans are doing nothing to lower costs or address the  affordability crisis. Instead, over the last week, they have had us  debating bills that gut the Clean Air Act's public health protections,  and this bill is no exception. It is a retread of old ideas that would  drive up pollution above levels that are safe to breathe. The bill does  nothing to improve the lives of the everyday Americans we are elected  to serve.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this dangerous,  damaging, and, essentially, dirty air bill.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to remind my colleagues of the cost of air  pollution to the American people because it seems they are only focused  on the cost to their polluter friends.

More than 26 million people, including over 4.5 million children, in  the U.S. live with asthma. Asthma causes nearly 1.8 million emergency  department visits, more than 94,000 hospitalizations, and an estimated  $80 billion in healthcare costs annually. Air pollution is known to  cause and exacerbate asthma.

Republicans claim that existing regulatory processes, like  exceptional events demonstrations, are too hard and take too long. They  don't acknowledge why we have these processes in the first place, and  that is to protect the health of our families, our children, and the  most vulnerable among them.

The FIRE Act would worsen health harms to our communities. While the  Clean Air Act has successfully cut air pollution in the U.S. by nearly  80 percent in its over 50-year history, nearly half of the U.S.  population still lives in areas with poor air quality. We should be  taking action to protect public health, not rolling back safeguards  that the Republicans find inconvenient.

The FIRE Act has serious problems that allow industry to exploit hot  days and drought to drive up pollution without consequence. That is the  problem.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Dexter).

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Stansbury).

Mr. Speaker, I need to respond to the comments made by the gentleman  from Colorado. The EPA promulgated an exceptional events rule in 2016  to allow States and Tribes to use prescribed burns for fire management  and exempt emissions from wildfire from regulatory requirements. This  was reinforced by a 2025 EPA memo titled ``EPA Policy on Provisions to  Allow Wildland Prescribed Fire in Clean Air Act State Implementation  Plans.''

This bill is unnecessary, and I am going to repeat that. Republicans  are claiming that the process is so burdensome and that very few  determinations are made by the EPA. That is misleading. The value of  prescribed burns is to mitigate wildfire and to minimize air quality  impacts on communities.

That is why forest managers conduct prescribed burns under particular  weather conditions. Under these conditions, prescribed burns do not  contribute significantly to the area's ambient air quality, which means  an exceptional event demonstration may not be necessary in the first  place.

Proponents of this bill have lots of complaints about the current  program. However, the FIRE Act does nothing to reform the exceptional  event demonstration process for States or the EPA. Instead, it just  provides broad exemptions, which is not what should be done.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, in closing, the FIRE Act is a bad faith attempt by  Republicans to let industry pollute without consequence under the guise  of expanding the use of prescribed fire.

In reality, it would allow everyday occurrences, like hot days and  droughts, to be excluded from air quality determinations. We know that  these events are occurring more often and with more intensity.  Excluding these now common events all but ensures that communities  across the country will continue to breathe unhealthy air and suffer  the health consequences.

The Clean Air Act is one of the most successful laws to protect  Americans ever enacted by Congress because it prioritizes public health  and gives States flexibility to foster economic growth simultaneously.

We have made significant progress, but still too many people live in  areas with dangerous air pollution. Every year, over 100,000 Americans  die prematurely as a result of air pollution. Doctors and scientists  widely consider fine particulate matter to be one of the most toxic air  pollutants, as it can cause asthma, COPD, heart disease, and certain  types of cancer.

We can't ignore the broader political landscape in which we are  considering this bill, either. Earlier this year, EPA announced it will  no longer consider the benefits of protection of public health when  developing new rules for particulate matter and ozone pollution.  Instead, EPA will consider only the compliance costs for industry. That  makes it even more important that any Clean Air Act legislation taken  up by Congress ensures that public health protections remain at the  center of the law.

The American people are asking us to lower healthcare costs. They are  asking us to ensure that our families have safe water to drink and  healthy air to breathe. Our responsibility is to them, but our  Republican colleagues seem to only answer to their corporate polluter  buddies who are asking for regulatory rollbacks to save a few dollars.  That is just a bad deal for the American people.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote against this dirty air  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.