Foreign Emissions and Nonattainment Clarification for Economic Stability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701735/foreign-emissions-and-nonattainment-clarification-for-economic-stability-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 6409, the FENCES Act.

Access to quality and affordable healthcare is an issue at the top of  many Americans' minds right now as they struggle through the ever- worsening Republican affordability crisis. Republicans have  demonstrated over the last year that they have no interest in improving  healthcare for the American people.

The Republican big, ugly bill cut more than a trillion dollars from  Americans' healthcare. Insurance premiums spiked at the beginning of  the year for 20 million people because Republicans refused to extend  the ACA tax credits. Fifteen million people are predicted to lose their  healthcare altogether. Hospitals are closing in record numbers around  the country.

There was a media report just yesterday that said 15 hospitals in my  State of New Jersey have the potential to close because of the  Republican big, ugly bill and the impact on hospitals.

Now, there are reports that Republicans intend to make further cuts  and take healthcare away from more people to pay for Trump's reckless  war of choice with Iran. In Trump's America, we can't afford  healthcare, but apparently, we can spend a billion dollars a day on the  war in Iran. In fact, Trump himself said that it is not possible for  the Federal Government to pay for Medicaid and Medicare when we are  fighting wars.

Republican attacks on Americans' healthcare continue this week here  on the House floor by bringing three dirty air bills to the House  floor, including this bill, H.R. 6409, the FENCES Act; and also H.R.  6398, the RED Tape Act; and, finally, H.R. 6387, the FIRE Act.

These bills are an attack on the public health protections that are a  cornerstone of the Clean Air Act. They will ultimately make Americans  sicker and increase healthcare costs even more.

The health harms of air pollution are well-documented, being felt by  communities across the country. Communities in areas with unsafe levels  of air pollution see more diagnoses of diseases like asthma, COPD,  heart disease, and certain types of cancer, all of which require long- term treatment and medication.

Air pollution, Mr. Speaker, is also responsible for over 100,000  premature deaths every year. It is ridiculous to even consider these  bills when our constituents are demanding action on healthcare  affordability.

Whether it is from reducing transparency, to artificially reducing  air pollution reporting by ignoring climate change, to giving corporate  polluters free passes on Clean Air Act requirements, these bills are  evidence that Republicans are more interested in helping their  pollution friends than the well-being of Americans.

The bill that we are talking about now, the FENCES Act, would  undercut the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, or NAAQS, which  tells us the amount of air pollution that is safe to breathe.

The bill would have us ignore bad air quality in areas that  experience any pollution beyond the jurisdiction of a State or city's  borders. It removes the Environmental Protection Agency's ability to  impose fees or sanctions on States that fail to make progress toward  cleaning up the air.

Let me just explain this. If my hometown of Long Branch or my county  of Monmouth or my State of New Jersey was getting pollution from  outside that particular jurisdiction, it wouldn't count. They wouldn't  have to account for that in terms of dealing with air pollution and  trying to reduce it. To me, that is patently ridiculous because we know  that air pollution travels across cities, across States, and even  across countries. Giving States that are not even trying to improve air  quality a free pass for pollution without any incentive to fix the  problem is not the right way to proceed, and that is what this bill  does.

If signed into law, this bill would require EPA to cook the books on  air pollution in favor of industry, removing all accountability for  States to clean up air pollution and leaving millions of Americans to  breathe unhealthy air. The only winners here are corporate polluters  who would get to save a few dollars in compliance costs.

Now Republican attempts to undermine the NAAQS aren't new. Every time  the EPA strengthens an air quality standard, opponents complain that  stronger public health standards will limit economic growth, but that  has never been true, Mr. Speaker. Every time, industry has innovated  better pollution control measures to meet the new standards.

Republicans also claim that the FENCES Act is part of their  permitting reform effort, but this bill would not speed up any  permitting. In fact, it  would cause complete permitting gridlock in areas with pollution that  exceeds an air quality standard. This is not permitting reform.

House Republicans are trying to use accounting gimmicks to make areas  with poor air quality appear much better to benefit corporate polluters  at the expense of the health of Americans across the country. Pushing  the FENCES Act at a moment when millions of Americans are struggling to  afford their utilities, their groceries, and healthcare, in my opinion,  is unconscionable.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Dexter).

The FENCES Act, Mr. Speaker, is a bad faith attempt by Republicans to  use accounting gimmicks to make areas with bad air quality appear safe  at the expense of our communities.

I hear from my Republican colleagues all the time that the Federal  Government should be more transparent, but the literal and figurative  smog that would be created by the FENCES Act will only make Americans  sicker.

The FENCES Act goes an extra step to waive sanctions and fees for  States, not just for international pollution but also pollution from  mobile sources, exceptional events, and even from a different district  within the same State.

In other words, the FENCES Act removes all incentives for States to  work toward NAAQS attainment. This is a bad deal for the American  people.

Every year, over 100,000 Americans die prematurely as a result of air  pollution. Doctors and scientists widely consider foreign particulate  matter to be one of the most toxic air pollutants, as it can cause  asthma, COPD, heart disease, and certain types of cancer.

We can't just ignore air pollution and the very real health  consequences that result from it to make permitting for industry  easier. We shouldn't ignore the broader political landscape in which we  are considering this bill, either.

Earlier this year, the EPA announced that it will no longer consider  the benefits of protecting public health when developing new rules for  fine particulate matter and ozone pollution. Instead, the EPA will only  consider the compliance costs for industry.

This decision is entirely antithetical to the EPA's core mission to  protect public health and the environment. The American people are  asking us to lower healthcare costs, and our responsibility should be  to them, not to the industry.

However, our Republican colleagues seem to only answer to their  corporate polluter friends who are asking for regulatory rollbacks to  save a few dollars. The DEFENSE Act is a gift to industry that would  come at the expense of the American people.

For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``no'' on the DEFENSE Act, and I yield back the balance of my time.