Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692341/halt-all-lethal-trafficking-of-fentanyl-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to S. 331, the HALT Fentanyl Act.  The House approved this bill in February, and since that time, the  Trump administration has set its sights on dismantling our Nation's  public health infrastructure, including the agency directly responsible  for addressing mental health and substance abuse disorders.

Republicans are going to claim today that they are addressing the  opioid overdose crisis with this bill, but this is nothing but a  distraction from the fact that Republicans continue to silently stand  by and allow the Trump administration to gut our public health  agencies.

Republicans are also attempting to distract from the fact that last  month they passed the largest cuts to healthcare in American history as  part of their big, ugly bill. Republicans are stripping healthcare away  from 16 million Americans so they can give giant tax breaks to  billionaires and big corporations, two groups that don't need any help  right now.

Now, Mr. Speaker, over the last couple of years, we have made  significant progress in addressing the opioid overdose crisis. Last  year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced a 24  percent decline in drug overdose deaths for the 12 months ending in  September of 2024, compared to the previous year. This is encouraging  news, but I am deeply concerned that the Trump administration's attacks  on public health, coupled with the Republicans' attacks on Americans'  healthcare will seriously threaten the improvements we have made.

The bill before us today permanently schedules fentanyl-related  substances on schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act. This is  based on a class definition disputed by scientists. I oppose this bill  because it is a permanent extension instead of a temporary one that we  agreed on for 2 years in the end-of-the-year appropriations package.

Now, that bipartisan package was pushed aside by Speaker Johnson  after Elon Musk voiced his opposition to the overall package. The  temporary option would have left the door open for an off-ramp to  substances found to have potential medical applications. However, this  Republican bill would also exacerbate inequities in our criminal  justice system because drugs placed on schedule I include mandatory  minimum sentencing. S. 331 also does not provide additional resources  for prevention, treatment, recovery, or harm reduction.

So this bill is essentially recycling an incarceration first response  to what I consider mainly a public health challenge. That is because  Republicans don't want to talk about this as a public health challenge.  Instead, President Trump and House Republicans want to focus on  piecemeal policies in the hopes it will distract from their efforts to  gut Medicaid and drug treatment programs.

Now Republicans are sabotaging Medicaid, which will be devastating to  people who struggle with mental health and substance use issues.  Medicaid is the single largest payer in the country for behavioral  health services, covering 40 percent of all Americans with opioid use  disorder.

Americans with substance use and mental health issues will face new  barriers and red tape in signing up for and staying enrolled in their  health insurance. House Republicans are setting up new barriers and  roadblocks to care that will, unfortunately, result in our mental  health and substance abuse crises only worsening.

Republicans are silently standing by as the Trump administration is  moving forward with an unauthorized and illegal plan to eliminate the  Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, better known  as SAMHSA. SAMHSA is the very agency responsible for preventing  substance use disorder, increasing access to treatment, and promoting  recovery.

It will be combined with other agencies that the Trump administration  doesn't care about under the banner of a larger make America healthy  again office. Now, these critical programs to treat mental health and  substance abuse will be deprioritized or eliminated in favor of  Secretary RFK, Jr.'s, pet projects, like destroying Americans' access  to vaccines. He is going to prioritize that, and not SAMHSA and  substance abuse treatment.

Congress has received zero information from the Trump administration  about how this new office will work and how the work of SAMHSA to  address the mental health and substance use treatment needs of our  community will be prioritized.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from the Nation's  leading mental health and substance use treatment organizations. It is  called the Mental Health Liaison Group.                                                           MHLG,                                      Washington, DC, June 10, 2025.      Hon. Brett Guthrie,      Chairman, House Energy & Commerce Committee,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Frank Pallone,      Ranking Member, House Energy & Commerce Committee,           Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Guthrie and Ranking Member Pallone: The       Mental Health Liaison Group (MHLG), a coalition of national       organizations representing people with mental health       conditions and substance use disorders, family members,       mental health and addiction providers, advocates and other       stakeholders is committed to strengthening Americans' access       to mental health and substance use disorder care. We are       incredibly disheartened by the proposal from the U.S.       Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to eliminate       the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration       (SAMHSA) as we know it, as well as drastically reduce       spending or eliminate critical SAMHSA programs. Such a move       would have devastating consequences for the 84.5 million       Americans with a mental health and/or a substance use       disorder, many of whom rely on SAMHSA's programs, research,       oversight, and leadership to address critical mental health       and substance use disorder needs.

Since SAMHSA was established by Congress more than two       decades ago, the agency has built an infrastructure to       coordinate and lead public health efforts to advance the       behavioral health of the nation. SAMHSA and most of its       programs and activities are authorized under Title V of the       Public Health Service Act (PHSA), of which the Energy and       Commerce Committee has sole jurisdiction. Yet, contrary to       the statute, the HHS FY 2026 Budget in Brief proposes to       eliminate SAMHSA and move some of its functions to a new       Administration for a Healthy America (AHA). If this becomes       reality, there will no longer be a federal agency whose       specific purpose, function, and expertise is to address       mental health and substance use disorders. Given the current       opioid public health emergency, and our nation's ongoing       mental health crisis, we are confused and troubled by this       proposal. SAMHSA's work is lifesaving, helping ensure       communities have access to mental health and substance use       treatment services--along with suicide prevention       strategies--with enough providers to deliver the care that       every American deserves.

SAMHSA's effectiveness is due to its position as a federal       agency with its specific focus on supporting community-based       mental health and substance abuse treatment and prevention       services. Through the development of education, training,       toolkits and resources; administering grants; and providing       technical assistance informed by specialized expertise and       data, SAMHSA is able to identify trends, implement       efficiencies informed by current needs, and support states in       providing community-based services for mental health       conditions and substance use disorders.

Additionally, the proposed HHS budget would eliminate       scores of mental health programs, including some that your       committee explicitly established in the landmark Substance       Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and       Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act of 2018.       Programs slated for elimination include Comprehensive Opioid       Recovery Centers and the Youth Prevention and Recovery       Initiative. These are just two examples of programs that your       committee authorized in 2018 and voted to reauthorize on a       bipartisan basis earlier this year, in addition to other       concerning eliminations within the Programs of Regional and       National Significance and those related to combatting       overdose-related deaths. These proposed eliminations come at       the same time that HHS extended the public health emergency       declaration for our nation's opioid crisis--targeting the       same programs aimed at addressing this crisis.

As leading voices working on mental health and substance       use disorders, we believe it is paramount that the federal       government retain a standalone agency explicitly focused on       mental health and substance use disorders. In 2016, this       committee recognized the importance of SAMHSA and the public       health threats of mental health and addiction by elevating       the leader of the agency from an Administrator to an       Assistant Secretary of Mental Health and Substance Use,       directly reporting to the Secretary. Within another agency,       SAMHSA--and a focus on mental illness and addiction--will not       have the same direct impact on HHS proposals and will not be       elevated as a resource and partner for other components of       HHS. SAMHSA has partnered with HRSA on workforce, CDC on the       impact of infectious diseases on people with mental illness,       NIH on early psychosis programs and CMS on health homes and       demonstration programs in behavioral health. As with previous       federal agency reorganizations, any efforts to change or       reorganize SAMHSA should be directed by the Committee.

Through your leadership of the Committee, our nation has       made thoughtful progress to address our mental health and       substance use crisis. We urge you to continue your bipartisan       focus on proven programs that address severe, chronic, and,       far too often, life-threatening mental illnesses that impact       our families, friends, and neighbors in every comer of our       nation. Please ensure that any changes to SAMHSA programs do       not disrupt, delay, or reverse our nation's great progress       and commitment to addressing our mental health, suicide, and       substance use crises.            Sincerely,

American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy,       American Association for Psychoanalysis in Clinical Social       Work, American Association of Child and Adolescent       Psychiatry, American Association of Psychiatric Pharmacists,       American Association on Health and Disability, American       Foundation for Suicide Prevention, American Mental Health       Counselors Association, American Occupational Therapy       Association, American Psychiatric Association, American       Psychiatric Nurses Association, American Psychoanalytic       Association, American Psychological Association Services,       Anxiety and Depression Association of America, Association       for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare (AABH), Bazelon Center       for Mental Health Law, Center for Law and Social Policy       (CLASP).

Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity       Disorder, Clinical Social Work Association, Committee for       Children, Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA),       Fountain House, Global Alliance for Behavioral Health &       Social Justice, Huntington's Disease Society of America,       Inseparable, International OCD Foundation, International       Society of Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurses, Legal Action       Center, Maternal Mental Health Leadership Alliance, Mental       Health America, National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI),       National Association of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners,       National Board for Certified Counselors.

National Council for Mental Wellbeing, National Eating       Disorders Association, National Federation of Families,       National Health Law Program, National League for Nursing,       National Register of Health Service Psychologists, National       Women's Sheter Network, Inc., Network of Jewish Human Service       Agencies, Psychotherapy Action Network (PsiAN), SMART       Recovery, The National Alliance to Advance Adolescent Health,       The National Association for Rural Mental Health, The       National Association of County Behavioral Health and       Developmental Disability Directors (NACBHDD), The Trevor       Project, Tourette Association of America, Trust for America's       Health.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, this letter is in strong opposition to the  Trump administration's efforts to eliminate SAMHSA, as well as their  reference to drastically cut funding and eliminate critical SAMHSA  programs.

As they write in this letter: These proposals ``would have  devastating consequences for the 84.5 million Americans with a mental  health and/or a substance use disorder, many of whom rely on SAMHSA's  programs, research, oversight, and leadership to address critical  mental health and substance use disorder needs.''

Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration is also rescinding more than $1  billion in essential funding that States rely on through block grants.  This rescission is wreaking havoc on States' efforts to support  prevention, treatment, and recovery. That is because States, counties,  and towns are the main places where these treatment programs are.

My Republican colleagues refuse to hold this administration to  account for these devastating and illegal cuts. Instead, they are  trying to distract with this bill. This bill is opposed by nearly 190  national, State, and local public health, criminal justice, and civil  rights organizations.

So, Mr. Speaker, I oppose the bill, and I encourage my colleagues to  oppose it as well.

I don't want anyone to misunderstand. What I am saying is that if we  don't treat mental health and substance abuse as a public health crisis  and, instead, we just say that we are going to have mandatory sentences  and throw everybody in jail, lock the door, and throw away the key,  then I don't think that is going to solve the problem.

I will continue to highlight that while Republicans propose these  mandatory sentences and want to put fentanyl permanently on the  schedule, that is not the answer to this mental health crisis. It is  not the answer. The answer is to provide adequate treatment, and  education. It is also to prevent the drugs from coming into the country  but not just to put people in jail and throw away the key.

Mr. Speaker, I think House Republicans know that we can't simply  schedule our way out of this crisis, but they have refused to pass  bipartisan solutions that address prevention, treatment, and recovery  to help stop overdose deaths.

I know that they passed reauthorizing the SUPPORT for Patients and  Communities Act last week, but the bottom line is that all of the  programs under the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act that have  helped with treatment, helped with education, caused the number of  overdose deaths to decline are being gutted. The staff that administer  them and SAMHSA, the program that they are under, all of these things  are being either eliminated, gutted, or the funding frozen by the Trump  administration.

My point today is this is not just a criminal justice issue. We must  combat this opioid crisis through a multipronged public health  approach.

Nearly half of all people in Federal prison today have been convicted  of a drug-related offense, with a racial and ethnic disparity among  those convictions.

Access to treatment remains a challenge today. In 2023, according to  SAMHSA, approximately one-quarter of the people who are classified as  needing substance use treatment received it in the last year. People  with a substance use disorder who are untreated are eight times more  likely to die of an overdose compared to those who receive medication  treatment.

Just putting people away and throwing away the key is not the answer.  Cutting back on the treatment programs, and the education programs  under SAMHSA, is certainly going to make things worse.

Mr. Speaker, the chairman of our committee knows I have great respect  for him, but the bottom line is that this bill does not consider  individual circumstances. It is not just people that are selling drugs.

Look, I totally agree that if someone is selling fentanyl, it is a  totally different situation from someone who is arrested for possessing  it. The fact of the matter is this bill covers both those who possess  it, using it for themselves, and those who are selling it--maybe those  who have a huge ring of selling it.

My point is that when there are mandatory minimums, all those people  come under the same rubric. The legislation, because it now makes  permanent fentanyl on the schedule I, the mandatory minimums apply, and  the harsh penalties do not consider individual circumstances.

I don't want to keep repeating, but I will, about how the legislation  has no resources for prevention or treatment and just simply locks  people up. The point is that there are going to be families and  communities, because of the minimum mandatory sentencing and the  inability of the judge to look at the individual circumstances, that we  are going to repeat the same mistakes that were made for many years  responding to other drugs.

Right now we know that people of color have been disproportionately  incarcerated and sentenced to mandatory minimum sentences. The trend of  racial disparity also can be seen in prosecutions for offenses  involving fentanyl and fentanyl analogues.

The Sentencing Commission data from fiscal years 2021 to 2023  provides strong evidence that these prosecutions disproportionately  target people of color.

I would like to get beyond the point here when we debate these bills  of saying that mandatory sentencing is a good thing, regardless of  whether they are charged with possession or selling or how much they  are selling, but that is not what this bill does. They get locked up.  There are no individual circumstances considered. We know the  consequences of that for people in many cases who, in my opinion, if I  was the judge, would not impose these harsh mandatory penalties.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, I listened to what the chairman of our Health  Subcommittee said, and I am not arguing with him that we have to look  at the fentanyl crisis in many ways, particularly at the border, and  prevent it from coming into the country from China and other places  that flood this country with it. Yet, my point is that what we are  hearing from the Trump administration and from the Secretary of HHS,  Robert Kennedy, Jr., is that we are going to defund substance use  disorder programs, mental health programs, and treatment.

The fact of the matter is that about 58 percent of the people in  prison right now have a substance use disorder. People with these  disorders have challenges in getting appropriate treatment, and  incarceration often exacerbates their symptoms. By having these  mandatory penalties and putting more people in prison, who are, in many  cases, only there because of mandatory sentences for possession of  fentanyl and analogues, it only exacerbates their condition. It leads  to individuals staying incarcerated longer, and they don't get  treatment.

In the congressional justification for the Trump administration for a  healthy America, the HHS agency proposes to cut various substance use  and mental health programs that are helping State and local health  departments combat the opioid crisis.

For fiscal year 2026, the Department of Health and Human Services  proposes to zero out State opioid response grants, the Community Mental  Health Services Block Grant, first responder training, youth prevention  and recovery programs, and many, many more. I talked about this  recently.

The bottom line is that if you zero out all of these programs--I  think it is over $1 billion that has already been frozen--you are going  to have no opportunity locally to actually help people with treatment  and education. All you are going to do now is just throw them in  prison, which only exacerbates the problem.

In the President's budget, they propose to cut SAMHSA programs that  assist with harm reduction strategies to help those in need, as well as  programs to help prevent Americans from using controlled substances.  The President's budget also calls for reducing opioid overdose  prevention and surveillance by $29 million.

I think that every dollar that is cut for prevention, treatment, and  education is a life that is left unprotected. Terminating these  critical programs and offices just puts millions of lives battling  substance abuse in jeopardy.

Mr. Speaker, I wish my colleagues would spend time on these issues of  protecting public health and coming up with solutions instead of  retreading a bill that prioritizes this criminal justice approach,  which I think doesn't work.

Mr. Speaker, we had this bill in the House back in February, and then  it went to the Senate. Essentially, what came back today for final  approval or final passage is the same bill.

As was mentioned by my Republican colleagues, if it passes today, it  goes straight to the President's desk. At the time in February, when we  were discussing this bill, I had pointed out that President Trump had  just pushed a scheme, really, straight out of Project 2025 to choke off  virtually all Federal funding, including halting over $8.6 billion in  grant funding for the Federal programs to combat the opioid crisis. At  the time, congressional Republicans just stood by silently as it  happened.

Trump halted over $6.5 billion in funding for the Substance Abuse and  Mental Health Services Administration, SAMHSA, which supports treatment  programs and prevention efforts. He also halted nearly $1.5 billion in  funding for the National Institutes of Health drug abuse and addiction  research programs, which conduct and support research on substance  abuse and addiction, basically to better understand the causes of  addiction and identify treatments and interventions that reduce  overdoses.

Trump also halted all federally funded programs that provide critical  opioid-related services, including federally qualified health centers,  which serve a high proportion of patients disproportionately impacted  by the opioid crisis.

The Department of Health and Human Services also eliminated the  workforce training programs, including the Integrated Substance Use  Disorder Training Program, which trains professionals to provide opioid  use disorder prevention, treatment, and recovery services.

Mr. Speaker, we went to court over a lot of these things, and many of  them were overturned. Yet, I don't want anyone to think that the  President is giving up. He is going to continue his efforts to  illegally cut these programs, and I mentioned some of them before.  Again, House Republicans are doing nothing to halt any of this.

In addition to that, I have to say that the big, ugly bill passed a  couple of weeks ago by the Republicans, I think, altogether, between  Medicaid, the ACA, and Medicare, because of sequestration, cuts, I  don't know, I would say $1.7 trillion or so.

Understand that Medicaid is the single largest payer for behavioral  health services in the United States and covers nearly 40 percent of  all individuals with opioid use disorder. Medicaid covers a full array  of services and support for people with behavioral health needs,  including services and supports that typically are not covered by other  health programs.

This is an assault on every effort for prevention and treatment of  opioid disorders, whether it is cutting Medicaid, eliminating SAMHSA's  programs, or cutting the money that goes back to States and towns to  help people with treatment.

Mr. Speaker, again, this bill is a distraction because it gives the  impression that if you lock somebody up with a mandatory penalty, even  if it is just for possession, and throw away the key, that is going to  solve your problem. It is not.

Everything that the President is doing and the Republicans are doing  to support him completely eliminates or significantly cuts back on the  treatment and the education that are going to be much more important in  terms of trying to save people's lives.

Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned before, the bill before us today is the  Senate companion to H.R. 27, which we voted on here in the House on  February 6 of this year. The two bills are identical, other than a  couple of minor punctuation differences. This bill would go to the  President's desk, and he said he would sign it.

However, since that vote in February here in the House, the Trump  administration has seriously threatened our Nation's ability to  confront the ongoing opioid overdose crisis by attempting to dismantle  the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, SAMHSA,  as I mentioned, firing hundreds of workers, including senior key  officials, and rescinding over $1 billion from State and local  behavioral health programs.

Mr. Speaker, I continue to oppose this bill because it is a permanent  extension of fentanyl-related substances as schedule I drugs instead of  the temporary one that we agreed on for 2 years in the end of the year  2024 appropriations package.

The temporary option would have left the door open for an off-ramp to  substances found to have potential medical applications. This bill  would also exacerbate inequities in our criminal justice system because  drugs placed on schedule I include mandatory minimum sentencing.  Furthermore, S. 331 also does not provide additional resources, as I  have mentioned, for prevention, treatment, recovery, or harm reduction.

For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``no'' on the legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.