Homeowner Energy Freedom Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700221/homeowner-energy-freedom-act


Mr. Speaker, House Republicans simply cannot help themselves. It is  bad enough that they refuse to do anything to address the affordability  crisis that American families are facing today. Republicans are  doubling down on bills that will drive up energy costs for families  when they are simply being stretched too thin.

Yesterday, we were here on the House floor debating a bill that guts  appliance efficiency standards which save families money on their power  bills. Today, we are back to debate the gutting of another popular  program that lowers upfront appliance prices.

Mr. Speaker, this is the seventh bill about appliances that we have  debated on the House floor this past year. When I am back home in New  Jersey talking to my constituents, no one ever brings up showerhead  flow or how much water their dishwasher uses.

These folks want to know how we can put a stop to Trump's disastrous  tariffs which are a tax on the American people and which raise the  price of absolutely everything we buy.

They want to know what Congress is doing to lower their skyrocketing  healthcare premiums. They want to know why Congress is asleep at the  wheel, while they struggle to make ends meet, watch their power bills  go up every month, and have to start making impossible choices between  paying for medicine or keeping their lights on.

Sorry, folks, apparently Republicans in Washington don't have time  for any of that. They are focused on passing another appliance bill  instead--talk about out of touch. This bill repeals and rescinds  funding for three important Department of Energy programs.

First, it rescinds funding from the Home Electrification and  Appliance Rebate program. This is a $4.5 billion  program created by Democrats as part of the Inflation Reduction Act to  lower the upfront costs of appliance upgrades for low- and moderate- income families. The families get a rebate. It helps families better  afford appliances for their homes. With this bill, House Republicans  are eliminating the funding for the rebate. Again, they are driving up  costs on American families.

The second thing this bill does is to rescind funding from a program  designed to help with building energy code adoption. That might sound a  little obscure, but it is also important from a cost point of view.

Third, they repeal a program that provides assistance for contractor  training. Even these two programs that might seem less important than  the rebate are still programs that reduce costs for consumers.

Mr. Speaker, I cannot stress it enough. This bill only worsens the  affordability crisis for American families. Trump promised to cut  Americans' power bills in half during his first year. That didn't  happen. In fact, electricity prices are up 15 percent and increasing  twice as fast as inflation just since Trump took office.

More than 80 million Americans are struggling to pay their utility  bills. Even though these price increases are a direct result of  Republican policies, today House Republicans are choosing to double  down. Rather than working on constructive solutions that help  Americans, they are choosing to cut funding that helps homeowners and  businesses save money.

There is a reason why electrification rebates are popular. Again,  these are rebates that help people. Some States have already rolled out  their rebate programs and are seeing significant interest.

Despite how Republicans try to frame them, rebates are not mandates.  Rebates are optional, and they provide discounts to families who have  crunched the numbers and made the decision that electrification would  help them save money. Republicans want to take away that choice at a  time of skyrocketing energy costs and energy demand.

I strongly urge my colleagues to vote against this bill. The programs  that this bill targets are designed to lower costs, create jobs, and  help Americans across the country. I only wish that Republicans cared  more about that than wasting floor time with ridiculous antiefficiency  and anticonsumer bills.

Mr. Speaker, I will debunk some comments that were made by my  colleague from Texas.

Both of the speakers on the other side of the aisle repeatedly cited  the National Association of Home Builders' estimate that building a  home to meet the 2021 International Energy Conservation Code standard  would add as much as $31,000 in costs to a new home.

This is flawed. It is intentionally misleading. Republicans are  trying to demonize energy codes that actually save Americans money and  deliver increased comfort, health, and climate benefits, all to prop up  their fossil fuel buddies.

This figure of $31,000 originally came from Kansas City. When you  actually analyze the cost breakdown, it includes costs that are not  required by the 2021 energy code.

For example, the costs include over $18,000 for double-wall  construction, but the code doesn't require double-wall construction.

It includes $3,000 for a ventilation energy package. The code does  not require this package. It only requires one of several energy  options, like energy-saving water heaters.

Mr. Speaker, I could go on debunking these claims, but hopefully you  get the point that this fictitious figure is just meant to mislead the  public about energy building costs.

Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he may consume to the  gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Hoyer).

Mr. PALLONE.  DeLauro), the ranking member of the  Committee on Appropriations.

Last night, the President finally admitted that the American public  is concerned about the price increases. If you care about  affordability, why would you repeal a rebate program that helps  Americans with their electricity bills, which is exactly what this bill  unfortunately does? It repeals the rebate.

That rebate is at the point of sale. When you go out and buy an  appliance or a heat pump or something, you actually get a discount on  the sale price. That is the rebate, at the point of sale.

This bill targets this very popular electrification rebate program, a  program that is already active in 12 States plus the District of  Colombia. Those States include North Carolina, Georgia, Michigan, and  Indiana. All but two States in the country have applied for the program  funding.

What they are essentially doing is eliminating this rebate program,  which is clearly popular, in the very middle of it, while Americans are  taking advantage of it.

I think it is disingenuous to portray this as some kind of red State  or blue State program. It is popular across the board amongst  Republicans and Democrats.

With this bill, House Republicans are voting to rip funding away from  12 States that have active programs and against the interests of 46  total States who have applied for the program and are about to put it  in the process.

At full deployment, the rebate program is expected to deliver $275  million in annual energy savings with participating families projected  to save about $1,000 a year, and the installation of these appliances  is projected to support 23,000 jobs.

Why are you eliminating a program like this that puts money back into  Americans' pockets when they are concerned about affordability?

To date, electrification rebates have served 16,000 homes and  resulted in $7.6 million in annual savings. This is across only the 13  active programs that I mentioned.

These programs are all designed in unique ways to meet States' needs  in local context, and obviously Americans are interested.

If Republicans are successful in repealing this rebate program, they  are not just scrapping some hypothetical program. They are removing  real dollars from real States, real people, including the States that  they represent.

Again, we have this affordability crisis. Why eliminate a rebate that  puts money back in Americans' pockets?

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.