Improving Care in Rural America Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702030/improving-care-in-rural-america-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2493, the Improving Care in  Rural America Reauthorization Act.

H.R. 2493 reauthorizes programs at the Health Resources & Services  Administration that increase access to healthcare services in rural  communities.

Rural communities often face significant challenges to accessing  quality healthcare, including provider shortages, hospital closures,  and long travel times to medical facilities. Rural communities also  often face higher rates of poverty and unemployment which can  contribute to poor health outcomes.

The community-based programs extended by this bill address the unique  needs of the rural communities they serve by collaborating with local  networks and partnering organizations. This includes implementing  disease prevention and health promotion activities and enhancing  healthcare delivery.

The programs also include the Healthy Rural Hometown Initiative, a  targeted program that works to address the underlying factors  contributing to the five leading causes of death in the United States.  That would be heart disease, cancer, unintentional injury, stroke, and  chronic lower respiratory disease.

This is an important bill, and I am hopeful that it will gain strong  bipartisan support. This legislation comes at the same time rural  communities are being devastated by the $1 trillion in healthcare cuts  Republicans passed in their big, ugly bill. These cuts are going to  have a disproportionate impact on rural Americans. Rural clinics and  maternity care centers are already being forced to close their doors,  and another 300 rural hospitals are likely to shutter, closing down  altogether or reducing services.

Madam Speaker, I am pleased that we are considering this legislation  to extend these programs. I encourage all of my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on H.R.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, this is an important piece of  legislation,  particularly for rural areas. I urge my colleagues to support this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.