Institute for Telecommunication Sciences Codification Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1455, the Institute for  Telecommunication Sciences Codification Act, or ITS Codification Act.

The Institute for Telecommunication Sciences, or ITS, is the premier  engineering laboratory of the National Telecommunications and  Information Administration, NTIA.

Among its many responsibilities, ITS manages various technology  development programs for NTIA and the Department of Commerce and  oversees cutting-edge studies concerning the use of our country's  airwaves. ITS has played a significant role in furthering  telecommunication advancements for our country's benefit.

H.R. 1455 recognizes the numerous contributions of ITS by providing  it with additional statutory authority. Under this bill, ITS will serve  as the primary laboratory for the executive branch of the Federal  Government to study wireless technologies, including the use of  innovative sharing technologies for our airwaves and improving the  Federal Government's use of spectrum.

The legislation also will allow the Assistant Secretary of Commerce  for Communications and Information, acting through the head of ITS, to  enter into agreements needed to carry out the functions of the  laboratory.

This bill also requires the Assistant Secretary to establish an  initiative to support the development of emergency communications and  tracking technologies. These technologies would then be used to locate  people trapped in areas where wireless connectivity may not be  available due to natural disasters and other devastating events.

I commend Representatives Pettersen and Carter for their bipartisan  work on this bill. It will ensure that one of our Nation's key  telecommunications facilities has the necessary tools and resources to  not only continue its important work but also expand its activities.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this bill. It is,  obviously, very important.