James J. Howard Post Office


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701670/james-j-howard-post-office


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Virginia for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill to name the post office in  Spring Lake, New Jersey, after my predecessor and mentor, Congressman  Jim Howard. I thank Representative Smith and the rest of the New Jersey  delegation for cosponsoring the bill.

As Representative of New Jersey's Third District for over 20 years,  from 1965 to 1988, Jim Howard was a strong force in Congress. Through  his work as the chairman of the Public Works and Transportation  Committee, he wrote and passed legislation that genuinely saved  thousands of lives: laws to tackle drunk driving, passenger safety, and  the first-ever 55-mile-per-hour speed limit on Federal highways.

Jim also came up with his Howard Plan, which was the very first time  mass transit and highway legislation were combined into one surface  transportation bill, because he recognized that rebuilding our  infrastructure wouldn't just improve people's lives, it would mean  economic growth and jobs throughout the country.

For his home State, he helped secure crucial Federal funding for  beach restoration, the rebuilding of the Barnegat Inlet, and the  electrification of the North Jersey Coast Rail Line, all projects that  New Jerseyans still benefit from to this day.

While Jim was a strong champion for revitalizing our Nation's  infrastructure, he was an even stronger force for New Jersey's coastal  communities and environmental protection. Through major legislation  like the Superfund Act of 1986, the Groundwater Protection Act, and the  Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act, he never forgot that  New Jersey suffered greatly from toxic waste sites, ocean dumping, or  plastic pollution.

He even successfully fought back against the Presidential veto by  sponsoring and passing the 1987 Clean Water Act, which helped create  the Clean Water State Revolving Fund that still provides millions of  dollars in funding every year for a range of water quality  infrastructure projects across the country.

Now, before his passing, Jim resided in Spring Lake, New Jersey, with  his wife, who still lives there. Marlene and the rest of Jim's family  were critical to his success as a Congressman. His very first political  campaign in 1964 was run from his kitchen table, using his family's  savings of about $5,000 to run for office.

With Marlene as his campaign manager, his slogan was: ``He cares  about people. It is that simple.'' It really encapsulated Jim's work  and demeanor. Being a Democrat from this part of New Jersey, which was  very conservative at the time, he had to listen to anyone's opinion and  always sought common ground. He never stopped fighting for working- class people.

It is only right that Jim's important and lasting legacy in New  Jersey and the rest of the country be recognized at his local post  office. This is not being renamed. It never had a name, so it will be  now named for him.

I urge all my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bill to honor a  great man and Congressman.