Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698391/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to call on Speaker Johnson to immediately bring  the bipartisan 3-year extension of the Affordable Care Act tax credits  to the floor. This bill now has the support, pursuant to a discharge  petition, of a majority of House Members and should get a vote  immediately before the ACA tax credits expire.

Mr. Speaker, without this tax credit extension bill by Mr. Jeffries,  health insurance premiums are going to skyrocket for more than 20  million Americans across the country. They will see prices double,  triple, and even quadruple. It will leave millions with the difficult  decision of going without coverage because they simply cannot afford  rising costs.

Just days before prices skyrocket for American families, Republicans  are bringing a bill to the floor that does absolutely nothing to lower  prices. Instead, Republicans are using this affordability crisis to  prop up junk health insurance plans that discriminate against people  and leave them hanging when they get sick.

Mr. Speaker, the American people are desperate for our help, and this  Republican bill doesn't do a thing to provide it. This bill is a sham,  and a majority of the House knows it.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.'' We should take real action  immediately by passing the Jeffries bill.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, before I yield time, I will make sure that  the gentlewoman from Iowa knows that without the ACA tax credit  extension, a middle-class 60-year-old couple in her district is seeing  their premium go up by $1,422 per month.

Clark), the Democratic whip.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, before I yield time, I will make sure that  the gentleman from Texas knows that without the ACA tax credit  extension, a middle-class 60-year-old couple in his district is seeing  their premium go up by $2,049 per month.

Matsui).

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I want to make sure the chairman from  Kentucky knows that a middle-class, 60-year-old couple in his district  is seeing their premium go up by $1,711 per month unless we extend the  ACA tax credits.

Castor), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. PALLONE.  Barragan), a member of our committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.