Ntia Policy and Cybersecurity Coordination Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693495/ntia-policy-and-cybersecurity-coordination-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1766, the NTIA Policy and  Cybersecurity Coordination Act.

Mr. Speaker, protecting our Nation's communication networks is of  vital importance to our national security. This is particularly  important now, when a significant amount of our country's economic and  social activity has moved online and consumers are continuing to  connect more devices to these networks every day.

We, therefore, must build safeguards into our country's communication  networks to increase their safety and security while also promoting  innovation and competition.

H.R. 1766 will help us achieve these goals. The bill authorizes the  existing  Office of Policy Analysis and Development at the NTIA and renames it  the Office of Policy Development and Cybersecurity. It also codifies  the responsibilities of NTIA in administering parts of the Secure and  Trusted Communications Networks Act and requires the office to  coordinate and develop policy initiatives to enhance cybersecurity  efforts with respect to our communications networks.

The office will also be tasked with developing and analyzing policies  that promote innovation, competition, and workforce development in the  communications, media, and technology markets.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Obernolte and McClellan for  their bipartisan work on this bill, which will ensure that there is a  firm foundation within the Federal Government to oversee the security  of our Nation's communications networks. This legislation is more  important now than ever given our foreign adversaries' continued  attacks on these networks.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  McClellan), a member of our committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I urge bipartisan support for this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.