Open Ran Outreach Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693486/open-ran-outreach-act


Mr. PALLONE.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2037, the Open RAN  Outreach Act.

Open RAN, or Open Radio Access Network, technology is a wireless  network architecture that has the potential to drive 5G and 6G  innovation forward. Like any new technology, we are just beginning to  broadly deploy it, as there is still much to learn about its potential.  This is especially true for smaller communications providers who must  be prudent about their resources and refrain from taking unnecessary  risks in introducing new technology into their networks.

We know Open RAN can both help introduce competition into a market  that is currently dominated by untrusted equipment makers, like Huawei,  and support the development of new trusted manufacturers, including  those in the United States.

This bill helps bridge a gap by providing small communications  providers with the support they need to determine whether Open RAN is  an appropriate network solution for them. Under this bill, the  Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information will  be required to engage in outreach and provide technical assistance to  small communications providers concerning the uses, benefits, and  challenges of Open RAN and other open network architectures.

This bill would also require the Assistant Secretary to provide  guidance to small carriers about their participation in the agency's  Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund.

Sadly, with the passage of the one big, ugly bill, the need for this  guidance is significantly diminished, as congressional Republicans  inexplicably gutted this program by withdrawing $850 million in  funding. It is deeply disappointing that congressional Republicans  would rather use this money to give tax cuts to billionaires than  develop creative solutions to protect our wireless networks from  foreign adversaries seeking to harm our Nation.

Nevertheless, I commend Representatives Carter and Hudson for their  bipartisan work on this bill. This is a good bill, as it ensures that  our country's small communications providers have the necessary tools  to make informed decisions about the need for new technology in their  networks.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.