Precision Agriculture Satellite Connectivity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693468/precision-agriculture-satellite-connectivity-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1618, the Precision  Agriculture Satellite Connectivity Act.

The innovations we are seeing in the commercial satellite industry  have the  potential to transform so many aspects of daily life, especially for  those in more rural and remote areas.

For years, Americans have relied on satellites for a variety of  services, including global positioning systems, GPS, and radio and  television. But within the last decade, satellite capabilities have  become more sophisticated and are now being woven into the fabric of  our mobile networks. With these advancements, mobile consumers now have  even greater connectivity and the comfort of knowing they can reach  first responders and loved ones in a time of need, no matter where they  may be.

The satellite evolution is also touching American farms by  facilitating advancements in precision agriculture. H.R. 1618 promotes  the innovation of satellite technology for precision agriculture, which  uses satellite images to help farmers yield better crops and maximize  their yield profitability.

The legislation directs the FCC to review its satellite service rules  to assess whether there are any rule changes that could better enable  satellites to deliver precision agriculture solutions.

If the FCC finds that changes are necessary, the bill requires the  FCC to develop recommendations for implementing them. It also instructs  the FCC to report its findings to Congress, including any  recommendations.

I thank Representatives Kelly and Latta for their bipartisan work on  this bill. With this legislation, we ensure that the FCC and its  satellite rules are enabling technological advancements in the  important area of precision agriculture as much as possible.

Mr. Speaker, this is important to the farm community, and it shows  the efforts that can be made with satellites for precision agriculture.  I think it is important.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield  back the balance of my time.