Promoting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693507/promoting-united-states-wireless-leadership-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1765, the Promoting United  States Wireless Leadership Act. This legislation is an important step  toward ensuring that the Nation and global bodies crafting standards  for next-generation wireless technologies, such as 6G and Wi-Fi 8,  include significant representation from trusted American companies and  those from allied countries, as well.

H.R. 1765 accomplishes this objective by requiring the Assistant  Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information to encourage  and facilitate the participation of trusted companies and stakeholders  in the domestic and international standards-setting bodies for wireless  technologies.

The Assistant Secretary must also brief Congress within 60 days of  the bill becoming law on the strategy to accomplish these objectives.

It is crucial, Mr. Speaker, that American and allied interests are  well-represented at these standards-setting bodies. If the United  States is not a leader in shaping the wireless future, our adversaries  will step in to fill the leadership void. This includes dominating the  future 6G marketplace in a  way that may undermine our values, national security, and economic  prosperity.

We cannot allow that to happen. History has shown us that early  developers and adopters of technology define the marketplace, drive  innovation, and reap the economic benefits. That is why America must  lead here.

Moreover, as we have seen with the Salt Typhoon cyberattack, foreign  adversaries often see our communications networks and devices as the  entry points to disrupt our daily lives and conduct espionage  campaigns.

In the Salt Typhoon cyberattack, which was backed by China, several  American telecommunications networks were infiltrated to gain access to  detailed information about President Trump, former Vice President  Harris, other political leaders, and American surveillance information.

It is imperative that American interests are at the table as new  wireless standards are crafted, including those that have cybersecurity  and national security implications.

I thank Representatives Dingell, Clarke, Kean, and Walberg for their  bipartisan work on this bill.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1765, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I urge bipartisan support for this  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.