Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688531/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-national-emission-standards-for-hazardous-air-pollutants-rubber-tire-manufacturing


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I say it is good to see the gentlewoman  from Utah in the chair.

Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 61, another  attempt by House Republicans to ensure workers and communities continue  to breathe toxic air pollution. This harmful Republican resolution puts  the profits of billionaire corporate polluters over the health and  welfare of the American people, and it makes a mockery of Republican  promises to make America healthy again.

I really believe, Madam Speaker, that this resolution is a  distraction. I listened to the President's speech last night, and it is  clear to me that neither he, nor the Republicans in the House, have  found a way to lower grocery prices. They haven't found a way to lower  energy prices. They haven't found a way to fund the government. Now  they are on the cusp of stripping millions of people of their  healthcare, all so they can shower these giant tax breaks on  billionaires and big corporations.

Using the Congressional Review Act hatchet to carve away critical  protections from an agency that has already been decimated by DOGE's  indiscriminate firing demonstrates how unserious Republicans are about  keeping Americans safe from dangerous pollution, and another week of  nonsense CRAs, in my opinion, shows how unserious House Republicans are  about governing.

Madam Speaker, I will directly address what the gentleman said. Under  the Clean Air Act, the Environmental Protection Agency is required to  reduce hazardous air pollutants from large industrial sources like  rubber tire manufacturers to protect Americans across the country from  harm.

They have to do this. They are obligated in the EPA to look at the  things that might be hazardous under the Clean Air Act. To be clear,  hazardous air pollutants are air toxics that are known or suspected of  causing cancer and other serious health impacts like heart attacks,  worsening asthma, reproductive and birth defects, as well as severe  impacts on the environment.

EPA is obligated under the law to set pollution limits based on what  is already being achieved at similar facilities using readily available  technologies.

Basically, under the Clean Air Act, the EPA has to say what is  harming the public and is there a technology out there in this industry  that is innovative and does not achieve that level of harm?

The bottom line is, there are industries that are already  retrofitting and meeting these standards, otherwise, the EPA couldn't  establish the standards. I have had this discussion before with my  colleague. There are good actors and bad actors. The good actors want  innovation, want to retrofit their manufacturing companies to do the  right thing and cause less pollution. By repealing this, all the  Republicans are doing is basically helping the bad actors, in this  case, mostly foreign manufacturers or foreign-based companies that just  want to save money by not eliminating this harm.

I don't want to get into the specifics of whether the rubber tire  manufacturers will address this, but it is cost-effective, protects  public health, and ensures the industry stays competitive. It is long  overdue.

In fact, the Court ruling required the EPA to finalize this rule to  close the loophole that allowed rubber processing facilities to spew  unlimited hazardous air pollution. When fully implemented, the rule  will cut these harmful emissions by 171 tons per year. That includes  over 100 tons of toxic organic chemicals and over 60 tons of  particulate matter that will be removed from the air of the workers and  the communities near the impacted facilities.

However, H.J. Res. 61 will throw all of these benefits away. This  resolution would hamstring EPA's ability to fulfill its obligation to  protect the health and welfare of Americans from air pollution.  Unfortunately for everyone with lungs, Republicans can't leave  commonsense environmental protections in place.

As the House Republicans move to strip healthcare from millions of  Americans to fund tax breaks for billionaires and big corporations,  they also want to make people sicker by rolling back regulations meant  to keep people safe from cancer-causing air pollution. It is  outrageous. I don't know what else to say.

Contrary to what my colleagues on the other side claim, EPA's rule  was developed in close consultation with industry, using industry data.  It also proposes emissions reduction technology that the best  performers in the industry are already using.

Overall, it is estimated to cost less than a fraction of 1 percent of  the company's annual revenue and facilities have years to comply.

This should be a no-brainer, a win-win scenario of reducing cancer- causing emissions and promoting innovative technologies to modernize  industry and provide regulatory certainty. I really don't understand  why House Republicans are so fixated on trying to repeal and block the  work of the EPA.

Madam Speaker, for the health of workers and the surrounding  communities and for the sake of clean air, I urge all of my colleagues  to vote ``no'' on this resolution that puts the whims of billionaires  and corporate polluters before the American people.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  New York (Mr. Tonko), who is the ranking member of our Environment  Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE.  Dexter.)

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. PALLONE.  Morrison).

Mr. Speaker, I can't stress enough that the EPA's rule, which the  Republicans are trying to repeal, would remove 171 tons of hazardous  air pollution per year, including some of the worst air toxins.

This critical rule is, first and foremost, a public health rule,  seeking to help both the workers and the communities surrounding these  facilities.

We heard a very impassioned speech by the gentlewoman from Akron,  Ohio, who talked about how much, in Akron, they depend on this industry  and want it to thrive. They have suffered over the years, not only the  people who work in the factory but the people of Akron and the  surrounding areas, from hazardous air pollution. Essentially, that is  why she is opposed to the repeal of this rule that helps people  breathe.

Again, this is not only something that the EPA is required to do  under the Clean Air Act, which is to look at whether or not particular  industries are causing health problems for the American public, but in  addition to that, the EPA was compelled to regulate these specific air  toxins by a 2020 court case that required the agency to close loopholes  for unregulated hazardous air pollution that they are legally required  to manage under the Clean Air Act.

My colleagues on the other side suggested that somehow this is a  Biden administration midnight rule and that it was rushed at the last  minute. The reality is that the EPA has been regulating the process  involved in tire manufacturing since 2002. That is over 20 years ago.

Rubber processing, which is really what we are talking about here,  had gotten a free pass, as I said, for over 20 years. This rule that  the EPA promulgated seeks to ensure that the workers and communities  like those in Akron near these facilities aren't put in harm's way any  longer.

I think House Republicans are really minimizing these critical public  health protections decades in the making by using the CRA to repeal  this title and block the EPA from further action.

Instead of funding our government, lowering prices, or finding ways  to help everyday Americans, House Republicans are wasting Congress'  time by rescinding a long-awaited rule that will reduce 171 tons of  harmful, cancer-causing emissions a year.

While this rule was finalized in November, the 11 rubber processing  facilities have 3 years to make the necessary technology upgrades. Any  doomsday claims about the EPA rule simply ignore the very real  experiences of people who have been forced to breathe toxic pollution  while coming into work or walking out of their front door for far too  long.

Mr. Speaker, for all of these reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose  this resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.