Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program for Appliance Standards: Certification Requirements, Labeling Requirements, and Enforcement Provisions for Certain Consumer Products and Commercial Equipment''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688549/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-for-appliance-standards-certification-requirements-labeling-requirements-and-enforcement-provisions-for-certain-consumer-products-and-commercial-equipment


I rise in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 42. This resolution is a  deliberate distraction from the fact that Republicans cannot govern and  have no ideas for lowering costs or helping everyday Americans. Rather  than debating things that actually impact our constituents, it appears  as if House Republicans opened the Federal Register, searched for what  fell within the Congressional Review Act window, and then randomly  selected an obscure, noncontroversial rule, one that is, by the way,  supported by American manufacturers.

That is why we are here today. We are not here to talk about  Republican cuts to Medicare or DOGE's raid of the Federal Government or  Trump's tariffs that are tanking the stock market and threatening a  recession. We are not even here to consider a government funding bill  when government funding runs out in less than 10 days. No, we are here  to talk about appliance labels.

Let me talk about them. Let me start with the fact that the recently  finalized Department of Energy rule that Republicans want to strike  from the books isn't even an efficiency standard. It is a set of  technical updates to certification requirements and labels for select  products that fall under the appliance standards program.

Now, you might say: Congressman Pallone, what does this mean? It  means that Republicans are simply out of ideas.

The Republican majority seems to be under the impression that by  removing this rule from the books, they are somehow alleviating a major  burden for manufacturers and consumers. The problem is that  manufacturers have been submitting certification information to the  Department of Energy for decades, and none of this is new.

This Republican resolution will only create regulatory confusion for  American manufacturers because they will still have to make products  that meet efficiency standards, but they won't have updated guidance  from the Department of Energy on how to prove that they are compliant.  As a result, these companies will likely have to waste valuable time  and resources on communications with lawyers and the Department of  Energy as everyone tries to figure out how to move forward.

My colleagues on the other side are suggesting they are cutting red  tape, but it seems to me they are creating more red tape with this  resolution. Absolutely no one opposed the Department of Energy's final  rule on this topic, no one.

In fact, manufacturers are on record saying that consistent and clear  certification guidance is helpful and necessary to them. Today's  resolution is the opposite of consistent and clear. They are asking for  this, the manufacturers are, and you are saying no. You don't even know  what you are talking about, frankly.

I refuse to believe that--I can't believe that they think on the  other side that this is a pressing issue facing Americans. In case they  have forgotten, Republicans are right now moving forward with a budget  that includes devastating cuts to Medicaid, all so they can give tax  breaks to their billionaire buddies.

Every day for the last 6 weeks, we have heard horror stories of mass  firings across the Federal Government, funding freezes, and Elon Musk  and his minions having access to every American's private, personal  financial and healthcare information. This is what I hear about when I  go home. The list goes on. Now, there is a looming government shutdown  next week.

Rather than tackling these real issues that are impacting the lives  of everyday Americans, Republicans are wasting time with this  resolution.

As far as I can tell, the only beneficiaries of today's resolution  are foreign manufacturers. If Republicans create chaos and uncertainty  by revoking this Department of Energy rule, they will create an  opportunity for cheap foreign imports, with misleading claims about  performance, to flood our appliance market. That would hurt consumers  and American manufacturers alike.

The Republicans have made their choice. They have sided once again  with the foreign manufacturers. They have chosen to push through a  resolution that doesn't reduce regulatory burdens, doesn't lower costs,  and doesn't improve consumer choices. The only thing it does is create  chaos and confusion, from what I can see.

For all these reasons, I oppose the resolution, and I reserve the  balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.

I just want to clarify some of the comments that we are hearing today  from the other side. My colleagues across the aisle said at one point  it costs the Department of Energy a little over $200,000 to implement  this rule, and they have described what sounds like onerous associated  paperwork and a big administrative burden.

Now, understand, that is $200,000 total, across all manufacturers  throughout the country. I mean, we are not talking about a huge amount  of money here. The thing is that the Department of Energy already has  certification requirements for manufacturers, and this resolution  doesn't remove those requirements. It just includes technical updates  that bring those requirements up to date.

The manufacturers, as I said before, have been submitting this  information to the Department of Energy for decades. There is nothing  new here.

In fact, if this resolution passes, the Department of Energy and  manufacturers will be left with a new administrative burden to  navigate. They will have to figure out how to use old testing  requirements for new standards even when technically these things don't  go together.

The manufacturers, who, as I said, support the rule, will have to  work with their lawyers to figure out if they are compliant with  standards and will have to identify ways to prove they are compliant.  The Department of Energy will have to wade through confused outreach  from stakeholders. This is what happens if the resolution passes. The  rule is not a problem for any of the manufacturers, the underlying rule  they are trying to repeal.

Since the Department of Energy will be barred from issuing  substantially similar rules, they won't be able to officially update  these requirements ever again.

I know this sounds very bureaucratic. I don't know where they came up  with this resolution, so I have to explain how they are creating more  bureaucracy for the manufacturers who actually like the underlying rule  they want to repeal.

In what world is removing clear and consistent guidance, creating  regulatory uncertainty, and reducing costs and administrative burdens a  bad thing? It doesn't make any sense. Why are we creating a scenario  where manufacturers must report outdated information and risk penalties  for noncompliance?

If my colleagues across the aisle are worried about administrative  burdens at the Department of Energy, perhaps they should speak up for  the employees that Musk and President Trump have fired at the  Department of Energy, or maybe they should speak out against all the  administrative confusion of turning funding on and off again--you know,  freeze one day, thaw the next day, freeze again.

I just think that this resolution is a distraction, Mr. Speaker. It  doesn't accomplish what my colleagues across the aisle want to  accomplish. In fact, it creates so much confusion that it accomplishes  exactly what we should be trying to avoid, and that is increased costs  and delays.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, as I said before, but I think it bears repeating,  Republicans have cited about $200,000 in costs for manufacturers  associated with this rule that they seek to repeal, but understand that  is the total cost of the rule for all affected manufacturers combined.  If you break that down, the Department of Energy estimates the costs  per manufacturer at about $2,555.

That is a ridiculous amount to even discuss at this point. We  actually heard from one manufacturer that they have already redone  their certification reports to comply with the rule. If this resolution  is enacted, they will have to redo their certifications to the old,  out-of-date rules, and that will cost them more money.

The details of these certification rules are obscure, but they are  important for establishing a level playing field and ensuring the  products meet U.S. standards, whether they are imported or made here in  the U.S.

Repealing the certification would increase costs for the  manufacturers that play by the rules and can make it harder on the DOE  to enforce standards against those that don't. The good guys  all like the rule and don't want it repealed. Only the bad foreign  manufacturers might like to get rid of the rules.

I just find it, Mr. Speaker, deeply ironic that my Republican  colleagues are hell-bent on attacking anything even remotely related to  energy efficiency standards or bringing up things like administrative  burdens on the Department of Energy during a time when they have been  praising Elon Musk's destructive government efficiency efforts through  DOGE.

I guess my Republican colleagues only care about efficiency  improvements, if we can even call it that, when it means  indiscriminately slashing our Federal workforce. If Republicans cared  about government efficiency, then they wouldn't be rescinding rules  that provide clear and consistent guidance for American companies. They  wouldn't look the other way when the DOE workforce is slashed without  evaluating the impacts.

I don't think Republicans care about reducing costs for American  families or helping government work better for our families and  industries. Mr. Speaker, just look at their budget that they adopted  last week. The only thing they care about is cozying up to greedy  billionaires.

Once again, Mr. Speaker, I would ask my colleagues to vote against  this resolution, it absolutely makes no sense for anyone, and I yield  back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.