Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689263/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 24, the fourth  Republican resolution this Congress to dismantle energy conservation  standards for appliances. This harmful resolution guts a Department of  Energy efficiency rule for walk-in coolers and freezers, which will  increase energy costs for businesses and consumers. Let me stress that  again. If this rule is repealed, businesses and consumers will have  increased energy costs. Since it is a Congressional Review Act  resolution, it prevents the Department of Energy from ever issuing  substantially similar standards in the future.

Now, let me say, Mr. Speaker, at a time when Americans are struggling  to make ends meet and facing the reality that Republicans may soon  strip them and their families of healthcare, it is shocking that House  Republicans are spending another day here on the floor focusing on  repealing commonsense energy efficiency standards that save businesses  and consumers money.

This whole Congress has been a revolving door of resolution after  resolution attacking conservation standards for different appliances.  In fact, I should point out, we were on the floor just yesterday  afternoon debating an effort to repeal another energy efficiency  standard for commercial refrigerators and freezers.

Instead of investigating--which is what they should be doing--the  shocking and unprecedented breach of security and leaked military  strikes from top Trump national security officials, which threatens our  national security and our defense, we are here once again wasting  valuable floor time debating energy efficiency standards.

Maybe we should be taking action to protect Social Security from the  Trump administration's funding cuts that could stop seniors from  getting the benefits they earned through a lifetime of work. My  constituents are already telling me they can't even call the Social  Security office anymore. There is nobody there. They have cut the  staff. They have cut the phone service. They can't even access the  Social Security Administration anymore under the Trump administration.

Maybe, Mr. Speaker, we should be reversing the Trump administration's  actions to close the Department of Education and rip away funding from  students, teachers, and schools.

House Republicans are not likely to take on any of these actions that  I suggested because they refuse to take on President Trump, even when  he is breaking the law. It is clear that my Republican colleagues do  not have their priorities in order. In fact, it seems to me their only  priority is securing giant tax breaks for their billionaire buddies at  the expense of American families and businesses. H.J. Res. 24 fits  right into the Republican agenda of raising costs on hardworking  Americans.

Now, I would be remiss if I didn't point out the irony of this  resolution. President Trump and Republicans ran on a promise to cut  energy costs in half in his first year. Yet, here we are once again  wasting precious time on the floor with a resolution that would raise  energy costs for American businesses by wasting more energy.

The energy efficiency standards under threat today for walk-in  refrigerators and freezers will save American businesses up to $6.5  billion on utility bills over the next 30 years. These businesses  include restaurants, convenience stores, and supermarkets across the  country, and Republicans' anti-efficiency agenda will rob them of these  cost savings.

This is especially concerning at a time when we are hearing more and  more stories about the damaging impacts of Trump's extreme tariffs, the  rising cost of groceries, and the chaos and uncertainty that Trump is  bringing every day to our economy.

People are concerned about a Trump recession. That is what they are  worried about today. That is what I hear when I go home. However,  Republicans don't care about everyday Americans. They only care about  doing the bidding of their billionaire corporate buddies at the expense  of consumers and working families.

Energy efficiency standards for appliances are designed to reduce  energy use and climate pollution while also saving consumers and  businesses money. Reducing an appliance's energy use also helps  decrease stress on the electric grid.

The resolution today is proof that my Republican colleagues' concern  about grid stress--we had a hearing yesterday on that--and the  increased load growth from data centers and American manufacturing are  hollow and merely lip service. If Republicans truly cared about  reducing stress on the electric grid, which is what they said yesterday  at the hearing, they would stop dismantling energy efficiency standards  designed to ease strain on future electric grid capacity.

The true intent of this anti-efficiency resolution is not to help  American businesses, but to line the pockets of their billionaire  cronies and oil and gas friends. You guessed it, less efficient  appliances means more profits for Big Oil and Gas.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our  Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. Speaker, again, I rise in opposition to this resolution.  Republicans make it sound like no one supports these standards, like  they came out of nowhere and are an incredible government overreach. Of  course, that is not true.

Manufacturers support these efficiency standards. They provide  clarity to industry. Manufacturers support the Department of Energy's  rule because it provides clear guidance. If this rule is revoked, it  creates regulatory uncertainty for manufacturers.

The Department of Energy worked with manufacturers and advocates to  ensure that these standards were feasible and justifiable. Unlike my  colleagues across the aisle, the Department of Energy went through a  prolonged process that engaged extensively with experts and worked to  address their concerns.

In fact, in recently submitted comments regarding the delay and the  effective date for the standards, the Air-Conditioning, Heating, and  Refrigeration Institute, a trade group that represents many of the  manufacturers of these walk-in coolers, asserted strong support for  proceeding with the standards as published in the Federal Register in  December of last year.

Lennox, a manufacturer of these walk-in systems, also submitted  comments asserting support for proceeding with the standards as  finalized. Lennox's comments also state: ``The final rule provides  regulatory predictability regarding . . . energy conservation standards  through 2031, providing a stable planning horizon.''

These comments are an important reminder that regulatory uncertainty  from killing a standard, as the resolution before us today would do,  costs businesses money. My colleagues across the aisle are more  concerned with slashing any and every regulation they can find than  with engaging in thoughtful and well-reasoned policy.

This is politics at its worst, so I oppose this resolution.

I also want to point out, Mr. Speaker, that my colleagues across the  aisle keep talking about the costs of these standards to businesses,  but I think it is important to get the facts straight. The new  standards for walk-in coolers don't go into effect until 2027 for some  products and 2028 for others. This means that if a business needs to  replace these units anytime in the next couple of years, the products  on the market now will be available to them. They don't have to get rid  of the refrigerators they want. It is when they buy a new one.

Whenever a business does need to replace the units, the products on  the market will save them money. Specifically, these standards will  save, as I mentioned, $6.5 billion in utility bills over 30 years. DOE  estimates the payback period for these products is 3 years for  refrigerator systems and 1.6 years for non-display doors. After those 3  years or, in the other case, 1.6 years, you are actually saving money  every year.

This means that after the first couple of years of ownership, these  products start saving businesses a lot of money. This is real money.

The Republicans talked about upfront costs. There may be some upfront  costs, but over the period of time after those first couple of years,  businesses are saving money.

If Republicans are actually concerned about the small businesses in  their communities, and if they are really concerned about costs being  passed down to consumers, they would be standing up to the Trump  administration and pushing back on tariffs.

I am mentioning the tariffs today because the President, again, is  starting to impose new tariffs. The last one was on automobiles. Large  appliances such as refrigerators and washing machines rely, in part, on  steel, making them extremely vulnerable to price increases  from Trump's tariffs on steel, which are already in place.

In the aftermath of steel and aluminum tariffs during Trump's first  term, talking about the first term now, not the new one, major  appliances showed price increases of between 5 and 10 percent.

If my colleagues are concerned about the prices, they should be  speaking out against what Trump is doing with these tariffs, not to  mention the fact that the tariffs impose additional costs on consumers.  Again, the uncertainty--the back and forth, put the tariffs on, take  the tariffs off--is the reason that the stock market has been so  volatile. People don't know with certainty what is going on with this  administration.

We are facing policies from the Trump administration that will  increase everyday costs for households and businesses. Instead of  trying to fight these increases, Republicans are more concerned with  the upfront costs of walk-in coolers in 2028. I don't know what to say  except that it is ridiculous.

Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to this resolution, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.                   Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore