Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator- Freezers''


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution. Week after  week, I find myself here on the House floor, not debating things that  are important to American families like protecting Medicaid or Social  Security. Instead, we are debating standards for appliances. We have  got refrigerators, air conditioners, and washing machines. This one  isn't even something for use in a household. It is for commercial use.

Again, House Republicans have chosen this time to ignore the pressing  issues that Americans face and to instead march forward with their  anti-efficiency agenda that drives up energy costs for American  businesses and consumers. Democrats, on the other hand, are here to  defend these commonsense energy efficiency standards and the very real  savings they provide Americans.

My home State of New Jersey was recently recognized among the top 10  States doing the most to advance energy efficiency, and I am pleased by  my State's progress and want to make sure that Americans in all States  benefit from similar efforts.

Today's resolution, like all the other anti-efficiency resolutions  that we have seen recently from the Republicans, did not go through any  regular order. I want to stress why that is important. We never  received any expert witness testimony on the impact of the standards or  on the impact of repealing them. Instead, we are left to trust a  Republican Party that is decidedly antiscience on the impacts of energy  conservation standards.

Let me stress this. What do I mean by regular order? Well, a bill is  introduced. We have a subcommittee hearing in Energy and Commerce. In  this case, the Department of Energy would come in and show how there  are so many savings and why these standards lead to more efficiency.

Then if the Republicans disagree, they can bring in experts that say  the opposite. Of course, they don't want to do that because there  aren't any experts that are going to say the opposite. They are just  making this stuff up.

Today's resolution, H.J. Res. 75, targets a recently finalized energy  conservation standard for commercial refrigerators and freezers. Again,  this isn't even for households. These are commercial refrigerators and  freezers. These are products that are primarily used in grocery stores  and convenience stores.

Now we are debating whether or not the refrigerators in grocery  stores should be energy efficient. I can't imagine more of a waste of  floor time. When there are so many other issues that have to be  discussed here today, we are doing this instead.

The energy conservation standard targeted by this resolution would  save businesses $4.6 billion over 30 years. Republicans have already  taken away options for households to save money on their energy bills.  Now they are going to strip businesses of these options as well.

Repealing these standards would also raise costs and increase demand  on the electricity grid. It is also not necessary because two-thirds of  the products on the market today already meet these new efficiency  standards. The payback period for any up-front costs of the more  efficient products is about 3.5 years, while the products themselves  last for 12 to 14 years. To argue that there is some kind of major  regulatory burden or imposition on small businesses is just false.

At a time of increased energy costs, increased grid strain, tariffs,  and rising household costs under the Trump administration, we have to  ask ourselves: Why do Republicans keep targeting policies that save  money and save energy? They ran on the fact they were going to make  things more affordable. Things are less affordable, and this will also  make them less affordable.

The only answer I can come up with is that when more energy is  consumed or more energy is wasted, the oil and gas industry benefits.  We know that the Washington Republicans continue to do the bidding of  Big Oil and Gas.

This resolution proves that Republicans are completely out of touch.  Americans are struggling to make ends meet and are facing the reality  that Republicans may soon strip them and their families not only of  healthcare but repealing commonsense energy efficiency standards.

Republicans also continue to look the other way as the Trump  administration and Elon Musk undermine Social Security, threatening the  benefits seniors have earned over a lifetime of hard work. Instead,  they are focusing on refrigerators.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know what else to say.

Mr. Speaker, I am not trying to disrespect the sponsor of the  resolution. He is on our committee. He is from the great State of  Texas.

What I hear is that he said: ``The evidence is clear.'' The evidence  is not clear that these standards for commercial refrigerators are  actually worse or a burden on small businesses. He hasn't cited  anything that says that.

He says that we should have change. That is what we voted for in  November but not change that is going to hurt people or that is  actually going to cost them more money.

The bottom line is and the way this works is that the Department of  Energy, under the existing law, is required to look at appliances and  see whether or not they can be made more efficient and more cost- effective. That is what they did. They found that these standards were  more efficient and cost-effective.

Mr. Speaker, I haven't heard from the other side or any experts they  cite to, other than their own opinion, to say the experts at the  Department of Energy made a mistake.

The experts at DOE who established these energy conservation  standards were not politicians. DOE's process involves extensive  stakeholder engagement, working with manufacturers and advocates to  establish standards that are economically feasible, economically  justifiable, and result in significant energy savings.

This is a highly technical process. My colleagues across the aisle  are making claims that this resolution before us today reduces costs  and cuts red tape, and nothing could be further from the truth. We know  there are manufacturers out there that support these standards and  support having consistent guidance from DOE, as opposed to ever- shifting goalposts.

Again, even if my colleagues on the other side come up with testimony  or documents today that say that the Department of Energy was wrong, it  would have been helpful to hold a hearing where their experts could  come in and challenge the Department of Energy experts who put these  standards together. Then we as members of the Committee could look at  this and say who is right.

They didn't do that. There was no regular order. There was no  hearing. We had no benefit of a hearing on this resolution and the  implications of revoking these standards.

Mr. Speaker, this resolution isn't some well-reasoned proposal that  has been properly vetted. It is a way to kill floor time. It is a way  to target any and every regulation without any assessment of the  consequences.

I spent last week in my district meeting with constituents and  holding a townhall. What I heard was that people were really concerned  that the economy was heading into a recession because of President  Trump's policies. They were concerned about costs to Medicaid and  threats from Elon Musk to dismantle Social Security. Nobody mentioned  commercial refrigeration requirements to me. I didn't hear anybody  mention that. Republicans have really lost the plot, and I think  Americans are taking notice.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is important to clarify some of the numbers  that we are hearing from the Republicans. The chairman keeps mentioning  a 94-year payback period for one of the products impacted by the rule,  and he claims that this number comes from the DOE's rule. However, this  is really a total misunderstanding of what happened.

There may have been some analysis of this 95 years, but the DOE did  not propose or adopt efficiency levels like that for the product  mentioned. In fact, for that particular product that he is mentioning,  the final rule made no changes to the existing standards.

Now, I am not surprised that my friends across the aisle are throwing  this number around, this 94 years, even though it has nothing to do  with the final rule. They are not interested in a good-faith debate on  the merits of these standards. If they were, as I said, we would have  had hearings on this resolution so Members could better understand the  details.

The truth is that the actual payback period for this particular class  of products, since there were no updates to the standards, is zero  because it wasn't changed. The average payback period for the other  products impacted by the rule, as I mentioned earlier, is close to 3.5  years. So this 94-year analysis was not in the rule, it was not made  for the product, and it wasn't proposed for the product.

For everything else, it is about 3.5 years. What this means is that  after the 3.5 years, every year you are saving money. So all this just  goes to show that my colleagues across the aisle pretend to be experts  in energy conservation standards, but they can't even read the final  rule correctly.

Again, this wouldn't be the case if we had a hearing and went through  regular order, but that didn't happen.

I rise in opposition to this resolution. We have heard a lot today  about upfront costs to businesses, the rising cost of doing business,  and the slim margins under which businesses operate.

First, let me say that no one is forcing businesses to replace their  commercial refrigerator equipment. These standards don't go into effect  until 2029, and even then it is only when existing products need to be  replaced that businesses will be looking at the upfront cost of any new  products.

Many of these products already exist on the market, the ones with the  new standards, so it is not like businesses will be faced with totally  new and unfamiliar options. Sixty percent of the products on the market  right now meet these efficiency standards.

As I have already said, the payback period for these products is  about 3 years. After that, businesses will be saving money every month  on their energy bills.

If Republicans were serious about reducing costs for businesses and  for Americans, they would push back on Trump's tariffs. That is what  they should be pushing back on is tariffs. They are the ones who are  causing all the unrest, the possibility of recession, and raising  costs. All of our economic indicators show that we are heading toward a  recession and that consumer confidence is extremely low.

Why aren't Republicans fighting policies like the tariffs that impact  the  cost of things now instead of the cost of commercial refrigerators in  2029? I don't know what else to say.

Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to this resolution, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.