Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Consumer Gas-Fired Instantaneous Water Heaters''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688293/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-consumer-gas-fired-instantaneous-water-heaters


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.J. Res. 20, the second  Republican resolution in just 2 days that will raise energy prices on  Americans. This harmful resolution guts a Department of Energy  efficiency rule on gas instantaneous, or tankless, water heaters.

Energy efficiency standards, like the one Republicans are going after  today, are a popular, commonsense tool to save Americans money on their  energy bills. President Trump ran on a promise to cut energy costs in  half his first year, but now Republicans and their billionaire friends  are only making themselves richer while sending Americans' utility  bills through the roof.

Unfortunately, I guess it should not come as a surprise considering  that earlier this week Republicans moved forward with a budget that  includes devastating cuts to Medicaid and food assistance for our kids,  our seniors, and our veterans, all so Republicans can give tax breaks  to their millionaire buddies.

Let me start off by dispelling a few myths about the water heater  standards targeted by this resolution.

First, these standards do not ban water heaters. Regardless of what  the rightwing media and fossil fuel groups say, DOE cannot ban  appliances based on their fuel type.

Second, these standards do not remove consumer choice. American  families can still walk into a store, pick out a gas tankless water  heater, and have it installed in their homes. In fact, these standards  preserve consumer choice. They ensure that all products on the market  meet a certain level of energy efficiency so consumers can shop with  confidence.

The standards impact less than 10 percent of the gas water heater  market, and right now, 60 percent of all models on the market already  meet these standards. This isn't an effort to pull products from  shelves. Instead, it is an effort to raise the quality of the products  on the shelves. That is what we are trying to do with the standards.

Third, and most importantly, these standards do not increase costs  for consumers. They reduce total costs over the life of a water heater  and save $3.31 billion for consumers over 30 years. They are also  projected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 32 million metric tons  over 30 years.

To summarize, these standards allow gas tankless water heaters to  stay on the market, they preserve consumer choice, they lower costs for  Americans, and they reduce emissions. So it is no wonder that these  efficiency standards are supported by consumer advocates and American  manufacturers--I stress American manufacturers--who want to preserve  the standards.

The Republican resolution before us today completely nullifies these  energy efficiency standards. It steals, essentially, $3.1 billion in  savings from Americans. Because it is a Congressional Review Act  resolution, it goes one step further and prevents DOE from issuing  substantially similar standards in the future.

Now, why are Republicans pursuing something that is bad for  consumers?

It is because it is good for the gas industry. The American Gas  Association and foreign manufacturers are on the side of this  Republican resolution that will terminate the standards.

Why?

It is because inefficient appliances mean that gas companies sell  more gas.

Now, Mr. Speaker, if you look at where the manufacturers stand on  this, three out of four major water heater manufacturers are in favor  of the standards and are opposed to this resolution. All three of the  manufacturers that support the efficiency standards are American  manufacturers, and they have factories in many Republican districts  across the country.

Foreign manufacturers, however, are lobbying against these standards  because they don't want to spend a comparatively small amount of money  to retool their factories to produce more efficient water heaters.

I understand that companies are reluctant to spend money, but what I  don't understand is why Republicans are willing to rob Americans of  $3.1 billion in savings, all to help multibillion dollar foreign  companies save a few million dollars.

Republicans have made their choice. They have basically sided--and I  guess that is not surprising--with their oil and gas friends, and they  have sided also in this case with foreign manufacturers.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor) who is the ranking member of our  subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, I listened to the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Palmer),  who I greatly respect. When he talks about prices, since President  Trump was inaugurated, prices have gone through the roof. Grocery  prices, egg prices, meat prices, fish prices, and poultry prices are  all up even more than ever. Electricity costs are way up, along with  housing prices.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman mentions American jobs. As I mentioned  earlier, I think it needs to be reiterated that American manufacturers  support these water heater standards. Three out of four major water  heater manufacturers are against today's resolution, and all three are  American companies.

The manufacturers that are in favor of this resolution and against  the standards are foreign manufacturers.

If this resolution is successful, Republicans are giving foreign  manufacturers an advantage over domestic manufacturers. Foreign  manufacturers are against the standards because they don't want to  spend a bit of money on retrofits to their factories in order to switch  their production over to products that meet the standards.

Republicans have decided that it is more important to save foreign  manufacturers some money than it is to save $3.1 billion for American  families. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle have decided to  listen to the lobbying efforts of foreign companies over domestic  companies, many of whom have factories in Republican districts.

Madam Speaker, it just doesn't make any sense to me. The Trump  administration is all about America first, but the words are  meaningless when it comes down to it. Republicans aren't here to stand  up for American families and American companies. It is very much the  opposite. My colleagues are here to attack regulations and help out  their Big Oil and Gas friends.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stand with American companies  and families and to vote against this resolution, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I respect the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Jack) for  looking out for his district, but this plant that he is talking about  in his district is the Japanese company. This is the one non-American  manufacturing company.

All of the other companies that manufacture these products are  American, and they are the ones that support these energy efficiencies  because they have made the investments and created more jobs when they  retrofitted their companies for this product.

Madam Speaker, this company is a multibillion-dollar Japanese company  in Georgia. It is estimated that it would cost them about $10 million  to retrofit their plant so that they could produce more efficient  tanks, and they don't want to do it. They don't want to make that  investment, which would create more jobs.

Madam Speaker, I understand where my friend, the gentleman from  Georgia (Mr. Jack), is coming from, but we have to look at this as the  total picture.

Most of these tanks are manufactured in the United States by American  companies, and they are in a lot of the red States. They are in  Tennessee, for example. They are saying: This is fine. We want the more  efficient standards. We want to save Americans money. We are the good  actors, not the bad actors.

Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Virginia  (Ms. McClellan), a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, I will call out some of the problems that I see on the  Republican side in terms of their arguments that we have heard this  morning.

Over the last 2 years, Republicans have claimed that they care about  energy costs. On the campaign trail, they repeatedly promised to lower  costs and lower inflation, but, again, none of their actions line up  with their promises.

If you are paying attention to energy load growth in this country,  you know that, in addition to increasing generation, we have to  incorporate ways of reducing energy demand. Energy conservation  standards are one of the tools that help lower costs and help reduce  demand.

The previous administration's efficiency standards are estimated to  save consumers $1 trillion over 30 years. That is a trillion dollars.  The water heater standards alone would save $3.1 billion--that is, if  Republicans don't kill the standards right here today, which is what  they are doing.

Republicans don't want Americans to realize those savings. They want  Americans to be stuck with older, energy-guzzling appliances that cost  more money every time you turn them on. I think that is ridiculous and  so should everyone else in this Chamber.

Republicans claim they are concerned about the higher upfront costs  of these appliances, but 2\1/2\ years ago, when we voted on the  Inflation Reduction Act, which contained $9 billion in rebates and  other investments in lowering the costs of energy-efficient appliances,  Republicans all voted no.

Madam Speaker, let's review. They don't want to make positive  economic investments because they are concerned about the upfront  costs, but then they also refuse to take action to lower those costs.  If you brought that mentality to the private sector, you would be fired  in a heartbeat, but that is the orthodoxy in today's Trump-Musk  Republican Party.

Lowering energy costs for consumers via efficiency gains used to be a  bipartisan issue. We made real progress on this in 1992 and again in  2005, but somewhere along the way, Republicans decided to become the  party of higher energy costs rather than the ones fighting for the  American homeowner. That is a real shame.

For that reason, Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no''  on this resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.