Recognizing Dr. Bruce Siegel


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696206/recognizing-dr-bruce-siegel


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate  Dr. Bruce Siegel on his retirement after an extraordinary career as a  leader in public health, hospital administration, and health policy.  Bruce has spent his entire career advocating on behalf of our Nation's  most at-risk populations and the providers that care for them. For the  past 14 years he has led America's Essential Hospitals, formerly the  National Association of Public Hospitals, championing the cause of  mission-driven safety net hospitals that serve communities facing the  greatest social and financial barriers to care.

During Dr. Siegel's tenure, he led efforts to preserve the 340B Drug  Pricing Program, secured targeted safety-net hospital funding during  the COVID-19 pandemic, and fought to close Medicaid payment gaps. He  was instrumental in stopping harmful cuts to Medicaid DSH funding.  Perhaps most notably, Dr. Siegel spearheaded a national campaign to  incorporate social risk factors into federal value-based purchasing  programs--an important step toward recognizing and addressing health  disparities in policy and practice.

Dr. Siegel's medical career began after graduating from the Joan &  Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University and reflects a  deep commitment to public service and health equity. From his early  days as New Jersey's Commissioner of Health to his leadership of NYC  Health+Hospitals and Tampa General Hospital, and later as a professor  and director at The George Washington University, Dr. Siegel has  consistently worked to improve care for the most vulnerable among us,  performing pioneering research into health care quality, health care  disparities, and the safety net. He has had a significant and positive  impact on our health care system, and his contributions will be sorely  missed.

Mr. Speaker, my staff and I thank Dr. Siegel for his tireless  dedication and leadership. His legacy will continue to inspire future  generations of health care advocates and public servants.