Recognizing Joseph Seebode


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696524/recognizing-joseph-seebode


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Joseph Seebode  on his retirement from the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Mr.  Seebode has dedicated 44 years of Federal service to USACE and his many  achievements and contributions as an Environmental Engineer should be  celebrated.

As Deputy District Engineer and Chief of Programs and Project  Management for the New York District of the U.S. Army Corps of  Engineers, Joe oversaw a diverse team of engineers and scientists  delivering major military and civil works construction, and regional  infrastructure improvements in New York and New Jersey. Mr. Seebode's  leadership has played a pivotal role in delivering life-saving  technical expertise and environmental restoration during national  crises. Together, we have worked on projects to reduce storm and  coastal flood risks to protect residents, properties, and  infrastructure. He has overseen vital beach replenishment, dredging,  and flood control projects, working in coordination with federal,  state, and local entities. It has been an honor to work with Joe to  protect our communities, and I and the residents of the 6th  Congressional District of New Jersey thank him for his leadership.

In his early career, Joseph served as the official Corps liaison to  the City of New York in the wake of the 9/11 World Trade Center  tragedy. Throughout his tenure, he also was on the USACE Leadership  Team leading immediate response actions in wake of Hurricane Sandy to  include unwatering tunnels, emergency dredging and debris removal. As  our communities worked to recover from these devastating disasters,  Joseph Seebode led the way.

Mr. Seebode has received numerous awards during his career including  the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Civilian of the Year Award, the De  Fleury Medal for engineering excellence, the Department of Army  Civilian Award for Humanitarian Service, a Presidential Certificate of  Merit for lifesaving while on official duty, the Department of Defense  Environmental Engineer of the Year Award, and the State of New Jersey's  highest Heroism Award. He has recently been recognized with the  Distinguished Executive Award by the New York City Federal Executive  Board and was inducted as a Hero of the Harbor.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in congratulating Joseph Seebode on his  retirement. It is my privilege to recognize his remarkable  contributions to our Nation and offer my best wishes as he enters this  new stage in life.