Recognizing the Marriage of Emily McLaughlin Wisniewski and Branden Anton Ehrenreich


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690468/recognizing-the-marriage-of-emily-mclaughlin-wisniewski-and-branden-anton-ehrenreich


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Mrs. Emily McLaughlin  Wisniewski and Mr. Branden Anton Ehrenreich, who were joined in  marriage on Saturday, April 26, 2025. This special occasion celebrated  the love between two remarkable individuals and marked the beautiful  journey they have shared together. This union is a testament to the  driven, thoughtful, and vibrant paths they have led to this important  moment. Emily, native to New Jersey, is the daughter of John and  Deborah Wisniewski. Born and raised in La Plata, Maryland, Branden is  the son of Kurt and Tammy Ehrenreich.

Emily is a graduate of New York University, where she earned a  Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Political Science, and Georgetown  University, where she obtained a Master of Science in Quantitative  Economics and Econometrics. Emily has made significant contributions in  her career, working for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve  System, and as a statistician for the U.S. Census Bureau. The Royal  Conservatory of Music has rated her an accomplished, certified pianist.  Branden holds a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from Mount  Saint Mary's University and a Master of Science in Computer Science  from Towson University. Branden is a talented research scientist at a  research and engineering company. Together, Emily and Branden have  built a strong, loving partnership that reflects their shared values  and passions.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in leading this body in recognition of  Emily McLaughlin Wisniewski and Branden Anton Ehrenreich as they embark  on their marriage together. It is with great pleasure that I join their  friends and family in honoring their exceptional union. I wish them a  lifetime of happiness, love, and adventure.