Recognizing Dorothy Giamboi for Nearly Fifteen Years of Public Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698050/recognizing-dorothy-giamboi-for-nearly-fifteen-years-of-public-service


Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to recognize Dorothy Giamboi  on her conclusion of service to the Borough of Metuchen Council. After  fourteen years, Dorothy stands as the longest-serving Council Member in  Metuchen's history. Please join me in celebrating my long-time friend,  Dorothy Giamboi, for her outstanding contributions to the community.

Since 2011, Councilwoman Dorothy Giamboi has served on the Metuchen  Borough Council, acting as the liaison to the Metuchen Chamber of  Commerce, Development Commission, Municipal Alliance/Youth Services  Board, and currently to the Shade Tree Commission, Environmental  Commission, and Senior Citizen Commission. In addition to her  leadership within the council, Dorothy has served on the Middlesex  County Water Resources Association and as Chairwoman of the Peter  Barnes Wildlife Preserve Commission.

Councilwoman Giamboi leaves a legacy of environmental advocacy and  stewardship, including her contribution to the creation and adoption of  a master plan of local ecology preservation for the largest undeveloped  ecosystem in northern Middlesex County. This oversight will be  instrumental in the continued restoration of the Woodbrook Superfund  Site, and associated conservation efforts throughout the area. Dorothy  played a pivotal role in securing grants from Sustainable Jersey and  the National Park Service, including twenty-five thousand dollars to  provide composters to residents. In 2015, Dorothy was named a  Sustainability Hero by Sustainable Jersey. I am confident that the 6th  Congressional District of New Jersey will thank her for her efforts to  keep Middlesex County's greater environment safe, healthy, and thriving  for years to come. As she embarks on this new phase, Dorothy is joined  by her beloved two sons, husband, Alex Giamboi, two shih tzus, and  grandchildren.

Mr. Speaker, please join me on congratulating Dorothy Giamboi on her  fourteen years of service with the Borough of Metuchen. It is my  privilege to recognize her remarkable contributions to our community  and offer my best wishes for a restful and joyful new stage in life.