Reducing and Eliminating Duplicative Environmental Regulations Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701787/reducing-and-eliminating-duplicative-environmental-regulations-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 6398, the so-called RED  Tape Act. This bill deletes a section of the Clean Air Act that  requires the EPA to review major Federal projects under the National  Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA. As a result, major Federal projects  and regulations will be exempt from any scrutiny of their impacts on  air quality and public health from EPA experts.

The bill would also make the permitting process less transparent by  removing the requirements that EPA comments be made available to the  public and, therefore, communities would be kept in the dark.

Ignoring the consequences of major actions won't make them go away,  but that is exactly what the RED Tape Act would do. For the communities  who live near these major projects, turning a blind eye to problems  won't protect their families from potentially toxic exposures.

Worse yet, the RED Tape Act is billed as permitting reform when in  reality it is a bill to let polluters run amok out of sight from the  public and without proper safety and commonsense guardrails.

Republican hypocrisy knows no bounds. They court the make America  healthy again community, but then they move a bill forward that will  take away the public's ability to simply know the potential toxic risks  of large Federal projects. They then tout the importance of permitting  reform but bring false permitting solutions to the floor instead of  real proposals to make cleaner and cheaper energy sources more readily  available to combat rising costs for Americans.

This hypocrisy is just one of the many problems we have to confront  as the House is set to vote on these blatant attempts to gut the Clean  Air Act, one of the most successful environmental and public health  laws ever enacted by Congress. House Republicans are working overtime  to further the Trump administration's efforts to silence the  scientific, medical, and public health experts at EPA from being able  to alert other agencies about how their projects might cause harm to  the health of our constituents and our neighbors. That is the type of  critical assessment that EPA's expertise alone could offer and would be  missing as a result of this bill.

Contrary to the rhetoric of my Republican colleagues, they haven't  offered any proof that these reviews were slowing or stopping projects.  In fact, the EPA reviews thousands of environmental impact statements  each year, with most other agencies taking their recommendations.

Unfortunately, by removing the EPA from the overall process, we are  losing out on the expertise of the scientists tasked with protecting  public health and the environment. However, to the Republican majority,  if you can turn a blind eye to the consequences, they will disappear.  Well, they don't disappear just because you turn a blind eye, Mr.  Speaker.

That is not how toxic pollution works for countless communities in  your district and mine. They deserve to know how large Federal projects  might impact their water, air, and soil, and they deserve to have the  best and brightest EPA scientists analyze these projects and make  comments for the public to scrutinize and to hold the government  accountable. Any attempts to remove this simple level of government  accountability is an attempt to  silence basic civic participation and transparency, nothing more.

I don't have a problem with making government more efficient, but  this bill is simply removing the voice of an important agency whose  viewpoint Republicans happen to dislike. This ongoing attack on the  EPA, on science and transparency cannot stand, so I urge my colleagues  to stand with me in opposition to this misguided bill.

One of the most important things that we have in Congress and that I  try to achieve, and I think Democrats all try to achieve, is the right  to know. If people know what is going on, then they can voice their  opinion. They can go out and speak. They can protest. They can do what  they have to do to protect their communities.

However, by eliminating the right to know, we are making it  impossible for people to actually express their opinion, which is a  fundamental right, in my opinion, under our Constitution.

Mr. PALLONE.  Rivas).

Mr. PALLONE.

Mr. Speaker, the RED Tape Act would exempt major Federal projects and  regulations from any scrutiny of their impacts on air quality and  public health from EPA experts.

The bill would also make the permitting process less transparent by  removing the requirement that EPA comments be made available to the  public.

Now, clean, safe air is a fundamental human right, in my opinion, Mr.  Speaker. The Clean Air Act exists to protect that right. Air pollution  is associated with over 100,000 premature deaths in the United States  every year, and particulate matter is among the most dangerous forms of  air pollution. Air pollution presents serious health risks to our  communities every day.

Over 100 million Americans live in counties with unhealthy levels of  air pollution with children, the elderly, low-income communities, and  communities of color being disproportionately at risk.

You won't hear my colleagues focus on the transparency part of the  RED Tape Act, but I will talk about that a little bit today as we  conclude.

Under the Clean Air Act, EPA's analysis and comments on major Federal  projects and potential impacts must be made public. This transparency  is a key feature to hold the government accountable and is the reason  why most agencies take EPA's suggestions.

If a major Federal project could expose the public to asbestos, lead,  or PFAS under this bill, EPA would not be required to look at that  project and provide scientific and public health-focused feedback and  suggestions for making it safer.

Equally as important, EPA's comments and suggestions on those risks  and exposure would not be made available to the public. That only  serves to shield Republican corporate polluters from any scrutiny and  would do nothing to ensure Americans' health is protected.

What I said before when we were talking about the FENCES Act, I will  say it now on the RED Tape Act. The right to know is one of the most  important things that we need to protect around here because then the  public can look and see what the dangers are of pollution coming from a  particular project and then they can act accordingly.

A healthy America includes healthy air, water, and soil. The EPA is  integral to achieving that goal.

Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I urge my colleagues to protect  transparency and the public health and vote ``no'' on this bill, and I  yield back the balance of my time.