Reliable Power Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3616, yet another  Republican bill that puts large corporate polluters over people. At a  time when American families are struggling with rising monthly energy  bills, this legislation does nothing to address the affordability  crisis.

Electricity prices continue to go up. They have increased by 13  percent just since President Trump took office, and they are about to  get worse as the Republicans' big, ugly bill is expected to increase  those prices another 61 percent.

You would think Republicans would want to do something to address the  affordability crisis, but this is just more of the same from them. They  refuse to address healthcare affordability, and this afternoon, they  continue to ignore the crisis with regard to electricity.

I guess we shouldn't be surprised. After all, they just blindly  follow President Trump, who simply does not care. He does not believe  the affordability crisis is real. In fact, he recently said:  ``Affordability is a Democrat scam.'' That is what he actually said.  The President should tell that to the hardworking families who are  facing skyrocketing prices across the board. It is a crisis, and  Republicans are simply ignoring it.

This bill is basically a thinly veiled attempt by Republicans to  obstruct any future administration's EPA regulations that keep our air,  lands, and water clean. This bill would allow the Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission, or FERC, to block any regulation from any other  agency under certain circumstances. It takes what should be an  apolitical process, a neutral review of the reliability of our Nation's  electric sector, and twists it into a fully partisan exercise. That is  why we should reject this bill entirely.

Right now, a number of Federal agencies have authorities that could  impact the power sector. FERC and the Department of Energy have the  ability to comment on those regulations if they have concerns and work  through the interagency review process to ensure that those concerns  are heard.

FERC Commissioners in recent years have not been shy about using  their powers to publicly highlight and comment on Federal actions that  they deem flawed or insufficient. Agencies can, and do, respond to that  feedback, as we saw with the EPA during the previous administration.

What no agency has the power to do now is to arbitrarily block  another agency's regulations that Congress gave that agency the power  to make. That is simply ridiculous.

If Republicans have their way, agencies would not only have to seek  review from the Office of Management and Budget but will also have to  ask permission from FERC to see if FERC likes the regulation or not. If  not, even if the White House likes the regulation, the agency can't  finalize it.

If that is not bad enough, FERC testified before the Energy and  Commerce Committee that it does not even have the capacity and  expertise necessary to investigate every other agency's regulation for  the impacts that they will have on electric reliability. That was  before the staff attrition that has hit FERC over the past 10 months.

The agency has lost over 11 percent of its staff through September.  Who knows how many additional staff have left over the last 3 months  because you know that the President is wanting to fire everybody.

Let me just review this, again, because I don't want to be too  bureaucratic here, Mr. Speaker. House Republicans want FERC to do  something it has no ability to do, that would politicize our Nation's  electric reliability regulator, and that would make FERC into a super- authority with powers rivaling those of certain White House offices.

This is all to kill regulations that keep our air clean and our water  drinkable. That is what this is all about. Let's not pretend that House  Republicans are worried about regulations coming from the Trump  administration. They knew those regulations were all going to destroy  whatever clean air or clean water we have.

Instead, they are worried about the next time we have a President who  actually cares about protecting public health and the environment, a  President who wants to restore the bedrock environmental laws that the  Republicans have gotten rid of.

Republicans then want to use this bill as a shield to protect  polluters. If the polluter now, under a new President, isn't going to  have the protection, and the public is going to have the protection to  make sure that the water and the air are clean, then they want to make  sure they have some shield to protect the polluters.

We shouldn't let them do that. That is not what we are supposed to  do. We are supposed to worry about the public.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE.  Castor), the ranking member of our  Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. Speaker, I have a lot of respect for the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.  Balderson), who just spoke, but the bottom line is that I think it is  dishonest for Republicans to claim that the cost of compliance with  environmental regulations is driving up utility prices.

The regulatory chaos that the gentleman from Ohio mentions is created  by the Trump administration. Since President Trump took office, his  administration has created tremendous regulatory uncertainty through  DOGE, senseless tariffs, and unprecedented executive actions. As a  result, as I mentioned, electricity prices are up 13 percent, and  natural gas prices are up 8 percent since the President took office.

Mr. Speaker, this holiday season, Americans are struggling to afford  record-high utility bills and skyrocketing grocery prices. Donald Trump  and the Republican Party were elected on their promise to bring prices  down. Instead, the Republican Party is about to become the grinch who  stole Christmas. They want to let the Affordable Care Act credits that  kept health insurance affordable for families expire on January 1.

This bill, the Reliable Power Act, would let the Federal Energy  Regulatory Commission, or FERC, kill any environmental regulations they  don't like. In other words, this bill would make Americans sicker as  health insurance prices are skyrocketing.

Republicans in Congress are just not delivering on their promise to  bring down prices. The big, ugly bill will increase electricity prices  for American families by 61 percent. Instead of passing partisan bills  this week that would increase energy prices, Republicans should be  working with us and Democrats on bipartisan proposals that can decrease  energy bills.

Mr. Speaker, Americans are just begging for relief on skyrocketing  prices, and President Trump's only response has been to call the  affordability crisis the ``Democratic hoax.'' His rhetoric is an insult  to the American people, but my Democratic colleagues and I are taking  the affordability crisis very seriously. We hear the concerns of the  public, and we strongly urge our Republican colleagues to come to the  table to pass commonsense legislation that brings prices down for the  American people.

Mr. Speaker, I stress again that the President promised to cut  Americans' power bills in half. Instead, he and his Republican  accomplices in the House are causing those prices to soar with their  backward policies and, essentially, their war on cheaper, clean energy.

Thanks to Republicans, electricity prices are climbing more than  twice as fast as inflation, and more than 80 million Americans are  struggling to pay their utility bills. Many of these Americans are  having to make the impossible choice of either paying for housing,  medicine, and food, or keeping their lights on.

Let me just give some examples. Since President Trump took office,  electricity prices are up, 13 percent nationwide, as I mentioned.  However, in Iowa, they are up 23 percent. In North Carolina, they are  up 21 percent. In Pennsylvania, they are up 16 percent.

Mr. Speaker, electricity prices aren't the only bills that are  skyrocketing. Residential natural gas prices are now 8 percent higher  than they were a year ago nationally, but, again, 19 percent in  Pennsylvania, 14 percent in Wisconsin, and 13 percent in North  Carolina.

We mentioned that the big, ugly bill will raise electricity prices by  a staggering 61 percent over the next decade due to its attacks on  cleaner and cheaper energy and its crippling of the American clean  energy industry.

The big, ugly bill destroyed tax credits that were designed to  incentivize developers to build more domestic energy projects, raising  barriers to those buildings in the process, and it will half the  deployment of cheap, renewable American energy and imperil our power  grid. These historic price hikes are on top of the $29 billion in  electricity bill rate hikes that utility companies have requested since  the start of President Trump's term.

Mr. Speaker, I don't want to just talk about prices because the  bottom line is we are also talking with this bill about a cost to  Americans' health and safety.

This bill allows FERC to override regulations established by other  agencies. This is the Christmas gift to some of the Nation's largest  polluters. Think about that. FERC, which has no expertise in public  health or environmental protections, would just be able to stop another  agency's regulation meant to protect public health.

These are regulations that are responsible for safe drinking water,  for  reducing air pollution, and preventing exposure to cancer-causing  chemicals. We are not just talking about price increases here that the  Trump administration has imposed. We are also talking about the impact  on health and people's ability to breathe and drink clean water.

By advancing this bill, Republicans are telling communities that  their health and safety is not a priority. Pollution is exacerbating  your child's asthma. Who cares? Your water may be contaminated. That is  nothing to worry about. We don't care.

Other agencies spent years crafting regulations, often after an  extensive analysis that shows that the benefits of that regulation from  a health and safety point of view outweighs the costs. However, this  bill would throw all of that out the door by allowing FERC, which has  no expertise in these areas, to just say ``no,'' and FERC doesn't even  want to do it. They told us.

As the ranking member of the Energy Subcommittee, Ms. Castor, said-- they literally told us at the committee--that they didn't want to do  this and didn't have the capacity to do it.

We have made so much progress in the United States on environmental  protection over the last 50 years. Our Nation's rivers used to catch  fire. Now, they don't. Smog used to surround our cities, particularly  Los Angeles. Now, it doesn't.

President Trump and House Republicans want to undo all of that. They  have waged an all-out war against public health, and this bill is just  one piece of that.

If my colleagues care about public health, if they care about prices,  if they want to make sure people can breathe and can still pay their  electricity bills, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill. It just  makes common sense.