Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697034/researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, which is a complete  and utter waste of the House of Representatives' time.

It asks the National Petroleum Council to do a study, and that is it.  That is the entire bill. In my opinion, to ask the National Petroleum  Council to do something it can already do on its own makes absolutely  no sense.

The House was out of session for over 50 days because Speaker Johnson  refused to bring Congress back to resolve the healthcare crisis created  by Republicans and to reopen the government. Now, Speaker Johnson  claims we will be working day and night on important problems. I  certainly agree that we should be doing that. We should be working on  problems that Americans care about, but millions of Americans are  seeing their healthcare costs skyrocket because the President and  Republicans refuse to extend critical tax credits that make healthcare  more affordable for millions of Americans.

Millions more are paying thousands of dollars more a year for  everyday goods because of the President's tariffs. These tariffs are  attacks on the American people, and they are expected to cost families  more than $2,000 each year when they take full effect.

Meanwhile, prices on everything from utilities to food to energy,  even prices for Thanksgiving dinner next week, are going up.

You would think that House Republicans would be doing something,  anything, anything at all to fight these high prices. Instead, we are  here talking about a bill that requires a Big Oil and Gas lobby group  to put together a report. That is it.

I cannot stress enough that this report is simply not needed,  regardless of who does it. In fact, it is almost an insult,  particularly to refinery workers on the East Coast, including my State  of New Jersey, who don't need a study to tell them why refining  capacity here has dropped by over one third in the last decade. It all  goes back to the repeal of the crude oil export ban in 2015.

You don't have to take my word for it. The nonpartisan Government  Accountability Office found in a 2020 report--that was a report--that  domestic refinery margins suffered in the wake of the repeal. This bill  only asks for the report to assess executive actions, regulations, or  policies that have impacted refineries, not a change in the law. If it  were dealing with a change in the law, I think that would make sense.

It is a massive, massive oversight to not talk about the law and what  happened when the crude oil export ban was lifted 10 years ago. That is  what caused the problem with refineries.

The most ridiculous part of this bill is that it demands the study  not be done by the Department of Energy but by the National Petroleum  Council, an industry advisory body for Big Oil and Gas. I have no doubt  that the National Petroleum Council will produce a biased report that  will likely complain about every environmental regulation that they  don't like, but that protects the American people. That is what  Republicans have been doing: repealing all the environmental  regulations.

If Republicans wanted an unbiased view of domestic refining  challenges, they would have asked the Department of Energy to craft a  report. That is not what they are looking for because Republicans just  want to sanction fossil fuel propaganda. That is what they are doing  with this bill.

It is a waste of everyone's time, Mr. Speaker. It is just another  example of how Republicans have absolutely no ideas to help American  families lower everyday costs.

We need to be working on real solutions, Democrats and Republicans,  to address the affordability crisis. That is what the American people  want, not this report.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, my point is that this report does not ask  the people that are doing it to look into the change of law that would  be necessary in order to bring refineries back.

The reason why we lost so many refineries, particularly on the East  Coast and New Jersey, was because the ban on the export of crude oil  was lifted 10 years ago. You don't need a refinery if you can export  the crude, but this report doesn't address that at all.

Castor), the ranking member of our Energy  Subcommittee.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, listening to my colleagues on the  Republican side of the aisle, this report obviously does absolutely  nothing to address the prices of power and electricity that continues  to go up.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a document from the Joint  Economic Committee, as well as a link to the document located at:  https://www.jec.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/22e24fd6-4db7-44c6-93a9- 9710c6f48b85/electricity-bills-report.pdf          [From the Joint Economic Committee Minority, Nov. 2025]

State-by-State Data: Annual Electricity Bills Up $100 Per Family in                                    2025

Last year, President Donald Trump repeatedly promised that       energy bills across the country would be ``cut in half''       within 12 months. However, this new Joint Economic       Committee--Minority analysis finds that electricity costs are       increasing significantly, with households in nearly every       state on track to pay more for electricity this year compared       to last year.

The Committee estimated full-year 2025 electricity costs       per state based on the monthly electricity bill data released       by the federal Energy Information Administration (EIA) for       January-August of 2025. The Committee projects that annual       electricity costs will be at least 5 percent higher than last       year in 37 states plus D.C., and at least 10 percent higher       than last year in 10 states plus D.C. On average, the       Committee projects that American households will pay       approximately $100 more per household in electricity costs       this year.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, last year, as I think everyone knows,  President Donald Trump repeatedly promised that energy bills across the  country would be cut in half within 12 months of his taking office.  This shows a State-by-State analysis of how much electricity bills have  gone up instead of being cut.

Just to mention to my two colleagues, here in Kentucky, it says that  they have gone up 11.8 percent; in Ohio, 9.9 percent; in New Jersey,  13.6 percent. Certainly nothing like the cut in half that President  Donald Trump promised. This report projects that American households  will pay approximately $100 more per household in electricity costs  this year.

We are going to deal with this pricing issue when we get to the next  bill about LNG, which, again, is only going to increase prices. It is  clear that the Republicans have no intention of dealing with this  crisis of affordability with electric or power bills, as well.

Mr. Speaker, I urge President Trump and my Republican colleagues to  start taking the American affordability crisis seriously. President  Trump is simply out of touch with the reality that American families  are facing.

Earlier this week, he seemed to mockingly suggest that  ``affordability'' is a word the Democrats made up to attack him. Well,  that is rich coming from a man who has declared bankruptcy six times.  The American people are hurting because of President Trump and the  Republican policies, and they should not be mocked for that. Even FOX  News reported last night that 76 percent of Americans view the economy  negatively.

Americans are struggling to afford basic necessities. A new report  from The Century Foundation found that utility prices are up 32 percent  since 2022. That is nearly three times the rate of inflation. Nearly a  quarter of that jump occurred just this year alone. These rising costs  are debilitating to the middle class. Nearly 1 in 20 households are in  severe utility debt.

Roughly 4 million Americans are at risk of having their utility bills  sent to collections. It is an incredible number. They have done nothing  wrong. They just can't afford to keep up with the exponential rise in  electricity prices. They can't afford to pay the bill.

Now, the two bills that are on the floor today, in my opinion, will  only increase the average utility bill even further. Just last week,  the U.S. Energy Information Association found that natural gas prices  will rise by 16 percent in 2026, primarily due to increased LNG exports  amid flat production growth.

Secretary Chris Wright promised to double LNG exports to countries  like China within 5 years. The next bill that we are going to consider  is all about giving more LNG to China, to Beijing, to Communist China.  Why are we helping them?

The American people desperately need a solution to lower energy costs  at home. Why does the President or the Secretary refuse to take care of  the American people that the Trump administration is supposed to  represent?

Now, I have said it before, but it bears repeating: The Trump  administration only cares about bailing out themselves and their fossil  fuel friends.

It is time for Republicans to come to the table to work with  Democrats on a solution to this affordability crisis, and it can begin  here with the Energy and Commerce Committee.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and I yield back the  balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.