Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690260/setting-consumer-standards-for-lithium-ion-batteries-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 973, the Setting  Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act.

This legislation will protect Americans from fires caused by lithium- ion batteries. It directs the Consumer Product Safety Commission to  require manufacturers to comply with safety standards for rechargeable  lithium-ion batteries in micromobility devices, like electric bicycles  and scooters.

Fires caused by faulty or misused batteries are on the rise. Between  2019 and 2023, there were more than 400 fires, 300 injuries, and 12  deaths from fires caused by lithium-ion batteries in New York City  alone. In February, a fire caused by lithium-ion batteries at a  recycling facility in my home State of New Jersey required the  evacuation of over 100 residents from their homes and caused massive  property damage. Last month, in California, a 6-year-old girl and her  grandmother and great-grandmother were all tragically killed in a house  fire caused by a lithium-ion battery.

We are witnessing all of these tragic accidents in communities across  the Nation, yet there is no mandatory Federal standard to ensure  lithium-ion batteries are safe.

As electric bikes and scooters grow in popularity, we must ensure  that the CPSC adopts a strong Federal safety standard for lithium-ion  batteries. Consumers deserve to know that the products they buy are  thoroughly tested and safe, and this legislation would do just that.

I have to say that compliance with this bill depends on enforcement  by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Like other legislation we  are considering this afternoon, it depends on the existence of a  strong, bipartisan, and independent CPSC to protect Americans from  unsafe products.

At the same time that our Republican colleagues vote for this bill,  they will continue to remain silent as President Trump's callous  willingness to risk the safety of all Americans continues by his  planning to eliminate the CPSC and fold its mission into the Department  of Health and Human Services, which itself will have a dramatically  smaller workforce and narrower mission.

Eliminating the existing CPSC or stripping it of the independent and  bipartisan structure that Congress has mandated puts children and all  Americans' physical safety in grave danger.

The CPSC is a small agency tasked with a massive job to protect  consumers from hazards associated with a vast array of consumer  products, from infant car seats to window blinds to home repair  equipment. American consumers deserve to have peace of mind that the  products we are bringing into our homes are safe.

I hope my Republican colleagues will finally begin to speak up  against President Trump's dangerous plan to consolidate power in the  White House and eliminate the critical agency that does a lot of this  enforcement work at the expense of our children's safety.

Mr. Speaker, I commend Representative Torres for his leadership on  this issue, and I also thank Representative Clarke for championing this  bill in our committee. I urge my colleagues to support this  legislation. Again, I will stress that without CPSC enforcement, this  legislation is not going to mean much.

Mr. Speaker, again, I don't want to take away from these bills. Each  of the bills that we have today is bipartisan and came out of our  committee, but it is a shame that they weren't passed already in  December but for Elon Musk. It certainly would not be helpful--oh, I am  sorry. Mr. Torres is here, so I can't close yet, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. TORRES of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my  bipartisan bill titled the Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion  Batteries Act.

Mr. Speaker, I am deeply grateful to Chair Guthrie, Ranking Member  Pallone, Chair Bilirakis, and all the members of the Energy and  Commerce Committee for their support. I am equally grateful to my  partners in this effort, Congress Members Yvette Clarke,  Andrew  Garbarino, and Nick Langworthy.

At the heart of our legislative progress has been the tireless  advocacy of the FDNY, the finest and bravest fire department in the  Nation.

The sheer speed and scale of destruction caused by a lithium-ion  battery fire is nothing short of staggering. In the Bronx, we witnessed  one of our few neighborhood supermarkets, 2096 Grand Concourse,  instantaneously reduced to rubble by a five-alarm fire caused by a  malfunctioning lithium-ion battery. These fires are happening with  greater frequency and ferocity across America.

Nowhere has this crisis been more acute than in New York City, which  has emerged as the epicenter of lithium-ion battery fires, with more  than a thousand incidents since 2019. The number of fires has been  rising relentlessly, from 30 in 2019 to 44 in 2020, 104 in 2021, 219 in  2022, 268 in 2023, and 279 in 2024. In just 4 years, America's largest  city has seen an over 800 percent surge in these fires, creating an  unprecedented crisis in public safety.

Poorly manufactured lithium-ion batteries often imported from China  are hidden ticking time bombs waiting to detonate in American homes and  neighborhoods. The danger has become too great to ignore.

Today, the House is poised to pass bipartisan legislation that will  finally empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission to establish  mandatory safety standards for the manufacture of lithium-ion batteries  in e-mobility devices.

In doing so, we are acting to prevent needless fires, save lives, and  safeguard communities across our Nation, and we are honoring our most  sacred duty: to protect the American people.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation. Mr. Speaker, I  include in the Record letters of support from a coalition of  stakeholders in favor of this bipartisan legislation.                                                               FDNY.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson: I'm writing to urge you to pass the       Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act       (H.R. 973). If signed into law, it would require the Consumer       Product Safety Commission to promulgate a consumer product       safety standard for rechargeable lithium-ion batteries used       in micromobility devices. Given that the bill is       uncontroversial, enjoys bipartisan support, and ensures       Americans' safety nationwide, you can lead on this issue by       advancing H.R. 973 as soon as possible.

In recent years, New York City has seen a proliferation of       lithium-ion battery-powered micromobility devices, such as       electronic bicycles, mopeds, and scooters. Many New Yorkers,       including numerous delivery workers, rely on these devices as       a convenient mode of transportation. However, as these       devices continue to appear, the number of fire incidents has       rapidly increased. Whereas a fire incident relating to a       lithium-ion battery was uncommon in 2019 with only 30       incidents, in 2024, we experienced 279 incidents and are on       pace for even more this year. Lithium-ion batteries were the       cause of 18 fatal fires in 2023 and six fatal fires in 2024.       They also present an acute danger to the firefighters who are       called upon to respond.

This issue is a problem well beyond New York City. The       Underwriters Laboratory Fire Safety Research Institute states       that, nationwide, there were at least 445 lithium-ion battery       fires, 214 injuries, and 38 deaths in 2023. They also note       that the toxic smoke from these fires decreases the usual       three-minute escape time to less than one minute, making       these fires a rapid death trap. These fires present unique       safety risks and create major hazards like flames, exploding       projectiles, and thermal runaway. This causes an explosive,       domino effect within the cells of a battery making it       especially challenging for first responders to mitigate using       traditional fire suppression methods. In addition to the       explosion and fire, these battery fires produce thick, highly       toxic smoke that endangers the lives of first responders       responding to an incident.

Yet, the incidence of battery fires can be notably reduced       by following best practices, such as purchasing certified       devices and batteries, and not tampering with batteries. The       Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act       would be a strong step forward in tackling this ongoing       crisis and ensuring safety for life and property.

Therefore, we ask for your leadership on this important       issue by passing H.R. 973. Doing so will save lives and       strengthen the safety of firefighters across the country.            Sincerely,                                               Robert S. Tucker,                                                  FDNY Commissioner,      Fire Department, City of New York.                                   ____                                                 Consumer Reports,                                                     April 25, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: On behalf of       Consumer Reports (CR), the independent. non-profit.       nonpartisan member organization, we write to state for the       record our endorsement of H.R. 973, the Setting Consumer       Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act, in advance of the       U.S. House of Representatives' possible consideration of the       bill under suspension of the rules the week of April 28,       2025. We support this bipartisan product safety legislation,       which would ensure that the Consumer Product Safety       Commission (CPSC) can set federal safety standards for       micromobility devices, such as e-bikes, e-scooters, and       hoverboards, in a timely manner.

Micromobility products can be a useful, cost-effective, and       fun way to get around. They have soared in popularity, and       many of them are manufactured abroad and imported to the       United States. Unfortunately, fires and explosions linked to       the products have also proliferated. Since 2021,       micromobility devices using high energy density batteries       have been linked to hundreds of fires and dozens of       fatalities, including the deaths of multiple children. While       specific information on the manufacturers or brands tied to       these       fires is not publicly available, fire experts have stated       they suspect that low-quality batteries from overseas are       often to blame.

A federal safety standard enforced by the CPSC would level       the playing field and help ensure that manufacturers and       sellers put safety first. Thankfully, the Setting Consumer       Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act (H.R. 973) would       address this emerging, but addressable, hazard. On April 9,       2025, the Energy and Commerce Committee approved H.R. 973 by       a voice vote with overwhelming support, and we are pleased it       is now headed to the House floor.

Consumer Reports supports H.R. 973 and urges every member       to support this sensible bill on the House floor. Thank you       for your consideration, and please do not hesitate to reach       out to us with any questions.            Sincerely,      William Wallace,

Director, Safety Advocacy.      Gabe Knight,

Senior Safety Policy Analyst.                                   ____                                                     April 25, 2025.      Re H.R. 973--Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion           Batteries Act.       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker of the House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

As organizations committed to the build-out of electric       charging infrastructure in New York City, we support H.R.       973--the Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries       Act. This legislation will issue a consumer product safety       standard for rechargeable lithium-ion batteries used in       micromobility devices, such as electric bicycles and       scooters, to protect against the risk of fires.

As New York City looks to diversify its modes of       transportation, we must ensure that these alternatives are       clean and safe. Rechargeable, personal vehicles present a       great opportunity to expand transportation alternatives, but       their adoption must be met with safety precautions in mind.       This legislation would allow for cities such as New York City       to foster a responsible transportation sector and protect       consumers and property from the threats of unsafe standards.

We request that this legislation be taken up for       consideration by the House of Representatives.            Sincerely,      New York League of Conservation Voters.      Open Plans.      Tri-State Transportation Campaign.      Transportation Alternatives.      Equitable Commute Project.      Regional Plan Association.                                   ____                                                             NVFC,                                     Washington, DC, April 25, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker of the House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr. Speaker, I am writing to you on behalf of the       National Volunteer Fire Council and the nation's volunteer       fire service to express my support for H.R. 973, the Setting       Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act. If enacted,       this bill would significantly reduce the number of fires       caused by lithium-ion batteries in e-mobility devices like e-      bikes and scooters.

H.R. 973 would require the Consumer Product Safety       Commission (CPSC) to issue a safety standard for rechargeable       lithium-ion batteries used in e-mobility devices. While       lithium-ion batteries in e-mobility devices have added a       great deal of convenience to our lives, these batteries can       be volatile and produce intense fires very quickly. This is       especially the case if these lithium-ion batteries are of       inferior quality, many of which are cheaply produced in       China. A CPSC standard for lithium-ion batteries would       protect consumers from the dangers of these inferior       batteries.

As lithium-ion battery powered devices become more common,       it is crucial that the safety and wellbeing of those we serve       is preserved. Passing the Setting Consumer Standards for       Lithium-Ion Batteries Act would do just that. I request that       the House of Representatives pass this important legislation       as soon as possible.            Sincerely,                                                  Steven W. Hirsch,      Chairman, National Volunteer Fire Council.                                   ____                                                 BOMA International.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: I am writing on       behalf of the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)       International to express our strong support for the Setting       Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act, this       critical legislation will help protect the public from the       rising number of fires, injuries, and tragic deaths caused by       faulty lithium-ion batteries used in e-bikes, e-scooters, and       other micromobility devices.

As the popularity of micromobility options continues to       grow, so too has the frequency of incidents related to       unregulated or poorly manufactured batteries. Between January       2021 and November 2022, there were 208 reports of       micromobility device fires across 39 states, resulting in at       least 19 deaths. These devices, often essential for low-cost       and sustainable transportation, should not pose a danger to       users or communities. This bill takes a decisive and       necessary step by requiring the U.S. Consumer Product Safety       Commission (CPSC) to establish a, enforceable safety standard       for rechargeable lithium-ion batteries used in these       products.

Most lithium-ion batteries are being imported from China,       and Chinese manufacturers are not complying with CPSC's       directive. By mandating uniform consumer protections, this       legislation will help ensure that only safe, reliable       batteries are brought to market--saving lives and preventing       devastating property damage. It also levels the playing field       for responsible manufacturers and retailers who already       prioritize battery safety.

I respectfully urge you and your colleagues to support the       Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act and       help move this important public safety measure forward       without delay.

Thank you for your leadership and attention to this urgent       issue.            Sincerely,                                                     Manuel Moreno,      BOMA International Chair and CEO.                                   ____                                                         DoorDash,                                                     April 25, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Steve Scalise,      Majority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Scalise: DoorDash applauds       you for advancing H.R. 973, the Setting Consumer Standards       for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act. It is critical that the United       States establish battery safety standards for mobility       devices so that people can use these products without putting       themselves, their families, and their communities at risk.       Your continued leadership on this issue will make a real       difference in the lives of everyday Americans.

DoorDash empowers local businesses to reach more customers       and enables millions of Americans to earn supplemental income       when, where, and how they want. We are committed to keeping       our communities safe, which is why we strongly support H.R.       973, which will keep unsafe batteries off of the market.

Electrically-powered micromobility is quickly becoming an       essential part of our nation's transportation system,       especially in urban areas. These micromobility devices also       enable flexible earning opportunities for workers across the       country, including the couriers--we call them ``Dashers''--      who provide delivery services facilitated by the DoorDash       platform.

However, the benefits of micromobility can only be realized       if the devices used are safe. Battery fires in New York City       and across the country have made clear the danger posed by       lithium-ion batteries that do not meet established and       recognized safety standards. Consumers should not have to       guess whether a product is safe when they purchase it, nor       should our communities bear the risk of faulty products       entering the market unchecked. Delivery workers, many of whom       own devices powered by lithium-ion batteries and use them to       earn supplemental income, are particularly at risk in the       absence of these safety standards.

This legislation is a vital step forward in addressing this       problem. By requiring the adoption of well-established       voluntary standards like UL 2271, UL 2849, and UL 2272, H.R.       973 ensures a strong federal framework to protect consumers       and workers. This measure will help shut down the flow of       unsafe products and prevent needless harm to families, first       responders, and communities.

DoorDash has partnered with e-bike suppliers and rental       services to expand access to safe, certified micromobility       devices, and we have invested in education campaigns to raise       awareness about battery safety. Your leadership in bringing       this bill forward is not only timely--it is necessary.

We are grateful for your commitment to consumer protection,       public safety, and responsible innovation. Thank you again       for your leadership.            Sincerely,                                                       John Horton,      Head of North America Public Policy, DoorDash, Inc.                                   ____                                           International Association                                                  of Fire Chiefs,                                         McLean, VA, April 28, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: On       behalf of the nearly 11,000 members of the International       Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC), I ask that you support       H.R. 973, the Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion       Batteries Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the       Consumer Product Safety Commission to issue safety standards       on lithium-ion batteries in micromobility devices.

All over America, communities struggle with fire safety       effects of lithium-ion batteries in micromobility devices.       These batteries are found in micromobility devices like e-      bikes, e-scooters and hoverboards. Fires caused by these       batteries produce a phenomenon called thermal runaway. When       the individual cells inside a lithium-ion battery become       unstable it creates thermal runaway, which leads to fires. As       we have seen time and time again, being nearby an unstable       micromobility device can lead to injury or even death. Often,       these fires impact multiple homes or apartments, causing       damage or injury to close by neighbors and their adjacent       property.

We humbly ask that you support H.R. 973, the Setting       Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act. By passing       this act, Congress can help ensure that safety is not       compromised when the public utilizes alternative options for       transportation. We look forward to working with you to pass       this legislation.            Sincerely,                                   Fire Chief Josh Waldo, CFO, EFO,      IAFC President and Board Chair, 2024-2025.                                   ____                                             TIC Council Americas,                                                     April 25, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Mr, Speaker: TIC Council Americas, representing the       Testing, Inspection, and Certification (``TIC'') industry,       supports the Setting Consumer Standards for Lithium-Ion       Batteries Act, HR 973--a badly needed step in solving the       problem of lithium-ion battery fires. Lives and property are       at stake, and we urge passage of this legislation when it is       before you on the floor.

Lithium-ion batteries present a major challenge due to       their range of sizes, construction, frequently unknown       origin, and potential for ignition if damaged or defective.       While there are consensus standards to address the safety of       lithium-ion batteries and battery-powered consumer products,       they are not consistently followed, nor are there federal       safety requirements that must be met. As evidenced by       hundreds of fires and too many deaths traced to these       batteries, we fully agree that Congressional action is badly       needed now.

TIC Council Americas and its members remain ready to       support the implementation of this legislation, whether or       not independent verification of conformity is ultimately       required. Most important is the increased safety that will       accrue to consumers when this legislation becomes law.

Mr. Speaker, we appreciate the opportunity to provide       feedback on this important issue. Should you have any       questions, please don't hesitate to contact me.            Sincerely,                                                      Rich O'Brien,      Executive Director.                                   ____                                                          Grubhub,                                                     April 28, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson: I write to express Grubhub's strong       support for the passage of H.R. 973, Setting Consumer       Standards for Lithium-Ion Batteries Act. Thank you for your       leadership on this important issue and for ensuring this       critical legislation will be considered by the full House of       Representatives.

This legislation would require the Consumer Product Safety       Commission (CPSC) to create a federal safety standard for       rechargeable lithium-ion batteries used in micromobility       products, such as e-bikes and e-scooters. Micromobility       products can be a cost-effective, sustainable, and efficient       mode of transportation. These devices have soared in       popularity in recent years, and many are manufactured       overseas and imported to the U.S. to meet the unprecedented       demand. Unfortunately, the increase in these subpar products       has led to a troubling rise in fires and explosions, some       fatal.

Many food delivery couriers rely on safe, efficient       transportation like e-bikes to sustain their livelihoods,       especially in dense urban areas. These delivery partners are       essential to thousands of communities and businesses,       including ours. Ensuring their safety--and the safety of all       Americans--is a matter of public health, but also of fairness       and economic opportunity. Instituting a federal safety       standard for these products will help keep dangerous,       foreign-made products from proliferating throughout our       communities and ensure that consumers can access reliable,       safe micromobility devices.

While local jurisdictions have tried to address this issue,       the scale of the problem demands a national solution. OnLy a       federal standard, enforced by the Consumer Product Safety       Commission, can provide the comprehensive protection needed.

Grubhub applauds Congress for its diligence on this urgent       safety and national security issue and for taking this       opportunity to address it. This bipartisan legislation is       well positioned to tackle the growing occurrence of fires       linked to uncertifIed lithium-ion batteries, and will       ultimately protect lives and ensure public safety.            Sincerely,                                                       JR Starrett,                           Director of Government Affairs, Grubhub.

Again, I hate to keep repeating, but these bills are all good that we  are considering this afternoon, and they should have already become law  but for Elon Musk. Again, it is important that we reauthorize these  programs or authorize these programs for the first time.

However, unless we have enforcement ability from agencies like the  Consumer Product Safety Commission, they are not going to mean much  because they require enforcement and investigation. Basically the  agencies are the ones that make sure that this type of legislation is  effective.

I hope that my Republican colleagues will see fit to speak out  against the abolition of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.  Putting it in another department is not going to help because they will  have less workforce and less ability to function.