State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697886/state-planning-for-reliability-and-affordability-act


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this bill. It is a  wholesale attack on clean energy under the guise of reliability.  Americans can see through the nonsense here to the truth, and that is  that Republicans are waging a culture war against wind and solar.  American families are footing the bill with higher monthly utility  bills.

For a moment, I want to try to take Republicans at their word, that  this bill is all about electric reliability, ensuring that the lights  won't go out. In that case, I have excellent news for my Republican  colleagues. The law this bill amends, the Public Utility Regulatory  Policies Act, or PURPA, already does that. The law requires States to  have an integrated resource plan that considers reliability. That is  all we need to do, and Congress already did it 33 years ago.

Of course, the only difference between that law and the language in  this bill is the bogus definition about what counts as ``reliable  generation facility.'' It should come as no surprise that the only  things that count are coal, natural gas, and nuclear. That is it, not  wind, not solar, not either of those even when paired with battery  storage. It is completely ridiculous and the latest example of  Republicans' relentless attack on cheaper and cleaner energy sources.

Ever since President Trump took office earlier this year, Republicans  have been obsessed with crusading against wind and solar whenever they  can. They passed the big, ugly bill, which slashed tax incentives for  clean energy and made electricity more expensive for everyone. They  have tried to kill every wind or solar project on Federal lands and in  Federal waters, driving up people's energy bills even further. Now,  they are trying to put another thumb on the scale in favor of dirty  fossil energy by pushing a bill with a fake definition of ``reliable  generation.''

Unfortunately, the American people are paying the price. This past  summer, when much of the United States was in a so-called heat dome  fueled by climate change, the grid's electricity regulators said that  solar helped save the day, preventing dangerous outages in that record  heat.

The reality is that no single source of electricity is perfect, but  that is why storage and a diversity of generation resources are so  important. Republicans don't care about how we can actually help the  grid. Instead, they only care about extending fossil fuels at the  expense of clean, cheap energy.

This is just another instance when Republicans are doing the bidding  of their corporate polluter friends over the needs of the American  people. If they cared about the American people, they would be bringing  bills to the floor that would actually address the affordability  crisis. Instead, Republicans are debating this bill that they know will  increase prices for Americans.

By forcing States to consider preferencing dirty and expensive fossil  energy, Republicans are increasing everyone's utility bills even more  than they already have. It is just more of the same from a Republican  Congress that is dead set on increasing costs for American families.

I don't understand it, Madam Speaker. President Trump promised to cut  Americans' power bills in half. Instead, he and Republicans are causing  them to soar with their backward policies and their war on cheaper,  cleaner energy. Since Trump took office, electricity prices are up 13  percent, and natural gas prices are up 8 percent. They simply don't  care. They would rather continue to push bills like this that will make  the affordability crisis even worse.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Florida (Ms. Castor), who is the ranking member of the Committee on  Energy and Commerce's Subcommittee on Energy.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Neguse), our assistant Democratic leader.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute to the  gentleman from Colorado.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Washington (Ms. Schrier), who is a member of our committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from  California (Mr. Mullin), who is also a member of our committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, may I ask the chairman if he is prepared  to close.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to object to the Trump administration and  congressional Republicans' disastrous energy policies and their impacts  on everyday Americans.

We have a duty to ensure that our power grid can keep the lights on.  That demands an all-of-the-above approach to energy. Given the  unprecedented demand to add capacity to our grid as AI data centers  continue to expand, we need to use every tool that we can to keep  energy prices down. That means adding clean energy to the grid. It is  the quickest source of energy to add to the grid given the current  multiyear gas turbine shortage.

Grid reliability regulators have been basically clear: Renewable  energy and batteries were critical in allowing the grid to endure  multiple heat waves this summer.

That is why Texas has added more solar and wind energy to their power  grid, more than any other State in the country, in the wake of their  horrific blackouts during Winter Storm Uri 4 years ago. That is because  solar energy helps keep the lights on.

Unfortunately, Republicans seem uninterested in acknowledging that  basic reality, that solar and wind, partnered with batteries, can be an  essential part of a reliable power grid. Instead, they have done  everything they can to increase the costs of these technologies and  make it harder to add clean energy to the grid. They are using their  power to subsidize dirty, expensive fossil fuel, all at the cost of  American families who are struggling to afford their electricity bills.

Now, if you don't believe me, just ask Secretary Chris Wright. At an  Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in June, he was blunt. The  Secretary said: ``I have never been for all of the above, and if I said  it at one point in time, I misspoke.'' There you have it, Madam  Speaker.

The Trump administration is staunchly against all of the above. The  Secretary is saying it, and that makes sense. Their actions at least  match their rhetoric. They are doing everything they can to put their  thumb on the scale for dirty energy, including through this bill, H.R.  3628. They are canceling every single clean energy project they  possibly can, no matter how helpful it might be to keeping electricity  bills down or the lights on.

Madam Speaker, the bills on the floor today will only worsen the  Republican affordability crisis. Every time Americans open their power  bill or see their lights flicker, Republicans are responsible. I think  the American people will hold them accountable.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill, and  I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Chair, I urge opposition to the amendment because  it doubles down on a bogus and misleading definition of ``reliable  generation,'' a definition that would only include coal, natural gas,  and nuclear power plants.

While I would typically have no problem with a GAO report, I do have  a problem with Republicans pretending that fossil fuel generation is  perfect and that there is no room for clean, cheap energy in a  diversified grid.

In the last few years, Republicans have moved away from saying that  clean energy is too expensive and are now claiming it is unreliable.  Madam Speaker, the only reason they have done that is because they have  firmly and permanently lost the argument. Clean energy is cheap energy.  Everyone knows it, even Republicans now.

In their desperation to keep Americans' energy bills high to keep the  profits flowing for oil and gas, Republicans have started peddling the  falsehood that clean energy isn't reliable. I want to be clear: There  is no such thing as a perfectly reliable power plant. They all can run  into problems. Renewables depend on wind and the Sun. Coal and gas  often have issues in extreme heat or cold. That is why it is important  that we pursue an all-of-the-above approach.

Unfortunately, President Trump and his Secretary of Energy don't  believe in all of the above. Instead, Republicans are out here working  overtime to shill for coal and gas. It is just very sad.

Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to the amendment, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. MOORE of West Virginia. Madam Speaker, baseload energy in this  country is absolutely quantified and defined by natural gas, nuclear,  and coal. That is baseload energy in this country.

The reason green energy was ever affordable or cheaper is because  everybody in America is subsidizing it right now with their tax  dollars. That is the only reason that it ever became competitive. It is  because we are subsidizing a broken system.

Green energy is consistent in its inability to produce baseload  energy, reliability, or consistency. It is not consistent in its  ability to transmit even down the power lines that are currently in  place, which many times they have to construct new ones.

This is a report--by the way, this is just a report--which I think is  so critical to assessing our plans here to have cheap, abundant,  reliable energy for the United States and the American people.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.