Understanding Cybersecurity of Mobile Networks Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1709, the Understanding  Cybersecurity of Mobile Networks Act.

The security of our mobile networks and devices is paramount to  American security overall. Most Americans carry a cell phone or other  mobile device with them all the time, and this trend is unlikely to  change as we are only becoming more and more connected.

Consumers, therefore, deserve to stay in touch with their friends and  family, use social media, or connect to the internet without fear of  their devices being hacked. We must ensure that these devices, the  networks they run on, and the vast amount of data they hold are secure  and protected from the malicious actions of our foreign adversaries and  other bad actors.

H.R. 1709 is an important step toward addressing these concerns.

This bill directs the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for  Communications and Information to report to Congress on the  cybersecurity threats our mobile networks and mobile devices face at  the hands of foreign adversaries and other bad actors. Among other  things, the report will include an assessment of whether mobile  carriers have or have not addressed cybersecurity vulnerabilities in  their respective  networks. It will also include an analysis of whether there are  commercially available tools to help consumers evaluate the  cybersecurity risks of these networks.

I thank Representatives Landsman and Cammack for their bipartisan  work on this bill. It is a good step toward ensuring we can protect our  mobile networks from evolving threats. I know we will continue to work  toward securing our country's data, devices, and networks, whether from  a foreign adversary or a domestic threat.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, this is an important bill, as was described  by the sponsor, and I urge my colleagues to support it. I yield back  the balance of my time.