Women and Lung Cancer Research and Preventive Services Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702023/women-and-lung-cancer-research-and-preventive-services-act-of-2025


Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2319, the Women and Lung  Cancer Research and Preventive Services Act of 2025.

I want to begin by commending my colleague, Representative Brendan F.  Boyle, for his tireless leadership on this critical issue.

Every 9 minutes, a woman loses her life to lung cancer. In the time  it will take the House to consider this bill, more mothers, daughters,  sisters, and friends will be lost. This legislation is a meaningful  step in addressing the disproportionate impact of lung cancer on women.

Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among men and women  in the United States. It kills more people each year than breast  cancer, ovarian cancer, and uterine cancer combined.

Despite historically lower smoking rates than men, women are  estimated to make up over half of all new lung cancer cases and nearly  half of all deaths.

In the United States, we are seeing a concerning trend among young  and middle-aged women who are being diagnosed with lung cancer. Even  more striking, lung cancer disproportionately strikes women who have  never smoked.

Approximately two-thirds of never-smokers who have been diagnosed  with lung cancer are women. A clear understanding of the existing  research and innovative opportunities to reduce lung cancer mortality,  particularly among women in underserved populations, is needed.

This legislation directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services,  working in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary  of Veterans Affairs, to conduct a comprehensive interagency review of  lung cancer in women and in underserved populations.

This legislation will help us take steps toward answering key  questions our researchers need to answer. We need to know what  environmental and genomic factors contribute to lung cancer in women.  We need to know where the gaps are in our existing research. We need to  know how we expand access to early detection and screening, which we  know saves lives. And we need to know how we mount a  public awareness campaign to better inform the public and providers.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from  Pennsylvania (Mr. Boyle) who is the ranking member of the House Budget  Committee.

Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, in closing, I just want to say that this  is a very important piece of legislation. It is obviously bipartisan.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support it, and I yield back  the balance of my time.