Commercial Remote Sensing Amendment Act of 2025


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1325) to provide for transparent licensing of commercial remote  sensing systems, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1325

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Commercial Remote Sensing       Amendment Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORTS.

(a) Deadlines.--

(1) In general.--Section 60121(c) of title 51, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``120'' and inserting       ``60''.

(2) Conforming amendment.--Section 60126(a)(1)(E) of title       51, United States Code, is amended by striking ``120'' and       inserting ``60''.

(b) Notifications.--Section 60126(a)(2) of title 51, United       States Code, is amended by striking ``section 60122; and''       and inserting ``paragraphs (5) and (6) of section       60122(b);''.

(c) Conditions.--Section 60126(a) of title 51, United       States Code, is amended--

(1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new       paragraph:

``(3) all terms, conditions, or restrictions placed on       licensees pursuant to section 60122; and''.

(d) Tiers.--Section 60126(a)(1) of title 51, United States       Code, is amended--

(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;

(2) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``and'' at the end;       and

(3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:

``(F) a list of all applications submitted and licenses       granted in accordance therewith, listed by tier as defined in       regulation, as well as the rationale for each tier       categorization;''.

(e) Sunset.--Section 60126 of title 51, United States Code,       is amended by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting       ``September 30, 2030''.

Mr. BABIN.  1325, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1325, the Commercial Remote  Sensing Amendment Act of 2025.

This bill updates reporting requirements for NOAA's Office of  Commercial Remote Sensing Regulatory Affairs, giving Congress the  ability to monitor how regulations are affecting the expansion and  development of the commercial and remote sensing industry.

Remote sensing uses data collected from satellites to produce images  of Earth and has become a crucial tool in fields like agriculture,  finance, trade, energy, and national security. Commercial remote  sensing also provides us with vital information for many important  applications. The technology behind it is constantly evolving, and the  industry is seeing tremendous growth.

To effectively support and manage remote sensing activities, it is  imperative that Congress receives timely and comprehensive reports in  order to evaluate the state of the industry and how regulations are  affecting this growth.

The Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act of 2015 established a  reporting requirement for the Department of Commerce on the status of  commercial remote sensing licensing and regulation. That requirement  expired in 2020. H.R. 1325 will reinstate this reporting requirement  and keep Congress informed of agency actions, their impact on  licensees, and the state of the commercial remote sensing industry.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1325 is a no-nonsense, bipartisan bill that will  ensure the U.S. remains at the helm of this important field.

I thank the former chairman of the Science, Space, and Technology  Committee, Mr. Lucas, for introducing this bill and his leadership on  this important topic. This bill passed the House by a voice vote in the  last two Congresses, and I look forward to working with the Senate to  see it finally cross the finish line.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. BABIN.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, as I said previously, commercial remote  sensing provides us with critical information related to a number of  fields important to U.S. competitiveness.

H.R. 1325 will ensure that Congress receives the updates necessary to  monitor industry regulations. Updating these reporting requirements  will ensure the U.S. remains the global leader in this crucial sector.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I yield back  the balance of my time.