Cost-Share Accountability Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688929/cost-share-accountability-act-of-2025


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 359) to Amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require reporting  relating to certain cost-share requirements, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 359

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Cost-Share Accountability       Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C.       16352) is amended by adding at the end the following new       subsection:

``(g) Reporting.--Not later than 120 days after the date of       the enactment of this subsection and at least quarterly       thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on       Science, Space, and Technology and Committee on       Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee       on Appropriations of the Senate, and shall make publicly       available, a report on the use by the Department during the       period covered by the report of the authority to reduce or       eliminate cost-sharing requirements provided by subsection       (b)(3) or (c)(2).''.

Mr. BABIN.  359, the bill now under  consideration.

H.R. 359, the Cost-Share Accountability Act of 2025, is a good  government bill that does exactly what it says: It improves  accountability.

Led by Mr. Obernolte, this bill requires the Department of Energy  (DOE) to submit a quarterly report to Congress describing instances  where it has modified or waived cost-share requirements and make these  reports publicly available.

DOE is subject to cost-share requirements when making awards for  research, development, demonstration, and commercial application  activities. This means that each project must have a certain funding  percentage, usually at least 50 percent, contributed by the award  recipient. However, DOE can modify or eliminate those requirements,  when necessary, which is an authority that can be critical to  supporting early-stage technologies.

H.R. 359 does not prevent DOE from waiving cost-share requirements.  It simply ensures that any changes are reported to Congress and are  made public. Transparency and accountability are important because they  allow us to track how taxpayer dollars are spent once appropriated to  DOE.

Mr. Speaker, this bill passed the House with unanimous support in the  118th Congress and is a prime example of the bipartisan backing for  Congress' role in overseeing transparent and efficient spending by  Federal agencies. I thank Representative Obernolte for leading this  legislation again in the 119th Congress and Representative Foster for  cosponsoring it.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in support of this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.