Doe and Nsf Interagency Research Act


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1350) to provide for Department of Energy and National Science  Foundation research and development coordination, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1350

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``DOE and NSF Interagency       Research Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                     RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy (in this section       referred to as the ``Secretary'') and the Director of the       National Science Foundation (in this section referred to as       the ``Director'') shall carry out cross-cutting and       collaborative research and development activities focused on       the joint advancement of Department of Energy and National       Science Foundation mission requirements and priorities.

(b) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretary and the       Director shall coordinate the activities under subsection (a)       through the establishment of a memorandum of understanding,       or other appropriate interagency agreement. Such memorandum       or agreement, as the case may be, shall require the use of a       competitive, merit-reviewed process, which considers       applications from Federal agencies, National Laboratories,       institutions of higher education, non-profit institutions,       and other appropriate entities.

(c) Coordination.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director may--

(1) conduct collaborative research in a variety of focus       areas, such as--

(A) basic plasma science and engineering, including       applications in astrophysics, materials science, fusion       science, and accelerator science;

(B) fundamental biological and computational science and       engineering, including computational neuroscience and       neuromorphic computing, including in collaboration with the       program authorized under section 306 of the Department of       Energy Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18644);

(C) modeling and simulation, machine learning, artificial       intelligence, data assimilation, large-scale data analytics,       predictive analysis, and advanced computational, storage, and       networking capabilities in order to optimize algorithms for       purposes related to energy and climate;

(D) quantum information sciences, including quantum       computing and quantum network infrastructure, including in       collaboration with the programs authorized under sections 403       and 404 of the National Quantum Initiative Act (15 U.S.C.       8853 and 8854);

(E) energy and materials science and engineering, including       artificial photosynthesis, plasma, solar fuels, and fusion,       including in collaboration with the programs authorized under       sections 303 and 307 of the Department of Energy Research and       Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18641 and 18645), and section 973       of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16313);

(F) advanced manufacturing technologies, including       efficient storage systems and alternatives to high-      temperature processing, for the purposes of optimizing energy       consumption, including in collaboration with the program       authorized under section 975 of the Department of Energy       Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 16315);

(G) microelectronics, including novel chip architectures,       memory systems, and interconnects; and

(H) advanced physics, including high energy and particle       physics, accelerator research and development, and high       performance computational tools, including in collaboration       with the programs authorized under section 303 of the       Department of Energy Research and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C.       18641);

(2) promote collaboration, open community-based       development, and data and information sharing between Federal       agencies, National Laboratories, institutions of higher       education, nonprofit institutions, and other appropriate       entities by providing the necessary access and secure data       and information transfer capabilities;

(3) support research infrastructure, including new       facilities and equipment, as the Secretary and Director       determine necessary; and

(4) organize education, training, and research initiatives       relating to STEM education and workforce development,       including--

(A) internships, fellowships, and other research or work-      based learning opportunities;

(B) educational programming for students at all levels,       especially experiential and project-based learning       opportunities; and

(C) professional development opportunities for educators       and researchers.

(d) Agreements.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretary and the Director are authorized       to--

(1) carry out reimbursable agreements between the       Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, and       other entities in order to maximize the effectiveness of       research and development; and

(2) collaborate with other Federal agencies, as       appropriate.

(e) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this section, the Secretary and the Director       shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and       Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee       on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on       Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report       detailing the following:

(1) Interagency coordination between each Federal agency       involved in the research and development activities carried       out under this section.

(2) Potential opportunities to expand the technical       capabilities of the Department of Energy and the National       Science Foundation.

(3) Collaborative research achievements.

(4) Areas of future mutually beneficial successes.

(5) Continuation of coordination activities between the       Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation.

(f) Research Security.--The activities authorized under       this section shall be applied in a manner consistent with       subtitle D of title VI of the Research and Development,       Competition, and Innovation Act (enacted as division B of       Public Law 117-167; 42 U.S.C. 19231 et seq.).

Mr. BABIN.  1350, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1350, the DOE and  NSF Interagency Research Act, which passed the House in the 118th  Congress. This bill supports the longstanding partnership between the  Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation, allowing  these agencies to work on cutting-edge research and technological  challenges.

As this body is aware, our adversaries, like the Chinese Communist  Party, are quickly closing the gap on innovative technologies like  artificial intelligence, quantum information science, and advanced  manufacturing.

The CCP's efforts to outspend, out-educate, and outpace the the  United States in these critical areas are increasingly concerning and  something that we cannot ignore.

This legislation will bolster U.S. leadership on the global stage in  emerging technologies, ensuring that our competitors do not eclipse us.  Additionally, by authorizing this interagency collaboration, we  maximize our investments to maintain our competitive edge.

DOE is our Nation's largest supporter of basic research in physical  sciences, while NSF is the backbone of the collaborative research  environment between government and academia. Together, these agencies  can fuel innovation across multiple disciplines, including physics,  quantum information sciences, artificial intelligence, and materials  science.

This bill enhances the capabilities of DOE and NSF, leveraging their  research and development investments to maximize the impact of taxpayer  dollars. By authorizing collaboration between DOE and NSF, we maximize  our return on investment and ensure that we remain at the forefront of  technological progress.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Stevens and Baird and the  members of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology for  reintroducing this important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1350, the DOE and NSF Interagency Research Act,  will support U.S. competitiveness in emerging technologies and key  economic sectors while leveraging taxpayer dollars, enabling more to be  accomplished with fewer resources.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the good work of my colleagues,  Representatives Stevens and Baird. I urge my colleagues to support this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.