Doe and Usda Interagency Research Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688980/doe-and-usda-interagency-research-act


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1326) to provide for Department of Energy and Department of  Agriculture joint research and development activities, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1326

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``DOE and USDA Interagency       Research Act''.       SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                     JOINT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary       of Agriculture (in this section referred to as the       ``Secretaries'') shall carry out cross-cutting and       collaborative research and development activities focused on       the joint advancement of Department of Energy and Department       of Agriculture mission requirements and priorities.

(b) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretaries shall       carry out and coordinate the activities under subsection (a)       through the establishment of a memorandum of understanding,       or other appropriate interagency agreement. Such memorandum       or agreement shall require the use of a competitive, merit-      reviewed process, which considers applications from Federal       agencies, National Laboratories, institutions of higher       education, nonprofit institutions, and other appropriate       entities.

(c) Coordination.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretaries may carry out the following:

(1) Conduct collaborative research over a variety of focus       areas, such as the following:

(A) Modeling and simulation, machine learning, artificial       intelligence, data assimilation, large scale data analytics,       and predictive analysis in order to optimize algorithms for       purposes related to agriculture and energy, such as life       cycle analysis of agricultural or energy systems.

(B) Fundamental agricultural, biological, computational,       and environmental science and engineering, including advanced       crop science, crop protection, breeding, and biological pest       control, in collaboration with the program authorized under       section 306 of the Department of Energy Research and       Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18644).

(C) Integrated natural resources and the energy-water       nexus, including in collaboration with the program authorized       under section 1010 of the Energy Act of 2020 (enacted as       division Z of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (42       U.S.C. 16183)).

(D) Advanced biomass, biobased products, and biofuels,       including in collaboration with the activities authorized       under section 9008(b) of the Farm Security and Rural       Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8108(b)).

(E) Diverse feedstocks for economically and environmentally       sustainable fuels, including aviation and naval fuels.

(F) Colocation of agricultural resources and activities and       ecosystem services with diverse energy technologies and       resources.

(G) Colocation of agricultural resources and activities       with carbon storage and utilization technologies.

(H) Invasive species management to further the work done by       the Federal Interagency Committee for the Management of       Noxious and Exotic Weeds.

(I) Long-term and high-risk technological barriers in the       development of transformative science and technology       solutions in the agriculture and energy sectors, including in       collaboration with the program authorized under section 5012       of the America COMPETES Act (42 U.S.C. 16538).

(J) Grid modernization and grid security.

(K) Rural technology development, including manufacturing,       precision agriculture technologies, and mechanization and       automation technologies.

(L) Wildfire risks and prevention, including the power       sector's role in fire prevention and mitigation and wildfire       impacts on energy infrastructure.

(2) Develop methods to accommodate large voluntary       standardized and integrated data sets on agricultural,       environmental, supply chain, and economic information with       variable accuracy and scale.

(3) Promote collaboration, open community-based       development, and data and information sharing between Federal       agencies, National Laboratories, institutions of higher       education, nonprofit institutions, industry partners, and       other appropriate entities by providing reliable access to       secure data and information that are in compliance with       Federal rules and regulations.

(4) Support research infrastructure and workforce       development as the Secretaries determine necessary.

(5) Conduct collaborative research, development, and       demonstration of methods and technologies to accomplish the       following:

(A) Improve the efficiency of agriculture operations and       processing of agricultural products.

(B) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with such       operations and such processing.

(d) Agreements.--In carrying out the activities under       subsection (a), the Secretaries are authorized to--

(1) carry out reimbursable agreements between the       Department of Energy, the Department of Agriculture, and       other entities in order to maximize the effectiveness of       research and development; and

(2) collaborate with other Federal agencies as appropriate.

(e) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to the       Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee       on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and the       Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee       on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, a       report detailing the following:

(1) Interagency coordination between each Federal agency       involved in the research and development activities carried       out under this section.

(2) Potential opportunities to expand the technical       capabilities of the Department of Energy and the Department       of Agriculture.

(3) Collaborative research achievements.

(4) Areas of future mutually beneficial successes.

(5) Continuation of coordination activities between the       Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture.

(f) Research Security.--The activities authorized under       this section shall be applied in a manner consistent with       subtitle D of title VI of the Research and Development,       Competition, and Innovation Act (enacted as division B of       Public Law 117-167; 42 U.S.C. 19231 et seq.).

Mr. BABIN.  1326, the bill now under consideration.

Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1326, the DOE and USDA Interagency Research Act is  a perfect example of government efficiency. This bill directs the  Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture to share their  resources and knowledge to achieve common mission priorities.

DOE and USDA already have a successful track record of collaboration  in topics such as the energy-water nexus, invasive species control,  wildfire risk mitigation, and biofuels. Through the expanded  interagency agreement authorized in this bill, DOE and USDA can tackle  additional complex research challenges, such as genomics-based  research, rural energy development, and grid modernization.

These joint efforts advance clean energy and agricultural  technologies and promote rural economic growth. As global competition  intensifies and our adversaries seek to gain an advantage by feeding  and clothing the rest of the world, it is vital that we strengthen and  preserve this interagency collaboration to keep pace through  innovation.

This bill will do exactly that. We have two world-class agencies, DOE  and USDA, conducting research, so it only makes sense that we ensure  they are both at the table to coordinate on a wide range of topics.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, this bill passed the House with unanimous  support last Congress. That is because smart, bipartisan legislation  rarely faces opposition.

I thank former Science, Space, and Technology Committee chairman, Mr.  Lucas, and Ranking Member Lofgren for once again leading this effort.

I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back  the balance of my time.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.