Small Business Artificial Intelligence Advancement Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700127/small-business-artificial-intelligence-advancement-act


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3679) to require the Director of the National Institute of  Standards and Technology to develop resources for small businesses in  utilizing artificial intelligence, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3679

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Artificial       Intelligence Advancement Act''.       SEC. 2. RESOURCES FOR SMALL BUSINESSES TO UTILIZE ARTIFICIAL                     INTELLIGENCE.

Section 22A of the National Institute of Standards and       Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278h-1) is amended--

(1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and

(2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new       subsection:

``(h) Development of Resources for Small Businesses in       Utilizing Artificial Intelligence.--

``(1) In general.--Subject to the availability of       appropriations, the Director shall, in carrying out       subsection (a), develop or identify, and disseminate (in       accordance with paragraph (4)), resources for small business       concerns (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Small       Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) relating to artificial       intelligence. Such resources may include technical standards,       best practices, benchmarks, methodologies, procedures, or       processes for the understanding, adoption, or integration of       artificial intelligence.

``(2) Requirements.--The Director shall ensure that the       resources described in paragraph (1) satisfy the following:

``(A) Are generally applicable and usable by a wide range       of small business concerns.

``(B) Include elements that promote basic understanding,       identification, and adoption of proper use cases of       artificial intelligence.

``(C) Include case studies of practical application across       a range of business sizes and types.

``(D) Are technology-neutral and relevant to technologies       that are accessible and suitable for small businesses.

``(E) Are based on international voluntary standards as       applicable, and are consistent with the Stevenson-Wydler       Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.).

``(F) Include recommendations and references to existing       Federal educational resources, including the risk management       framework under subsection (c), privacy and cybersecurity       risk management frameworks established by the Institute, and       activities relating to the national cybersecurity awareness       and education program under section 303 of the Cybersecurity       Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7443).

``(3) Review and update of resources.--Not later than two       years after the date of the enactment of this subsection and       not less frequently than once every two years thereafter, the       Director shall carry out the following:

``(A) Review the resources described in paragraph (1).

``(B) Update such resources as the Director considers       appropriate.

``(4) Dissemination and use of training resources.--The       Director shall coordinate with the Administrator of the Small       Business Administration regarding the distribution and use       through the resource partners of the Small Business       Administration of the resources described in paragraph (1).

``(5) Voluntary resources.--The use of the resources       described in paragraph (1) shall be considered voluntary.

``(6) Report.--

``(A) In general.--Not later than four years after the date       of the enactment of this subsection, the Director shall       submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of       the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,       Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the       development, identification, dissemination, and use of the       resources described in paragraph (1), including updates made       pursuant to paragraph (3).

``(B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall       include the following:

``(i) A list of the resources described in paragraph (1),       including updates made pursuant to paragraph (3).

``(ii) Relevant feedback from recipients of such resources,       and disseminators of such resources pursuant to paragraph       (4).

``(iii) Recommendations to Congress for further actions to       help with the utilization of artificial intelligence by small       business concerns.''.

Mr. BABIN.  3679, the bill that is now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be here to support H.R. 3679, the Small  Business Artificial Intelligence Advancement Act, sponsored by my  colleagues, Representatives  Mike Collins and Haley Stevens.

American small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and it is  essential that they leverage cutting-edge innovations to keep the  United States at the forefront of the global economy.

As chairman of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have  closely followed the accelerating growth of artificial intelligence, or  AI, technologies and their wide-ranging applications across industries  nationwide.

Major U.S. companies are rapidly developing their own AI technologies  and investing in the resources needed to integrate AI into their  operations. AI holds tremendous promise. Incorporating it into a  business model is complex and requires significant expertise and  capital.

As a result, many small businesses have not yet been able to fully  unlock AI's potential. It is time to ensure small businesses can  harness these capabilities as well, strengthening American  entrepreneurship and competing with the Chinese Communist Party across  every dimension of the AI race, including business innovation.

This legislation directs the National Institute of Standards and  Technology, or NIST, to develop and share practical resources to help  small businesses better understand and adopt artificial intelligence  technologies.

This bill is a bipartisan effort to ensure American businesses remain  competitive in the AI race and to reinforce our economic leadership  globally.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Collins and Stevens for their  work on this very important legislation.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3679, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, the time to use artificial intelligence in business is  now, and we must do everything we can to support small business efforts  to harness the power of this technology. The National Institute of  Standards and Technology can greatly help American small businesses  understand and adopt AI to strengthen American businesses and our  economy. H.R. 3679 will eliminate roadblocks to and increase  implementation of AI.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.