United States Research Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688931/united-states-research-protection-act


Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1318) to amend the Research and Development, Competition, and  Innovation Act to clarify the definition of foreign country for  purposes of malign foreign talent recruitment restriction, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1318

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``United States Research       Protection Act''.       SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF FOREIGN COUNTRY FOR                     PURPOSES OF MALIGN FOREIGN TALENT RECRUITMENT                     RESTRICTION.

Paragraph (4) of section 10638 of title VI of division B of       the Research and Development, Competition, and Innovation Act       (Public Law 117-167; 42 U.S.C. 19237) is amended--

(1) by inserting ``of concern'' after ``foreign country''       each place such term appears;

(2) by striking ``means--'' and all that follows through       ``any program, position, or activity'' and inserting ``means       any program, position, or activity'';

(3) by striking subparagraph (B);

(4) by redesignating clauses (i) through (ix) as       subparagraphs (A) through (I), respectively, and moving such       subparagraphs, as so redesignated, two ems to the left;

(5) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so       redesignated, by striking ``directly provided'' and inserting       ``whether directly or indirectly provided''; and

(6) in subparagraph (I), as so redesignated, by striking       ``; and'' and inserting a period.

Mr. BABIN.  1318, the bill now under  consideration.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to stand in support of H.R. 1318, the  United States Research Protection Act, sponsored by my colleagues,  Representatives Kennedy and Stevens. This legislation passed the House  in the 118th Congress, and I am pleased that we are taking it up again  today.

America's leadership in science and technology is built on the  foundation of Federal investments and basic research. These investments  enhance our national security, strengthen our economy, and improve the  lives of our citizens.

Our unique research ecosystem, which combines Federal, academic, and  private R&D efforts, drives America's advancement in science and  technology. However, for this system to work, we need a degree of open  science that facilitates collaboration and transparency. The challenge  is ensuring this openness does not compromise our research security.

While the U.S. has significantly profited from this system, other  countries--friends and foes--also benefit from U.S. investments. The  theft of our basic research poses a significant risk to our global  competitiveness. It takes our cutting-edge innovations and puts them to  work for our adversaries, undermining our economy and hindering our  ability to stay at the forefront of discovery.

A 2023 survey by the Center for Strategic and International Studies  found 224 reported instances of Chinese espionage directed at the  United States since 2000.

After conducting oversight of recently enacted research security  requirements, the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee was  informed that complicated and confusing language in the CHIPS and  Science Act was preventing the academic community from fully securing  taxpayer-funded research.

H.R. 1318 will update and clarify the definition of a malign foreign  talent recruitment program to assist universities and agencies in  protecting our national investments. This bill is a simple bipartisan  solution to protect our tax dollars and the research that they fund  from foreign espionage.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives Kennedy and Stevens for their  work on this critical legislation. I urge my colleagues to support H.R.

Mr. Speaker, the government needs clear and explicit guidance for our  agencies and federally funded researchers. While this body has passed  multiple bills to protect American research, unintentional ambiguity  has created confusion within the academic research community. H.R. 1318  will eliminate confusion around the implementation of research security  requirements and increase protections of our R&D enterprise.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this simple and  noncontroversial bipartisan legislation, and I yield back the balance  of my time.