National Senior Investor Initiative Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, in this Congress, as in previous Congresses, I  introduced the Senior Security Act to protect vulnerable seniors from  fraudsters who seek to take financial advantage of them. We are  bringing it again this Congress and working very closely with Mrs.  Wagner. I am grateful for her leadership, as well as the chairman's  leadership, and as well as the ranking member who has been very  supportive.

Millions of seniors across the country, including my own mother-- blessed memory--have been the victims of financial scams, and far too  many have been cheated out of their retirement savings. It is  appalling. It is offensive, and it is unacceptable.

Senior scams have more than doubled since 2020. These senior scams  cost older Americans more than $36 billion a year, with the average  victim losing $34,000 from these crimes annually, not to mention the  pain you can't put a dollar amount on. What is worse is that the  majority of cases of elder exploitation are not reported.

We are here today to do something about it by passing my Senior  Security Act to help protect American seniors from these shameless  criminals.

This bipartisan legislation will create a senior investor task force  in the Securities and Exchange Commission that will be a cop on the  beat ensuring we do everything possible to stop hucksters from scamming  our seniors. Every 2 years the task force will also submit a report to  Congress outlining trends and innovations, including robocalls and  voice spoofing and all the developments in artificial intelligence that  are impacting seniors to help us stay ahead of changes in financial  scams.

We must protect our seniors from having their hard-earned retirement  savings stolen right out from under them, as the chairman just  mentioned, in his own State.

Senior scams, as we have discussed, and as Mrs. Wagner just pointed  out, have exploded over the last decades. With new technologies like  artificial intelligence, these scams are becoming and will continue to  be ever more prevalent in the years ahead.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleague to support this bill which will  allow the Securities and Exchange Commission to better understand and  respond to this growing crisis.

I thank Mrs. Wagner for her partnership on this bipartisan  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.