2025 Juneteenth Major League Baseball Events in Birmingham


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge June 19 as  Juneteenth. On June 19, this Nation will recognize Juneteenth with a  Federal holiday. We will gather in the spirit of remembrance,  resilience, and recommitment to celebrate a day of delayed liberation,  but not undeniable triumph.

On June 19, 1865, more than 2 years after President Lincoln signed  the Emancipation Proclamation, Union soldiers arrived in Galveston,  Texas, with the news that the last enslaved Black Americans were  finally free.

Freedom did not come easily. It came slowly, unevenly, and at a  painful cost, but it came. Along with it, generations of Black  Americans began the long, unfinished journey toward full equality  through Reconstruction, through Jim Crow, through the civil rights  movement, and through the voting rights movement even now in our time.

Juneteenth is not just about history. It is about truth telling. It  is a reminder that freedom delayed is freedom fought for and that  liberation means more than just the breaking of physical chains. It  demands justice in our laws, equity in our institutions, dignity in our  labor, and respect in our schools, in our neighborhoods, and in our  Nation.

My district, Alabama's Seventh Congressional District, will honor  Juneteenth with a host of activities. The NAACP in Tuscaloosa will kick  it off with a parade on Saturday and a luncheon on Thursday. In  Birmingham, we will have a variety of events including a unity  breakfast on Friday hosted by DA Danny Carr and the League of  Gentlemen.

We will also welcome Major League Baseball back to Birmingham,  Alabama, for the second consecutive year. On June 19, 2025, Major  League Baseball will return to the Magic City for the 2025 East-West  Classic game at Rickwood Field. The game will pay tribute to the Negro  leagues and honor Birmingham's important contributions to baseball  history.

This year, we will also celebrate the ribbon cutting of the newly  refurbished Willie Mays Park in Fairfield, Alabama. Thanks to the  generosity of Major League Baseball and the extraordinary efforts of  State Senator Merika Coleman and numerous community partners, the  Willie Mays Park will undergo major improvements and will now serve  generations of aspiring young baseball players in Jefferson County.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Major  League Baseball for their continued investment in Alabama's Seventh  Congressional District. We look forward to welcoming them back to the  Magic City. Of course, we know how important baseball has been not only  to the African-American community but to the American community writ  large.

We are excited to welcome Major League Baseball back to Birmingham,  Alabama. Thanks to their generosity and the generosity of so many, we  will continue to play ball in Alabama's Seventh Congressional District.

Let's play ball.