Congratulating High School Basketball Champions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689179/congratulating-high-school-basketball-champions


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, with the eyes of the Nation on Alabama and  Auburn men's basketball as they compete in the NCAA March Madness  championship tournament, I would like to also shed a light on the  outstanding high school basketball players in Alabama's Seventh  Congressional District who led their teams to championship victories  this season.

That includes the girls' 7A champions at Hoover High School, who  dominated their competition and brought home the gold at the end of  their 29-3 season. Way to go, ladies.

Likewise, Hoover High School's boys were also crowned 7A champions at  the end of their undefeated season. Go, Hoover Buccaneers.

In Tuscaloosa, we recognize the boys of Paul W. Bryant High School,  who took home the Division 6A Championship title following their 27-7  season.

In Clarke County, we congratulate the Jackson Academy boys, who  finished their 21-4 season when they won the Division 4A championship.

Last, but certainly not least, I congratulate Uniontown's own R.C.  Hatch boys' basketball team. In February, the Bobcats set a new record  for boys' basketball in the State of Alabama when they took home their  11th State title as Division 1A champions.

As the proud daughter of the late Coach Andrew A. Sewell, who coached  the Selma High School Saints for over 30 years, including in numerous  State tournament games, I know firsthand the amount of dedication,  talent, and teamwork that goes into earning a State championship title.

On behalf of Alabama's Seventh Congressional District, I ask my  colleagues to join me in congratulating our outstanding high school  basketball champions. I am confident that these young student athletes  have bright futures ahead of them.

This weekend, the city of Birmingham will host the NCAA women's  basketball Sweet 16 and Elite 8 in the Magic City. We welcome all of  the teams to Birmingham, Alabama, and wish them much success.