Expressing Support for Tax Policies That Support Working Families


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701803/expressing-support-for-tax-policies-that-support-working-families


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, the big, ugly bill or, as it has been  renamed, the Working Families Tax Cuts Act, is not working for families  in my district. In fact, on this tax day, I cannot believe that my  Republican colleagues are on the floor today celebrating a bill that is  exploding the deficit by $4.2 trillion, deepening income inequality,  stripping healthcare from working families, and taking food off the  tables of needy children.

Mr. Speaker, every day I hear from my constituents around Alabama's  Seventh Congressional District. They are talking about the fact that  nothing seems affordable anymore. What do I say to the single mother in  my district who is losing Medicaid coverage for her child because of  this bill? What do I say to the elderly neighbor who no longer  qualifies for SNAP or to the rural communities I represent who will  lose their only hospital because of this bill?

I am deeply saddened because Republicans could have chosen another  path. Instead of slashing $1 trillion from Medicaid, instead of  slashing $500 billion from Medicare, they could have worked with  Democrats to renew the fully refundable child tax credit that cut child  poverty in half and expanded economic prosperity for communities across  the Nation when Democrats were in the majority.

If my Republican colleagues wanted to help working families, they  could stand up to President Trump and stop his reckless trade war that  has created an affordability crisis.

Mr. Speaker, on this tax day, the American people are seeing exactly  what happens when Republicans are in charge. We are seeing tariff wars.  We are seeing real wars in the Middle East, tax giveaways for the  wealthy, exploding deficits, and an attack on our essential healthcare  programs like Medicare and Medicaid.

On this tax day, my constituents say enough is enough. This tax bill  has been a devastation to the people that I represent, and on this tax  day, I stand before you to say that working families tax cuts is a cut  for working families and not a cut to the wealthy.