Fighting Voter Suppression


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689343/fighting-voter-suppression


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my CBC colleagues in getting  into some good trouble as we voice our very strong opposition to the  Republicans' voter suppression bill, the so-called SAVE Act.

As a daughter of Selma and the Representative of Alabama's civil  rights district, the fight for voting rights is very personal to me. It  was in Selma 60 years ago where John Lewis and hundreds of foot  soldiers were bludgeoned on the Edmund Pettus Bridge for the equal  right of every American to vote. The legislation before us makes a  mockery of that legacy.

Since his defeat in the 2020 election, President Donald Trump and his  Republican allies have pushed the big lie of a stolen election. The  majority has tried to convince the American people of the lie that  noncitizens are a threat to our elections and are using that lie as an  excuse to pass a new law, such as the SAVE Act, which would make it  harder for millions of Americans to cast their ballots.

Mr. Speaker, the facts are clear: It is already illegal for  noncitizens to vote in Federal elections, or in any elections. In fact,  under current law, noncitizens would face up to 5 years in prison for  attempting to vote in Federal elections and would even risk being  deported.

In reality, this legislation would purge thousands of eligible voters  from the rolls. It would create significant barriers for the 69 million  women who currently are married and changed their last names so that  their birth certificates do not match their marriage certificates.  Thus, it would be harder for these almost 70 million women to vote.

The 140 million Americans who do not have a passport and those with  military IDs and Tribal IDs, none of which would be able to prove their  birth citizenship, are not included in the bill as proper forms of ID  that will allow someone to show their citizenship.

Americans should see this bill for what it is: a cynical attempt to  flame the fire of false voter fraud by the same extremist who brought  us the January 6 insurrection.

Their objective of suppressing the vote was made even more clear last  week, Mr. Speaker, when President Trump signed an executive order to  erode voting rights and gave Elon Musk, an unelected, unconfirmed  person, the right to access Americans' personal voter information.

Mr. Speaker, as elected officials in this House, we should be  fighting to protect and expand access to the ballot box, not restrict  it. As old battles have become new again, we in the Congressional Black  Caucus have remained committed to ensuring and defending the sacred  right to vote. This right to vote was won with blood, sweat, tears, and  even deaths. We in the Congressional Black Caucus see voting rights as  our North Star.

Mr. Speaker, we will not stop fighting as long as President Trump and  Elon Musk and House Republicans are trying to take away our sacred  right to vote.

I urge all of my colleagues to not only vote ``no'' on the SAVE Act,  but to do so with vigor and with purpose.

It was John Lewis who said that ours is not the struggle of 1 day, 1  week, 1 year. Ours is a struggle of a lifetime. As long as the  Congressional Black Caucus, 63 Members strong, is in this Congress, we  will stand up and protect the right of every American to vote, and we  will stop efforts like the SAVE Act.

The SAVE Act is not there to save election integrity. The SAVE Act is  all about saving Republican seats and Republican elected officials. We  will be voting ``no'' on that bill when it comes to the floor, and we  urge our other colleagues to do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I commend the gentlewoman from Virginia (Ms. McClellan)  for leading this Special Order hour. We in the Congressional Black  Caucus stand on the shoulders of giants. It is now time for us to get  off of their shoulders and to do our own work, and our own work, we  will do in defeating the SAVE Act and for standing up for the legacy of  John Lewis and those foot soldiers who marched on a bridge in my  hometown for the equal right of every American to vote. As long as we  have a voice, the CBC will be standing up for voting rights.