Observing World Pancreatic Cancer Day


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697076/observing-world-pancreatic-cancer-day


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in observance of today, November 20,  as World Pancreatic Cancer Day.

It is a time to shine light on the devastating impact of this disease  and dedicate ourselves to improving prevention, early detection, and  treatment.

Pancreatic cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths  in the United States and is on track to becoming the second by 2030.  Over 67,000 Americans are diagnosed each year with pancreatic cancer.

Like so many Americans, I know all too well the terrible impact of  this disease. In 2021, I lost my dear mother, Nancy Gardner Sewell, to  pancreatic cancer.

By the time we caught it, the cancer had already spread. She passed  away just 8 weeks after her diagnosis. In an effort to turn my pain  into purpose, I have committed myself to doing everything I can to  prevent other families from enduring such a painful loss.

Along with my friend Congressman Jodey Arrington, I am proud to be  leading H.R. 842. In the 118th Congress, Congressman Arrington  introduced our bill and surprised me by renaming it after my mother,  the Nancy Gardner Sewell Medicare Multi-Cancer Early Detection  Screening Act.

Our bill would create a pathway for Medicare to cover multiple cancer  early detection tests. Medicare will cover that by making sure that  once it is approved by the FDA, it immediately becomes available to  Medicare patients. This is so important because the promise of  screening for more than 40 cancers lies with a simple blood test.

If passed, it will give our seniors their best shot at catching  cancer early and treating it before it spreads. Just 2 months ago, our  bill passed unanimously out of the House Ways and Means Committee. It  enjoys overwhelmingly bipartisan support with 332 House cosponsors and  67 Senate cosponsors.

Later today, I look forward to convening lawmakers, researchers,  advocates, and families for a roundtable on the latest developments in  prevention, early detection, and treatment. I thank the Pancreatic  Cancer Action Network, the American Cancer Society, and all of the more  than 500 stakeholders for all of their efforts. I am so grateful for  the tireless work of our cancer advocates. Without them, this bill  would not enjoy such broad bipartisan support.

As we wear purple today in honor of World Pancreatic Cancer Day, I  ask my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 842, the Nancy Gardner  Sewell Multi-Cancer Early Detection Act.

Mr. Speaker, let's get this bill across the finish line and pave the  way for the world without pancreatic cancer.                          National Rural Health Day

Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize today as National Rural  Health Day.

As the daughter of Alabama's rural Black Belt, I know firsthand the  challenges that our rural communities face when it comes to accessing  quality, affordable healthcare.

For too many patients in rural America, getting seen by a doctor  requires driving miles to the nearest hospital or health center. Broken  payment systems and workforce challenges have put an enormous strain on  our healthcare system.

In Congress, I am proud to be leading legislation that will tackle  these challenges. Our Graduate Medical Education bill will add  thousands of residency slots, creating a pipeline of qualified health  professionals to serve patients in rural America.

Our Save America's Rural Hospitals Act takes important steps to  ensure that rural hospitals are fairly reimbursed for their services.  The Home Health Stabilization Act will allow more seniors to receive  the care that they need in the comfort of their own homes.

I am also working hard to expand access to telehealth services,  mental health, and substance use programs, and support our rural  ambulance providers. It is so important that our rural ambulance  providers know the importance that they have in rural America.

Mr. Speaker, when it comes to healthcare, our rural communities are  on life support. Republicans' so-called big, beautiful bill makes the  largest cut to healthcare in American history. Despite the dysfunction  in Washington, we in Alabama are fortunate to have amazing partners  standing in the gap.

Just last month, I was thrilled to attend the groundbreaking of the  Alabama School of Healthcare Sciences in Demopolis, Alabama. This new  state-  supported residential high school is located in the heart of Alabama's  Black Belt, where it will cultivate the next generation of healthcare  professionals.

I believe that access to quality, affordable healthcare should be a  right for all Americans and not just for the few. As we observe  National Rural Health Day, let us recommit ourselves to ensuring that  every American, regardless of their ZIP Code, gets the care that they  need and that they deserve.