Recovery of Stolen Checks Act


Mr. Speaker, I am very proud today to join my colleague,  Representative Malliotakis, in cosponsoring and speaking in favor of  the Recovery of Stolen Checks Act.

This bill requires the Treasury to make procedures that allow  taxpayers to opt in to receiving a replacement refund by direct deposit  after their paper checks have been lost or stolen in the mail.

Right now, the Treasury Department is only allowed to continue  sending a paper check to the same address, even though the check was  stolen or lost at that very address. It is Congress' responsibility to  give Treasury the ability to modernize, become more efficient, and most  importantly, deliver much-needed payments to people that are relying on  them as quickly as possible. This is a commonsense, straightforward,  and urgent reform.

Every year, millions of Americans eagerly await their tax refund,  money that they have rightfully earned. Unfortunately, criminals have  exploited weaknesses in our system, stealing and cashing checks that do  not belong to them. This fraud not only robs individuals of their  refunds but also costs taxpayers millions of dollars annually.

The Recovery of Stolen Checks Act strengthens the government's  ability to track and recover stolen refund checks. It empowers the U.S.  Treasury and financial industries and institutions to act swiftly when  fraud is detected, enabling that victim to get their payment much  faster and that criminal to be held accountable.

With this bill, stolen checks can be flagged and traced more  efficiently, victims will experience a quicker resolution and recovery  process, banks and financial institutions will have clearer guidelines  to prevent fraudulent transactions, and taxpayer dollars will be better  protected, reducing the losses due to fraud.

Every dollar, Mr. Speaker, lost to fraud is a dollar taken from  taxpayers. H.R. 1155 ensures that their hard-earned money is  safeguarded and that criminals cannot exploit the system without  consequences.

By closing loopholes and enhancing the recovery efforts, this  legislation protects the integrity of our tax system and restores trust  in financial security.

Mr. Speaker, I have had dozens of conversations with constituents who  have spent months trying to receive a check from Treasury. In one  instance, a constituent was sent two checks by the Treasury Department,  neither delivered to her nor cashed by her before reaching out to my  office for assistance. She just wanted the payment that she was owed.

Instead, the Treasury Department told her that they would only  continue mailing a paper check to the same address where it had failed  to get to her multiple times.

This policy is burdensome and it simply does not work. The caseworker  on my staff continued to encounter cases just like this one, some  taking over a year to resolve. This is way too long for the American  public, and we need to do something about it. That is why this  particular bill's resolution is common sense. I ask my colleagues to  support it.

Mr. Speaker, I am excited about the strong bipartisan support that  H.R. 1155, the Recovery of Stolen Checks Act, has received. The bill  will take a critical step toward combating financial fraud and  protecting hardworking Americans from falling victim to check theft.

Each year, countless Americans are targeted by criminals who steal  and fraudulently cash their checks, causing financial hardship and  eroding the trust in our banking system. It happens not just in tax  refunds, as my colleagues have indicated. Increasingly, Social Security  and SNAP benefits are also being stolen by these criminals.

This bill strengthens law enforcement's ability to investigate and  prosecute these crimes, ensuring that victims can recover the money and  that the criminals are held accountable.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation for at least these  three reasons: First, that the bill protects consumers from financial  harm. Check fraud is not just an inconvenience, it is financially  devastating to many families. When a check is stolen and cashed by  criminals, victims are often left in a difficult situation.

Secondly, this bill will also strengthen law enforcement's ability to  combat check fraud. Criminals have become more sophisticated in their  methods, and law enforcement needs stronger tools to fight back.

Lastly, a financial system that cannot protect its users from fraud  is a system in jeopardy. If consumers and businesses lose faith in  their ability to  securely conduct transactions, our economy suffers as a whole. H.R.  1155 ensures confidence in our banking system by ensuring that stolen  checks can be recovered and that perpetrators face real consequences.

Mr. Speaker, check fraud is a growing problem, but today, we, in a  bipartisan way, in the Ways and Means Committee are finally taking  commonsense, decisive action. This bill passed unanimously out of our  committee, and I look forward to it passing unanimously out of this  House. It is, once again, an opportunity for Republicans and Democrats  to put partisanship aside and work together for the American people.