Stories From Home: the Human Cost of Expiring Healthcare Tax Credits


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague for yielding.

Just like the rest of America, we in Alabama are facing a health  crisis caused by the Republican Party. Thanks to President Trump and  Republicans in Congress, more than 58,000 of my constituents in  Alabama's Seventh Congressional District will see their health  insurance premiums skyrocket next year.

One of my constituents is a 63-year-old gentleman from Wilcox County,  Alabama, in the rural part of my district. This gentleman works for the  Wilcox County Water and Sewer District. Just like his coworkers, he  receives health insurance through the Affordable Care Act marketplace.

Currently, his premiums cost $188.29 per month. After receiving his  rate letter last month, he learned that his monthly premium would  increase by 700 percent to more than $1,500.

That is right, thanks to President Trump and Republicans in Congress,  this gentleman will need to pay $1,300 more per month to keep the same  healthcare plan.

Mr. Speaker, this is simply outrageous. The people I represent cannot  afford these ridiculous Republican price hikes.

Throughout the government shutdown, and well before, Democrats have  been sounding the alarm. We have been demanding that Republicans work  with us to lower the cost of healthcare and address the crisis that  they have caused.

What did they do instead? They shut down the government and held food  assistance hostage from the most vulnerable Americans.

Make no mistake, the consequences of inaction will be dire. If  Republicans  continue down this road, millions of Americans will be forced to go  without healthcare insurance, one unexpected ER visit away from  bankruptcy.

Those who cannot pay with their wallets will pay with their lives.

Mr. Speaker, there is still time to act. We must extend the  healthcare tax credits, and we must do so now.

I thank my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus for this  Special Order hour where we can tell the stories of our constituents.

This gentleman in Wilcox County, Alabama, who pays $188 today will  have to pay $1,500 next year. It is simply unacceptable, and we must do  something about it.

I am grateful to my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus for  always standing up for the most vulnerable in our community, and I  thank this gentleman from Wilcox County for sharing his rate letter,  for showing us that, in fact, a 700 percent increase is simply  unacceptable. It is outrageous. He will have to choose between  affording healthcare insurance and simply affording his rent. It is  unacceptable.

We in the Congressional Black Caucus, we in the Democratic Caucus,  will continue to fight for the Affordable Care Act tax credits to be  extended.