Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700009/veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-2025


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to Trump's voter  suppression bill. In recent months, President Trump's attempts to  interfere in the midterm elections have become more brazen and alarming  day by day.

We have seen State legislators redraw maps to benefit Republicans. We  have seen the FBI raid an election office and seize ballots in Georgia.  Most recently, President Trump threatened a Federal takeover of our  election in clear violation of the Constitution.

This week, Trump's efforts to rig the elections have made their way  to Congress where Republicans are pushing this piece of legislation,  which will block millions of voters from casting their ballots.

Let us be clear. This is not a voter ID bill. It is a voter  suppression bill, plain and simple.

This bill is so extreme that even your driver's license would be  insufficient to register to vote. Instead, Americans would be required  to present their birth certificate or their passport.

The reality is that half of Americans do not have a passport. Get  this: This bill also requires States to turn over personal identifiable  information to the Department of Homeland Security, the same Department  whose rogue agents are responsible for the deaths of two American  citizens in Minnesota.

Here is the truth: Under this bill, tens of millions of eligible  American voters will be blocked from casting their ballots. It is  simply unacceptable and un-American.

The ability of voters to choose their leaders is foundational to our  democracy. It is a freedom that generations of Americans have fought,  bled, and marched for, many in my hometown of Selma, Alabama.

We know that it is so important that we safeguard these important  truths. Our freedom is under assault. Make no mistake, Republicans know  that their policies are failing, that prices are going up, that jobs  are going away, that healthcare is being slashed, and that the American  people are struggling to make ends meet.

Republicans know that they cannot win on the merits, so rather than  changing their policies, they are seeking to change the rules.

John Lewis was not bludgeoned on a bridge in my hometown for the  Republicans and Donald Trump to take these freedoms away from us. This  is a blatant power grab, and Democrats will not stand for it.

Vote ``no'' on this disastrous legislation.