Denouncing Cuts to K-12 Schools


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to tell an inconvenient truth  about what happened to educational funding that Congress appropriated  that was to go to our schools.

On June 30, just 1 day before $7 billion of educational funding was  supposed to be delivered to our State budgets, the Trump administration  pulled the rug out from under the schools--no warning, no explanation.

Let me explain something about California. We are a donor State. That  means that the citizens of California, the taxpayers, send more money  to Washington than we get back every year.

In California, we were supposed to receive, as I said, $928 million.  This was a big blow to school districts across the country, including  those that I represent in the San Joaquin Valley in California. Fresno  Unified, which I represent, was to lose $7.1 million. Visalia Unified  would have lost $2 million.

Across the San Joaquin Valley, districts were preparing for these  devastating cuts in mental health services, after-school programs, and  support for English learners and migrant students.

While the Republicans stayed silent, my colleagues and I stepped up.  We wrote to the Trump administration, demanded answers, and put  pressure on them to act.

They finally listened. Let's be clear: This didn't happen on its own.  It happened because we put pressure on them.

Now the money is flowing, and I hope it is the entire $7 billion that  goes to our schools throughout the country. Let's make sure that we  know where it first happened. It happened when the flood of phone lines  started going to my colleagues here in Washington.

I am going to, and my colleagues will continue to, fight for every  student, every family, and every school in America, including those in  the San Joaquin Valley that I represent.                       Honoring the Life of John Harris

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today sadly to pay tribute to John  Harris, a good friend and a giant of California agriculture and the San  Joaquin Valley.

Born on July 14, 1943, in Fresno County, John was a proud graduate of  the University of California-Davis and a United States Army veteran.

For over 40 years, he was not only a pioneer in agriculture, but a  good friend of mine. He was a leader who was well respected throughout  the country. John shaped the Harris Ranch and turned it into one of the  Nation's largest beef producers in America.

In addition, his passion was as a leader in the horseracing industry  in which his horses were successful and won on numerous occasions.

John always understood the importance of education and gave back  generously. Not only was it to Fresno State's Maddy Institute but he  also mentored the next generation of agricultural leaders.

We miss John. His impact will stretch far beyond his ranch. He helped  shape the agriculture of our region, and his legacy of innovation,  integrity, and service will benefit generations to come.                       Honoring the Life of Joel Nelson

Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor Joel Nelson, a proud son of  the San Joaquin Valley who served 37 years as the head of California  Citrus Mutual.

Mr. Speaker, you should understand that California produces 80  percent of all the citrus consumed in the United States: navels,  Valencias, mandarins, and lemons.

Joel was the leader for the voice of our citrus growers and a fierce  advocate for valley agriculture.

From the orchards of Tulare, Fresno, and Kern Counties to the packing  sheds, he always fought every day to protect our farmers, our water,  and our way of life.

He dedicated his life to uplifting others always with energy,  passion, and a deep love for the valley we shared. His excitement for  the work was contagious, and his leadership helped shape the citrus  industry for generations to come.

We will miss his voice, but his legacy will live on in every grove in  California.