Putting Americans First


Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, first, I would like to say thank you to Steny  Hoyer for an incredible career and for being a role model and my  friend. He is always a class act.

I also rise today to speak for the families who are forced to choose  between groceries, rent, and healthcare because prices keep climbing.  Affordability is equal to economic stability. Let me repeat that:  Affordability is equal to economic stability. Americans are struggling  to pay for groceries, rent, gas, and healthcare. They are drowning  under rising costs while promises to lower the cost of living have  remained unfulfilled by this administration.

On day one, President Trump said he would put America first and lower  costs. Instead, he pardoned violent insurrectionists, a mob that  attacked this Capitol to overthrow a fair and free election. It was an  attack that resulted in the deaths of five law enforcement officers.

We were promised America First, but what we are seeing is that a  majority of Americans, who have been polled on whether we are headed on  the right track or the wrong track, believe that we are on the wrong  track.

This administration has prioritized costly foreign entanglements  without transparency or congressional approval while working families  pay the price at home.

Instead of protecting the economic well-being of Americans, we are  seeing the following: Tariff policies are increasing the costs of  essential goods. My farmers are struggling, as well as American  consumers. Healthcare costs are skyrocketing for millions. Critical  programs that help families stay afloat are under attack. The cuts in  Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act, as well as SNAP and other  programs, are taking their toll.

Take healthcare as an example. The enhanced premium tax cuts that  help millions afford coverage are now expired. In California, new  enrollments are down 31 percent last year, and nearly 190,000 families  have canceled coverage because it is no longer affordable. Middle-class  Americans who are earning more than $62,000 are no longer eligible for  the Federal premium tax credits, doubling cancellations from 8 percent  to 16 percent.

Californians are switching to bronze plans to save on premiums, but  these plans carry higher deductibles. For pregnancy care or cancer care  treatment, costs can more than double compared to silver plans.

In my district, over 65,000 families risk losing Medicaid, and  another 22,000 families will face higher premiums and out-of-pocket  costs. Nationwide, nearly 100,000 American families could lose their  coverage each year if Congress fails to act.

Last year, Republicans passed a partisan bill that failed to renew  the essential premium tax credits, forcing millions of Americans to pay  higher costs this year, even though a bipartisan solution is at hand.  Families, therefore, unfortunately, are left waiting.

Americans are also struggling with the rising costs of energy,  transportation, and other critical services. What we need are  bipartisan solutions that create jobs, lower costs, and increase  enhanced premium tax credits so millions of American families can  afford their healthcare.

What we need is bipartisan legislation such as my bipartisan Rural  Homeownership Continuity Act that will reduce financing costs and  bipartisan legislation on permitting reform to get infrastructure like  energy, transportation, and housing projects more quickly approved for  working families.

Mr. Speaker, we need bipartisan solutions, and they are clear.  Congress must act now to ease costs, expand access to healthcare, and  invest in the future of our communities throughout the country.

The cost of living is not a partisan issue. It is not. It is a matter  of fairness, security, and justice. From groceries to gas and from rent  to healthcare, Americans cannot afford to wait any longer.

Mr. Speaker, it is time that we get together. It is time for Congress  to act in a bipartisan effort to renew the sense of Congress as the  people's House that we can work together. It is time, Mr. Speaker, for  Congress to act. America's people, American citizens, and our  constituents must come first.