Medical Bills Are Too High


Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative McClellan  for running point on this Special Order hour for the CBC. She is a  legislative champion both in the State house and in the Federal House.  It is good to be with her tonight, and I thank her for recognizing me.

I also give a shout-out to our beloved leader of the CBC,  Representative Yvette Clarke, who is doing a fine job leading us  through these difficult times.

These are difficult times for us. We here in Congress are having a  difficult time. You see it. But the difficulties we face are nothing to  what you face out there. You are the ones who are struggling to put  food on the table. You are the ones who are struggling to keep a roof  over your head as the head of your family. You are the ones struggling  to work 8 hours a day for an honest day's wage only to come up short  and having to work second and third jobs in order to make ends meet  while you see others living lavishly surrounded by gold ornaments on  everything that they can touch, building ballrooms for the rich and  wealthy after knocking down the historic east wing of the White House,  and doing it without anybody's consent, just waking up and deciding I  am going to do this.

We live in a democracy, not someplace where a king is in charge, and  that king is playing politics with the people.

The other day, he floated the idea that he wanted to extend the  Affordable Care Act tax credits, or ObamaCare tax credits. He floated  that idea but got some pushback from a few Representatives on the  Republican side of the aisle, and so he snatched it back.

He doesn't realize that real people are depending on those tax  credits in  order to make insurance affordable for them. People like Vivian in my  district, who I had a phone conversation with recently about the rising  cost of her healthcare premiums due to the Republicans' cruel refusal  to extend ObamaCare tax subsidies, are depending on those tax credits.

She told me: That is just an amount I simply cannot afford.

Mr. Speaker, her premiums are going from $50 a month all the way up  to $1,260 a month. From $50 a month to $1,260 a month. There is no way  that she can afford that.

Vivian has suffered from psoriatic arthritis since she was 27, and  she now has vision problems in one eye. She relies on specialty  medications to deal with her conditions.

While Vivian faces skyrocketing healthcare costs, her husband is  dealing with cancer. Luckily, he is on Medicare and is receiving the  care that he needs, but if Vivian is cut off from her access to care,  there is no way that she can keep going and take care of him at the  same time.

She said: Without the ObamaCare subsidies, my quality of life will be  nonexistent.

Vivian told me that without healthcare and access to her medications,  she would lose vision in one eye, and because the medications help keep  her arthritis at bay, it allows her to do seemingly simple things, such  as to tie her shoes or walk without pain.

She said: ObamaCare subsidies have saved my life. I don't know what I  will do without it. People are people. Access to quality, affordable  care shouldn't be a partisan issue.

I agree. Americans like Vivian who are out there, those are the  people who Democrats are fighting for.

In the wealthiest country in the world, no one should have to worry  about affording medical care. That is why I will work with anybody in  Congress, including Marjorie Taylor Greene, who believes that access to  quality healthcare is a human right and not a privilege reserved only  for those who can afford it.

Mr. Speaker, I have a number of other testimonials from people in my  district, the Fourth District of Georgia, who have written and emailed  what their situations are all about. They are many, and they are  excruciatingly painful to listen to.

Over 1.5 million Georgians are in the health exchange, in the  marketplace, and 340,000 of those, or about one-quarter will lose their  coverage if we don't do something about these expiring tax credits.

A family of four earning $82,000 a year will see their annual  premiums double to around $7,000 per year. It is just unsustainable for  people to have to go through this month after month, and so we need to  do something.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate our caucus for hosting this Special Order  hour.