Big, Backstabbing Bill


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise  today to co-anchor this Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour,  along with my distinguished colleague from the great State of Ohio,  Representative Shontel Brown, who hopefully will be joining us.

Along with some of our other colleagues, she is in her committee  hearing, trying to figure out if Republicans  will stand up with the American people and vote down so many of the  disastrous proposals that are being brought up in these various  committees as it relates to the reconciliation bill.

Mr. Speaker, for the next 60 minutes, members of the CBC have an  opportunity to speak directly to the American people and directly to  you on the Republicans' disastrous reconciliation package. This is an  issue of great importance, of utmost importance, and of perilous  importance, not just to the Congressional Black Caucus but to everyone.

Hopefully, Republican Members, not just Democratic Members of  Congress, will stand up with and for the American people and vote down  some of this nonsense that is going to be coming before all of us in  our committees. At the very least, let's not be silent. That is why the  Congressional Black Caucus is here tonight.

Mr. Speaker, House Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee just  released text. This is the one big, beautiful bill. This is the 386- page manifesto that killed trees and trees.

Mr. Speaker, I have to tell you that there are only two words in that  phrase that are accurate. This is a bill, and it is big, but it is not  beautiful. It is a backstabbing bill because all the items in the 386  pages of this bill are about how this administration is going to  backstab the American people. It is not going to feel good.

Unlike the O'Jays song ``Backstabbers,'' this doesn't have a good  melody.

This is about cutting Medicaid, Medicare, Social Security, and  benefits for veterans. This is about killing young people, seniors, and  those who are disabled. This is about cutting important critical  services for the American people to give tax credits to billionaires.  There are a lot of B's in this statement. None of them are very good.

Let me be very clear: Republicans have barely made any attempts to  support working families. Instead, they have written an economic love  letter to people like Elon Musk. This is a 386-page love letter to Elon  Musk.

Republicans can run from the truth all they want--they have been  silent--but the truth is in the eyes of this administration: Americans  don't need healthcare, but this administration somehow needs a $400  million plane gifted to them from the Saudi Government. Americans don't  need SNAP assistance, but this administration and all of his  billionaire buddies need millions in tax writeoffs.

Mr. Speaker, how are my constituents supposed to live? How are your  constituents supposed to live? How are any of our constituents supposed  to pull themselves up by those ridiculous bootstraps that people like  to talk about?

This administration and the House majority are actually not just  taking away their boots but taking away the leather, the rubber, the  soles, and the labor that would be used to even make these boots. We  are going to be spending the next hour talking about all of that.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from the great  State of Maryland (Mr. Ivey) for keeping it real and really  underscoring the challenges that are in front of us as Americans and  for really articulating why courage, backbone, and just basic common  sense are so needed right now in these perilous times.

Why are these times perilous?

These times are perilous because in Congress we are in the process of  debating and trying to pass this reconciliation bill.

People might be saying: Well, what is it?

It isn't actually a budget. In each of the committees, discussions  are had about where to spend and where to cut. This House majority has  been given marching orders, and the marching orders are to cut as much  as possible and to cut until the American people bleed. The only folks  who will be able to afford Band-Aids to prevent them from bleeding to  death will be the richest of the rich.

Everyone else, you will have to fend for yourself. In each of these  committees in which we sit, on which we sit, we are debating cuts that  will hurt this economy, that will hurt constituents, that will hurt  American businesses, that will hurt our standing in the world.

This is not a red or blue discussion. This is not even a Black Caucus  or other caucus discussion. This is about what is at risk, who is at  danger, who is being put at risk by this administration and, quite  frankly, by the silence coming from this House majority.

Tonight and later on this week, Ag, Energy and Commerce, and the Ways  and Means Committees are meeting, and they have been meeting earlier  today, and they are also continuing to meet right now.

The challenge is meeting this late in the evening allows them to do  dirty business, allows them to vote on bills and amendments that will  hurt the American people without the benefit of having the news being  able to report on it before people go to bed. It is almost like these  dirty deeds will be happening at night when no one can see or hear what  is going on.

Maybe we are spending our time talking about this $400 million bribe  that was just given to this administration when we should be talking  about all of the cuts that are going to be coming from these  committees.

With reconciliation, Republicans want all the cuts, but they do not  want the political consequences. That is why we are here tonight  talking about what those consequences will be, talking about what is in  these reconciliation bills, what is in this package, because we don't  want anyone to get political amnesia.

We don't want anyone to forget when they are hurting, when they are  trying to pay a bill, when they are trying to get gas, when they are  trying to buy eggs, when they are trying to buy a home, when they are  looking for a job, when they are trying to bury a loved one, why it is  so hard to do any of those things, why the costs are so high.

We are going to continue to remind the American people why all of  those costs are going to be so high, and it is because of the cuts that  are coming in this reconciliation bill, cuts that Republicans could  have stopped, but they have been too silent.

Last week we were here, and we had hearings in the Committee on  Foreign Affairs, Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Small  Business, Committee on Veterans' Affairs, Committee on Natural  Resources, in those committees and in others.

I don't know if many of these discussions or outcomes from these  committees have made it into the news cycle, so folks don't know what  really happened in those committees. I am going to say, in those  committees we talked about cutting State Department by close to 50  percent, terminating workers in the State Department, finalizing the  shuttering of USAID.

People might say, well, what is USAID? Well, part of what USAID does  is contract with American farmers. Farmers have contracts with USAID.  USAID buys their product and then uses it. All of those contracts have  stopped because Republicans are looking for ways to fill the gap, the  big gap, the chasm that has been made by these tax cuts going to  billionaires.

They have done so much at the State Department that they have even  fired the people who are responsible for purchasing the tickets to  bring Americans home from all of their missions around the world. You  have Americans who are stuck in countries around the world separated  from their families, unable to get home because the ticket agency in  the State Department has been shut down.

In the Committee on the Judiciary, we talked about billions of  dollars going to ICE for bonuses to buy computers and cars and  deporting Americans and allowing January 6ers to be hired to work for  the Federal Government, people who came in here trying to bludgeon the  Capitol Police and the people who work in this very institution.

In that committee, Republicans voted to allow them to work for the  Federal Government and have the authority to go after other Americans.

In the Committee on Natural Resources, they passed a bill that would  allow us to sell Federal land, land that we all enjoy, parks,  recreational services, and forests.

I want the people in my life, the little people in my world to be  able to go and visit a natural reserve or to go to one of our national  parks and monuments and see that it is still owned by the United  States, that we haven't sold it to some corporation or, God forbid,  some other country, someone with the highest bid.

We are selling that land, and the proceeds are going into the coffers  because, remember, we have to cover the $4.5 trillion gap that House  Republicans made because they want to give tax cuts to the wealthiest  of the wealthy.

What else does that mean? It means that Republicans plan to cut $900  billion to Medicaid, kicking 8.7 million people off of Medicaid over  the next 10  years. The plan calls for new requirements for beneficiaries, for those  who are on Medicaid, work requirements.

Some say: Well, I don't have a problem with people going to work.  They are also saying: We want seniors, we want folks who are disabled,  we want the elderly, we want those folks to be schlepping down the  street trying to find a job in this market, of course, when it is  actually hard to find employment.

They have been saying: Well, you can make these cuts because there  are not even that many people on Medicaid. There are these people who  are 150 years old or 130 years old or they have been dead for 4 years,  and they are on Medicaid. Well, the reality is that so many of us have  constituents who are dependent on Medicaid and Medicare and Social  Security that are going to be devastated because of these cuts.

In California, there are 470,000 people on Medicaid, and they are  going to be at risk of losing their care because of what the Republican  budget plans to do. This is 140,000 children under the age of 19 and  40,000 seniors over the age of 65 just in my district.

I am going to say it again. My district has the 4th highest Medicaid  enrollee numbers in the country. California has 7 of the 10th highest  Medicaid enrollee districts. There are poor people, there are  struggling people everywhere in every district in every state who need  Medicaid, who need Medicare, who need Social Security.

I just have to say: If Republicans are so enamored with this big,  beautiful, backstabbing bill and believe it to be the manna from  heaven, then they shouldn't be afraid to go into their districts and  talk about the cuts, talk about cutting Medicaid.

Look at the person in the wheelchair, look at the person who is  dependent on Social Security benefits, look at the veteran who is  receiving Social Security, and tell them that they don't matter. Tell  them that their benefit is not as important as giving the money to Elon  Musk and the billionaires. You tell them that.

If you are not telling them to their face, you are certainly going to  be telling them that when you vote for this reconciliation bill.

Let's talk about education. DOGE and Musk, under the authority of  this administration, have already fired half of the staff in the  Department of Education. I don't know about you, but I have young  people in my family who are excited about going to college, and they  are also scared because they don't even know if the colleges are going  to stay open.

I am not just talking about elite Ivy League institutions. I am  talking about community colleges; I am talking about state colleges. I  am talking about legacy institutions where parents and grandparents  went to, and it means something to be able to get into that school and  graduate.

I have talked to young people who don't know if there will be any  money for them if they get in, even with the grades. I have talked to  young people who are getting ready to graduate and don't know if there  will be a job for them. And I have talked to young people who were  excited about representing this country and helping us be more  competitive and now don't even know if this country is for them.

News flash, all of these young people who I have been talking to are  U.S. citizens, American-born, who don't even know if there is going to  be a country left, who don't even know if there will be educational  institutions left because this proposal includes $330 billion in cuts  that will impact Pell grants, Head Start, school lunches, and more.

We are talking about a $1 billion freeze for school-based mental  health. I don't know about you, but it seems like every single person  in this country should be accessing mental health services right now  just to make it through the day.

That is what is coming out of this reconciliation package.

Going back to student loan borrowers who saw a glimmer of hope last  year, and now they are going to be tracked down like animals in the  night when you have an administration that just accepted a $400 million  bribe from another country. The math doesn't math up.

Why are you asking for young people to pay their fair share when it  seems like not everyone else is doing the same thing? The regional Head  Start office serving my district closed, and Head Start funding at  roughly $12 billion annually represents less than .2 percent of total  Federal spending.

Eliminating Head Start would cut childcare and supportive services  for about 80,000 young children in California.

Then let's talk about ag. This proposal would halt funding for the  Rural Energy for America Program. Once again, cutting a billion dollars  in funding for programs that help schools and feed folks through food  banks. Cutting this funding would threaten the livelihood of our  American farmers and also threaten the nutrition of our children.

Let's talk about our veterans. Under this reconciliation package  proposal, we are talking about firing 6,000 veterans. My God. My God.  People who have served our country in wars, who have stood up for this  country and the people in it, who have stood up for our Constitution,  who came back from their service and were hired by the government will  be fired, have been fired, are being fired.

Not only are we talking about firing 6,000 veterans, but we are also  talking about cutting their services, cutting their medical services,  forcing longer wait times for them because when they call, when they go  to the VA to get help, there will be fewer people there to help them.

I think about the veterans in my district that I talk to, and they  don't deserve to be mistreated like that.

My God, they want to come back and enter into society and be part of  a thriving business, to help open a business, and they still need  access to their medical care. They still need access to their mental  health support, and we are going to cut that. In my mind, that is just  so unchristian.

Then, we are talking about cutting Health and Human Services so that  if we are trying to make sure that folks don't get tuberculosis, that  we keep measles at bay, that we keep HIV at bay, well, if you are at  risk, you are going to be in greater danger because the proposed cuts  would be cutting NIH, the National Institutes of Health; CDC, the  Centers for Disease Control; and FDA, the Food and Drug  Administration--the people who make sure that the food we eat is safe,  is not poisonous, won't kill us, and the people who make sure that we  get accurate, nonpartisan, truthful information about the diseases and  the ailments that are out here in this world so that we have the  information that we need to keep ourselves and our children safe and  healthy. We are not going to have access to that.

The research that is being done to help us fight against cancer and  to cure so many other diseases that are out there, those research  programs are going to be compromised. The clinical trials happening are  going to be compromised because we have decided this reconciliation  package, which is a statement of values, is going to be deciding that  those things are not important. It is not important to eat healthy  food. It is not important to have access to medicine. It is not  important to research, to find cures for diseases and illnesses that  have plagued our grandparents, our parents.

Have you gone to a children's hospital? Have you visited a child who  is dying from cancer? Would you go to that child and tell them there is  a higher probability that you are going to die because we are cutting  the grants that would allow us to find a cure? That is what is in this  reconciliation package.

Then Social Security, cutting 7,000 employees, you cut so many  employees in your thirsty quest to find ways to fill this hole for  these tax cuts for the billionaires, but you crashed the Social  Security website. You have closed offices. You have told seniors and  those with disabilities to figure out a way to get themselves to one of  the few offices that are still open, but you are going to have to wait  in a longer line because we have fired employees and are actually  ending phone services for claims.

Really, it is a very sneaky, shady way of kicking people off of the  services because you are constricting access.

I don't know about you, but I don't want to see a bunch of seniors  struggling in a car or trying to get on the bus to go to the Social  Security office that now has shorter hours and longer  lines because they are trying to get a claim that they have earned. Who  tells a 75-year-old, a 68-year-old, an 80-year-old grandparent to go  suck it--basically, figure out how you are going to survive. We are  going to cut all of this from you, but I still want to visit you on  Easter. I don't know what people say. I don't know how the hypocrisy  formula works, but I am not down for cutting access to Social Security,  cutting Social Security, and hurting our seniors because we want to  give billions more, trillions more, in tax cuts to millionaires.

Let's talk about the arts and cutting funding for the arts, closing  down museums, grant programs, and after-school programs that teach  young people how to play music, how to play an instrument, and shutting  down libraries.

It is so healing when we turn on the radio. We want to go to a  concert. We go to an art performance because that is meaningful,  regardless of your political party. Everyone deserves an opportunity to  enjoy art, to be able to go to a library and have the choice of what  book you want to pick out, but you have no choice when they are all  shut down. That is what is in this reconciliation package.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I almost lost my train of thought,  but it has come back to me because I was talking about the arts.

The gentleman from Maryland was talking about our leadership as a  country and how our leadership is in question. I would just like to add  that not only is our leadership in question, but our attractiveness as  a country is in question. Our competitive edge is in question. Our  ability to be seen as forthright and a country of high integrity is in  question.

These cuts are hurting our children. They are hurting our  grandparents. They are hurting our farmers. They are hurting our small  businesses. They are hurting the infrastructure in our States. They are  hurting our ports. They are hurting our hospitals. They are hurting our  clinics. They are hurting our parks. Honestly, they are hurting our  hearts.

I think about that big red, white, and blue flag right behind the  Speaker's chair and what that flag represents: opportunity, access,  honesty, integrity. What we have seen last week and what we are seeing  this week from the House majority when it comes to this reconciliation  bill is silence. It is silent on these issues that mean so much to the  people in our communities.

I can't tell you how many times I have walked down the street and  have had an older person grab me and say, ``What is going to happen to  my Social Security?'' Coming here to vote, I had a Capitol Police  officer pull me to the side and ask me what it meant for his job, if he  would have a job. Going to talk to farmers, I had them tell me that  they may have to fire or lay off the rest of their employees, that they  would not be able to make it. Small businesses in the community that  are hiring other people from the community are concerned.

Everyone asks, ``What are Republicans doing? Why aren't they standing  up for us, too?''

I don't have an answer to that question. I want an answer to that  question because when you are silent, it means you are complicit or  apathetic. I would hope that there would be no one here who would want  to be complicit in the taking away of Social Security, Medicaid, or  Medicare. I would hope that no one here would want to be complicit in  having young children with cancer at a children's hospital die because  we have cut cancer research funding.

As I say this, I think about my mother, a breast cancer survivor who  wonders every day if it will come back. Boy, how do you think it gets  me right in the craw to have to tell her that this country doesn't care  if she lives or dies because it doesn't care enough about finding a  cure for cancer to continue to fund that kind of research?

We just celebrated Mother's Day. I wonder if people shared with their  mothers how all the support that helps mothers will now be on the  chopping block.

I am sharing all of this on behalf of the Congressional Black Caucus  because as we wait to see what comes out of the remaining committees  that are meeting, just know that there is a $290 billion cut to the  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, cutting off food assistance  to thousands of families who need it.

Just know that, in these committees, they will be debating raising  the age for mandatory work requirements because we want people to work  longer and harder and get less while somehow billionaires make more off  of the backs of these working families.

Just know that, in these committees, they are going to be talking  about cutting access to school lunches. So many of us live in districts  where the school district is actually responsible for feeding the  children in the community because of the free lunch program.

I know that people might be distracted by the Qatar gift, the $400  million flying palace. Let's hope there are no bugs in it. I don't  know. I know people want to be distracted by all the other things that  seem to be coming out of the administration, but I don't want us to be  distracted by that.

I want us to be talking about this reconciliation bill. I want us to  remember what is going to be voted on in this package, and it is a  thing. It is a thing that it is actually taking so long for this  package to arrive on the floor.

Do you know why it is a thing? Because we have a House majority  trying to wiggle through the truth and figure out a way to spin death,  destruction, and poverty.

There is no way to spin kicking granny off of Social Security. There  is no way to spin shutting down hospitals and clinics. We can demonize  the folks who are on Medicaid and Medicare, but I want to also remind  us that if there is a doctor, if there is a clinic, if there is a  hospital that is receiving a reimbursement for taking care of a  recipient on Medicaid, that doctor, that hospital, that community  clinic is open to serve you, too, because that reimbursement allows  that clinic, that doctor, that hospital to stay open to help and serve  everyone else in the community.

A lot of this rhetoric that you are hearing from people who don't  want to talk about this reconciliation bill is trying to divide us into  ``us'' and ``them'' buckets. The truth is that we are all in this  together. We are all in this country together. We are all in this  debate together. We are all in this fight together to make sure that  the people in our districts have access to the services that they  deserve.

If you are not willing to stand up for Medicare--and don't sign a  letter and then run and don't show up in a district. Stand up and talk  about saving it, protecting it, defending it, and making it better so  that it can serve more people who deserve it rather than cutting it and  lying about it and running from the truth.

The truth is that this reconciliation bill, this package, is going to  hurt people. It is going to impoverish people. It is going to destroy  businesses because the funny thing about economies is that they are  circular. Nothing happens in a silo, in a vacuum. Businesses stay open  because people are able to go into those businesses, and they are able  to shop and buy things. When that happens, that business is able to  grow, and they are able to hire more workers. Then those workers are  able to do more or produce more.

Mr. Speaker, that is how it works. Yet, when you cut off opportunity,  access, incentive, and support, then you compromise that ecosystem. We  all have those micro-ecosystems in our communities. That is what makes  this country strong. That is what makes this country unique. That is  what makes this country worthy of this kind of debate.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to close right now because I know the  witching hour is among us. I am grateful for the time that has been  given to the Congressional Black Caucus. The Speaker has heard from my  distinguished colleagues about this reconciliation package and about  all issues of great importance to this caucus, to our constituents, to  the Congress, and to all Americans tonight.

This reconciliation bill is a big deal. It is important and it should  be talked about and discussed. The best disinfectant is sunlight, and  we have to stop allowing people to be so shady about  what is happening in these committees and what is being cut. We have to  turn all the lights on and talk about all of the cuts that are coming  in this reconciliation package. Yes, we have to point the fingers and  point the blame at the people who plan to make these cuts and kill the  American people.