Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693147/condemning-the-violent-june-2025-riots-in-los-angeles-california


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in fierce opposition to this  performative and misleading resolution that reads like a cheap script  treatment looking for a second-rate director.

H. Res. 516 is not about public safety. It is about fear,  scapegoating immigrants, and gaslighting the American people into  believing that Los Angeles is some so-called hellscape. If it is such a  hellscape, I want to know why Republican Members of Congress have been  flying into Los Angeles over the past few weeks attending fundraisers.  Nobody is showing up in a hazmat suit or combat gear.

If it is such a hellscape, pull back the cameras and release the  drone footage so we can see what is happening across the entire city.

This resolution ignores the fact that the violence didn't start in a  vacuum. It was sparked by the Trump administration's provocative,  aggressive immigration raids across the State.

ICE agents were in neighborhoods, grocery stores, and churches. I  have never seen a segment on TV about an MS-13 cartel boss in the third  grade. That is what we are seeing.

Of course, we came out and protested. That is what democracy looks  like. Of course, our communities are terrified across Los Angeles,  across the State, and across the country.

Instead of listening to us, the people from L.A., the President  escalated this drama, deploying the National Guard and the Marines to  Los Angeles without a request from local law enforcement, the Governor,  or the mayor.

Why? To launch a pathetic, made-for-TV reality TV show to justify  authoritarian crackdowns and to divert from the real violence, the  violence of cutting $880 billion from Medicaid, the violence of kicking  people off of healthcare, and the violence of tanking our economy into  the gold toilet.

That is what we should be talking about. That is what this President  doesn't want us to talk about, so he turned the cameras and the  manufactured, fabricated violence onto Los Angeles.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, this audacity in blaming local  leaders is about optics, power, control, and stoking the ego of  Republicans and king daddy.

We are tanking the California economy, the fourth-largest economy in  the world and the largest donor State. I refuse to support this  resolution.