Providing for Consideration of H.R. Promoting Efficient Review for Modern Infrastructure Today Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Increasing Investor Opportunities Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Electric Supply Chain Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Interagency Coordination for Pipeline Reviews Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697852/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-promoting-efficient-review-for-modern-infrastructure-today-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-increasing-investor-opportunities-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-electric-supply-chain-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-state-planning-for-reliability-and-affordability-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-improving-interagency-coordination-for-pipeline-reviews-act-providing-for-consideration-of-s-disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-and-for-other-purposes


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, with the NDAA before us, we had an  opportunity to do right by the Afghan allies who risked their lives to  protect American servicemembers throughout our 20-year involvement in  Afghanistan.

After months of bipartisan work and real progress, a key provision of  my Enduring Welcome Act, legislation that passed the Foreign Affairs  Committee with strong bipartisan support, was set to be included in the  NDAA.

The amendment is straightforward. It aims to reestablish the Office  of the Coordinator for Afghan Relocation Efforts that the Trump  administration dismantled earlier this year.

It would simply allow the CARE office to continue the critical work  of helping our Afghan allies escape retaliation and death from the  Taliban. Just days before it was set to become law, Republicans quietly  stripped this amendment from the NDAA, breaching standard legislative  procedure so they could sell out our Afghan allies to protect  themselves politically from Trump's wrath. They threw our allies and  our military under the bus.

Trump's weaponization of the horrific shooting of the National  Guardsmen, before we had even gathered the full facts, to scapegoat  Afghan allies and immigration communities, has been repugnant. The  administration swiftly suspended asylum decisions, halted the issuance  of special immigration visas, and prioritized Afghans for deportations.

Republicans who just last year spent every day ending in y  criticizing the Biden administration for not doing enough to protect  our Afghan allies, where are they now? They are silent and compromising  their principles without a fight, just like they have done time and  time again this Congress.

Some of these very colleagues served in Afghanistan themselves and  uniquely understand the profound debt we owe to our Afghan allies,  Afghans who saved American lives. Abandoning them at the eleventh hour  is shameful, unprincipled, un-Christian, and un-American.

Honoring our promise to Afghan allies is not only a moral  responsibility. It is a matter of national honor, global credibility,  and our word as Americans.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, if we fail to uphold that promise, we  put the future safety of our servicemembers at risk by sending a  dangerous message to the world that the United States cannot and should  not be trusted.

I will be voting ``no'' on the rule for many reasons, but chief among  them is the cowardice my colleagues have shown when they place blind  loyalty to the President above American principles, obligations, and  safety. I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the rule and ``yes'' on the  underlying piece of legislation, especially the National Defense  Authorization Act.

Mr. Speaker, I want to address a couple of things since, as usual,  the Democrats continue to blame President Trump for everything.

Just as a reminder, the Democrats controlled the House, Senate, and  White House until January 2023. They controlled the Senate and White  House until January 2025. Every State in this country has a public  service commission, so it doesn't make any sense to blame President  Trump for what is happening with energy prices when, if you look, it is  the States that are controlled by Democrats that have the highest  energy prices.

I would suggest that we have a little honest reflection here as we  talk about different types of things and where inflation comes from. I  would remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and the  American citizens of the deficits that they ran when they had the  House, Senate, and White House. When they passed the Inflation  Reduction Act and the American Rescue Plan, as they call it, it cost  trillions upon trillions upon trillions of dollars.

By the way, it was the Democrats who chose not to extend the  subsidies beyond this year when they had the House, Senate, and White  House, not the Republicans. It was the Democrats who did that. They  voted for it, not us.

Let's just be honest. President Trump is doing a good job. He is  making sure that the rules of engagement are set so that the American  citizens are protected and the pangas go to the bottom of the ocean.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

As I said earlier, Americans know what kind of job the President is  doing because they are paying those bills every month. Every month,  they know that tariffs are causing this inflation, and it is a self- inflicted wound. It wasn't Russia invading Ukraine. It wasn't a  pandemic. It was Trump and his tariffs that are not rooted in any kind  of true economic policy.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 6074, which  would extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits for 3  years, through 2028.

Yes, they are extensions of time. We would like to see them  permanent, but in negotiations, we have always worked on extensions so  that we can address issues together in a bipartisan manner.

Millions of Americans are already receiving those notices of health  plans where the price is going to skyrocket. I get stopped on the  streets where people tell me what they are seeing when they open those  bills, and they are drastic. For some, it is a few hundred dollars, but  for others, it is $1,000, $2,000. They wonder how they are going to pay  just for health insurance. What happens when something goes wrong and  they have to pay that doctor's bill?

There are only 8 days left to fix this problem, but Republicans still  have no viable healthcare plan of their own.

We heard that they took out a chalkboard and started throwing ideas  on there. None of the ideas were to extend the tax credits, which is  the quickest and easiest way to make sure that Americans don't see  those skyrocketing plans.

Instead, they want to maybe get rid of the Affordable Care Act. They  want people to be forced into junk plans, which could force Americans  into bankruptcy. By the way, Trump made sure that if you don't pay your  healthcare bill, it will go on your credit report. He actually went out  of his way to make sure that that happens.

The PQ vote today will be Republicans' 22nd opportunity to vote to  prevent the health insurance costs of over 20 million Americans from  rising significantly. I hope they finally decide to side with their  constituents.