Providing for Consideration of H.R. Support for Patients and Communities Reauthorization Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. American Entrepreneurs First Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Capping Excessive Awarding of Sblc Entrants Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691941/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-support-for-patients-and-communities-reauthorization-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-american-entrepreneurs-first-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-capping-excessive-awarding-of-sblc-entrants-act-of-2025


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from  Massachusetts for yielding to me.

I rise in strong opposition to this rule and to the divisive,  destructive bills that it brings to the floor, especially H.R. 2931,  the so-called Save SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act, because, in reality,  this bill doesn't save anything.

It continues to eviscerate small businesses in order to benefit the  greediest, biggest corporations and their CEOs, who don't even need the  Small Business Administration. Do you know who does? Small businesses  that just want customers, employees, and the chance that SBA affords  them to attain success.

This bill actually punishes small businesses and immigrant  communities to score cheap political points, forcing the SBA to close  or relocate offices in cities like Los Angeles, my home, simply because  we refuse to bend a knee to the President and to MAGA Republicans'  anti-immigrant agenda, which is about retaliation, not good governance.

Immigrants start businesses, and do you know what? They hire other  immigrants. Do you know who benefits? Everyone because they are paying  taxes, hiring our neighbors, delivering a service, and growing our  economy.

L.A. is home to over 244,000 businesses. Is the goal for this  administration to shut all those businesses down, the red businesses,  blue businesses, and independent businesses, because there is a problem  with L.A. and because the administration doesn't like immigrants?

They are businesses like Dulan's, a family-owned business in my  district that has been open for 30 years. After the L.A. urban fires,  they fed victims. They need and deserve SBA, as do the millions of  small businesses like them. This bill gives them the finger on top of  the chaos of the TACO taxes.

I am urging a ``no'' vote on the rule and the cruel, unnecessary  legislation that it brings forward.

This is an alternate reality, this floor, when I am hearing from  Republican colleagues who are not talking at all about the millions of  Americans who are going to be harmed by these destructive bills.