Trump's First 100 Days


Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, it is with great honor that I rise  today to coanchor this Congressional Black Caucus Special Order hour,  along with the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Brown), my distinguished  colleague.

For the next 60 minutes, members of the CBC have an opportunity to  speak directly to the American people on the harmful policies of Donald  Trump's first 100 days in his second term, an issue of great importance  to the Congressional Black Caucus, to the Congress in general, to  constituents that we represent across this country, and really to any  living, breathing person on this planet.

The first 100 days of this administration have been about policies  that are delusional, diabolical, destructive, and dangerous. These have  been doozy policies and politics that are doing nothing but hurting  America, and especially Black Americans.

We are also going to be talking about so many of these policies that  seem uniquely targeted to focus on the place and the progress of Black  Americans. Make no mistake, if you are trying to hurt Black Americans,  you are inadvertently also going to hurt all other Americans because so  many folks are dependent on Section 8 vouchers, on Social Security, on  Medicaid, on Medicare, on an economy that is working, on not being  tariffed up the wazoo so that we can be able to purchase goods and  services that we need to keep this economy growing.

The American people need a moment of peace and structure coming from  this administration, not the chaos and the ringing of alarms every  single moment.

This is not hyperbole, even though it might sound like it. This is  not partisan spin. We have seen this when we have gone into our  districts, when we have hosted townhalls, when we have talked to the  American people. Everyone is saying the same thing. How can we protect  our Constitution, protect our economy, protect our way of life, our  freedoms, our liberties; not deport us? What is this administration  doing to help us rather than to hurt and harm and divide us?

The power of this country is in the people. For the next 60 minutes,  the Congressional Black Caucus is going to be speaking to the people in  crystal clear ways, using crystal clear words about how we are on the  brink, if not through the door, of a constitutional crisis, of an  economic, of a political, of a moral crisis, and a crisis of the very  identity of this country.

It is often said that when America has a cold, Black America has  pneumonia. Let me tell you something. We are all up in urgent care and  in the community clinics and in the hospitals because we are all sick  right now.

We cannot afford another 100 days of the 100 days that we have just  seen.

I have so much more that I want and that I will say, but I yield to  the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms. Brown) to share some words before we  allow members of the Congressional Black Caucus to also speak to the  American people.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman Brown from Ohio  for her remarks.

As you can see, Congresswoman Brown was breaking it down, she was  keeping it real, and she was bringing the receipts. That is what the  Congressional Black Caucus does each and every day. We break it down  for the American people, we keep it real for the American people, and  we bring the receipts for the American people. The problem is there are  so many receipts to share right now in just 100 days, we don't have  enough tote bags for all the receipts.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Honorable Lucy McBath  from the great State of Georgia for her remarks, and I am grateful that  she talked about DOGE because the reality is that DOGE has not found  any substantive evidentiary fraud in all of their work these past 100  days.

If they had, they would be blasting it across every social media  platform and every network. They probably would be making stamps and  stamping your head with all of the fraud that they have found, but that  is not the case.

What they have been doing, however, is harassing and intimidating and  disrespecting our workers, creating a hostile environment for our  Federal workers, intimidating them to resign or to leave, mostly  because of ideology, not because of the work they are doing.

We have to continue to tell the truth, which is that government is  people. Government works because of people. When you have a healthcare  claim, when you are trying to get your insurance, when you are trying  to apply for FEMA, when you are trying to get your Social Security  payment, when you are trying to get access to your Medicaid or your  Medicare benefits, when you are trying to find a nursing home facility,  when you are trying to get a passport, when you are trying to call in  to the government to get the help that you deserve from the government  that we have all pledged to provide for you, there ain't going to be  nobody to answer the phone when you call because DOGE and this  administration are actually working overtime to make sure that you  don't have access to government.

The policies of this administration are working overtime to try to  make sure that there will be no government and they are painting it all  under the auspices of Black folks because somehow they think that Black  America is responsible for so many of the ills that they are trying to  cure.

Once again, as Representative Brown shared, the diversity, the  equity, and the inclusion, and when last I checked, this country was  founded on all of those things. It has been made great because of all  of those things.

When we talk about DOGE, I know one thing for sure is that these  folks working for DOGE are actually squatting in the departments where  they have worked to terminate Federal workers, and they are bringing in  washers and dryers and mattresses and all their kids, living rent-free  in departments that are actually designed and structured to answer the  call and to take care of the needs that you have as a citizen, as a  constituent, as an American. We have to talk about that. That is the  fraud.

I  know she has a trunk full of them.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Honorable Jasmine  Crockett for her remarks and for always keeping it real. I will  reiterate  some of the things that she said, which is that this administration has  been targeting Black Americans, possibly because they are so afraid of  our shine. This administration and its policies have certainly been  laser focused on trying to tear down Black women. You don't have to  connect too many dots to understand why that is.

I yield to the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Ivey) to break it down  for us and share some of his receipts.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the Honorable Glenn Ivey for  his very sobering remarks.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I again want to add my thanks to  Representative Glenn Ivey for talking about healthcare and the fact  that this administration has been cutting grants to the National  Institutes of Health and cutting clinical trials.

Over the weekend, I was at an event. We had doctors and advocates who  talked about cancer, about breast cancer. This country is actually on  the precipice of discovering a vaccination for breast cancer, a cure  for breast cancer. We have amazing scientists in this country who have  been researching this, and they are at the point of clinical trials.

Mr. Speaker, I don't know if you know anyone in your family who is a  survivor of breast cancer or any other kind of cancer. Oftentimes, when  you go in and the surgeon puts you under to take it out, they don't  know if they have gotten all of it out. They hope that they have, but  for some odd reason, we have not advanced the technology to get all of  it out. We are now on the precipice of being able to do so.

Mr. Speaker, do you know what this administration did? Instead of  accelerating those clinical trials, instead of offering funding for  that research to continue, instead of wanting to be a champion of the  cure for cancer, this administration cut that research, cut that  funding, and cut those clinical trials. They cut funding to educational  institutions, to colleges, and to universities that are doing that kind  of research. They essentially cut off our future scientists,  innovators, and problem-solvers.

Our kids, who are investing their time, their money, our money, and  their sweat to go to school and get an education and learn enough to  help this country move forward and progress, are getting the short end  of the stick. They are actually being beaten on the head with a stick  that is held by this administration.

Representative Ivey talked about what is happening with the  judiciary. In fact, this President actually said he didn't know if he  even had to uphold the Constitution. Then, this administration is going  to sue Justice Roberts. We have moved from three branches of government  to one branch of government.

Republicans are silent tonight, just like they have been silent at  all the markups and all the hearings we have had this month. They are  silent, afraid, and unwilling to stand up for their constituents.

Mr. Speaker, they are only willing to defend this administration.  They are going to be tasked hard when they continue to have to go into  their districts and sell the fertilizer that they have to feed their  constituents, voters, Americans, the fertilizer coming out of this  administration designed to harm everyone that hasn't bent the knee.

Mr. Speaker, with that, I yield to the gentleman from the great State  of Rhode Island (Mr. Amo).

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Rhode  Island for his remarks.

Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful to be a member of  the Congressional Black Caucus, and I want to just share some of my own  stories coming from my district and also my experience.

I was in that Judiciary Committee where we had the hearing on  immigration, and I was in that Committee when Republicans voted to  deport and detain Americans, where they voted to allow for cavity  searches on children, where they voted to allow ICE to go into domestic  violence shelters, where they voted to allow January 6ers--those who  wreaked havoc on this Capitol, assaulted Capitol Police, and terrorized  everyone in this building--where they voted to allow them to work for  the Federal Government, including the Department of Homeland Security.

I ask: How can you deport an American? Where are you going to deport  an American to?

I don't understand.

I have yet to see anything from the Republicans or even from this  administration, can we get a poster, can we get a picture of what a  safe American looks like, what a nondeportable American looks like?

That is because I want to know. I want to be able to share that  picture and that photo with my constituents to say: So if you look like  this, if you are maybe this shape, if you have this degree of melanin,  if this is the color of your hair, or this is the color of your eyes,  or this is what you say, or if this is what kind of accent you have or  not, then you might be safe.

I think the American people need to know which one of them will be  deported next. I think the American people deserve to know which of  their Representatives is going to stand up for them. That is because I  know when the question was asked: Will you stand up for Americans and  prevent them from being deported? Raise your hand. Only Democrats  raised their hand.

I also have to ask when our loved ones and when our friends and  family members go overseas and they get snatched, are Republicans going  to pick up the phone and ask to have their constituents brought back?

Are they going to fight for them?

That is because in that Committee, they said that they were not going  to. They have said that they are not going to fight for their  healthcare, for Medicaid, for Medicare, and for Social Security.

I represent Los Angeles. People think it is flossy and glossy, I like  to say. However, I have the third highest Medicaid enrollee district in  the country. Mr. Speaker, 7 of the 10 highest Medicaid enrollee  districts in this country are in California, and some of them are  Republican districts.

I think we all want to know, Black Americans, White Americans, Asian  Americans, and Latino Americans, all Americans want to know: Are you  going to cut their Medicaid? Are you going to cut their Social  Security?

Mr. Speaker, 140,000 children under the age of 19 and 40,000 seniors  over the age of 65 in my district are at risk because of the policies  coming from this administration. Nearly 8 million Americans get  healthcare through Medicaid and through CHIP, which is on the chopping  block.

This President wants to cut $5.6 billion from the Department of  Education. The House Republicans' budget  includes $330 billion in cuts. Pell grants, school lunches, Head Start,  and everything are on the chopping block.

In my district, we have L.A. Unified School District. For many of the  kids who go to school, their only meal is when they go to school.

I am trying to figure out when folks say that they are Christian,  what kind of Bible are they using? That is because the Bible that I  have, Mr. Speaker, doesn't say that you starve children, that you cut  off their healthcare, and that you cut off the healthcare for their  grandparents.

Mr. Speaker, if your Bible says that, then I submit that maybe you  change your Bible. That is because that is unchristianlike to kill  seniors and children.

Let's talk about rolling back bedrock civil rights-era policies that  are designed to actually allow everyone the opportunity to compete and  participate in this marketplace. It is not about giving handouts. It is  about creating opportunity. It is about creating access to competition.

Mr. Speaker, why would you be afraid of that unless you are mediocre,  less than average, and need extra help because you can't compete?

Well, don't come for Black America. Fix yourself.

Let's talk about the workers who are the backbone of our economy, the  workers who run this government. I am always surprised when folks are  talking about unelected bureaucrats. Elon Musk is an unelected  bureaucrat. Keep it real. All the staff who help us do our jobs and  help our constituents are unelected bureaucrats, and the majority are  actually Republicans. The administration wants to cut the salaries that  allow folks to answer the phones for our constituents.

California has the second highest number of Federal workers.

Why are the Republicans going to cut that?

Mr. Speaker, might I remind you that we have the Olympics coming, we  have the FIFA World Cup coming, we have the All-Star Game, and Super  Bowl coming, and we are still producing movies and TV. We are helping  people with their passports and their visas. If Republicans want all  these games to be successful, then they have to resource the  departments that process the visas and applications that allow people  to come here. So let's keep it real.

Mr. Speaker, if you want to talk about housing, this administration  is proposing to terminate section 8, cutting rental aid and evicting  32,000 families from their homes. This President even refused to come  to Altadena after the urban fires. That is how little this  administration thinks about Black communities.

This administration is not interested in Black America, even though  this administration wanted to thank Black America.

What kind of thanks is that when they cut funding to HBCUs, when they  cut Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security, and when they cut Meals on  Wheels and SNAP?

We are going to make America hungry again. We are going to make  America sick again. I have a binder full of actions from this  administration that have come out of this administration in just the  last 100 days. They are terrifying. Not only are they terrifying for  Black America, but they are terrifying for all America.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to happily close out this CBC Special Order  hour and remind America that we will be back again next week with more  information, more receipts, and more truth.

Mr. Speaker, I thank my co-lead, Congresswoman Shontel Brown from the  great State of Ohio, and all the members of the Congressional Black  Caucus who spoke tonight, and I yield back the balance of my time.