16th Annual March for the Food Bank


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697684/16th-annual-march-for-the-food-bank


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, food costs are sky high, and regular  people are struggling to put dinner on the table for their families.  More and more people are relying on emergency food assistance at food  banks and food pantries just to survive.

This extraordinary need, exacerbated by Trump's cruelty and his  administration's awful policies that have increased hunger made this  year's March for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts more important  than ever.

Every November, an incredible team of antihunger advocates, concerned  neighbors, and Federal, State, and local officials embark on a 43-mile  walk to raise funds for and awareness about the terrible problem of  hunger.

As always, NEPM's incredible radio host Monte Belmonte led the group,  pushing a shopping cart and rallying us to keep up the fight. This  year, Monte's son Pax marched with us to support his dad and our effort  to end hunger.

I was joined by my incredible family--my wife, Lisa; my son, Patrick;  Wendy, Bill, and Courtney Talcott; and baby Hazel. Their support and  commitment to the cause of ending hunger means the world to me.

I am grateful to Congressman Richie Neal and former Congressman Joe  Kennedy for joining the march. I thank my colleagues in State  government for showing up and continuing to work tirelessly to protect  people in Massachusetts from the cruelty of this administration: Our  amazing Governor, Maura Healey; Massachusetts Department of  Agricultural Resources Commissioner Ashley Randle; State Senators Jo  Comerford and Jake Oliveira; State Representatives Natalie Blais, Mindy  Domb, Lindsay Sabadosa, Homar Gomez, Shirley Arriaga, and Pat Duffy.

I thank Northampton Mayor Gina-Louise Sciarra, Greenfield Mayor Ginny  Desorgher, Holyoke Mayor Joshua Garcia, and Chicopee Mayor John Vieau  for marching with us.

The hundreds of other people who joined the march--students,  advocates, members of my staff, community leaders such as Tim Garvin of  the United Way of Central Massachusetts, Sean Barry, Shannon from the  Martin Luther King Center in Springfield, and so many, many more--are  incredible. We had double the number of marchers this year compared to  last.

Along the way, the marchers stopped by some of the incredible food  pantries that serve the people of western Massachusetts: the Amherst  Survival Center, UMass Amherst Campus Pantry, Stone Soup Cafe, Kate's  Kitchen and Providence Ministries, and Lorraine's Soup Kitchen &  Pantry.

We were able to keep going thanks to the nourishment of De La Luz and  Holyoke Community College Culinary Arts program, Berkshire Brewing  Company, Bub's Bar-B-Que, Holyoke Hummus, and Hillside Pizza. A shout- out to Dean's Beans coffee for keeping us caffeinated during the entire  march.

I also thank local law enforcement--Deerfield and Springfield Police,  and the Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin County Sheriff's Departments-- for keeping us safe along the march.

I thank our media sponsors--New England Public Media and WRSI 93.9,  The River--for broadcasting the walk and raising awareness among people  in western Massachusetts.

I am so grateful to my friend, Andrew Morehouse, of the Food Bank of  Western Massachusetts and his entire team, particularly the development  team, for all they do to improve food security among people in western  Massachusetts and for their work in organizing this incredible event  every single year.

This march is tough. The days are very long, and we were exhausted by  the end of it, but it is nothing compared to the struggle people in  poverty face every single day just trying to survive in the United  States of America, the richest country in the history of the world.

My great desire is to never again have to do this walk, not because  of the long days or the cold weather or the aching legs and feet, but  because I dream of a day when every family is food secure and no person  goes to bed wondering where their next meal is going to come from.

Sadly, we are further from that goal today than we were a year ago.  The Trump administration and the Republicans in Congress have taken a  sledgehammer to basic needs programs that help regular people afford  food. They have completely ignored rising costs and the needs of real  people, instituting the largest cuts to healthcare and food assistance  in American history, all to give tax breaks to the wealthiest people in  this country.

This year's march raised nearly a million dollars, and that is a lot  of money, but it is nowhere near enough to make up for the cuts imposed  by Trump's big, ugly bill.

Charity alone has never, will never, can never make up for the  hundreds of billions of dollars in Federal cuts. Ending hunger requires  strong Federal investments in basic needs programs and a strategy  championed by the Federal Government.

Until we have a government that is willing to meaningfully invest in  basic needs programs, we will continue to march in support of a future  where we are able to finally end hunger now.