Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700485/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, nobody is defending the Ayatollah. There  is no love lost for a brutal government that sponsors terror and  murders their people.

Iran has been doing this for decades. Everybody knows that. So my  question is this: Why wasn't Donald Trump in favor of regime change  until this weekend? Why did he campaign on swearing he would never send  American kids to fight and die in the Middle East?

Republicans can't answer because they were against war with Iran  until exactly the second Donald Trump decided to go to war. Now, they  are all running around sounding like neocon lunatics.

America can't take this level of gaslighting.

I went to the classified briefing. There was no imminent threat, I  guess unless Republicans want to redefine the word ``imminent'' to mean  stretching back 47 years.

This whole thing is just so transparently built on lies. Republicans  went from imminent threat to regime change to nukes back to imminent  threat in the last 24 hours.

I will tell you what this is, Mr. Speaker. This is Iraq 2.0. I still  remember the lies about WMDs. I voted against that war, too. At least  George Bush had the decency to lie to people's faces.

By the way, no congressional vote can legitimize this because there  was no imminent threat. There was no U.N. Security Council resolution.  This war is illegal, no matter what you want to call it.

It is not Donald Trump's kids that will have to fight and die for  their draft-dodging dad. It is not the children of the billionaire  Epstein class. It is working-class kids who are going to put their  lives on the line.

Shame on Republicans. I am sick of this bs. We are spending billions  of dollars a day on a war, and we can't even get Republicans to join us  to expand healthcare in America.

How the hell is this America First? You guys broke your top campaign  promise. Good luck with that. I hope the defense contractor money was  worth it. Shame on you all. The mask is off. You are all just a bunch  of pathetic neocon warmongers.