Do Not Forget the Crisis in Cuba


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692909/do-not-forget-the-crisis-in-cuba


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about the United  States' policy toward Cuba.

There are many crises in the world, like Iran. One crisis that does  not get enough attention is the humanitarian one in Cuba today, with  its hunger and deprivation.

To many, the word ``Cuba'' invokes politics. Oftentimes, a topic that  politicians use to demagogue in U.S. elections for political advantage.  However, Cuba is an island of 10 million human beings. They are people  like you and me with families and with hopes for a better future.

There is no doubt that the aspirations of the people of Cuba are  stymied by their own government. It denies them fundamental human  rights. It does not meet their basic needs. It must do better, much  better, to listen to what people are asking for and address their  concerns in a real way, and our government in the United States isn't  helping. In fact, we make the lives of the Cuban people worse, a lot  worse.

I have visited Cuba many times as a Member of Congress. I have met  with Cubans in their homes and have talked to them in their own  communities. I can tell you firsthand that the U.S. embargo is harmful  to the people of Cuba. It denies them food, medicine, and basic goods.  It contributes to hunger and human misery. It is a driver of migration  from the island.

U.S. policy toward Cuba fails to see the Cuban people as human  beings. Too often, politicians here treat Cubans as commodities, as  props in their political arguments. This is dehumanizing.

It has gotten worse under President Trump. Cubans were once welcomed  with open arms into the United States, even given preferential  treatment not available to others fleeing dire conditions. No more.  Cuban immigrants are equally at risk under the Trump administration's  cruelty-first policies.

A half million Cuban immigrants are currently in the United States  under parole. An additional 110,000 Cubans entered the U.S. legally  under the CHNV humanitarian parole program, but the Trump  administration eliminated CHNV. Most Cubans are not eligible to adjust  their status and are at risk of being sent back to Cuba. The Trump  administration is adding to the humanitarian crisis.

I am disappointed in many of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle. They continue to defend the U.S. embargo and the status quo.  They claim that they want to force the Cuban Government to treat its  own people better, yet now when they have a chance to speak out against  the Trump administration's callous indifference to the welfare of the  Cuban people or even advance policies that will improve the lives of  Cubans on the island, these same people are silent. I find that  shameful.

In the past, whether our policy was more relaxed or tightened, our  government maintained consultations with Cuban officials to manage  migration, but the Trump administration has closed even that door,  turning off a basic level of dialogue.

None of this makes sense. Tightening sanctions increases suffering,  which drives people to our shores and to the border, but the  administration won't even talk to Cubans about migration. How do they  plan to return those they want to deport? Do they think they can hold  Cubans in detention indefinitely?

Conditions in Cuba are far more desperate than during Trump's first  term. To be frank, President Biden disappointed me. He didn't do enough  to help. Food and medicine shortages and power blackouts are causing  more suffering. Mr. Speaker, 1 million people, one-tenth of the  population, have left the island. If the Trump administration wants to  stop migration, it should not be contributing to its root cause.

The Cuban people are caught in a vise. They don't have a government  that adequately responds to their needs, and they can't look to America  to help them, either. A better approach to Cuba starts with seeing each  other on a human level. We should promote exchange between artists,  musicians, writers, filmmakers, scientists, and students. We can  nurture understanding, build relationships, foster trust, and diplomacy  will follow.

President Obama understood this. He knew that insanity was doing the  same thing over and over and expecting different results, so he  loosened restrictions, relieved tensions, and advanced cooperation. We  were on the road to helping create a new future for Cuba.

However, Trump takes us backward. He unjustifiably added Cuba to the  state sponsor of terrorism list, purely for political reasons. They  ought to be removed from that list. He banned travel and blocked  remittances. He has cut off our ability to negotiate for the release of  political prisoners. He continues to insist on sanctions to  economically starve the country. We should instead lift the embargo. By  closing off American engagement, he has opened the door for greater  Russian and Chinese influence.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to consider a human-focused approach  to Cuba. Our policy should not add to their suffering. We should hear  their aspirations and never doubt the power of the people to create  change.

Our Cuba policy is on the wrong track. It is a throwback to the Cold  War. It is ineffective, and it makes us look petty and vindictive in  the eyes of the world community. We need to do much better.