Providing for Consideration of H.R. Breaking the Gridlock Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698593/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-breaking-the-gridlock-act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, during consideration of this resolution,  all time yielded is for the purposes of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. Speaker, all I can say is, it is about damn time. I mean, we have  had to wait months while the Republican leadership of this House  dragged their feet, all so we could take up a simple vote on whether to  stop people's healthcare premiums from doubling or tripling.

We could have done this months ago. Instead, Republican leadership  literally shut down the entire government rather than just allow this  one vote on making sure that regular people can afford their  healthcare. That is absurd.

If billionaires want another tax break, they get it in a nanosecond.  If the rich and powerful want another loophole, it materializes out of  thin air. Somehow days stretch into weeks and then stretch into months  when it comes to healthcare for hardworking families.

Every night, those families are sitting around their kitchen tables  trying to figure out how to pay for childcare so they can get to work.  They are trying to figure out how they can pay their rent so their kids  have a safe place to grow up. They are trying to figure out how they  can afford groceries amid skyrocketing costs.

Because of the stalling and hesitation and delay from this President  and this Speaker, millions of these families are now left trying to  figure out how they can afford their healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, I would like to think it is not up for debate that in  the richest country in the history of the world, no person--and I mean  no person--should be left without healthcare. No mom or dad should have  to forego their own health insurance because they can't afford to pay  for their kids and themselves. No small business owner should have to  go without coverage to pay the bills.

That is exactly what is happening right now. It is happening all  because this leadership here in this House refused to lift a finger.  They were too busy helping Big Banks, Big Oil, Big Tech, and whatever  billionaire needed a handout.

This Congress musters up the will to spend trillions of dollars on  tax breaks for billionaires and to send the Pentagon billions of  dollars more than they even ask for.

Mr. Speaker, the administration came up with tens of billions of  dollars to bail out Argentina, for God's sake. Somehow, helping moms  and dads, grandparents, and kids afford trips to the doctor is a step  too far for this Republican leadership.

The truth is that this should not be a partisan issue. We are here  today debating this rule because four Republicans joined Democrats to  put good policy ahead of party and demand that this House take up this  measure. Thanks to their efforts to be on the right side of this, we  were able to get around the Speaker's logjam and force a vote on this  bill.

We have a moral obligation to act, Mr. Speaker. It is unconscionable  that anyone in the richest country in history should not have access to  good, quality healthcare.

How long have we heard that the Republican healthcare plan is coming?  It still hasn't materialized. The reality is that, in the meantime,  reversing the massive premium increases that families across this  country are grappling with is the bare, bare minimum that we should do.

America's healthcare system is broken, and I am not going to defend  the status quo. It has been broken for decades. America spends more per  patient than any other major country for the worst outcomes. People  lack access to care. Medical bills still leave families in debt. This  sure as hell isn't the healthcare system that I would have designed.

In fact, Democrats believe that every person in the United States  should have high-quality, affordable healthcare. I personally believe  in Medicare for All. Also, there is no doubt in my mind that the  American people are better off due to the Affordable Care Act.

Like I said, our system was broken long before the ACA, and the ACA  took major steps to try to move us toward comprehensive coverage. That  is part of the reason that the ACA is so popular. An overwhelming  majority of Americans support the ACA because it protects people with  preexisting conditions, provides free preventative care, and requires  coverage for essential health benefits like emergency services and  maternity care.

The ACA gave health insurance to millions of people, and improvements  made to the law made premiums more affordable. Failing to act and  failing to extend these tax credits will leave millions of Americans  paying more for their healthcare.

Families in my district are reaching out to me to share that their  healthcare premiums are going up by hundreds and even thousands of  dollars every month due to the inaction of this Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I know that many of the people back home must be writing  to you with similar stories. We can't fail these families. We can't  turn our backs on working people who are struggling to get by.  Healthcare is a basic and fundamental human right. If we have it in our  power right now, today, to help make people's lives better, how could  we not take the opportunity to do that?

Mr. McGOVERN.  Wasserman Schultz).

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to insist that we pull our  Nation back from the largest-ever, Republican-forced loss of healthcare  in our history.

These catastrophic coverage cutoffs and massive premium hikes will  hammer millions of us back in Florida, and it is all because  Republicans chose billionaire tax breaks over extending the Affordable  Care Act tax credits for our hardworking families.

That is all on top of the $1 trillion that Republicans slashed from  Medicaid and $500 billion from Medicare. Over 203,000 people will lose  coverage in my district. Let's be really clear: Many of them will get  needlessly sick or die.

Thankfully, Democrats refused to accept this Republican healthcare  crisis and forced this vote to extend the ACA tax credits.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans have made life too expensive. From burger  and coffee prices to rent, home insurance, and utilities, costs keep  soaring. We can't add crushing cost burdens by forcing families to pick  between seeing a doctor and buying groceries.

Yes, Republicans chose to unleash this healthcare crisis, but they  can avoid it right now. Millions of anxious families are watching.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Johnson).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Bonamici).

Mr. McGOVERN.  McClellan).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Castor).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Tokuda).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Balint).

This is it, Mr. Speaker. We need a majority of this House to vote  ``yes'' on this rule so that we can have an up-or-down vote on  reversing the premium increases. It is that simple.

If we do nothing, millions of families will lose their healthcare.  People won't be able to see doctors if they get sick. Medical bills  will stack up. Millions more will be left paying hundreds or even  thousands of dollars more every month just to maintain their coverage.  They will have to cut back on food or won't be able to make their rent  because of these steep increases.

In some cases, the damage has already been done. Many people have  already decided to forgo coverage. In my home State of Massachusetts,  over 25,000 people canceled their coverage because Republicans let  premiums skyrocket.

That is nearly double the number of people who canceled coverage last  year. It is a huge increase that will drive up costs for everyone and  make America less healthy. I am sure that my colleagues are seeing  their constituents make similar choices.

Let me end with this. We have the power right now to give peace of  mind to working families that they won't go bankrupt just trying to  afford health insurance. We can make their lives a little easier. We  can help them sleep a little more soundly and breathe more easily  knowing that they can afford coverage for their families.

I have said this over and over and over again, but we are the richest  country in the history of the world. People ought to have better  coverage. They ought to have more affordable coverage. Healthcare is a  fundamental human right, and we should come together in a bipartisan  way and support this rule and support the underlying legislation. We  can prevent a catastrophe from impacting millions and millions of  people in this country.

We have lots of disagreements, but, boy, I would like to think if we  could all agree on one thing, it ought to be that people ought to not  get screwed over when it comes to healthcare, that they ought not be  paying double, triple, quadruple what they normally pay for their  health insurance premiums.

I urge a ``yes'' vote on this rule. I yield back the balance of my  time, and I move the previous question on the resolution.