Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the Department of the Treasury Relating to the Review of Applications Under the Bank Merger Act; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``Review of Final Rule Reclassification of Major Sources As Area Sources Under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act''; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we are here today for a rule on two measures, two lousy  measures doubling down on the Republicans' agenda to help big banks and  big polluters.

S.J. Res. 13 is a gift-wrapped giveaway to Wall Street, plain and  simple. It would make it easier for big banks to get even bigger,  hurting small businesses and communities in the process.

S.J. Res. 31 is even worse, a blatant handout to big polluters,  putting corporate profits ahead of our constituents' health and safety.

This isn't new, Mr. Speaker. That has been the Republican playbook  all Congress long: Help the polluters. Help the banks. Help Wall  Street, and help the CEOs. They want to help everyone except the  working people who actually need it.

Mr. Speaker, you may ask: Why?

I would say: Follow the money. Look at the donations.

One of the things we need to get serious about in this Congress and  hopefully when Democrats take control of the House after the next  election, this will be a priority, and that is campaign finance reform.

All this excessive money from big industries, from big banks, from  corporations, and from people like Elon Musk pollute this Chamber in a  way where the needs and the wants of regular people get put to the  side.

It is disgraceful, if we are being honest here, Mr. Speaker. As bad  as these two bills are--and I can't emphasize enough that they are  really bad--they are just the warm-up act. In fact, this is filler. We  weren't even supposed to be dealing with these bills. We were supposed  to be dealing with the budget reconciliation bill. Mr. Speaker, because  of the disarray within the Republican Conference, all of a sudden,  these bills appeared.

That is because in just over 13 hours, Mr. Speaker, the House Rules  Committee will meet starting at 1 o'clock in the morning to debate a  bill that steals from the American people so they can help out the  billionaire donors who write them big checks.

Now, let me ask: If this bill is so great, so big, and so beautiful  as Donald Trump says it is, then why the hell are we debating it in the  middle of the night?

Why not debate it in broad daylight where the American people can  tune in and hear what it is really about?

We all know the answer.

I encourage the American people to pay attention to what is happening  very, very, very early in the morning here in the United States  Capitol. Watch what happens in the Rules Committee at 1 o'clock in the  morning.

To all the insomniacs out there: Tune in at 1 o'clock in the morning  and watch what unfolds in that committee. Republicans do not want you  to pay attention to their tax scam.

Hell, Trump doesn't even want Republicans to pay attention to what is  in this bill. Mr. Speaker, he told you guys to close your eyes and vote  for this garbage.

Republicans were ordered not to say a word in committee, just fall in  line and rubber-stamp it.

Now listen to this: Now they are sneaking a change into the rules  buried in the fine print of this rule to give themselves same-day  authority to bring the bill to the floor with a moment's notice. This  bill is over 1,000 pages long.

They want to ram it through the Rules Committee, potentially changing  it, and we know that there are changes coming, and then vote on it just  hours later. It is a bill that adds trillions to the deficit and kicks  millions of people off their healthcare.

Republicans once bragged about requiring 72 hours to review  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, do you remember that?

Now Republicans are ready to toss that promise in the trash to serve  Trump's demands.

If my colleagues in the Freedom Caucus vote for this rule, then they  will have reached a new height of hypocrisy. It is unbelievable to me  that they cry and whine about passing bills without the time to read  them, and then they come down here and support ramming a bill through  committee in the middle of the night and bringing it straight to the  floor.

It is unbelievable and hypocritical.

Let's be real, Mr. Speaker. This budget reconciliation bill is a  disaster. It is unpopular, and it is indefensible. This is all about  massive and huge tax breaks to billionaires paid for by stealing from  working Americans. That is not hyperbole. That is just the truth. It  rips away Medicaid from parents and grandparents. It slashes food  assistance for children. The biggest cut in food assistance in history  is contained in this bill. It drains resources from the moms and dads  all to fund giveaways for those at the very, very top.

Any backroom deals made in the next few hours to twist arms and to  buy votes will only make this terrible bill even worse.

This is not what democracy looks like. This is what corruption looks  like. Shame on every single person who votes to advance that awful  process by torching any semblance of a fair process.

A vote for this rule is a vote to allow Republican leadership to jam  this bill through the House without enough time to even read it. There  is zero transparency and zero respect for this institution or the  Members here. Just close your eyes and vote for it. That is what Trump  told Republicans to do: Close your eyes and vote for it.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve a hell of a lot better than  this rushed, reckless process. They deserve leaders who work for them,  not for the billionaires.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my  time.

Mr. Speaker, just a couple of things. First of all, I want to correct  the record. The gentleman said that this budget reconciliation bill  reflects a full, fair, and open process in all the committees of  jurisdiction. I hate to tell him, but I am on the Agriculture  Committee, and the chairman actually cut off debate when there were  dozens of amendments still yet to be offered. That is not a full, open,  and fair process. Maybe by Republican standards it is, but by most  people's standards, it isn't.

The gentleman is on the Rules Committee. We are debating the rule, so  I have a question for my Rules Committee colleague. This rule contains  a fast-track process for the Republican tax scam, this so-called budget  reconciliation bill. We all know that deals are being made behind  closed doors, changes are still being negotiated--big changes, we are  told. I would like to know if the majority will commit to ensuring a  Congressional Budget Office score is available on the final bill before  it moves forward.

We need to know the impact on our constituents, not only how much it  will cost, but how many people will lose their healthcare and how  quickly they will lose their healthcare.

Those are legitimate questions that, quite frankly, Democrats not  only want to know but Republicans should want to know, as well.

Can I get the gentleman to kind of give us some assurances that we  know the impact? Will he commit to ensuring a Congressional Budget  Office score is available on the final bill before it moves forward?

I am happy to yield to him.

I guess we are not going to get an answer.

I mean, I guess we all know why they don't want the nonpartisan,  expert analysis to be made available before a vote on this bill. This  vote is a monstrosity. This vote is going to throw at least 14 million  people off their healthcare. This is going to constitute the largest  cut in food assistance in history. People are going to see their  nutrition benefits reduced, which will impact children, senior  citizens, veterans, and those with disabilities.

It is relevant to what we are talking about here today because in  this rule you provide the authority to immediately bring the budget  reconciliation bill to the floor without giving people any time to  debate the bill, to be able to analyze the bill, for CBO to do their  work on this, or for us to even know what the impact is going to be on  our constituents from something this big.

By the way, I hear Republicans say that they have this deadline.  There is no deadline. There is nothing magic about having to pass this  bill by tomorrow or the next day.

You could do this right. You could actually have a Rules Committee  hearing in markup in the light of day. You could do it when you come  back after the Memorial Day recess.

People should ask the question: Why are they rushing so quickly? Why  are they doing everything they can to jam this through before people  have a chance to understand the full impacts of this bill?

The reason why is that they don't want the American people to know  what they are doing. They are ashamed of what is in this bill--again,  throwing people off healthcare, throwing people off food assistance.  Why? It is to give a tax cut to billionaires. Give me a break.

We are here to help lift up people in this country, to be there for  people who are struggling. Instead, this Republican Congress is about  enriching those who are well-off and well-connected.

Mr. Speaker, I am really confused after listening to the gentleman  from New York complain about same-day authority. In this bill, the  Republicans put in same-day authority to be able to jam this tax scam  through.

The gentleman didn't answer my question. I guess he is basically  saying that, no, the Republicans will not commit to a CBO score for  people to be able to know what, in fact, the bill will do and the  impacts the bill will have.

I mean, this bill is so awful that I can't imagine any Democrat  voting for it, but it is so awful that I would like to think some  Republicans who have a conscience wouldn't vote for it either.

I would like to think it would matter to Republicans that 14 million  Americans will lose their healthcare. What if that number went up to 20  million or 30 million? Is there any number that will be so high that  maybe some Republicans might pause and say, wait a minute, maybe we  should not go down this road? I mean, this is crazy.

By the way, the difference in legislation that we are talking about,  the Build Back Better bill, I remind the gentleman, was about helping  people. This bill is about screwing people. There is a difference here.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 2753, the Hands Off Medicaid and  SNAP Act, which would block the Republican budget from cutting Medicaid  or SNAP benefits and kicking people off these lifesaving programs.

While we vote on two measures that would give even more power to big  banks and large industrial polluters, Republicans are trying to jam  their multitrillion-dollar budget scam down our throats in the dead of  night by holding a hearing at 1 o'clock in the morning in the Rules  Committee, hoping the American people won't notice.

Shame on my Republican colleagues.

The American people are noticing, and they are pissed off that  working families are going to have to foot the bill for massive tax  cuts for multimillionaires, wealthy heirs, and corporations.

Republicans claim they don't want to cut critical benefits for  working people. I have heard many of you do press conferences and sign  on to letters. Now, here is the chance to prove it by voting for my  amendment to bring up the Hands Off Medicaid and SNAP Act.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, first of all, can the gentleman name for  me one meeting that the Rules Committee had, when Democrats were in  control, where the hearing portion began at 1 o'clock in the morning?

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thought he was intimating that that was  the case. I don't know of a single meeting where we began taking  testimony--we may have reported out Rules late at night, but not taking  testimony.

Mr. Speaker, and, secondly, let me just say, with all due respect, I  don't view it as theatrics to stand up for people's healthcare and food  assistance. I feel that that is my job.

If Republicans think that somehow people are not going to be  adversely impacted, read the CBO score on the current draft of the  bill. Again, it is going to get worse.

On the current draft of the bill we are told because of the changes  in this bill and because of the inaction by Republicans, CBO estimates  right now 14 million Americans will lose their healthcare. That is not  me. That is the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. Republicans  rely on that. Democrats rely on that. By saying somehow that people  aren't going to be adversely impacted by the cuts in nutrition, I don't  think you understand the nutrition title if that is what you believe.

Under this bill, if a mother of a 7-year-old loses her job, for  whatever reason, she has 3 months to find a new job. Otherwise, she  loses her food assistance.

You have lowered the age of when work requirements are mandatory, and  it is a cruel thing to do because this is about children. I don't know,  but if you are a single parent and you have got a 7-year-old--by the  way, some schools end the day at 2 or 2:30. How do you pay for  childcare? How do you try to make ends meet? What about the summer  vacation when school is not in session?

My Republican friends are so in the pockets of billionaires and the  well-off and the well-connected, I don't think they know what real life  is like for so many people in this country, how difficult it is.

When we talk about programs like SNAP, I have a news flash for you.  The majority of people on SNAP who are able to work, work. They earn so  little they still qualify for the benefit.

By the way, the benefit is on average of about $2 per person per  meal. You can't buy a cup of coffee in the United States Capitol  Complex for $2.

Then what my friends don't talk about is how this is shifting some of  the cost burdens on to States. All of a sudden States are going to be  required to come up with hundreds of millions and, in some cases,  billions of dollars in order to prevent people from losing their food  assistance.

Who does that? Who does that, all while giving tax breaks to  billionaires?

It just makes no sense to me. All we are asking for--and I think some  Republicans may agree with me on this--is before you bring the bill to  the floor--and I appreciate the gentleman saying that there will be a  CBO score by the time it gets through the Senate--don't House Members  deserve to know what the hell they are voting on before they vote on  it?

We ought to insist that we all go into this with our eyes wide open,  so that we know, in fact, what the impact is going to be on our  constituents. I don't think that is a radical thing to demand or to ask  for. Yet, my Republican friends seem to think that that is unrealistic.

This bill is going to need major changes for me to even take another  look at it and show the priorities don't represent my values. We don't  share the same values. It is clear when I look at this bill.

The bottom line is the process right now and what is relevant to this  rule that we are debating right now. My friends on the other side put  in same-day rule authority to expedite this so people won't even have  adequate time to find out how it impacts their constituents.

Mr. Speaker, let's set the record straight. I have to go back and  look 20 years ago? Yet, I can say this: Democrats never ever did  anything like Republicans are doing here today, never. I don't even  remember, and maybe the gentleman could enlighten us what the bill was.

Yet, on a major budget reconciliation bill, the majority is jamming  this through? It is going to add to the deficit. It is going to throw  people off of food assistance. It is going to throw people off of  healthcare assistance.

That is not me saying that. That is the Congressional Budget Office  saying it. Nothing like this has ever been done. Nothing like this has  ever been done, and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are  doing it with a straight face as if it is no big deal. It is as if who  cares if people lose their food assistance.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman talks about that if we don't do something,  taxes will be increased. The reason why taxes are going to be increased  is because when my friends passed this tax bill when Trump was last in  office, the majority made all the tax cuts for middle-class families  temporary. They all expired. Mr. Speaker, do you know what Republicans  didn't make temporary? The tax breaks for corporations; those are  permanent. Those are permanent, and that says it all there. That is the  difference between the two parties, it is that I think we have  different priorities. We have a different set of values.

Mr. Speaker, I am really deeply concerned about those who will go  without food, and I am deeply concerned about those who will go without  healthcare. Those are my priorities. I am sorry it makes the gentleman  and the Republicans uncomfortable, but that is where I am coming from.

I don't give a damn about whether Elon Musk gets another tax break or  not. Maybe my friends do because he poured so much money into the last  campaign. Again, that is why we need campaign finance reform. We need  to get this place to focus in on what regular people are concerned  about and not what billionaires and corporations are concerned about.

Mr. Speaker, before Republicans try to cut Medicaid and SNAP benefits  in the dead of night, I should also point out that the majority is  giving gifts to big polluters in broad daylight.

Res. 31 is enacted.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the truth is that Republicans have  betrayed the middle class of this country time after time after time.  We are seeing that today with the CRA measures that uplift big banks  and big polluters at the expense of our health, safety, and economic  security.

Does anybody think that big banks need more help, that we want big  banks to get even bigger, and we want big banks to swallow up community  banks? I don't know. On what planet is that a good idea? It is a good  idea only in the Republican-controlled Congress here.

We will see during the rest of this week Republicans' priorities all  twisted as my Republican colleagues jam through Trump's one big, awful  tax scam.

The Speaker has ordered Republicans on the Committee on Rules to meet  at 1 o'clock in the morning. That is the middle of the night. Again,  here is what puzzles me: We were supposed to meet at noon yesterday,  and we are instead meeting at 1 o'clock in the morning.

Mr. Speaker, we know there are going to be changes. Republicans could  have taken testimony and hearings from all the committees and waited to  report out the rule until whenever final deals were made with their  Members. Yet, Republicans are deliberately choosing to meet at 1  o'clock in the morning on something this consequential.

Mr. Speaker, I think the gentleman thinks it is a good idea. The  gentleman says that I will use my time and try to take every moment I  can to make my points. I can say to the gentleman: You bet your life I  will be. I am going to be fighting like hell for the people of this  country. I am not going to sit back, and I can say this for the other  Democratic Members and others who will come to this mike: We are not  going to sit back and watch our constituents get screwed over. We are  just not going to do that.

Republicans can do it at 1 o'clock in the morning or 2 o'clock in the  morning. We are going to be there, and we are going to stay there. We  are going to offer our amendments, and we are going to make our points.  I would urge my colleagues to be prepared to be there for a very, very  long time.

Mr. Speaker, I hope that the gentleman can give us some assurance  that, unlike in the Agriculture Committee where the chairman cut off  debate and cut off amendments even though there were many amendments  that were pending, we won't see the same thing happen in the Committee  on Rules.

Clearly, our debate on this bill is something Republicans don't want  the American people to see. I invite every single American--it doesn't  matter if they are Republican, Democrat, Independent, or someone who  doesn't follow politics--to tune in to the Committee on Rules. It will  be up on our website. I will be live-streaming on YouTube. It will be  on C-SPAN. Hell, maybe even cable will carry us live.

I urge Americans to watch it and judge for themselves what this bill  means for them and their families and their communities. They will see  how Republicans are gutting regular order to jam this thing through.  They will probably see them walk in with a huge amendment at the last  minute. It will be one that could dramatically change the bill,  including accelerating the timeline for kicking millions of people off  of their health insurance. As soon as next year, people could start  losing coverage. That is what we are being told might be coming down  the way.

If the rule that we are talking about right now passes, my Republican  colleagues will be able to rush that newly changed bill to the floor  just hours later, giving Members and the American public zero time to  read it or to review it.

Make no mistake: A vote for today's rule is a vote to give the  Republican leadership a blank check to fast-track Trump's one big, ugly  bill through this House.

Mr. Speaker, here is what really gets me: Members of the House  Freedom  Caucus have said over and over again that bringing a 1,000-page bill to  the floor without time to read it is corrupt and immoral. They were the  loudest voices demanding the 72-hour rule, so let's see if they mean  it. Let's see if they actually mean what they say or if they fold under  pressure.

Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member of this House to vote ``no'' on the  PQ, ``hell no'' on this rule, ``no'' on the underlying legislation, and  to send a strong message that we reject this Republican obsession with  screwing over the middle class to give tax breaks to billionaires.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.