Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696904/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-national-petroleum-reserve-in-alaska-integrated-activity-plan-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-buffalo-field-office-record-of-decision-and-approved-resource-management-plan-amendment-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-land-management-relating-to-coastal-plain-oil-and-gas-leasing-program-record-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-h-con-res-denouncing-the-horrors-of-socialism-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-unlocking-our-domestic-lng-potential-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-researching-efficient-federal-improvements-for-necessary-energy-refining-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-common-sense-law-enforcement-and-accountability-now-in-dc-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North  Carolina for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself  such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, Americans are working more and more for less and less.

Almost every day, I speak with young people who can't afford to start  a family, can't buy a house, and can't get ahead. I hear it from  seniors who are struggling to survive on fixed incomes. I see it with  my own eyes. Moms and dads are putting items back on the shelves in the  grocery store because they can't afford them. Parents can't go back to  work because they can't afford childcare. People's health insurance  premiums are doubling and tripling because this majority has failed to  act.

During election season, we heard from Trump and Republicans who swore  up and down they would bring down prices. They promised the American  people they would reverse inflation and focus like a laser on  affordability. They have broken that promise. They have betrayed the  American people.

If you want more evidence of that, look at the bills on the floor  today: more garbage, more culture war crap, more bills written by this  Republican majority of, by, and for the billionaire class.

Republicans moved Heaven and Earth to give tax breaks to the rich and  powerful. That got done in a nanosecond.

If you are a regular person staring down next year's healthcare  premium hikes and deciding whether to pay a thousand bucks more or put  food on the table, the answer you get back from the Republicans is: Let  them eat cake.

We are barreling toward another shutdown at the end of January. We  could have spent the last 2 months working on passing the nine  appropriations bills Republicans still need to pass to stop another  shutdown. Instead, they went on a taxpayer-funded paid vacation for 8  weeks.

Let me just say, because we are debating a rule to consider these  eight bills, this rule sucks. There are eight closed rules, no  amendments, no changes allowed on the floor, take it or leave it. If  you are keeping count at home, that is 80 completely closed rules this  Congress, the most ever in a year.

Mr. Speaker, I want to correct the gentlewoman because last night in  the Rules Committee she said that five of these bills didn't receive  any amendments. That is because she didn't ask for any. When you don't  send an amendment deadline, everyone knows you are doing a closed rule.

My Republican colleagues have been complicit in these 80 closed  rules. Nearly 9 out of 10 times, the majority party has not been  allowed to bring amendments to the floor. They are getting blocked by  their own leadership time and time again. How does that feel?

Again, this is a terrible rule, and I urge a ``no'' vote. I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, those are a lot of words to justify the most closed  Congress in history, the most authoritarian Congress in history. It  would make Putin blush.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 6074, which  would extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits for 3  years, through 2028.

We are in the midst of a healthcare crisis. More than 20 million  Americans who get their healthcare on the ACA exchanges are going to  see their premiums skyrocket next year. That includes 250,000 people in  my home State of Massachusetts, who are paying lower premiums and  copays due to these tax credits, which Democrats created in 2021 and  which are set to expire at the end of the year.

Let me read you some of the stories from folks in my district: I just  received my letter, and my monthly costs have gone from $1,287 to  $3,026 for next year. As a working family with a daughter who has an  autoimmune disease, we are struggling, and I am working 50-plus hours a  week just to pay the insurance.

Here is another one: With the Health Connector, I was paying $264 per  month, acceptable seeing that I am healthy but not young. Without the  advanced premium tax credit, my monthly premium will be just over $800  per month. I can't and I won't pay that. I will go without.

This is happening across the country, and for the sake of millions of  Americans and their healthcare, I urge my Republican colleagues to  support this bill and vote ``no'' on the previous question.

Mr. Speaker, shortly on the floor, Republicans are about to finally  bring up the Massie-Khanna bill to release the Epstein files. We had to  drag this leadership here kicking and screaming.

I appreciate their sudden and stunning change of heart on this issue,  but I state for the record that the Republican leadership has tried to  block this day for months and months and months.

I also want to state for the record that Donald Trump could release  these files on his own, today, right now, right this very second. He  doesn't need to wait for Congress to pass the bill. He could release  the files himself, but he won't. That is why we are here, because he  refuses to act.

Meanwhile, the Republican majority has blocked transparency at every  turn. They stonewalled in committee. The gentlewoman from North  Carolina and every Republican on the Rules Committee voted nine times  to block my amendment to release the Epstein files, nine times.

Republicans were so afraid of my amendment that Speaker Johnson shut  down the Rules Committee and sent us home early in July, and then he  refused to swear in a new Member of Congress for weeks because she  promised to be the 218th signature to force this bill forward. Only  four Republicans signed the discharge petition. Every single Democrat  signed on.

In a few moments, I am going to yield time to Representative Massie,  who has been the Republican leader of this effort alongside  Representative Khanna on the Democratic side. Here is why I am doing  that: This bill should be getting a full hour of debate on the floor,  but Speaker Johnson, I guess at Donald Trump's direction, is throwing  every procedural gimmick at the wall to see what sticks, and he is  trying to limit debate on the floor because for some reason he is very,  very afraid of talking about this. That is why I am donating a  significant chunk of my time to Members who have been silenced by the  Speaker for the terrible crime of demanding truth and transparency.

If I had to guess, most Republicans will probably vote in favor of  releasing the files, but they are not voting ``yes'' because their  conscience changed. They are voting ``yes'' because Donald Trump tells  most of them how to vote, and he realized he has lost on this one.

He says that people who support this bill ``betrayed the entire  Republican Party.'' Really, really? How is accountability for a  pedophile, something Donald Trump campaigned on, how is that now a  betrayal? This was his issue, his idea. He ran on releasing the files.

By the way, to those who say that Biden should have released these  files, let me just address that right now. You are right, he should  have, but he didn't make it his number one issue, and he is not the  President right now. Donald Trump is. He could have released the files  at any point over the last 11 months, but he has not.

Republicans have had months to sign the discharge petition. They had  months to bring this bill to the floor, but this leadership has chosen  obstruction. They don't want to pass this bill. They don't even want to  talk about it on the House floor, and so that is why debate matters.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman doesn't oppose this? Boy,  she has a funny way of showing it. I gave the gentlewoman nine  opportunities in the Committee on Rules to bring this measure to the  floor. I gave her nine opportunities. Every time I brought up an  amendment, she voted it down. There were nine opportunities. To say  that somehow this is always what they wanted, I don't know, but that  doesn't pass the smell test.

Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman says that we should just trust her and  Republican leadership. After what I saw unfold over these last several  months, I can't. There was obstruction and the use of every maneuver  possible to avoid this moment we have here today.

I say for the record: It doesn't matter whether there are  Republicans, Democrats, or Independents implicated in these files. We  believe in accountability for everybody who abuses young women. We  believe in justice. That is kind of what is uniting many of us on this  side of the aisle here today.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Khanna for his leadership. I  thank Representative Massie, Representative Greene, and Representative  Mace for their courage and for their willingness to stand up for what  is right. We don't agree on very much, but we do agree there ought to  be accountability when young women are abused. That is what this is  about.

Mr. Speaker, first, let me say how much I admire the courage of my  Republican colleagues who are beside me here today.

Mr. Speaker, at the end of the day, this is not about us, and it is  not about politics. This is about the survivors, young girls who were  exploited by powerful men. These were men who used money and power to  take advantage of girls, some as young as 11 years old.

The President of the United States calls it all a hoax. Can you  imagine that? What an evil and disgusting thing to say. These young  girls, now women, the survivors, what happened to them was horrific.  They were sexually abused, many of them for years, and the President of  the United States calls it all a hoax.

What kind of messed up, sick-in-the-head, immoral person says  something like that? This bill is about making sure that powerful men  are held accountable. It is about demanding truth and transparency for  the American people.

Republican leaders in this House lost control of the story. They lost  the ability to hide behind procedure, and they lost the luxury of  pretending that they were ever on the right side. The American people  see it. Survivors see it, and history will see it.

Listening to the Speaker of the House's press conference today, it  sounds like he basically wants to kill this whole thing. He is trying  to obstruct and derail the process.

Why the hell is he fighting so hard to do the opposite of what the  survivors want? What an awful, awful thing to do.

Let us release the files. Let's give survivors the transparency they  have long been denied. Let us take back power from the rich,  billionaire elites who think that they can do whatever they want with  no justice or accountability. Let's remember exactly who had to be  dragged here under duress and who stood up from day one to demand the  truth.