Providing for Consideration of S. Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Law- Enforcement Innovate to De-Escalate Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Undersea Cable Protection Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Securing America's Critical Minerals Supply Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699941/providing-for-consideration-of-s-veterans-accessibility-advisory-committee-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-law-enforcement-innovate-to-de-escalate-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-undersea-cable-protection-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-securing-americas-critical-minerals-supply-act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we have four bills in this rule today. All of them are  completely closed--no amendments, no debate, completely closed. I feel  like I am in Russia. Three of them are from the failed rule last night,  which was the third failed rule in this Congress, the seventh under  Speaker Johnson, and the tenth of the reigning Republican majority.  That alone demonstrates Republicans' inability to govern.

Then we have the so-called SAVE America Act. The gentleman from Texas  is going to spend today's debate trying to convince you that this is a  commonsense, simple bill, but I want you to remember a very few  important facts while he is talking.

First of all, it is already illegal for noncitizens to vote in  Federal elections, period, full stop. If noncitizens are voting in  Federal elections, they should be prosecuted. We don't disagree on  that.

Second, nobody disputes the fact that voters should follow the law  and indicate who they are. We agree on that, too. Nobody is debating  that on the floor today.

What we are debating is whether we are going to believe the BS  conspiracy theories cooked up by Donald Trump and MAGA Republicans  about whether or not elections can be trusted in this country.

What we are debating is whether, in response to those lies, we are  going to require Americans to go down to their county clerk, to take  the train to city hall, or to drive down to the registrar's office and  jump through bureaucratic hoops just to register to vote.

Who asked for more red tape? Did Jim Crow call?

I mean, that is what this bill is about. It is not about voter ID. It  is about voter registration, and it is about voter suppression.

We always tell people to vote, make their voices heard, participate  in our democracy, right? Those are supposed to be good things.

Why are Republicans passing a bill that makes it as hard as possible  to vote? I will let them answer that question, but I guess it is about  what I have come to expect from a party that no longer believes in  democracy, though.

Yesterday, in the Rules Committee, I asked the chairman of the  Committee on House Administration a simple question: Did Donald Trump  win or lose the State of Minnesota in the last three Presidential  elections? It is not a curve ball; not a difficult question.

Of course, anyone living in reality knows the answer to this--Donald  Trump lost Minnesota three times--but not Donald Trump. He continues  denying election results. He said just last Friday that because of  voter fraud, he feels he won Minnesota.

The Republican chairman of the House Administration Committee, the  congressional committee which regulates Federal election laws, couldn't  give me a straight answer, couldn't answer that question. He couldn't  tell me if he agreed with Donald Trump. He wouldn't say who won  Minnesota. He went through all kinds of contortions to avoid answering  the question.

I mean, this is a simple question. That is shocking, Mr. Speaker. I  mean, you guys want America to trust you to write our election laws?  Americans can't even trust you to tell us who won the election.

Oh, and then here is another thing: One of the changes that were  made--by the way, this bill didn't go through committee process. I  mean, this was kind of rushed to the floor. All kinds of major changes  have been made in the last week, but here is one of the major changes:  This bill, if passed, was supposed to take effect in the year 2027.  There is a change in this bill. It takes place immediately, for this  election.

I mean, how is that going to happen? We have elections beginning in a  matter of a few weeks, and you are expecting every State to be able to  comply with all these new rules and regulations, like, immediately?

This is about sowing chaos and confusion. My friends on the other  side know they are probably going to lose the next election, and they  are going to lose big. Rather than live up to the reality or respect  the voters, they are going to try to make up some conspiracy theory  that the election was stolen or undocumented migrants came in and voted  against them.

Here is the hard truth: If Republicans want to know why people are  losing faith in our elections, they ought to look in the mirror. They  ought to look in the mirror.

People are losing faith because Donald Trump, the election denier in  chief, can't admit he lost. People are losing faith because Tulsi  Gabbard and Kash Patel's FBI raided an election office in Fulton  County, Georgia, based on recycled conspiracy theories. They seized  2020 election results, even though it was Donald Trump who asked the  Georgia Secretary of State to find 11,780 ballots so that he can win,  even though he lost, and that is on tape.

They are losing faith in our elections because they saw Pam Bondi  trying to shake down Minnesota's State government, saying the  administration would only withdraw ICE if Minnesota handed over their  voter rolls to Trump's DOJ. They are losing faith because of bills like  this, which force every State in America to give their voter rolls over  to DHS Secretary Kristi Noem.

Let that sink in. She is probably one of the least trustworthy people  in the country right now. I wouldn't trust Kristi Noem to tell me the  correct time, and we are asking States to turn over their voting rolls  to her. Give me a break.

We don't need any more lectures from Republicans about the sanctity  of democracy or why people are losing faith in our democratic  institutions. We know why, and we know what this bill is. This is Jim  Crow 2.0. Republicans think that when fewer Americans vote, they win.  It is as simple as that.

I am so sick of the other side just making things up. This widespread  voter fraud conspiracy is all part of the same election denialism that  goes right up to the Oval Office.

The other side has been making these claims for years now. We have  heard about this for over a decade. They claim that massive numbers of  noncitizens are voting, swaying elections, and that rampant voter fraud  is changing results.

Every single one of those claims, Mr. Speaker, has been investigated  again and again by Republican Governors and Republican Secretaries of  State, by journalists, by academic researchers, and by President Trump  himself, whose own voter fraud commission was disbanded because he  couldn't find enough evidence to warrant the absurd allegations that he  was making.

Every time these claims are investigated, they disappear like a  mirage. This entire bill is fundamentally predicated on a lie. In fact,  when you crunch the numbers, you are more likely to be struck by  lightning than to successfully impersonate someone at the polls. Enough  already.

The SAVE America Act is a terrible bill that makes it harder for  American citizens to participate in our democracy. That is it.

America does not want to be saved by a Republican Party that spent a  year propping up Trump's tariffs, which have driven costs through the  roof. We don't want to be saved by the people who continue covering up  for pedophiles in the Epstein files. America certainly doesn't want to  be saved by the same people who still can't get over losing the 2020  election so they are going to try to rig the next one.

Go save somebody else, but we don't want this garbage. We will fight  like hell to stop you from making it harder for millions of Americans  to register to vote.

We know why you are doing this. It is because you are afraid that you  are going to lose in November. Well, too bad. Too bad. Either change  your crappy policies or face the voters and deal with the consequences  of your own actions. Those are the only two options in a democracy.

Mr. Speaker, let me first correct the gentleman from Texas, who  mischaracterized deliberately my remarks. I made it very clear in my  opening, and I will read it again to him, that if noncitizens are  voting in Federal elections, they should be prosecuted. We all believe  it. He doesn't have to listen if he doesn't want to, but please don't  mischaracterize what I said.

Mr. Speaker, I am looking over to the other side of the aisle and  can't help but be stunned by the number of people over there who I  remember coming on this floor and denying the election results in the  year 2020 because they didn't like the results.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge that we defeat the previous question.  If we do, I will offer an amendment to the rule to make in order  amendment No. 10 to the SAVE America Act, which prohibits Members of  Congress, the President, the Vice President, their spouses, and  dependents from owning or trading stocks.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, to discuss our proposal, I yield 2 minutes  to the gentleman from New York (Mr. Morelle), the sponsor of the  amendment and the ranking member of the Committee on House  Administration.

Let's talk about common sense for a second. When the gentleman from  Texas introduced this bill, the effective date was in 2027. All of a  sudden, because, I think, a right-winger on their side did a tweet that  caused all kinds of chaos, they moved for it to take effect  immediately, notwithstanding the fact we have primaries beginning in  some States in a matter of just a few weeks.

I would just point out to the gentleman who just spoke that we have  this thing called a Real ID. For 20 years, we have been trying to  implement it. We spent billions of dollars trying to implement it and  still not everybody has it. It has taken 20 years. My colleagues are  pushing all these new changes on States. They have to do it in a matter  of a couple of weeks?

We all know what this is about. We all know what this is about.  People see through this. This is not about protecting our democracy. It  is not about preventing undocumented immigrants from voting. That is  already illegal in this country. This is about sowing confusion and  chaos because they know they are going to lose the next election. What  an underhanded way to deal with elections in our democracy. What an  insult to the American people.

Simon).

Mr. McGOVERN.  ''

Mr. McGOVERN.    We Can Prove It.''

Mr. McGOVERN.   . . expansive voter fraud concerns espoused by Donald Trump and  those aligned with him are not grounded in any observable features of  the 2016 election.''

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the final thing I will say before I yield  to my colleague here is that not too long ago former Governor Rick  Scott claimed erroneously that there were hundreds of thousands of  undocumented immigrants registered to vote in Florida. He launched this  massive investigation and spent all kinds of money investigating it. It  was essentially a witch hunt.

I would ask my colleagues if they know how many people were  prosecuted in that or convicted of any crime. One person was  prosecuted.

Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy) read a list, and I  asked him to yield to me, but he didn't want to. What the gentleman was  doing was cherry-picking cases basically to sow distrust in our  elections, just like Donald Trump does.

If the gentleman wants to read a list, I will read a list.

Matt DePerno, a former Michigan Republican State attorney general  candidate, was charged with conspiracy and undue possession of a voting  machine.

Former Republican Michigan State Representative Daire Rendon was also  charged with conspiracy to commit undue possession of a voting machine  and false pretenses. What was Ms. Rendon's punishment for this?  The Republican Party promoted her to be the chairwoman of the party in  her congressional district.

A Republican county clerk in Colorado, Tina Peters, is in prison for  a scheme to breach voting systems, fueled by 2020 election conspiracy  theories.

A Republican official in Georgia was fined for illegally voting  multiple times.

A former GOP lawmaker in Arizona pled guilty to attempted election  fraud involving forged signatures.

In North Carolina, four people pled guilty on Monday to misdemeanors  for their roles in absentee ballot fraud in rural North Carolina during  the 2016 and 2018 elections to help Republican congressional  candidates.

Let's not even get into Donald Trump actually being recorded--it is  recorded--asking for 11,800 votes to basically change the results in  Georgia during the 2020 election.

If my Republican friends want to talk about voter fraud, look in the  mirror.   Johnson).

Mr. Speaker, I love the fact that all these guys have are  statistically insignificant anecdotes that they like to put forward  here.

The gentleman from Texas talked about how wonderful the economy was.  This is an article that just appeared today. The Bureau of Labor  Statistics found that U.S. employers added 181,000 jobs last year, far  fewer than the 1.46 million that were added in 2024.

You may be impressed by that, but I am not a cheap date when it comes  to making sure people have jobs in this country.

The gentleman from Texas said that we don't want to protect  elections. We do. We want to protect them from you. We want to protect  them from Trump. We want to protect them from all of you who are trying  to suppress the vote, who are constantly in denial over the results of  our elections.

Last night, we had Republicans come before the Committee on Rules,  and they couldn't even bring themselves to say who won the 2020  election. They couldn't even say that Donald Trump lost Minnesota. They  are so afraid of being punished by this administration. It is pathetic.

McClellan).

Mr. Speaker, I disagree very strongly with what was just said. I  don't see Trump trying to preserve our elections. I have been  witnessing him trying to undermine trust in our elections and to rig  our elections.

Mr. Speaker, the bill before us is a prime example of how awful the  process has been under this Republican majority. The SAVE America Act  was introduced by the gentleman of Texas just 12 days ago, and it  included significant changes from its original version, the SAVE Act.

After the SAVE America Act's initial introduction, the Committee on  Rules posted a complete rewrite of it last Friday. Even after two  sweeping rounds of edits, Republicans were not done changing their  half-baked bill. Yesterday, they posted a manager's amendment, which  makes more changes, including changing when the bill would take effect  and which voter IDs would be acceptable. We have seen three totally  different versions of this bill in a dozen days.

It is important to say that all of these changes were backroom deals.  There were no hearings, no markups, no regular order. The chairman of  the Committee on House Administration didn't even feign a desire to  include rank-and-file members in the process. He actually requested a  completely closed rule for this bill.

Mr. Speaker, bad process is not a rare occurrence around here. It is  a fundamental feature of Republican governance. Last Congress,  Republican leadership made history for running the most closed,  unproductive, dysfunctional Congress in modern American history. This  Congress, Republicans have only doubled down on this shameful record.

Eighty-four percent of measures that Republicans have sent to the  House floor have been totally closed, no amendments, no discussion, no  democracy, just take it or leave it. Republican leadership has blocked  82 percent of amendments submitted to the Committee on Rules, over  3,300 amendments blocked, including most Republican amendments, and  over 60 percent of bipartisan amendments.

If you are a Democrat, forget it. I am not sure they even read what  we submit.

This blockade on amendments is leading to some shameful records. For  example, this Republican majority set a record for the fewest House  votes cast in the first session of a 2-year Congress in over 35 years.  Under Speaker Johnson, the Committee on Rules is where democracy goes  to die.

With that in mind, Mr. Speaker, why should we trust Republicans to  rewrite voting laws when they are setting records for blocking voting  in the people's House? This Republican Congress is an insult to the  American people and a disgrace to our democracy.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I would say to the gentleman from Texas I  appreciate him reading that list, but the reason we know about that is  because those people were caught. The list I read of Republican  officials who were caught engaging in voter fraud, the reason we know  about it because they were caught. The system is working. Stop trying  to sow division and chaos into our electoral system.

Mr. Speaker, I ask the gentleman from Texas who wrote this bill: How  the hell are States supposed to implement this new bill in a matter a  few weeks? His original bill gave States until 2027. We have primaries  coming up in a matter of a couple of weeks. How the hell is this going  to be implemented, Mr. Speaker? This is ridiculous. This is about  sowing division and chaos in our elections. The bottom line is it is a  rotten thing to do.

People want to participate in our democracy. They want to vote. I am  going to tell you, I can't wait until the next election because they  are going to vote you guys right out of office. The economy stinks  under this administration. I mean, the rhetoric coming out of this  White House is appalling. Enough.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am not going to respond to the gentleman  who characterized January 6 as a normal day of tourism here.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for pointing out  these anecdotal cases of voter fraud, and I appreciate the fact that he  mentioned they were all caught, just like all the Republican officials  that I read, and I have a volume more that I could read. They were  caught, so it sounds like the system works.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have remaining.

Mr. Speaker, let me state, again, for the gentleman from Texas,  because he doesn't seem to understand me: Nobody should vote illegally.

If this is the rampant problem they say it is, then maybe he should  call Pam Bondi and ask her why she has only secured one or two voter  fraud convictions nationwide out of over 155 million votes cast in  2024.

Maybe he should explain to us why his solution to a small handful of  voter fraud cases is to punish the 155 million American citizens who  did vote by making it harder for them to vote the next time.

Again, Republicans keep insisting there is this massive voter fraud  conspiracy. The onus is on them to prove their absurd claim. Every time  they try, every time this is investigated by States, by commissions,  and by prosecutors, the result is the same: no widespread voter fraud  conspiracy. There have been billions of votes cast over decades and a  teeny tiny percentage of fraud. That is not a crisis, and it certainly  is not a justification to rewrite the rules of democracy. But that is  what is happening with the Republican lies to erode the trust in our  democracy. That is why this bill is so toxic.

Again, the SAVE America Act tells millions of Americans: You have to  show up in person and jump through hoops just to register to vote. Mr.  Speaker, you can file your taxes online, you can pay your bills online,  and you can get your medical results online, but if this bill passes,  you can't fully register to vote online. That is nuts.

You have to buy a passport, Mr. Speaker--that is $130--or you have to  buy a copy of your birth certificate. Good luck, because you might even  have to pick that up in person. What if a person lives in a rural  community and has to drive 100 miles round trip just to get to the  clerk's office?

What if they can't afford to take the day off from work just to  register to vote?

Who gets punished?

They are students, seniors, Americans with disabilities, and working  parents who just can't leave a shift early to stand in line at a  clerk's office window that closes at 5:00.

We know this isn't really about voter fraud. It is not about  protecting our elections. This is a smokescreen. It is a distraction.  If Republicans wanted to protect elections, they would be focused on  real threats: cyberattacks, foreign interference, disinformation,  intimidation, and violence against election workers. That is where the  real danger is. Yet this bill does nothing to address those things.

The SAVE America Act is about denying elections and sowing distress  in our system. That is because, according to Donald Trump, it is only  fair and square when he wins. When Democrats win, then it is fraud.  That is their whole argument in a nutshell.

The most ironic thing of all is that Republican leaders are the ones  who seem to commit voter fraud the most. A Republican county clerk in  Colorado is in prison for a scheme to breach voting systems fueled by  2020 election conspiracy theories. A Republican official in Georgia was  fined for illegally voting multiple times. There was a former GOP  lawmaker in Arizona.

Mr. Speaker, this isn't about voter suppression. This is a lousy  bill, and I urge my colleagues to vote ``no.''

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I know mistakes happen, but just so  everyone knows what is happening here:  You introduced a bill less than 2 weeks ago. Then you gutted that with  a substitute amendment. Then you changed that version with a manager's  amendment. Now you have to fix that amendment.

There was no hearing, no markup, and a slew of changes and fixes in a  matter of days. It makes you wonder what other mistakes there are, all  to make it harder for millions of people to vote.

I would just say to my colleagues: Slow down. Do this process right.  You want to implement this bill in a matter of weeks when we have  primary elections coming up in a matter of weeks? I mean, it should  give everybody pause. This process of legislating here needs to  improve.                         Amendment Offered by Mr. Roy

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.