Providing for Consideration of H.R. Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Our Nation's Capital Emergency Act; and Providing for Consideration of S. Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692265/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-prohibiting-voting-by-noncitizens-in-district-of-columbia-elections-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-district-of-columbia-federal-immigration-compliance-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protecting-our-nations-capital-emergency-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-s-halt-all-lethal-trafficking-of-fentanyl-act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Indiana (Mrs.  Houchin) for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself  such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, the bills in this rule today are nothing more than a  cheap distraction and another smokescreen from House Republicans, who  are desperate to change the subject. I get why. After all, it was just  2 weeks ago that nearly every single Republican in this Chamber voted  for what may be the most shameful piece of legislation that this body  has produced in years, the GOP tax scam.

Mr. Speaker, it is bad enough that it gives massive tax breaks to  billionaires and wealthy donors, but it does that by literally taking  food out of the mouths of hungry seniors and children and ripping  healthcare away from more than 16 million Americans.

In case it wasn't clear, Republicans are gutting Medicaid and even  targeting Medicare, programs that millions of families depend on. It is  not because they have to but because they want to.

Mr. Speaker, I know my friends across the aisle hate to hear us say  the truth out loud. It makes them uncomfortable because they know what  they are doing is wrong. Yet, that is just the cold, hard truth, Mr.  Speaker.

In the process, Republicans are adding trillions of dollars to the  very national debt that the majority loves to complain about when it is  politically convenient. That is also the cold, hard truth.

Numbers don't lie. Look at the Congressional Budget Office's  analysis. The Republicans' math does not add up. Again, this adds  trillions of dollars to the debt.

Since the backlash has been swift and deserved, Republicans are  scrambling to do everything they can to sweep it under the rug and  change the narrative. That is what these bills are about--political  misdirection, not meaningful solutions.

Let's be clear. Three of the bills this week meddle in D.C.'s local  governance. It is not because there is some urgent crisis but because  Republicans want to score cheap political points and take power away  from a local government that they weren't elected to make decisions  for.

In fact, Republicans referred to the District of Columbia as  ``property'' in last night's Rules Committee hearing. Who talks like  that? I thought I was watching ``Gone with the Wind.''

This is so incredibly offensive. The people who live in D.C. are not  the Republicans' property. Their land is not Republicans' property.  Their money is not the property of the Republicans. The majority should  keep their hands off of it and keep their hands off of them.

Republicans, Mr. Speaker, are on a power trip. These bills either  chase problems that don't exist or duplicate efforts already underway.  That is not legislating. That is performative politics.

Here is the real kicker: If my Republican colleagues were serious  about public safety in D.C., as my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle claim, then the first thing to do is restore the $1 billion in  the city's funding that they slashed earlier this year.

I want to be clear. This is not Federal money. We are literally  talking about the city being able to spend their own money that D.C.  residents have paid in taxes for the District. That money, taken from  D.C.'s budget and paid by D.C. taxpayers, goes toward supporting public  safety, social services, and critical infrastructure that residents and  tourists alike rely on.

The Senate already passed the fix. The bill is ready for us to vote  on. Even Donald Trump says he supports it. I can't believe it, but he  says that he supports it.

Mr. Speaker, why is it that House Republicans here in Congress are  dragging their feet? I thought they did everything Trump directed them  to do, Mr. Speaker. Why are Republicans willing to stand strong against  Trump on this, but when it comes to taking away healthcare and food  assistance from their constituents, my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle suddenly have no backbone and go along with Trump on that?  Give me a damn break.

The fourth bill this week makes formatting changes to the HALT  Fentanyl Act, a bill that we have debated before.

I will be very clear. The fentanyl crisis is real. It is deadly, and  it demands serious action. Yet, that action must be more than slogans  and symbolism. You can't say that you are serious about fighting  fentanyl while slashing funding for mental health services, addiction  treatment, and Medicaid. That is hypocrisy, and that is dangerous.

Yet, this is the Republican playbook. Republicans pay lipservice to  real problems, undercut the solutions that actually work, and shovel  more tax breaks to the ultrawealthy--rinse and repeat.

Mr. Speaker, the American people deserve a hell of a lot better. They  deserve better than a party taking away their healthcare in the middle  of the night. America's hardworking moms and dads, who may work  multiple jobs but still don't make enough to afford groceries under  this administration, deserve to know that they can rely on SNAP during  rocky times so that their 7- and 8-year-old kids have something to eat.

Seniors deserve to have full fridges and access to healthcare that  they have paid into so that they can live out their remaining years  with dignity.

If seniors are paying their fair share in taxes, billionaires, hedge  fund managers, and people who can afford to dump millions into  political campaigns should pay their fair share, too.

People are tired of all of these giveaways to multibillionaires while  hardworking, middle-class families or those struggling to get into the  middle class get screwed over.

What we saw from Republicans in the last week of May, Mr. Speaker, is  reprehensible. It is not what the American people deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I hate to be the one to have to inform the gentlewoman  of this fact, but the head of CBO, according to The Wall Street  Journal, is a registered Republican.

Now, we are being told by the Republicans that we can't trust the  nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office to give us correct numbers on  how much things are going to cost or how much the tax cuts are going to  cost. Who do we rely on for that? Is it Elon Musk? Maybe not anymore  because Elon and Trump are fighting.

The bottom line is that CBO has been kind of the gold standard that  both parties have pointed to in various debates on budgetary bills over  the years.

I should also point out, because I think I want it to be very clear,  there is no Federal funding in Medicaid that goes to provide support  for undocumented immigrants. CBO also states that, so that little red  herring out there is just, again, to distract. It is just not truthful.  That is not truthful. I think everybody in this Chamber knows that.  Enough of that.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I am going to offer  an amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 2753, the Hands Off Medicaid  and SNAP Act of 2025, which would block the Republican budget from  cutting Medicaid or SNAP benefits and kicking people off of these  lifesaving programs.

Mr. Speaker, 3 weeks ago, House Republicans jammed through their  multitrillion-dollar budget scam by a one-vote margin. Some Republicans  didn't even know what was in the bill. They rushed it through so fast  that we are reportedly going to have to revote on it later this week to  fix all the errors in the bill.

While we stand here debating three bills to micromanage the affairs  of the District of Columbia, which has its own Mayor and city council,  who are perfectly capable of representing their constituents,  Republicans are moving forward with more tax breaks for billionaires  and corporations while lower  income Americans are made worse off through their largest cuts to  healthcare and food assistance in our Nation's history.

We live in the richest country in the history of the world. I will  inform the gentlewoman and those in this Chamber that we have 46  million people in the United States of America who are hungry or food  insecure. We should all be ashamed of that. Rather than trying to  address that problem, by the way, which is a costly problem, the  Republicans instead chose to cut $300 billion out of the SNAP program.

They have also cut funding out of a whole range of other nutritional  benefit programs, as well. Before they have a chance to vote again on  their big bill later this week, I urge my Republican colleagues to  correct their mistakes and to vote to protect healthcare. Don't throw  American citizens off of healthcare. We should be protecting their  healthcare and protecting SNAP for millions of Americans.

This is not about undocumented immigrants. Stop that nonsense. This  is about American citizens. Stop these cuts by voting to bring up the  Hands Off Medicaid and SNAP Act.

Mr. McGOVERN.  Simon) to discuss our proposal.

Mr. Speaker, let me respond to the gentlewoman when she wants to know  why the numbers keep on going up in terms of the number of uninsured.  The reason is the Republicans continuously changed their bill and made  it worse. That is why. The majority has made it worse.

The bill that we voted on throws more people off of healthcare. Boy,  that is something to be proud of. There is no denying the fact that  their big, ugly bill cuts SNAP by $300 billion. They cut SNAP by $300  billion.

This is a benefit that, on average, is about $2 per person per meal,  and they cut $300 billion. They want us to believe there will be no  adverse impacts. Everything will just be beautiful. Really? I mean,  come on.

They cut $300 billion out of the SNAP program. That is going to  impact senior citizens, veterans, and children. Let me tell you, the  savings that is going to be garnered from the $300 billion cut that the  Republicans are using to offset the cost of tax cuts for billionaires,  that is going to be very costly because hungry kids don't learn when  they go to school. Senior citizens who take their medication on an  empty stomach end up in an emergency room. People who don't have access  to decent nutrition end up with chronic illnesses that last a lifetime.  Workers who are hungry are less productive in the workforce. That is  what my friends are doing.

Don't give me this garbage about undocumented immigrants. CBO made it  clear that there is no Medicaid funding going to undocumented  immigrants in this country. It is clear. That is a smoke screen so that  people don't focus in on how their big, ugly bill is going to hurt  regular people in this country.

It really is astounding to me. I thought we all came here, no matter  what our politics might be, to help people.

They are pushing forward a bill that is going to hurt people. It is  going to hurt almost everybody in this country except if you are well- off and well-connected. If you are a billionaire, if you are a big  donor, if you hang out at Mar-a-Lago, you are doing fine, but not  everybody else.

The other thing that Republicans are doing is cutting medical  research, cutting NIH. If you want to talk about lifesaving  investments, let's find a cure for cancer. Let's find a cure for  diabetes. Let's find a cure for Alzheimer's. Instead the Republicans  are cutting that research.

Mr. Speaker, I will just take a couple minutes here to talk about  something else because this is a rules debate, and this is something  that I find particularly annoying at this moment.

I will take a moment to talk about process. Perhaps the only  noteworthy thing the Republican majority achieved last Congress was  shattering their own record for the most closed Congress ever. That is  not something you want to be known for.

To be clear, they made history for running the most closed,  antidebate Congress we have ever seen. In total, Republicans issued 115  totally closed rules, meaning 115 times where the House could not  debate a single amendment on the House floor. Republicans basically  told us: nope, no debate, no amendments, no input to make these bills  better. Just do whatever we tell you to do.

This wasn't an accident. It was the whole game plan, a legislative  lockdown that delivered the most unproductive, dysfunctional Congress  in modern American history.

Did they learn anything from it? No, they did not learn a thing. This  Congress they have taken that broken model and somehow made it worse.

As of last night, they have racked up over 50 closed rules in just 5  months. More than 90 percent of the bills they bring up have no  amendments, no discussion, no democracy. It is just take it or leave  it.

At this rate, Republicans are on track to issue over 200 closed rules  this Congress. What are we even doing here?

In just 5 months, we have seen Republican leadership block over 800  amendments. These are amendments that our colleagues, Democrats and  Republicans alike, have submitted to make bills better. Only 14  amendments were selected by Republican leadership to be debated across  just four bills. That is a 98 percent rejection rate. They block 98 out  of every 100 ideas they receive.

What does this look like in practice? It looks like a complete  destruction of the deliberative process. Republicans have blocked--get  this--debate on amendments that would protect SNAP and Medicaid for  millions of Americans and debate on amendments to protect access to the  ballot box, the foundation of our democracy.

They even blocked debate on bipartisan amendments which would provide  a permanent pay fix for Federal wildland firefighters and allow grants  to help with fentanyl prevention and education efforts.

No wonder nobody likes Congress. The issues that are important to the  American people are not even allowed to be debated. As we see here  today, Republicans are okay with debating trivial issues passionately  but important ones not at all.

Mr. Speaker, when I chaired this committee, back when we gave a damn,  we welcomed ideas. We let the House work the way it is supposed to  work. In our first 5 months, Democrats allowed over 25 percent of all  amendments, more than 200 thoughtful proposals to be debated.

Here is the kicker: We gave Republicans more chances to debate their  ideas than their own leaders do. In 5 months, only 6 of the 220  Republicans, over 97 percent of Republicans in this Chamber, have had  an amendment made in order. That is not by mistake. That is a design  flaw; a big one.

I don't understand how my Republican colleagues, some of which were  so excited about having a bigger, better, open process, can say with a  straight face that this is what they wanted. They have no voice in  improving legislation. Amendments that we offered last night were  blocked.

At this point in the 117th Congress, Mr. Speaker, under Democratic  governance, over half of all bipartisan amendments were made in order.  This Congress, we have yet to see a single bipartisan amendment make it  to the House floor this year. Not even one.

Mr. Speaker, this Republican leadership seemed to have forgotten that  this institution is a democratic legislative assembly. Instead, they  are running it like a wannabe authoritarian dictatorship.

I know that Donald Trump speaks admiringly of Vladimir Putin all the  time, but this place is becoming like Russia.

Come on. Have some respect for the House of Representatives. Let's  open this place up a little bit more. This process right now is a  disgrace and the American people deserve so much better than this.

Wow, the gentlewoman is defending this process.

I just want to repeat, when I was chairman, I made one out of every  four amendments in order. My Republican friends are making 1 out of  every 50 amendments in order, and 0 bipartisan amendments.

Again, I don't quite know--well, I guess I do know. I mean, again,  the way the Republican leadership is operating here is that, again, we  don't debate serious proposals on the House floor. They don't want to  have votes. They don't want to have debates. They just want to bring  things to the floor under a closed process and tell people to take it  or leave it. Then they do this other thing of sneaking things in the  rules so we can't even have a vote up or down on major changes.  However, that is not the way this place is supposed to run.

In terms of, again, the Congressional Budget Office, the head of the  Congressional Budget Office, according to The Wall Street Journal, is a  registered Republican. If we are not going to rely on the Congressional  Budget Office for analyses, who are we supposed to rely on? What,  Stephen Miller? I mean, who? I mean, I am just trying to figure out  who. Are we supposed to take your word for it or just take the  President's word for it? I mean, this is a guy who doesn't read  anything. He says he watches everything on TV.

I don't even understand. This new position of the Republican Party is  that there is no such thing as objective analysis unless it always  agrees with them. Well, that is just not the way it is.

In terms of fear-mongering, I mean, your big, ugly bill that you  passed a couple of weeks ago is going to throw millions of people off  of healthcare. It is going to throw--millions of people  are going to lose their SNAP benefits, their nutritional benefits, and  the reason why is because you are making major cuts. It has nothing to  do with undocumented immigrants. You can say that all you want.

The gentlewoman knows that Medicare does not provide healthcare for  undocumented immigrants. She knows that. Republicans know that. They  keep on repeating it anyway because they don't want people to focus in  on the reality. I think the American people are beginning to see  through all of this. Again, they don't like what they see.

Mr. Speaker, I just want to say that it is not just CBO saying that  your big, ugly bill costs trillions of dollars, it is the Joint  Committee on Taxation, Budget Lab at Yale, Penn Wharton Budget Model,  and the right-leaning Tax Foundation. All of them, all of them say that  your big, ugly bill is going to add trillions to the deficit, will  explode the deficit, add to the debt, and that is--I mean, it is just  everybody.

The only people who are saying this is not going to explode the  deficit are my Republican friends here in the House. I think they think  if they keep on saying that it is not going to cost anything, then  people will believe that. That is just not the case.

Mr. Speaker, I hate to tell the gentlewoman this, but every one of  the organizations that I mentioned actually do account for growth. I  have the charts here. I am happy to share them with you. From the Tax  Foundation to the Penn Wharton Budget Model to Budget Lab at Yale to  the Joint Committee on Taxation, here is the graph. I am happy to share  that with you so you can see. If your leadership is telling you that  they don't, then they are not being honest with you about the extent of  this. Mr. Massie, a member of the Republican Party, has also talked  about how your big, ugly bill is going to add trillions to the deficit  and the debt.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire of the gentlewoman, how many  more speakers she has on her side?

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, the truth is that these bills are nothing more than  window dressing to cover up a truly grotesque set of priorities. Let's  not forget, Republicans just voted to rip healthcare away from 16  million people, not undocumented immigrants, but 16 million American  citizens. They voted to deny food assistance to children, seniors, and  veterans. They are set to explode the deficit by trillions--trillions-- just to reward their wealthy donors.

Now, with even their own Members having second thoughts and regrets  about that vote, as The New York Times reported last week, they are  desperate to change the conversation. However, these bills, these  distractions won't work because the American people are paying  attention. They see what is happening. They see the cruelty behind  these choices, and they are not fooled. This isn't about policy. This  is about morality, about what kind of country we want to be, about  whether we stand with working families or with billionaires; whether we  choose compassion or cruelty.

I know Democrats will keep fighting. We will keep speaking truth to  power, and we will make damn sure that the public knows exactly who is  responsible when services disappear, when costs go up as a result of  these crazy tariffs, and when families are left behind.

I urge my colleagues to reject these bills, to reject the politics of  distraction, and start doing the hard work the American people sent us  here to do. People want us to fight for them. They want us to be  focused on their priorities, on making their lives better; not on the  priorities of the Elon Musk-wing of the Republican Party, the  billionaire class. They want us to focus in on what matters to them.

Prices are going up, life is hard, and life is challenging. Rather  than dealing with bills that might make their life better, we are  dealing with this stuff. This is crazy. The American people want us to  rise to the occasion, to be about something more than just politics as  usual. This is about people's lives.

I will tell you: We owe the American people much better than this  Congress is delivering. Really, it is shameful that week after week  after week we come up with these distractions that mean nothing in  people's lives. Even worse, we pass this big, ugly bill that we did 2  weeks ago that is going to hurt my constituents and the gentlewoman's  constituents, as well. There is no denying that people will lose their  food benefits and their healthcare benefits in order to pay for tax  cuts for billionaires. It is grotesque.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on the previous question. I urge a  ``no'' vote on the rule. If the rule passes, I urge ``no'' votes on all  these damned bills, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.