Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Griffith) for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, here we go again. Mr. Speaker, here we go again. This  rule is insane. Notwithstanding the gentleman's monotone delivery,  there is a lot going on here in this rule, and much of it is not good.

What are Republicans doing the first week back? Are they doing  something to lower food costs as Trump's tariffs drive prices up? No.

Are they doing something to fully fund the government before it shuts  down in less than a month? No.

Are they doing something to help with skyrocketing healthcare prices  or reversing their devastating cuts to Medicaid? No.

They are doing none of that. They are doing nothing to help regular  people. They are doing nothing to help workers, families, or people  struggling to get by.

Instead, Mr. Speaker, these guys are continuing to cover up the  Epstein files.

Republicans are deeming as passed--which means no debate, no hearing,  and no markup--they are deeming as passed a new, fake Epstein  resolution and killing their last fake Epstein resolution.

All the while we already have a real, bipartisan bill to unseal all  these files. It is the Massie-Khanna bill. Last night, every single  Republican on the Rules Committee voted against that bipartisan bill,  every single one.

As if that is not bad enough, every single Republican on the Rules  Committee also voted to create, out of thin air, a brand-new committee  to rewrite the history of what happened here on January 6, 2021.

They are so desperate to paper over what happened that day, to  whitewash it and to pretend it was a normal tourist visit. I was here,  Mr. Speaker, here in this Chamber where you are sitting right now, and  you can be damn sure I am not going to let anyone pretend that January  6 was a normal tourist visit. However, Republicans, the gentleman from  Virginia included, refuse to even display a plaque to honor the police  officers who were here that day.

I am so sick of this BS about how Republicans support law  enforcement. Mr. Griffith and every other Republican on the Rules  Committee voted against displaying a plaque to honor the law  enforcement officers who were here on January 6. That plaque, Mr.  Speaker, already exists. Congress already passed a law to create it,  and the Speaker just refuses to display it.

Why? Why would he refuse to do it?

I know why, and we all know why. It is the same reason why every  Republican voted against releasing the Epstein files. It is because  Rules Republicans are scared as hell.

This is not a deliberative body anymore. Under this Republican  majority, Congress has become a rubber stamp for Donald Trump. This is  all about the ego of the man who lives at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

Republicans think they work for Trump. They are obsessed with him. It  is pathetic.

Republicans are ruining this institution, Mr. Speaker. They are  destroying this institution. Again, let me repeat: Every single  Republican on the Rules Committee voted against releasing the Epstein  files, every single one.

We heard last night that all Republicans want full transparency, but  that is just not true.

Mr. Speaker, let me read you a quote from the top Republican in this  country, President Donald J. Trump. This is what he says about the  Epstein files: ``It has all been a big hoax. It is perpetrated by the  Democrats and some stupid Republicans.''

At a press availability just minutes ago, the President again said  that this is all a hoax.

Now, what do Republicans think of that?

Donald Trump says this is all a hoax, and if you want to release the  files you are stupid.

Now, I am not surprised. I am not surprised the guy who once called  Epstein a ``terrific guy'' and who Epstein considered his closest  friend is not actually interested in getting to the truth.

Do you know when this clicked in for me, Mr. Speaker, and for a lot  of people?

It clicked after Trump won and then the backtracking began. It  clicked again yesterday. It clicked after the same Republican leaders  who invited influencers to the White House and then passed out binders  about the soon-to-be-released client list suddenly changed their tune.  It clicked again yesterday when phase two of the binders came out, more  information released that has already been released. Mr. Speaker, 97  percent of it has already been released. It clicked when the same MAGA  politicians who once pledged to release everything suddenly came up  with more excuses, more delays, and more stalling tactics. What is  obvious to everyone is that someone is hiding something.

While all of this stalling goes on, what happens?

Ghislaine Maxwell, Epstein's partner in crime, winds up in a cushy,  country club prison courtesy of Trump's political appointees. There is  not a word of outrage from the Republican majority, not a whisper of  accountability, just silence.

Now let's not pretend that this is complicated. It is pretty obvious  what is going on. The Trump administration has the power to release the  Epstein files today. They could redact names to protect victims and  survivors and deliver the truth, but they refuse.

There is a simple through line to all of this, Mr. Speaker. We all  know why Republicans are doing this with the Epstein files. We all know  why Republicans refuse to display the plaque honoring the brave law  enforcement officers who protected our democracy and protected all of  us on January 6. We all know why Republicans vote again and again and  again for all these giveaways for the rich and powerful.

It is Donald Trump. He wants to rewrite history. He wants to hide the  truth about Jeffrey Epstein, and he wants to continue his giveaways to  the well-off and the well-connected.

This is all straight out of the authoritarian playbook, Mr. Speaker,  and you can bet your ass we are going to continue fighting like hell to  oppose this insanity.

This is laughable. It is also unconscionable. We know what is going  on here. This is an attempt to distract and to rewrite the history of  January 6. Quite frankly, it is offensive. It is offensive to the brave  men and women who protected our lives on that day.

There is not a bunch of destroyed evidence like the gentleman claims.  That is just not accurate. The select committee complied with the  requirements of the resolution establishing it, in consultation with  the Clerk of the House and the document retention precedents of other  committees of this House. The select committee's final report and its  support materials are posted publicly online. Just to be sure, I  checked again today. All of them, every single page of every  transcript, are posted online publicly. Maybe the gentleman can't find  them. I would be happy to give him the website information.

The truth is, they just don't like what the evidence shows, so they  want to go on a fishing expedition to try to twist the truth instead of  accepting the fact of that day. The fact is this: The people who  stormed the Capitol and beat police officers, in order to try to stop  the peaceful transition of power, were supporters of Donald Trump,  period. It was one of the most shameful and darkest episodes in our  democracy. No fishing expedition for alternative facts is going to  change the reality.

What is particularly offensive is that Donald Trump pardoned all  these people, pardoned the people who beat the police officers who  protect all of us every single day. It is shameful.

In speaking about the Epstein files, again, I am looking at the video  of a few minutes ago, of Donald Trump speaking to reporters and calling  all of this a hoax, the Epstein files a hoax. He is not talking about  what we are doing here.

Let me just say to the gentleman and anybody else who wants to know:  Listen to what the victims were asking for outside this Capitol just a  few minutes ago, the survivors, the survivors of Mr. Epstein and Ms.  Maxwell. Listen to what the survivors have been saying. They want the  Massie-Khanna bill passed. They want something with teeth in it that  will force this administration to comply because they don't trust that  they will.

Leger Fernandez), a distinguished member of the Rules Committee.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Rules Committee  spent hours helping Trump and the White House cover up the Epstein  files.

Trump is terrified the House will agree to the Massie-Khanna  resolution to require that his administration release the damn files.  He is lobbying against it. What is he afraid of?

To kill the Massie bill, Republicans are pushing a resolution that  will give Chairman Comer of the Oversight Committee sole power over  what gets released.

I don't know about you, but I wouldn't trust a self-proclaimed--these  are his words--Trump man to decide what to redact and what Americans  get to see.

Remember, Trump repeatedly--not just today, but repeatedly--called  the Epstein scandal a hoax, and he has called Epstein himself a  terrific guy.

The Oversight Committee acted only because Democrats forced the  subpoenas. Today, Republicans, as we heard, are patting themselves on  the  back for releasing the same documents that were given to rightwing  influencers months ago. We want the Oversight Committee to do its job,  hold the hearings, follow the money, pursue the truth, and protect the  victims.

We can do both. The committee can do its job. All we need are two  more Republicans to sign Massie's discharge petition so the files get  released to the public.

Let's not forget that this is about the women and children who were  terrorized and abused by a pedophile and his rich friends. It is about  the coverup that started with the rich and powerful and is still  coming from a gold-plated Oval Office.

We have listened to the survivors share their stories. They have made  many of us cry, but we won't stop at tears. We will work to bring  justice to these brave women, to do what they have asked, which is to  release the files.

The rule, by the way, is also a Republican attempt to cover up how  they are raising energy prices for American families in the Energy and  Water appropriations bill. Renewable energy brings down the cost of  electricity. Trump and Republicans are destroying this clean and  affordable energy by cutting its funding in half. They are doing this  to benefit the fossil fuel companies that donated to their campaigns.

Finally, they are also rewriting the history of January 6. They  quietly slipped into the rule a brand-new select committee on selective  memory designed to protect the very insurrectionists who stormed this  Capitol. These were violent thugs who attacked our democracy and  brutalized police officers. Donald Trump pardoned those violent  criminals. Now, Republicans want to give them cover in the same Halls  of Congress that the thugs once attacked. Shame, shame, shame.

Mr. Speaker, that is an awful lot of words to defend the fossil fuel  industry. While the gentleman was defending Big Oil and all these big  corporations that rip off the American people by charging exorbitant  prices for energy and while he was going on that tirade, I went back  and I listened to Donald Trump's press conference at the White House.

Not only did he call the move to release the Epstein files a  Democratic hoax, he said it was designed to get the American people to  focus in on something that was irrelevant.

Mr. Speaker, let that sink in. If you listened to the survivors who  were in front of the Capitol just a few minutes ago and listened to  their horror stories, that is irrelevant? That the President of the  United States of America would say something like that is pathetic.

He could very easily put all of this controversy to rest by just  releasing the files, and that is why we need to  pass the Massie-Khanna bill because we could actually pass a bill that  would compel him to do that.

What you all did in the Rules Committee last night is a resolution  that doesn't really mean anything. It is designed as cover. Quite  frankly, it is not enough.

Stansbury).

Mr. Speaker, first of all, I am going to thank the gentleman for  publicly splitting with the President of the United States. He said  that the Epstein matter was a serious matter. The President just a few  minutes ago said it was irrelevant. I think it takes a little courage  for Republicans these days to stand up to the President.

I do want to point out for the Record that the resolution that is  deemed passed in this rule grants no new authority, no new power, and  no new nothing to the Oversight Committee. It doesn't do anything.

If you want to do something, you can go to the well and you can sign  the discharge petition to allow us to vote on the Massie-Khanna bill,  which would compel and force the Justice Department to release the  files.

If the President, by the way, wants to veto that bill, I would like  to think that Democrats and Republicans unanimously would join together  to override such a veto. I can't imagine anybody here wanting to defend  the indefensible.

We have another way you could be helpful here. If we defeat the  previous question, I will offer an amendment to the rule to provide for  consideration of H.R. 4405, the bipartisan Epstein Files Transparency  Act, introduced by Representatives Khanna and Massie.

Mr. Speaker, Republican leadership is twisting themselves into knots  trying to look like they are doing something on Epstein to give their  Members something to vote on, anything for political cover, while also  not upsetting the President.

That is why they have deemed in this rule a nonbinding resolution to  tell the Oversight Committee to keep doing what they are already doing,  which, best as I can tell, is to slow roll the release of documents  that the DOJ seems to think are acceptable to the President for  release.

Mr. Speaker, the American people didn't ask for an Oversight  Committee investigation. They asked for all the Epstein files to be  released, the very thing that the Trump administration promised and  then suspiciously backtracked on.

This bill is bipartisan, and it is the only legislation on Epstein  that has the force of law. It has the votes to pass. The survivors of  Epstein's and Maxwell's crimes spoke today at the Capitol demanding  this very bill get passed. Republican leaders need to stop standing in  the way, and now is their chance.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, it seems lonely over there.

McClellan).

Mr. McGOVERN.  Pou).

Mr. Speaker, a vote for this rule is also a vote to create a new  select subcommittee to investigate the remaining questions regarding  the insurrection on January 6, 2021.

I have a radical idea. Instead of wasting time creating a select  subcommittee to investigate January 6, maybe, just maybe, we should  read the report that the January 6th Select Committee already finished  in 2022. Here it is: thousands of pages, millions of records, testimony  from Trump's own people. You could use it as a doorstop, it is so  thorough.

But no, Republicans want to rewrite history. If we were all being  honest here, that is what this is all about: Pretend January 6 was just  a field trip gone wrong; pretend the police weren't bludgeoned,  crushed, or tased; pretend the gallows outside this building were just  some kind of art installation.

It is insulting. It is a slap in the face to every officer who put  their body on the line to save ours. Here is the kicker: This majority  still hasn't even hung the plaque honoring those officers, a plaque  required by law--required by law. Instead of a sham committee, how  about you get a screwdriver and hang the damn plaque because every day  it sits in a box is another day Republicans dishonor the heroes who  defended this place.

If they insist on this little circus, at least investigate something  real, like why Donald Trump pardoned people who assaulted police  officers. One of those men is now serving a life sentence for plotting  to murder nearly 40 law enforcement officers and blow up the FBI. His  lawyers even tried to argue that Trump's pardon should cover his murder  plot.

Another pardoned rioter committed a home invasion less than 4 months  later. I bet those homeowners wish he had been behind bars serving his  8-year sentence for assaulting cops instead of terrorizing their  family.

In fact, at least 10 of Trump's pardoned insurrectionists have  already been re-arrested, charged, or sentenced for other crimes.

Quite a record. Maybe we should call this new panel the subcommittee  on criminal recidivism by Trump's friends.

But let's be honest. That is not what this is about. This is about  distraction, another shiny object, because the majority doesn't want to  talk about the things that they are actually blocking, like the  bipartisan effort to release the Epstein files.

I will make it simple. Stop rewriting history. Stop wasting time.  Stop dishonoring the police. Follow the law, for God's sake. Hang the  plaque.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, is the gentleman prepared to close?

Mr. McGOVERN. He has no more speakers?

Mr. Speaker, what we have heard today is excuse after excuse after  excuse, diversion after diversion, but no answers to the questions that  I have asked: Why won't the Trump administration release the Epstein  files? Why won't the Speaker hang up the plaque honoring the law  enforcement officers who defended our democracy on January 6? Why do  Republicans continue voting time and time and time again to help their  rich and powerful friends?

I know the answer, Mr. Speaker. The answer is because of the man who  occupies the Oval Office. Republicans want to let Trump rewrite history  to protect the rich and powerful perpetrators of Epstein's crimes, to  protect the people who came into this building to desecrate our  democracy, and to protect his wealthy donors and Big Oil who want  another giveaway.

At the end of the day, Mr. Speaker, this is about trust. How can the  American people trust Republicans when they promised to release the  Epstein files, and then they broke that promise? How can Americans  trust Republicans when they claim to support law enforcement, and then  they want to rewrite the truth about what happened on January 6? How  can we trust Republicans, who want to ignore the fact that Trump  pardoned people who brutally assaulted law enforcement officers? How  can they be trusted?

How can anyone trust Republicans, when they negotiated spending  bills, bills which have become law only to let Donald Trump illegally  shut down Federal agencies in direct violation of those negotiations?

I don't trust these guys to tell me the correct time, let alone trust  them to do what is right for the American people.

The way to restore trust is simple: Hang the January 6 plaque  honoring the officers who defended our democracy on that day, stop the  giveaways for those at the top, and release the damn Epstein files. The  victims of Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell's horrific crimes were  outside the Capitol Building this morning to demand that we pass the  bipartisan Khanna-Massie bill to release these files.

Mr. Speaker, we have a bill to do it. Stop delaying, stop  obstructing, stop protecting the powerful perpetrators of these crimes,  and just release the damn files. I urge a ``hell, no'' on this rule,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.