Providing for Consideration of H.R. Don't Mess with My Home Appliances Act, and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Homeowner Energy Freedom Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700195/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-dont-mess-with-my-home-appliances-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-homeowner-energy-freedom-act


Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Griffith) for  yielding the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, you have to love these Republicans. I mean, they have no  problems with subsidies for Big Oil, Big Tech, Big Ag, or big tax cuts  for multimillionaires and billionaires. Yet, when it comes to helping  consumers afford electric water heaters or stoves, all of a sudden,  they have a big problem.

I just don't get it. I mean, that is where their attention is, on  going after consumers, making life more difficult for everyday working  families.

Mr. Speaker, tonight is the State of the Union, and I am sure that  the President is going to come here and paint a very rosy picture,  indeed. He is going to say that the economy is great and that tariffs  are working. He is ending wars, not starting them. He is going to spew  all kinds of nonsense.

Mr. Speaker, the problem is that the facts are the facts. The fact is  that his economy sucks.

I just spent the last week at grocery stores, senior centers, and  townhalls. I went to food pantries and Boys and Girls Clubs across  Massachusetts. I spoke with people who are working hard and getting  crushed.

They are paying more for food, more for rent, more for utilities, and  more for healthcare. They are struggling, and they are watching Donald  Trump pump the rich with more tax breaks and more giveaways to the  billionaire Epstein class while the rest of America struggles just to  get by.

With all of that going on, with families begging for relief, this is  what Republicans bring to the House floor today: more bills about  appliances. This Republican majority has brought up more than a dozen  appliance bills. The lobbyists for the appliance manufacturers sure  must be getting paid well.

The worst part of these bills is that these bills would actually  raise utility costs for consumers. Who asked for that? I mean, one of  these bills is H.R. 4626, the Home Appliance Protection and  Affordability Act. That is not the original name of the bill, though.  No. The original name is the Hands Off Our Home Appliances Act.

Republicans changed the name to slap the word ``affordability'' on  there, but they didn't change a single word of the actual bill. All of  this is slapping on a word to pretend that they are doing something. It  is window dressing masquerading as an attempt to help real people  because Trump and the Republicans know that their economy sucks.

They know that the public perception is that all they care about is  helping Wall Street to get richer and helping billionaire CEOs rip  people off because, to be honest with you, Mr. Speaker, that is all  they seem to care about.

Guess what. These bills are worse than doing nothing. They would make  utility costs go up. I mean, Republicans are trying to gut popular  energy and cost-saving programs at the Department of Energy. They would  lower efficiency standards and prevent consumers from choosing the best  products for their households.

Mr. Speaker, last night in the Rules Committee, I was chastised by  the gentleman from Virginia, who was upset with me because I was asking  questions that he said were too hard. He said that the witness wasn't  prepared and that I was cross-examining him. He said that my questions  weren't fair.

Mr. Speaker, let me explain for the gentleman why I asked so many  questions last night. It is because this House has been turned into a  place where you can hardly ask questions at all.

This majority locks down the process, shuts out amendments, shuts  down debate, and then acts offended when somebody tries to get a  straight answer about what the hell is going on around here.

This rule that we are debating today officially breaks the record.  This is now the most closed Congress ever--ever, in the history of the  United States of America.

Mr. Speaker, 117 times in this Congress, Republicans have advanced  bills to the floor with no amendments allowed, including today. They  just broke the record for the whole Congress, and we are barely halfway  through.

Mr. Speaker, that is insane. More than 8 out of 10 times when we  consider legislation under this majority, Republicans lock down the  floor and allow zero amendments--zero. That is stunning.

Mr. Speaker, that is a stunning, stunning break from normal.

Speaker Johnson promised transparency and more debate, but the  numbers tell a different story. Under Speaker Johnson, the Rules  Committee has helped to block 82 percent of all amendments this  Congress--82 percent. That is over 3,300 amendments blocked so far in  just over a year, including 95 percent of Democratic amendments, 57  percent of Republican amendments, and even 63 percent of bipartisan  amendments. Think of that. When a Democrat and a Republican decide to  work together to improve a bill, they are told no.

Mr. Speaker, that is the exact opposite of what the people in this  country are asking for.

Republicans blocked votes on tariffs. We had to move Heaven and  Earth. We had to finally force a vote after months and months of  getting blocked.

Republicans blocked votes on releasing the Epstein files. I mean,  they sent us home early because they didn't want the Rules Committee to  take another vote on whether or not to release the Epstein files. We  had to use a discharge petition. That is unprecedented. We had to go  around the Speaker of the House simply to get a vote.

Right on brand, Republicans blocked votes on thousands and thousands  of amendments designed to make bills better. Under this Republican  majority, the Rules Committee has basically become a place where  democracy goes to die.

Mr. Speaker, what is this all about? What is this all about? It is  all about turning Congress into a giant rubberstamp for you know who:  Donald Trump. Nobody in the House of Representatives is allowed to  change a comma unless Donald Trump gives   Mike Johnson permission. It  is embarrassing. It is embarrassing, and it is a stain on this  institution.

Clearly, the Speaker of the House thinks that he works for the White  House and not for the American people. He has diminished Congress and  turned his position into a pathetic echo of what it used to be. Shame  on him, and shame on Republicans who go along to get along, even though  their amendments are blocked and their voices continue to be silenced  by their own leadership.

This is now the most closed Congress in the history of the United  States of America, and it is happening right here, right now, in real  time, because Republicans want to protect Donald Trump by blocking  votes instead of doing the job that they were elected to do. It is  pathetic.

Mr. Speaker, this economy is a mess. Look at the polls. There is like  a 30 percent approval rating for this President. People are hurting.  They want us to be on the floor legislating. They want us to be  deliberating. They want us to be finding solutions, and that means  voting on amendments to try to get this economy on the right track.  Instead, we are shut out. Everybody is shut out because they are all  too afraid of the guy in the White House.

Mr. Speaker, I am really at a loss for words. I am just trying to  contain myself because I have never heard such nonsense in my life. The  gentleman speaks about Thomas Jefferson. He is looking at us right up  here, and he is rolling over in his grave right now at the way this  House is being run. My friend should be ashamed of it. They should be  ashamed of it.

He is talking about the amendments that were offered in the Committee  on Rules last night were dilatory. Let me read one of them. It says:  ``This act, and the amendments made by this act, shall not take effect  until the date on which the Secretary of Energy publishes a  certification that the implementation of this act would not result in  increased costs for homeowners and renters.''

What the hell is dilatory about that?

The yada, yada, yada that the gentleman is talking about is  affordability.

The gentleman can say as many times as he wants, and my Republican  friends can say as many times as they want, that somehow this economy  is great and doing much better. That doesn't make it so. Look at the  polls. The majority of the American people think that they are driving  this economy into a ditch.

People told me this last week when I was going throughout my  district: What the hell is going on in Washington? Because all the  Congress and this President seem to care about are the well-off and the  well-connected, the Epstein class, if you will, the people who have  lots of money, the big corporations. They get protected. They get tax  breaks. They get all the benefits. The rest of the people in this  country get screwed. They are sick of it. That is why they are losing  so miserably in the polls. People have had it.

To come onto this floor and defend not only this lousy economy, but  to defend this rotten process, I have got to say, I have heard a lot.  This is indefensible. Again, if they don't like the amendments that are  being brought to the Committee on Rules, vote against them when they  come to the floor. If they don't want to debate, then stay in their  office; but let the rest of us be able to debate.

Now, they have crossed the line. This is the most closed Congress in  the history of the United States of America, and all they can say is:  Well, we have an obligation to block amendments to the Committee on  Rules I guess that we don't like, that are inconvenient.

I don't know what the hell is wrong with saying to the Secretary of  Energy: If these bills add costs to average consumers, then we  shouldn't move forward with them. That is all. If the Secretary of  Energy says: Oh, they won't, then they can move forward with them.

That is what the gentleman is calling dilatory. I mean, God Almighty,  what is going on around here? People are disgusted with what is  happening here in Washington, and they have a right to be disgusted.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 7615, the RELIEF Act, to force  the Trump administration to give back the money it illegally stole  through its unconstitutional tariff scheme.

Mr. Speaker, since the beginning of last year, President Trump has  declared a series of bogus emergencies as a pretext to pickpocket more  than $165 billion from American consumers and businesses of all sizes,  including small businesses, family-owned businesses, farmers, and  everyday citizens. In response, several small businesses sued the  President, arguing that the President does not have the power to  arbitrarily tax American businesses and consumers without an act of  Congress.

Last Friday the Supreme Court finally--finally--ruled that a large  portion of the President's tariffs are unconstitutional. While, as  Chief Justice Roberts wrote in his majority opinion that the power to  impose tariffs is supposed to be controlled by Congress, Speaker  Johnson and the vast majority of congressional Republicans have  continued to rubberstamp President Trump's disastrous tariffs, even  though they know that they are raising the prices of groceries,  housing, and other everyday goods.

In response to the Court's decision, President Trump lashed out at  the Justices who ruled against him, even the ones he himself appointed,  saying they are: ``unpatriotic and disloyal to our Constitution,''  ``swayed by foreign interests,'' and ``an embarrassment to their  families.''

Who the hell speaks like this? What other President talked like this?  It is shocking that anyone can defend these shameful words by this  President.

Department of Justice lawyers, in briefs filed during the case,  promised more than once to repay the tariffs if they lost. We have that  in writing. I am happy to share it with the gentleman and any of my  Republican colleagues. They stated: ``If tariffs imposed on plaintiffs  during these appeals are ultimately held unlawful, then the government  will issue refunds to plaintiffs, including any post-judgment interest  that accrues.'' That is the Justice Department's own legal brief.

Well, Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration lost. They lost big time.  Now the President is trying hard to break yet another promise.

Get this, when he was asked about the refunds, do you know what the  President said? He said, ``. . . We will end up being in court for the  next 5 years.'' Again, not trying to help average consumers or small  businesses. We are going to stay in court so you don't get anything.  You don't get a refund.

However, if the Republicans were to join with Democrats to defeat the  previous question, we will offer an up-or-down vote to require the  Trump administration to pay out tariff refunds that he owes in the next  90 days. Voting with us is a vote to ensure that President Trump  follows through on earlier promises to give back the stolen money.

The main issue that Americans are struggling with is the  affordability crisis. People cannot afford food. They cannot afford  rent. They cannot afford utility bills, and the basics. Tariffs are one  of the primary causes of these rising prices.

Republicans are always willing to bend over backward to give tax  breaks to their multimillionaire and -billionaire donors, but when we  talk about helping regular people, Republicans are  nowhere to be found. It is never too late to do the right thing.

I urge my colleagues to work with Democrats to ensure that the money  that was illegally stolen is returned, that in the future we return the  money directly into the pockets of working families who have had to pay  more for everything because of these damn tariffs.

Mr. Speaker, I can hardly believe my ears. The gentleman said that he  wants to legislate. He could have fooled me, because as far as I can  tell, the gentleman has voted for virtually every single, if not every  single, closed rule that has come out of the Rules Committee. There  were 117 closed rules he voted for in the Committee and on the floor.  There were 117 closed rules, no amendments allowed at all, no  amendments, and a lot of them were germane.

Now we are hearing that, oh, well, you know, we are just trying to  manage this House better. My Republican friends now regularly do not  even call for amendments. They basically let everybody know that  whatever you submit, we are going to turn away and we are going to  block because we don't want any amendments at all.

Really?

Is that the process that my friends are defending?

I think I just heard the gentleman say for several minutes a lot of  words basically trying to justify why the American people don't deserve  a refund as a result of Trump's illegal tariffs. Okay. If that is their  position, fine. I actually think the American people deserve a refund.  They deserve a check. Small businesses deserve a check from this  President's illegal tariffs. That is what the Supreme Court has said.  They are illegal.

The gentleman has talked a lot about appliances as if that is what is  on everybody's mind. I don't know about his district, but when I do  townhalls, the first words out of my constituents' mouths are not  showerheads or water heaters or stoves. They are worried about prices  rising all across the board.

They also want us to talk about real, serious challenges that we are  faced with here, not just issues of affordability. That is because  right now, right as we gather here today talking about appliances,  President Trump is ramping up toward a strike against Iran, a war.

Reports say that his national security team is telling him that the  U.S. military could be ready to hit Iran within days, and they are  openly talking about a massive, weeks-long campaign.

Why?

They are suddenly claiming that Iran is a mere week away from having  the material to make a nuclear bomb.

It sounds like what happened last year if you remember, Mr. Speaker.  In June of 2025, Trump said that Iran was weeks away from getting a  nuke.

What happened?

The administration proceeded to bomb Iran.

The White House spent the entirety of last summer telling the world  that Iran's nuclear facilities had been obliterated in a strike that  the U.S. conducted. Those aren't my words. Those are the words of this  administration. They said ``obliterated'' over and over and over  again--obliterated. It is still up on their website.

So which is it?

If Iran's nuclear facilities were obliterated, then why are we  sprinting toward another war based on false claims about weapons of  mass destruction?

They weren't obliterated. If that was all political spin to make  their strike sound more successful than it actually was, then why  should anyone trust the judgment of the people now pushing us toward  escalation?

This is how disasters start, not with a clear plan, not with honesty,  but with a President who thinks foreign policy is a reality show and  human lives are props.

Let's be clear about what is at stake: Americans in uniform, American  families, a region that could explode, an economy in which working  people are already struggling to survive, and where a wider war could  set energy prices soaring and make life even more expensive for  everybody back home.

Congress is not a rubberstamp. It should not be a rubberstamp. The  Constitution does not give one man the power to drag this country into  another war on a whim.

De-escalate. Get serious about diplomacy. Tell the truth. If the  President thinks he needs a war, then he can come to the people's  House, and he can make his case out in the open where the American  people can see, hear, and judge it. Then, let's wait to let us vote on  it, because it is Congress, after all, who decides where and when to go  to war. It is not the President; it is Congress that is to decide that.

Again, given what is potentially about to happen, you would think  that we would want to have that debate here, Mr. Speaker. I don't care  which side, maybe even if you want to go to war with Iran, Mr. Speaker,  you would think you would want to have that debate to convince the  American people that it is the right thing to do. Mr. Speaker, you  would think you would want to go on record as voting for that war. I  think it is a terrible mistake, but I would think if you felt the  opposite, Mr. Speaker, you would want to be transparent and open about  it.

Guess what. Nothing.

We are debating phony bills on appliances, on stupid stuff, when  people are hurting every day because they can't afford the basics.

We are on the verge of going to war, and this is what we are doing?  This is what we are doing, appliances?

Give me a break.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time I have  remaining.

Mr. Speaker, what we are really voting on here is not just a rule. It  is whether the House of Representatives  is going to act like a real legislature or whether it is going to keep  acting like it works for Donald Trump.

Closed rules have become the norm around here. As I said earlier,  3,300 amendments have been blocked, and many of them have been germane.  In fact, most of them have been germane. It has just become a habit for  the gentleman and other Republicans on the Rules Committee to vote  ``no.'' They vote ``no.''

I don't want to hear an argument about germaneness because when  amendments are germane--again, most of those that have been offered  have been germane--up to 3,300 amendments have been blocked. That is  what is happening here.

We are getting lectures and lectures and lectures about legislating,  and the bottom line is that this Republican majority basically has  thrown the rule book out. To hell with Jefferson. To hell with this  institution. To hell with the Constitution. We are just going to shut  everything down. That is what we are doing here.

If the gentleman or anybody on the other side thinks that appliances  are the most important thing in the world, fine. They can bring them to  the floor. But let us offer amendments and respect us and, by the way,  other Republicans who want you to bring more important matters to the  floor. Whether it is votes on war and peace or votes on affordability  or votes on the tariffs, we ought to have those debates on the floor.  They are always blocked. We can't talk about those things. It is so  disappointing and so sad, Mr. Speaker.

The bottom line is, it is not just Democratic amendments, but  Republican amendments, bipartisan amendments. Anything that might force  a real debate or real vote is blocked.

The message that it sends is simple: The leadership doesn't want  accountability. They want control, total control.

That is why the exchange with my colleague from Virginia that we had  last night is so important. If Republicans are mad because Members are  asking hard questions or we are talking about issues that may not be  necessarily relevant to the bills we are talking about, it is because  we don't have any other chance to do so.

I get it. My Republican friends don't want scrutiny. They don't want  daylight. They want us to sit down, shut up, and vote for Trump. Guess  what. We are not going to do that. We are not going to do that.

The bills before us today are a perfect example of what happens when  you silence regular people and empower those at the top. Working  families are getting squeezed by Trump's economic mess. Costs are up.  People can feel it every time they swipe a card at the grocery store or  open their checkbook to pay a utility bill.

Instead of bringing serious cost-of-living relief to the floor-- housing, healthcare, childcare, prescription drugs, cracking down on  price gouging--Republicans bring bills like this so that we can pretend  that we are doing something when we are not.

That is the scam: Protect the people at the top. Stage a few votes  for press releases. Then lie to the American people and tell them that  the economy is going great.

The people I represent are not buying this bs. They are asking us to  take on the folks rigging the economy against them. They are asking for  a House that debates and approves legislation, not one that takes  orders and acts like a rubber stamp for the White House. They are  asking for real relief from Donald Trump's awful economy, which is  making life harder for regular families.

Mr. Speaker, we have a President who wants to be king, and  unfortunately, we have Republicans in this House who bow down to him.  We have officials in this administration who have compared the House of  Representatives and Congress to the Russian Duma, a legislative body in  name only, a body that just rubberstamps whatever the Russian leader,  whatever Putin, says.

I don't want to be the Russian Duma. I want to adhere to the ideals  of Thomas Jefferson. We ought to be debating. We ought to have  amendments made in order. We ought to legislate. We ought to behave  like we are the United States House of Representatives, and we are not.

It is so disappointing. The precedents that are being set here are so  disappointing. It is depressing what has happened to this House.

I say to my colleagues: vote against this rule. Another two closed  rules, that is what we are getting here. No amendments at all, nothing,  two closed rules, take it or leave it.

We have to do better. I am so disappointed with my Republican  colleagues who go along to get along, who are so afraid of being  punished by the bully in the White House, who are so afraid of even  changing a comma in a bill because there might be retribution.

We are all elected by the people of this country. We ought to start  acting like it. We ought to start fighting back. We ought to start  legislating and deliberating. We ought to restore some dignity to the  House of Representatives.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.