Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698312/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-do-no-harm-in-medicaid-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-protect-childrens-innocence-act-and-relating-to-consideration-of-hr-standardizing-permitting-and-expediting-economic-development-act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for  yielding the customary 30 minutes, and I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

Mr. Speaker, we heard a lot of words from the gentleman from  Virginia, but the reality is that some people's premiums are going up  100 percent. Their big, grand plan is to give people an 11 percent  coupon. This is laughable. It is pathetic.

Mr. Speaker, here we are, likely one of the very last floor debates  of the year, and Republicans have decided to use it to eliminate  healthcare for millions of Americans, not by accident, but because they  simply don't care, because they are clueless. They are incompetent, and  they are unbelievably out of touch.

This Republican majority has done nothing for working people, nothing  to lower costs, nothing to make life more affordable, but, boy, have  they delivered for billionaires, corporations, and special interests.

They have spent an entire year screwing over the people they  represent. They are betraying the voters who sent them here.

They are pretending like Trump's economy is great, even though they  know it sucks. They have showered tax breaks on the ultrarich. They  have bent the knee to Big Oil, Big Pharma, and Big Tech. They have  handed the Pentagon billions it didn't even ask for, and now they have  the nerve to tell working families: Sorry, no money for your  healthcare; can't do a thing.

I mean, really? Give me a freaking break.

The American people are begging for action on affordability. They are  begging for action to lower the cost of healthcare. What more do they  need to do to get Republicans to take action?

Premiums are about to double, triple, and in some cases, quadruple.  Families could see their premiums increase as much as $1,000 a month.

Open enrollment deadlines have already passed. Parents have sat at  their kitchen tables and realized that between rent, groceries,  childcare, and Trump's tariffs driving up the cost of damn near  everything, health insurance is something they could no longer afford.

Instead of a plan on healthcare, last night in the Rules Committee, I  heard one Republican excuse after another about why they can't extend  these tax credits that help people get insurance coverage.

You guys have been in charge of this place for 3 years, for God's  sake. Donald Trump has been President or running for President for like  a decade. Where the hell is the Republican plan on healthcare? Where is  it?

Republicans keep blaming the ACA. They have spent years and years  trying to repeal it, but they haven't repealed it yet because they have  no replacement, no alternative.

Mr. Speaker, one of your own Republican Members called this entire  charade political malpractice. He was right.

Meanwhile, Democrats have been trying for months to avert this  crisis.  Governors, doctors, and patients have been sounding the alarm. Instead  of working with us, they decided to shut down the government. Instead  of trying to partner with us, Donald Trump is calling affordability a  con job. That is unbelievable and so out of touch with reality.

Now, Republicans have slapped together this pathetic bill to provide  cover, a bill that is not worth the paper it is printed on, a bill that  actually kicks people off of coverage and fails to extend the tax  credits that keep healthcare affordable for over 20 million Americans.

I mean, come on. Get real.

Just to make sure that we all know that they aren't serious,  Republicans included a poison pill which brings us closer and closer to  a nationwide abortion ban. They are going after abortion even in States  where it is legal.

I mean, who the hell asked for this? This is like a plot of ``The  Handmaid's Tale.''

Despite Republicans' endless attempts to undermine the ACA, it is  popular because it works. After Democrats strengthened people's ability  to pay for healthcare by plussing up the premium tax credits,  enrollment more than doubled from around 11 million to over 24 million  Americans with real health insurance.

Eighty-eight percent of that growth happened in States that Donald  Trump won in 2024, by the way. So by choosing to not extend these  credits, Republicans are simply hurting their own constituents, hurting  the people who trusted them, and hurting the people who voted for them.

More than 20 million Americans will see their healthcare costs  explode on January 1. Instead of a fix, we get a stupid, pathetic,  last-minute bill designed to let Republicans cover their ass before  they flee town for the holidays.

What a lousy, rotten, pathetic thing to do. This is a terrible bill  that screws over millions of American families. I urge every Member of  this House to vote ``hell, no'' on this Republican rule.

The gentleman from Virginia keeps saying that if we really supported  premium tax credits that we would have made them permanent.

I think we all know that is kind of ridiculous because I want to  point out that their number one floor protocol requires that programs  end or sunset by a certain date. I mean, it was part of their  ridiculous Pledge to America. I mean, maybe they don't believe all of  the garbage that they put out there, but that is their protocol.

Mr. Speaker, I merely point out Republican hypocrisy which we deal  with every single day, and we want to have a vote on extending the tax  credits, but Republicans denied that in the Rules Committee.

Republicans could be bringing up a bill to make the enhanced premium  tax credits permanent, but they are not. Instead, what they did is they  brought a bill to the floor to make tax cuts for multimillionaires and  billionaires permanent. Every millionaire in this country is going to  get an $80,000 tax break. That is where their priorities are. Every  millionaire will get an $80 million tax credit, and the 25 million  people in this country who are relying on enhanced tax credits so they  won't lose their health insurance, they are basically saying to them:  To hell with you.

That is where their priorities are.

We don't share the same values when it comes to making sure the  people in this country have healthcare that is affordable and that is  quality. That is the difference. That is the difference.

We are here today to fight to make sure that we have a vote to extend  these tax credits so that people do not lose their health insurance and  people do not see their healthcare premiums explode.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans keep talking about how Democrats want to  give more money to insurance companies, which is absolutely absurd, and  they all know that. Nothing could be more ridiculous.

Let me correct the record. First of all, ACA tax credits go to our  constituents to help them pay for healthcare. Second, it was the  Affordable Care Act, you know the bill that the gentleman and a lot of  Republicans want to repeal, which mandated that greedy insurance  companies have to spend 80 percent to 85 percent of premiums on medical  care. It is called the medical loss ratio. The gentleman should look it  up. It is in the Affordable Care Act.

When he is talking about repealing the ACA, he is the one who wants  to overturn that provision and let insurance companies rip people off  even more than they already do.

Let me make one last point. We could easily move away from health  insurance companies ripping people off. We could do what the vast  majority of developed nations do and move toward a public option so  that people don't have to choose a private health insurance company.  But to say the Democrats are the ones who want to enrich insurance  companies is absurd.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans support big banks. They support Big Tech.  They support billionaires, and they support tax breaks for huge, greedy  corporations. And they accuse Democrats of being in the pocket of the  insurance industry?

Give me a break. Nobody believes this BS.

Mr. Speaker, look at your big, ugly bill. Look at all the tax breaks  that go to millionaires and billionaires and big corporations. Every  millionaire, as I stated before, because of Republicans, are getting an  $80,000 tax break, every millionaire in this country.

What we are saying here is we want to make sure that health insurance  is affordable for every single person in this country, and Republicans  are replying by: We can't be bothered with that. That is not where our  priorities are.

Maybe they don't write big enough checks for their campaigns.

The bottom line is that we are here arguing that people in this  country shouldn't lose their healthcare because they can't afford it.  We could do something right this instant to fix that. Republicans are  blocking every attempt, and they are bringing this crappy bill to the  floor that didn't even go through regular order and it didn't go  through committee. They just patched it together and brought it before  the Rules Committee.

By the way, CBO says that their terrible bill that they are bringing  to the floor will throw another 100,000 people off of health insurance.  By just passing this bill, 100,000 additional people will lose their  health insurance. This is ridiculous.

Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman, the chairwoman of the Rules Committee,  knows I have great affection for her, but I just want to correct  something. She says that the Republicans have always had a plan to deal  with healthcare and to lower costs for people, but the truth is they  have always said they have a plan, but they have never had a plan.

Let me just go through a list of things here.

In February 2016, then-Presidential candidate Donald Trump said: ``We  are going to replace ObamaCare with something so much better.'' Nothing  followed.

On February 27, 2017, the President said: ``We have a really  terrific, I believe, healthcare plan coming out.'' Never did.

May 10, 2018, Donald Trump said: ``But wait until you see the plans  that we have coming out literally over the next 4 weeks. We have great  healthcare plans coming out.'' Nothing happened.

At a press gaggle near Air Force One in May 2019, he said: ``We are  coming up with a great healthcare plan. We are going to have fantastic  healthcare, and the plan is coming out over the next 4 weeks.'' Nothing  ever materialized.

June 16, 2019, the President said: ``We are going to produce  phenomenal healthcare, and we already have the concept of a plan, and  it will be so much better healthcare. Yeah, well, we will be announcing  it in about 2 months, maybe less.'' Nothing happened.

In a FOX News interview, the President said: ``We are signing a  healthcare plan within 2 weeks, a full and complete healthcare plan.''  Nothing happened.

July 2020, the President said: ``Well, we are going to be doing a  healthcare plan. We are going to be doing a very inclusive healthcare  plan. I will be signing it sometime very soon. It might be--it might be  Sunday, but it is going to be very soon.'' Nothing happened.

August 3, 2020, the President said: ``We are going to be introducing  a tremendous healthcare plan sometime prior--hopefully, prior to the  end of the month. It is just about completed now.'' Nothing.

September 15, 2020, the President says: ``You are going to have new  healthcare. We have other alternatives to ObamaCare that are 50 percent  less expensive, and they are actually better.'' Nothing. It never  happened.

September 10, 2024, ABC News Presidential debate, he says: ``I have  concepts of a plan. . . . You will be hearing about it in the not-too- distant future.'' Nothing happened.

December 8, 2024, he said: ``Yes, we have concepts of a plan that  would be better. You will see it very soon.'' It produced nothing.

In May 2025, at a White House event, he said: ``So we are going to  maybe come up with something. I think this gives the Republicans a  chance to actually do a healthcare that is much better than  ObamaCare.'' Nothing.

People are sick and tired of the empty rhetoric. They are sick and  tired of Republicans saying they have a plan, and they never produce  one. All they want to do is undermine healthcare for hardworking,  average Americans.

Rivas).

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 6074, which  would extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits for 3  years, through 2028.

Mr. Speaker, this is it. This is the one last chance this year, this  session, for this Republican majority to do the right thing and vote to  extend the ACA enhanced premium tax credits.

If Republicans allow them to expire, millions of Americans, millions  of their constituents, will be faced with rising health insurance costs  and, in some cases, by more than $1,000 per month.

Mr. Speaker, I have an important announcement to make, and if there  is anybody in the press gallery listening, I want them to hear this. I  have called on Republicans to put country over politics, put country  over their party, to do the right thing for their constituents. We have  a discharge petition that 214 Democrats have signed on to, to force a  bill on a 3-year clean extension. While we have been debating, four  Republicans have actually done that.

We are now at 218. What that means is that it sets in place a process  that will allow us to vote on a clean extension. We have 218 people who  will vote for it, which means we will pass it.

Unfortunately, the procedures on a discharge petition mean that we  can't get to it until we come back from our holiday break in January,  but we don't need to wait for the discharge petition to ripen. We can  actually act today if we want to preserve the tax credits for 20  million working-class Americans that rely on them.

Democrats in this House and in the Senate have acted like adults  during our entire monthslong effort to get Republicans to do the right  thing. I thank those Republicans who signed the discharge petition  because that is actually going to make sure that we have a vote and  that we can extend these tax benefits.

Again, we can kind of short-circuit the process. If we defeat the  previous question, we could vote on it today. We are offering this to  be able to bring it up immediately.

Mr. McGOVERN. That is correct. We do thank these Republicans for  getting us to 218, but we hope they would join us.

Mr. McGOVERN. This would be the key vote.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans love to find ways to justify kicking  millions of working people off of healthcare. The chairwoman of the  Rules Committee talked about fraud. If fraud is your primary concern,  how about you start with President Trump, who has pardoned or commuted  not one, not two, but 12 people. He pardoned 12 people convicted of  healthcare fraud. My Republican friends have been silent, not a word.

One guy was convicted of $1.3 billion in a Medicare fraud scheme, the  largest healthcare fraud scheme charged by the Department of Justice.  We had another woman convicted of orchestrating $205 million in a  Medicare fraud scheme involving assisted living facilities. We had  another guy convicted of 67 counts of healthcare fraud and related  charges relating to Medicare and other healthcare programs.

I could go on and on, Mr. Speaker. I am not sure what they did to  earn those pardons, but maybe they promised to say nice things about  Trump.

When Republicans come to the floor and talk about fraud, just  remember that they are the ones who pardoned over and over and over  again healthcare fraudsters while at the same time screwing over the  American people by taking away their healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, let's be honest about what is happening here because  this really is not that complicated, and the American people aren't  stupid.

This Republican bill does not fix the healthcare crisis facing this  country. It doesn't even try. Instead, Republicans are going to raise  costs, weaken coverage, and deliberately allow the Affordable Care Act  tax credits to expire, knowing full well that millions of families will  lose affordable coverage as a result.

That outcome is not a side effect. It is the point. For more than a  decade,  Republicans have promised a better healthcare system, a replacement for  the ACA, something, anything that would justify taking coverage away  from people who need it.

Ten years later, there is still no plan, no replacement, no solution.  Why? Because they are totally fine with a system of the haves and have- nots. They want a system where those at the top have affordable care,  and everyone else is left in the dust.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans have controlled the House of Representatives  for 3 long years. During that time, the priorities of this majority  have been crystal clear.

When billionaires, CEOs, and corporate special interests need  something, Republicans move with lightning speed. Loopholes appear out  of nowhere. Regulations vanish into thin air while Big Oil, Big Tech,  and big banks get what they want.

Republicans have no problem handing out massive tax giveaways to  donors who write big campaign checks. They have no problem padding the  profits of greedy corporations. They have no problem voting to give the  Pentagon $8 billion more than it even asked for without so much as a  shrug.

When it comes to working people, when they need affordable  healthcare, suddenly the story changes. Suddenly, there is hand- wringing. Suddenly, there is paralysis. Suddenly, the money is gone.  Suddenly, America can't pay for it.

If my friends on the other side of the aisle are okay with that, we  do not share the same values. If they think it is fine to give handouts  to billionaires, while stealing healthcare from regular people, we do  not have the same moral compass.

The bottom line is this country has a Republican Congress that works  just fine for the rich and powerful, while telling everybody else to  tighten their belts.

There is always money for giveaways to CEOs and corporate stock  buybacks. There is always money for billionaire tax shelters. When a  working family needs help staying insured, Republicans say it is too  expensive. This is a question of our priorities as a Nation.

What makes this even more infuriating is that Democrats have already  put forward a responsible and reasonable solution that would help stop  this crisis in its tracks. We have 218 people who have signed this  discharge petition. Mr. Speaker, four Republicans signed this discharge  petition. I hope they will vote to bring this same bill up today.

To the moderates who didn't get the opportunity to sign it, I say  this. This is their chance to go on record and show their constituents  that they are serious about getting this done. Imagine what that would  mean. It would mean lower costs, stable coverage, and a Congress that  proves it still answers to working families instead of to the  billionaire class. Instead, we get this GOP inaction and incompetence.

Mr. Speaker, at the end of the day, healthcare coverage should not  depend on how much money someone makes. We live in the richest country  on Earth. Healthcare should be a human right available to every person  and every community without exception.

The United States remains the only major developed Nation that does  not guarantee healthcare for everyone. That is not because we can't  afford it. It is because powerful interests make too much money from  the status quo.

To any Republican who knows this bill is wrong, who understands what  this will do back home, and who still believes that this institution  should work for the people it represents, this is the moment. Extend  the tax credits. Protect the coverage of our constituents. Stand with  us to say that it is time for Congress to put patients ahead of profits  and working families ahead of billionaires.

Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``no'' vote on this rule, and I yield back the  balance of my time.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.

A recorded vote was ordered.