Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendments to H.R. Consolidated Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Critical Mineral Dominance Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699593/providing-for-consideration-of-senate-amendments-to-hr-consolidated-appropriations-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-disapproving-the-action-of-the-district-of-columbia-council-in-approving-the-dc-income-and-franchise-tax-conformity-and-revision-temporary-amendment-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-critical-mineral-dominance-act


Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for  yielding me the customary 30 minutes and for his riveting presentation,  and I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, before I say a word about the rule or the bills in front  of us, this is the first full day that we have convened since two  Federal officers shot and killed another American citizen in  Minneapolis, Alex Pretti, an ICU nurse who took care of our Nation's  veterans.

Alex was on a public street. He was exercising his First Amendment  rights while filming Federal agents. He was exercising his Second  Amendment rights as a law-abiding, concealed-carry gun owner. He was  doing what any decent person would do: helping a woman off the ground  after she had been shoved down by a Federal officer. For that, he was  punished with death, shot by his own government.

This wasn't an isolated tragedy, Mr. Speaker. It was the second  public killing of an innocent American in Minneapolis tied to Homeland  Security. Renee Good, a mother of three, was shot by ICE on January 7,  mere weeks before the murder of Alex Pretti.

Mr. Speaker, as co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission,  named after our former colleague, the only Holocaust survivor to serve  in the United States Congress, I have spent years documenting and  standing up to human rights abuses carried out by authoritarian regimes  against their own people.

Let me say this plainly: A functioning democracy does not execute  people in the street. That is the kind of thing you see in North Korea,  Mr. Speaker, or Iran; not in the United States of America.

It is beyond the pale. In my view, this administration and those at  the Department of Homeland Security, in particular, should not get  another cent until there are some serious actions taken. I personally  believe we should abolish ICE and start all over. At a minimum, there  needs to be some serious, systemic reforms made, which brings us to  today's rule debate.

Over the weekend, the Senate acted on the government funding bills  House Republicans sent them 2 weeks ago, except for a short-term CR  that continues DHS funding at the current levels for the next 1\1/2\  weeks.

I want to be crystal clear about where I stand: I am voting ``no''. I  will not stand by and give any more money to Stephen Miller and Kristi  Noem to bankroll an out-of-control operation that is terrorizing  communities and shredding the Constitution.

We are watching masked, armed agents force their way into homes  without judicial warrants. We are seeing blatant violations of the  Fourth Amendment. We are witnessing agencies act with impunity. We are  hearing about kids getting kidnapped on their way to school and  grandparents dragged from their homes. We are listening as government  officials smear dead Americans as domestic terrorists instead of  answering basic questions about what happened.

Mr. Speaker, I am not interested in business as usual, not for 2 more  weeks, not for 2 more seconds.

A Federal judge recently described ICE's conduct in January as an  extraordinary pattern of defiance of court orders. They said ICE ``has  likely violated more court orders in January 2026 than some Federal  agencies have violated in their entire existence.'' That should give  every single Member of this House pause. It is certainly my red line,  and I think it ought to be a red line for this whole body.

Mr. Speaker, it is not just DHS funding. This package also gives a  massive increase in funding to the Pentagon. Why are we writing a blank  check for the so-called Department of War while this administration  threatens allies, breaks the law, and treats Congress like an  afterthought? Why are we giving Pete Hegseth more money than the  administration even asked for while we get fewer answers, fewer  guardrails, and fewer constraints on reckless action?

On top of all of this, Republicans have jammed in a measure to repeal  D.C.'s new tax law. Let me just tell my colleagues, this would blow a  $600 million hole in D.C.'s budget, over half a billion dollars gone  because Republicans in Congress want to meddle in local governance when  they can't even manage a budget of their own.

I mean, they just added $4 trillion to the national debt in their one  big, ugly bill. Let that sink in. I mean, it is ridiculous. The Mayor  and the chairman of the D.C. Council warned that this would throw a  huge wrench into D.C.'s current tax filing season and force people to  refile their taxes. That is insane.

If this bill becomes law, they would be ripping away D.C.'s new child  tax credit, money that would go directly to families to help them put  food on the table and reduce childhood poverty. Republicans talk a big  game about family values, and then they turn around and take money out  of kids' pockets. It is shameful. By the way--you can't make this stuff  up--this measure had no hearing and no markup. I say, so much for  regular order.

When I asked the Oversight Committee chairman yesterday basic  questions about D.C.'s budget, he had no answers. He had no idea how  big D.C.'s budget is or how much D.C. spends on the Metro, schools, or  infrastructure improvements. He had no idea how much money D.C. raises  in local taxes and how much of a budget shortfall their outrageous bill  would cause. These are the most basic questions  that you could possibly ask about whether to overturn D.C.'s tax law,  and he couldn't answer them. He had no clue.

Let's be honest about what this is. It is powerful people in  Washington telling local communities: Sit down and shut up. We know  better. Then they leave working people to clean up the mess.

The final bill in this rule is another massive giveaway to mining  CEOs and polluters that lets them gut their own regulations. It is the  same pattern. It is the same pattern every single time: more power for  the strong, more pain for the vulnerable, more protection for insiders,  and more excuses for lawlessness. Enough is enough.

Mr. Speaker, I am voting ``no'' on this rule, ``no'' on this  underlying package, and ``no'' on all these bills. I reserve the  balance of my time.

I want to respond to the gentleman from Georgia, who comes down here  with the same old, tired MAGA talking points when it comes to ICE and  Homeland Security.

He comes down here to confuse people, to somehow imply that Democrats  don't want to lock up violent criminals. On the contrary, we do. That  is what we were promised that the worst of the worst would be pursued  and would be held accountable. However, that is not what is happening.  That is not what is happening.

In Minnesota, ICE agents have been intimidating people in hospitals,  forcing hospital management to issue protocols for employees on how to  best engage. Our doctors and nurses ought to be focused on tending to  patients and not dealing with ICE agents. It is despicable. I mean,  agents showed up to a Minnesota hospital with a man who immigrated here  legally. Just 4 hours after his arrest, he had at least eight skull  fractures in addition to life-threatening brain hemorrhages.

When people have exercised their First Amendment rights to protest,  ICE meets them with only more abuse, beating peaceful protesters and  dousing them in pepper spray.

Mr. Speaker, we have all heard by now the horrifying story of Alex  Pretti, an innocent American citizen, an intensive care nurse who was  brutally murdered by Federal agents. This wasn't an isolated incident.  The administration has shot 13 people during immigration enforcement  operations since September.

I am going to say that again, 13 people have been shot by the  Department of Homeland Security. Four of those shootings were fatal.  Those are four people who would be with us today if not for the insane  administration's cruel oppression of our communities. I mean, ICE  agents are not protecting our borders. They are ambushing our  communities, decimating our families, and taking innocent lives.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans nearly tripled ICE's budget last summer with  their big, ugly bill; and all that money ought to be clawed back. As  far as the appropriations package before us, again, I refuse to send  another cent to Stephen Miller or Kristi Noem. She ought to be  impeached, and he ought to be fired immediately. They are undermining  our Constitution, and the Department that they run is murdering  American citizens on the street.

We are hearing about young children being kidnapped. We are hearing  about off-duty police officers being detained by ICE. We are hearing  about ICE going after people because of the color of their skin. That  is what we object to. Let's go after the criminals.

By the way, we are not the party that pardoned all the  insurrectionists on January 6 and said that the slate is clean. By the  way, those people go on to murder innocent people, to rape women, and  molest children.

There is a difference here. We want to go after the violent  criminals, those who have committed terrible crimes. That is what we  were promised, and we were lied to. We have had it.

Mr. Speaker, the Florida man who just spoke characterized the murder  of two Americans by ICE agents as unfortunate. It is not unfortunate.  It is goddamned unacceptable, and everybody should be outraged by that.

He also bragged about the fact that he has been in Congress for 10  months, and the government has been shut down twice. I hate to be the  one to remind the gentleman, but the last time I checked, his party is  in control of everything: the White House, the Senate, and the House.  You run the show. Maybe November will be a month of reckoning. Let's  hope so for the sake of this country.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to make in order amendment No. 47 to the Senate  amendments to H.R. 7148, which would allow for an up-or-down vote on  whether to cut the $75 billion Republicans gave ICE in their big, ugly  bill and use those funds to undo some of the big, ugly bill's  disastrous healthcare cuts.

Mr. Speaker, last year, Republicans voted to kick more than 15  million people off their healthcare--15 million Americans--through an  over $1 trillion cut to Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act.

Republicans claimed that this was for deficit reduction, but we know  that wasn't true. That was a lie. According to the nonpartisan budget  experts at the Congressional Budget Office, their big, ugly bill added  $4 trillion to the national debt, in part, by giving ICE boatloads of  cash to run roughshod through American cities with zero safeguards.  This must end.

If Democrats defeat the previous question, I will offer an amendment  to repurpose these ICE funds toward lowering healthcare costs, which  Republican Senators Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins voted for just  last week. I challenge my Republican colleagues in this body to do the  same.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, to discuss our proposal, I yield 3 minutes  to the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Amo), the sponsor of this  amendment.

Mr. Speaker, I am confused. I mean, the gentleman wants to say that  the Republicans are not in control, even though they control the White  House, the House, and the Senate. Yet, the Republicans were in control  to throw 15 million people off of healthcare. Republicans were in  control to add $4 trillion to the debt. The Republicans were in control  to cut Medicaid by $1 trillion. The Republicans were in control to give  ICE unlimited amounts of money with no guardrails. Now, they are  telling us they are not in control? I am confused.

Let me just say this. My colleagues across the aisle can't have it  both ways. Again, I hope that the Republican control of this House and  of this Senate is short-lived because, quite frankly, this country  cannot stand another 2 years of this, where if a person is rich and  well-connected and a friend of the President, they get all kinds of  sweetheart deals. If they are not, if they are a hardworking, middle- class family, they get screwed. People have had it. They see through  this.

To say that my colleagues are not in control when they have been  cutting programs that have helped poor children, that have helped  middle-class families, when they have given tax breaks to  multimillionaires and billionaires, give me a break.

Mr. Speaker, I thought the gentleman was asking me a question and  that we would have a conversation. I will tell him that we don't want a  shutdown. We want them to reel in an out-of-control ICE agency that is  killing American citizens right before our very eyes. That is what we  want.

I don't understand for the life of me why that is such a heavy lift  from my Republican friends, but that is what we are asking for. We  don't want to shut the government down. That is not who we are.

By the way, again, Republicans are responsible for the last shutdown.  They went on vacation rather than stay in Washington to try to  negotiate a deal.

Here we are. All we are asking for is let's reel in this out-of- control agency, and my friends find that too difficult to comprehend.

Lois Frankel).

Ms. LOIS FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, let me be clear. I support  the five bills that received bipartisan support, but I cannot vote for  a package that includes funding for the Department of Homeland Security  without immediate action to stop the ongoing violation of human rights  and law by ICE. They have turned into thugs, and it has turned our  country, America, into a place that many of us don't recognize.

Donald Trump promised to take violent criminals off the streets.  Instead, his immigration enforcement has become a campaign of cruelty  against peaceful people, tearing families apart, hollowing out  businesses, and paralyzing neighborhoods with pepper spray and fear.

Mr. Speaker, the crisis is national in scope. It is not just the  headlines of the cold-blooded murders in Minnesota.

The Department of Homeland Security has detained hundreds of  thousands of decent people this year, often  in unspeakable conditions and without a fair process. That includes  over 10,000 people in my home State of Florida, including a mother torn  away from her child while nursing her baby. These people are largely  good, decent mothers and fathers who are workers contributing to our  communities.

We do need to take the time for bipartisan immigration reform, but  today--today--we must rein in ICE. That includes ending masked  enforcement with roving patrols, requiring judicial warrants, mandating  body cameras, ending total immunity, and repurposing the billions of  dollars that are being used to menace our communities.

Security does not require brutality. Enforcement does not require  lawlessness, and our immigration policy should reflect our values, not  force us to abandon them. We can secure our borders without terrorizing  our neighbors, and I will not support funding that enables cruelty.

Congress must act now to impeach Kristi Noem and rein in ICE.

Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, under the Republican rule, we don't have  regular order anymore. We should be debating appropriations bills one  at a time. They bunch everything together.

Mr. Speaker, not only do they bunch things together, but they don't  even call for amendments anymore. This is the most closed Congress in  history. The Rules Committee and this House of Representatives has  become a place where democracy goes to die. My friends should be  ashamed of what they are doing to this institution.

Mr. Speaker, that was a lot of words to justify the most closed  Congress in history.

Mr. Speaker, 83 percent of the rules have been closed. That is 8 out  of 10. Republicans don't even call for amendments anymore, and people  know that it is a waste of time to come to the Rules Committee because  they have already been tipped off that there are going to be no  amendments in order.

Mr. Speaker, 90 percent of Democratic amendments have been rejected.  A big chunk of Republican amendments have been rejected. I am sorry  that Republicans' rank and file are such cheap dates when it comes to  legislating, but they cave all the time and they vote for these crappy  rules that are totally closed, so that is a bunch of bullshit. Let's be  honest. That is what we are talking about here. That is not an accurate  assessment of what is going on here.

This is the most closed Congress in history. Republicans should be  ashamed.

Mr. Speaker, I remind my Republican friends, who kind of just go  along to get along, that Mr. Arrington, who is a chairman, had 71  percent of his amendments blocked.

I will go right down the list.

Congresswoman Mace had 76 percent of her amendments blocked.

Congressman Steube had 79 percent of his amendments blocked.

I could go right down the list. These are all Republicans who just  routinely get blocked.

Enough. Enough. This is a ridiculous argument. The bottom line is a  lot of words to justify the most closed Congress in history.

Leger Fernandez).

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak up against  Kristi Noem's Department of Homeland Security. Speaking up is what we  must do when we see that the Constitution is violated and the moral  fabric of our Nation is brutalized the same way that they are  brutalizing our communities and killing our citizens.

Whether it is in New Mexico or Minnesota, fear has become a policy  for ICE and CBP, and cruelty has become their strategy. They take money  that is taxpayer money that could be used for affordable housing,  healthcare, and bringing down the cost of living, and they are spending  it to terrorize our communities.

Following the Constitution, respecting the First, Fourth, and 14th  Amendments should not be optional. It should never be up for  negotiation. We should make it a requirement and make sure that they do  not have immunity because then they act with impunity. We should not  give another penny to the Department of Homeland Security until we get  accountability.

Mr. Speaker, I urge that we vote against this rule.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, listening to the debate by my Republican  colleagues, I know Republicans want to pretend like they are not in  control because that absolves them of responsibility and  accountability. They don't want to own their own record because they  know their record sucks. They want to pretend like they are not in  control because if they pretend like they are in control, if they  acknowledge that they are in control, then they will be held  accountable in November.

Look at what they have promised compared to what they have done so  far:

Tax breaks for billionaires; they make sure their big donors are  taken care of while they screw over regular people.

$40 billion to Argentina; hurting our farmers and ranchers, importing  more beef from South America.

Bombing Venezuela, threatening to invade NATO allies.

Meanwhile, prices are not down. Prices are up because of the stupid  tariffs and lousy economic policies.

They promised to release all of the Epstein files. They still haven't  done that. In fact, they are covering up for the President of the  United States.

People are struggling more than ever because Trump's economy sucks.  They are making it easier for the elites, easier for the billionaires,  easier for the Epstein class, and harder for everybody else.

Maybe that is why even Republicans are finally acknowledging MAGA was  all a lie. Of course, their members only acknowledge that after they  leave. Let's listen to Trump's former top ally, Marjorie Taylor Greene.  Here is what she said: ``I think people are realizing it was all a lie.  It was a big lie for the people. What MAGA is really serving in this  administration, who they are serving, is their big donors.''

Look at who Republicans have helped. They have been in charge for a  year. They have helped Big Oil. They have helped Big Banks. They have  helped Big Tech.

Look who was in the front row at Trump's inauguration: billionaires.  That is all he cares about. Look at their promises to go after ``the  worst of the worst'' when it comes to immigration, another broken  promise. Stephen Miller and Kristi Noem are not going after the worst  of the worst. They are going after kids, VA nurses. They are deporting  veterans, for God's sake.

We are sick and tired of the broken promises and the lies. Enough. I  talk to Republican colleagues all the time who privately confess to me  that this is a disaster, and then they come on the floor and talk to  the press and say everything is beautiful. That is just not reality.

This President and this administration are taking this country in the  wrong direction. We have people that are being murdered in our streets  by U.S. Federal agents. When is enough going to be enough? I can't  believe this. Go along to get along, I get it. Everybody over there is  afraid of the guy in the White House, but maybe you should be more  afraid of your constituents. Maybe you ought to listen to your  constituents because they are sick and tired of this BS. They have had  it. They want Congress to be a body that fights for them, that fights  to improve the quality of life for average people. They want this body  to be a place where we debate important issues passionately, and we  skip all the crazy debates we have on trivial matters.

We can do so much better, but it requires my friends on the other  side of the aisle to kind of grow a spine, to stand up and to say and  do the right thing.

This is nuts what is happening: People being murdered in our streets;  Federal agents crashing into people's homes without a judicial warrant;  former off-duty police officers being detained by ICE; people with  brown and black skin being detained routinely by ICE. This has to stop.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this rule.  Let's get to the negotiating table. Let's do something to reel in this  out-of-control agency. Going along to get along is no longer an option.

Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.