Recognizing Noah Joyce-Anderson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701605/recognizing-noah-joyce-anderson


Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to share the story of Noah  Joyce-Anderson from Chicopee, Massachusetts.

Noah is a Black, trans veteran who served as a specialist in the U.S.  Army Reserve from 2010 to 2015. In January of this year, Noah traveled  to Minneapolis to assist protesters standing up to ICE's enforcement  operations as a medic.

While at a protest outside the Whipple Building on January 30, 2026,  Noah and a fellow veteran were tackled to the ground. Noah was charged  with obstruction of legal process, with the bail set at $500. During  booking, a clerk told Noah that there were no charges, and they would  likely remain in custody through the weekend.

While in custody, Noah received only one of their nine daily  medications. They were placed on suicide watch, given a soiled  mattress, and put in unsanitary conditions. Previously, they had been  left naked for an indeterminate period of time. A veterans group posted  bail a day later, and Noah was able to walk free.

Noah is still struggling with a head injury and is being treated for  back pain, muscle spasms, and post-concussive symptoms. Noah is also  still unsure of the status of the charges. Hennepin County has not even  confirmed whether Noah will be charged with a crime.

Noah is a veteran who went to Minneapolis to help protect peaceful  protesters. I commend Noah for having the courage to do what is right,  and I share Noah's story to shine a light on some of the realities of  this administration's cruel immigration enforcement. I also recognize  the selfless actions of those who are standing up for what is right.

Despite the violence so many in our communities have experienced,  they have shown up. They are doing the good and decent thing and  supporting our neighbors, whether they are down the block or across the  country.

I thank all veterans, including Noah, for their service and also for  standing on the right side of history and honoring the oath that they  took to the Constitution. As so many of them have said, Madam Speaker,  there is nothing more American than standing up for your neighbors.