Introduction of the Pacific Partnership Act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my Pacific  Partnership Act, co-introduced with Congresswoman Radewagen of American  Samoa and cosponsored by 21 of our colleagues. A companion version of  our bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Cortez Masto of  Nevada and Senator Ernst of Iowa.

Scattered across the three traditional Pacific subregions of  Melanesia, Micronesia and Polynesia are over two dozen jurisdictions  collectively known as the Pacific Islands, including twelve independent  states, countries in free association and territories. Though small in  land area and population, the land plus maritime exclusive economic  zones of all these jurisdictions combined exceed the land areas of  China and Russia combined, comprising a significant part of the vast  Pacific Ocean and our Earth's surface.

The Pacific Islands region remains critical to our national security  interests in the Indo-Pacific and advises greater U.S. engagement to  advance our shared interests and values, particularly in the context of  growing geopolitical competition and threats by our shared adversaries  to endanger the pursuit of a free and open Indo-Pacific.

To bolster U.S. engagement with this region, we have reintroduced our  Pacific Partnership Act, which passed the House unanimously in the  118th Congress. Our bill supports the tenets of the 2050 Strategy for  the Blue Pacific Continent, the guiding framework of the Pacific  Islands Forum, the region's premier multilateral organization with  eighteen members across Oceania.

Specifically, this bipartisan, bicameral bill would require the  President to develop and submit to Congress a Strategy for Pacific  Partnership, extend diplomatic privileges and immunities to the Pacific  Islands Forum (PIF) in the hopes that the PIF will establish a mission  to the U.S., direct the President to consult and coordinate with allies  and partners in the Pacific Islands region and update certain reports  regarding transnational crime affecting the Pacific Islands.

I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation to  sustain and expand U.S. engagement in this critical region.