Recognizing the 25th Anniversary of the Hawaii National Guard's State Partnership Program


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and commemorate the  25th anniversary of the State Partnership Program (SPP) between the  Hawaii National Guard and the Armed Forces of the Republic of the  Philippines.

The SPP pairs state and territorial National Guard units with partner  nations worldwide. It helps build enduring, mutually beneficial  relationships to enhance security cooperation, advance U.S. interests  and improve partner nations' military readiness.

The SPP partnership between the Hawaii National Guard and the  Philippines, initiated in 2000, was one of the earliest in the Indo- Pacific under this program, and it remains the longest-standing such  partnership in the region. Over the past quarter century, the  partnership between Hawaii's citizen soldiers and airmen and their  Philippine counterparts has steadily progressed, encompassing  humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, joint training exercises,  strategic planning and multilateral regional engagement.

The 25th anniversary of this agreement showcases an important and  long-lasting commitment to mutual security, shared values and an  enduring friendship between our two democratic nations.

This great SPP's success lies in its foundation of trust, mutual  respect and cultural understanding. Hawaii's geographic location and  strong cultural and historical ties to the Philippines have made our  state an ideal bridge between our two militaries. This special  relationship has not only strengthened defense readiness but also  developed personal connections that enrich both our communities.

I would also like to acknowledge the role of our partners in Guam,  who have joined this trilateral cooperation in recent years. Their  collaboration strengthens the regional fabric of security and  partnership.

On this 25th anniversary, I wish to recognize all those who have  contributed to this partnership's success. The enduring engagement  between the Hawaii National Guard and the Philippine armed forces has  advanced the strategic goals of a free and open Indo-Pacific and  strengthened the bonds between our two great nations.

Let us honor this important milestone not just as a celebration of  the past but also as a reaffirmation of our shared future. I look  forward to many more years of partnership and shared commitment to  peace and prosperity between America and the Philippines under our SPP.