Supporting the Legislative Branch Independence Act


Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to join me  in strengthening and protecting Congress as a separate, independent and  co-equal branch of our government by cosponsoring my Legislative Branch  Independence Act.

My bill would amend the appointment processes for three key  legislative branch positions--the Librarian of Congress, the  Comptroller General and the Director of the Government Publishing  Office (GPO)--to provide that appointment and removal of their leaders  are the exclusive purview of Congress. These three agencies are  critical to the independent operations of Congress and should not be  subject to undue influence by the executive branch or any other  external organization.

The Librarian of Congress is the main research arm of Congress,  managing the Congressional Research Service. The Comptroller General  leads the Government Accountability Office, which conducts audits and  reviews government programs to provide nonpartisan oversight for  Congress. The GPO prints and distributes official Congressional and  federal publications.

To ensure their independence from the executive branch, there must be  no question that Congress has complete authority to dictate the  appointment as well as the removal of the leaders of these  organizations. Thus, my proposal would remove the President from the  appointment process for all these positions and change it to a  commission structure. The commissions would be made up of House and  Senate leadership, as well as members from the relevant Congressional  committees. The House would now also have a say in the appointment  process, since its appointees would have to be confirmed by the  adoption of concurrent resolutions.

This bill would also codify Congress' exclusive authority to remove  the Librarian of Congress and the GPO Director. Specifically, their  removal would only occur by an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the  Members of the Senate and House, and clarify that the executive branch  has no role in these decisions. (This is already the case for the  Comptroller General.)

I ask for my colleagues' support for this bill, which empowers  Congress to control all aspects of key legislative branch agencies. As  the independence of the legislative branch continues to be challenged  and eroded, we must take the necessary steps to ensure our ability to  function as an unimpeded co-equal branch of government.