Calling Upon Local Communities to Support Organizations That Provide Resources and Aid Gold Shield Families in Their Time of Need


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691023/calling-upon-local-communities-to-support-organizations-that-provide-resources-and-aid-gold-shield-families-in-their-time-of-need


Mr. ONDER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to the  resolution (H. Res. 364) calling upon local communities to support  organizations that provide resources and aid Gold Shield Families in  their time of need.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

The text of the resolution is as follows:                                H. Res. 364

Whereas brave men and women across the United States serve       as first responders, courageously risking their lives to       protect United States communities;

Whereas the families of these valiant first responders       exhibit unparalleled strength, resilience, and sacrifice,       supporting their loved ones in their noble service to the       Nation;

Whereas the loss of a first responder in the line of duty       is a profound tragedy that leaves an enduring impact on their       families, necessitating unwavering support;

Whereas Gold Shield Families, families of fallen police       officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians,       correction officers, emergency dispatch officers, and       emergency service providers who have tragically lost their       lives in the line of duty protecting and serving their       communities, endure hardships and challenges while upholding       the legacy of their fallen heroes; and

Whereas nonprofits throughout the United States provide       resources and support Gold Shield Families as an expression       of the Nation's enduring gratitude and appreciation for their       tremendous contributions and sacrifices: Now, therefore, be       it

Resolved, That--

(1) local communities throughout the United States support       nonprofits that provide resources and aid Gold Shield       Families during their time of hardship and grief; and

(2) Gold Shield Families utilize these resources as they       process their immeasurable sacrifice.

Mr. ONDER.  Res. 364.

Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 364 calls on local communities to support  organizations that provide resources and aid to Gold Shield families in  their time of need. This is a commonsense resolution that recognizes  the families of fallen servants of public safety as revered Gold Shield  families.

These Gold Shield families deserve support from their communities in  their time of need. This resolution honors the ultimate sacrifice that  their loved ones made in the line of duty.

I thank the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Meuser) for his  leadership on this resolution.

Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the resolution, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. ONDER. Mr. Speaker, in closing, H. Res. 364 is a commonsense  resolution that honors the sacrifices of our brave public servants and  helps to ensure the welfare of their families.

I urge support of this resolution, and I yield back the balance of my  time.