Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698383/lower-health-care-premiums-for-all-americans-act


Mr. ONDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Lower Health  Care Premiums for All Americans Act, which includes legislation which I  introduced earlier this year, the Self-Insurance Protection Act. This  bill ensures that employers who choose to self-insure retain access to  a critical financial tool: stop-loss insurance.

Many employers choose to self-insure so they can tailor coverage to  the specific needs of their workforce. This flexibility lowers  healthcare costs and increases take-home pay for employees. However,  self-insurance carries a greater financial risk, which is why employers  rely on stop-loss insurance to protect against catastrophic claims.

In recent years, some States have tried to regulate self-insurance  out of existence. States like New York have barred small employers from  purchasing stop-loss insurance. For years, Democrats, in their pursuit  of single-payer healthcare, have tried to regulate it as traditional  health insurance. The Self-Insurance Protection Act makes it clear that  stop-loss insurance is a financial safeguard, not health insurance.

The Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act will expand  access to other options that increase competition and lower costs, like  association health plans. The first Trump administration expanded  access to associated health plans and lowered costs by 26 percent.

Through AHPs, employers can pool together to set up their own  insurance plan and negotiate better healthcare coverage. This approach  could eventually allow Costco or Sam's Club to offer their own  revolutionary low-cost health insurance.

As a physician, I have seen firsthand that increasing competition and  choice lowers costs, and the Lower Health Care Premiums for All  Americans Act will deliver lower costs for the 78 percent of Americans  who receive insurance through their employer. In addition, it will  lower ObamaCare premiums by 11 percent.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this bill and urge its passage.