America is Great Because America Can Change


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702001/america-is-great-because-america-can-change


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, last week, I had the privilege of visiting  a historic landmark in Delaware formerly known as the Hockessin Colored  School, which stands as a physical reminder of both the sin of  segregation that scars our history and the change that is possible when  dedicated citizens dare to build a more perfect Union, one that lives  up to our values and our promise.

This small building served as an elementary school for Black students  in Delaware from the 1920s until the 1950s, a time when legal  segregation still reigned and race determined where you could be  educated in our State.

Recently preserved through a mix of public and private dollars and  through the tireless work of the friends of the Hockessin Colored  School, the building profiles the students, teachers, and families who  relied on that school and who fought to make Delaware the first legally  segregated State in America to end Jim Crow in our schools.

Now, one of three sites in Delaware that are part of the Brown v.  Board of Education National Historical Park, it tells the story of  Sarah Bulah, whose daughter would watch the bus pass her by on its way  to an all-White school and who dared to fight to end legal  discrimination in education for her daughter and all students.

In 1952, the first Black attorney barred in Delaware, Louis Redding,  represented the Bulah family in court, securing a win at the State  level that would ultimately be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court,  consolidated alongside four other cases into Brown v. Board of  Education. The courage of parents and students across the country like  the Bulahs eventually led to the unanimous decision to cast aside  separate but equal and end racial discrimination in our schools across  the country.

The greatest privilege of my visit was meeting Mr. James ``Sonny''  Knott, who attended the Hockessin Colored School in the 1930s and,  after living history, has helped preserve it for future generations.

Mr. Sonny walked me through the building recounting stories of his  childhood and his memories within that school. He showed me a picture  of his mom on the wall sitting right next to Sarah Bulah. He shared  with me that he and his classmates never dreamed of a different world  because the segregation of their childhood was all that they knew. He  shared his and his fellow alumni's determination to protect that  history and to inspire the students of today to believe in the  possibility for progress before us, to continue our long march toward  freedom and justice for all.

We have a long way to go, but hope flourishes from the knowledge of  how far we have come. The stories told in this one-room schoolhouse are  the stories of students and our State, of our classmates and our  country.

As I stood there in the middle of that landmark, side by side with  Mr. Sonny, looking at a picture of him sitting in the Oval Office with  the President of the United States as he designated his school a  national historical park 80 years after attending it, I was reminded of  a simple but profound truth: America is great because America can  change.

Commemorating 120th Anniversary of Congregation Beth Emeth

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 120th  anniversary of Congregation Beth Emeth, a generational cornerstone of  the Jewish community in Wilmington and the surrounding areas.

A welcoming, inclusive, and engaging congregation, Beth Emeth has  been celebrating, supporting, and shaping the experience of Jewish  Delawareans for over a century and stands as a testament to the power  of institutions of faith to bring people together, bridge divides, and  to create spaces around shared purpose and compassion.

From their beginning in 1905 to the present, spiritual leaders have  spoken at the Beth Emeth congregation. Whether in the home, school, or  at work, rabbi after rabbi have transformed the Jewish community of  Wilmington with passion and commitment  to address social problems and societal wrongs.

Today, in their 120th year, Beth Emeth continues to strive to build a  community rooted in acceptance, respect, peace, kindness, justice, and  integrity, moral imperatives that continue to shape their work and the  community around them.

I am grateful for their stewardship and leadership in the history of  Wilmington, their role as a pillar of the Reform Jewish community in  Delaware, and all that they do for their neighbors.

To the Beth Emeth community, I congratulate you on your thriving  community of faith and your legacy. May the next century be full of  continued community building and loving leadership of the Jewish  community in Delaware and beyond.