Facing An Inflection Point in This Nation and the World


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700396/facing-an-inflection-point-in-this-nation-and-the-world


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today at an inflection point for our  Nation and the world.

Both here at home and abroad, families are facing the crushing weight  of Donald Trump's chaotic and cruel leadership. At home, inflation is  driving up costs around the country, and my neighbors are struggling to  afford their utility bills, their health insurance, and their  groceries.

In cities across our country, masked paramilitary agents are brutally  murdering American citizens, disappearing immigrants without due  process, and acting with cheered-on cruelty that mirrors a secret  police force.

Overseas, this President has launched more military strikes against  more countries than any President in history. He is circumventing  Congress and ignoring international rules. He is emboldening  authoritarians and insulting our allies. Just this past weekend, the  United States began yet another war of choice in the Middle East based  on misrepresented intelligence and uncertain objectives.

Already six Americans have tragically died in this avoidable  conflict. Whether a full-scale ground war unfolds now or not, this  President's shoot-first-ask-questions-later foreign policy inevitably  leads to one place globally: death, destruction, and destabilization.

Mr. Speaker, this year marks the 250th year since the signing of the  Declaration of Independence. In the century and a half since, our  country has faced several inflection points. In each one, we are faced  with a choice: Do we destroy, or do we build? Do we destroy our Union,  our Constitution, and our democracy, or do we choose to build a more  perfect Union?

We seem to face one of these inflection points every 80 years, when  the last living memory of the previous inflection point fades as the  last generation that remembers it disappears. When living memory of the  Revolution faded, we faced a Civil War. Eighty years after that, as a  Great Depression raged, many in America called for a dictator to  emulate the strong men in Europe.

Mr. Speaker, now as we lose the last of the Greatest Generation, we  are once again seeing destroyers calling into question our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, destroyers thrive in a culture of cynicism. They exploit  it for their own gain. They want to destroy our government and sell it  for parts. They want to destroy our attention span and mine what little  remains for advertising dollars. They want to destroy housing and  healthcare so that they can consolidate power by doling out the scraps.

They want to destroy jobs and the American worker by unleashing  unregulated technology that leaves the rich richer and everyone else  behind. They want to destroy international institutions and rules so  that the strong can plunder the weak.

Perhaps most dangerously, they want to destroy the central ingredient  of our  democracy, which is our hope in a better future and our faith in one  another. The bedrock of democracy is the faith that things can change  because people can change.

In this world where it feels like every force is pulling us apart and  where the platforms we live on can leave us feeling like politics and  persuasion are pointless, amidst all of that, I have good news. While  real disagreements exist and while our politics and this place don't  always bring out the best in us, I see every day back in Delaware that  we are not as divided as the algorithms make it seem.

Whether I am meeting with healthcare providers or educators, farmers  or first responders, students or seniors, whether I am in red areas or  blue areas, I see that people are good and kind and decent.

While it may be easier to destroy, I see that we still have the  capacity to build something better.

We can build the housing of tomorrow that makes the American Dream of  homeownership within reach, a healthcare system that allows every  American to live and to thrive.

We can be truly profamily by building a cradle-through-career support  system with paid leave, universal childcare, and strong public schools  so that it is actually affordable to start a family.

We can build an economy of the future that protects workers and  guarantees that the new prosperity made possible by new technologies  are shared by the many and not concentrated with the few.

We can do hard things, Mr. Speaker, if we are willing to do the hard  work. We can do the hard work of hope, the hard work of changemaking,  of choosing grace over grievance, of learning from history so that we  are not doomed to relive it.

Mr. Speaker, if there is one enduring truth, it is that we can still  tap people's better angels if we choose to see them.