Food Banks Facing Urgent Crisis


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, across the country, food banks are facing  an urgent crisis, and Delaware is no exception. Millions of dollars'  worth of deliveries of vital food aid have been halted to food banks.

In February alone, more than 50 percent of the food that the Food  Bank of Delaware distributed came from the Federal Government. Now,  with shipments frozen and no clarity on whether they will be restored,  they are in uncharted territory.

The Food Bank of Delaware is now uncertain whether they will receive  14 truckloads over the next 4 months. These halted deliveries represent  over a quarter of the food expected to be received from the Federal  Government for the rest of this fiscal year. Cathy Kanefsky, the CEO of  the Food Bank of Delaware, shared with me that this would be  devastating.

This is not an abstract issue. It is not a partisan issue. This is  about families, working parents, seniors, veterans, and children. These  are people who rely on food banks to get through the month.

One in eight Delawareans face food insecurity, and the Food Bank of  Delaware has been a lifeline for thousands of families.

The truckloads in question represent over 600,000 meals that the food  bank will not be able to put on the tables of Delawareans.

Yes, the Food Bank of Delaware plays a frontline role in combating  hunger, but they offer more than just food. They provide dignity, hope,  and a sense of community.

Food banks, which are already stretched thin, are now being asked to  do even more with even less. The loss of Federal support jeopardizes  their ability to serve effectively, placing additional strain on State  and local resources.

At a time when grocery prices remain high and demand for assistance  is great, the loss of these shipments could mean fewer meals for  families in every corner of my State.

Further cuts at the hands of the administration to the USDA's local  food purchasing assistance program only add to this crisis. At the  direction of this administration, the USDA axed two programs that give  schools and food banks assistance to buy food from local farms and  ranchers. In Delaware alone, this will amount to $2 million in cuts.

Just last month, I stood on this floor to raise the alarm about $10  million in funding owed to Delaware farmers. Now, I stand here again to  raise the alarm about the Trump administration taking their chain saw  to another lifesaving service that supports our farmers in feeding  Delaware. All of this will result in fewer customers for Delaware's  farmers and higher prices at the grocery store for Delaware's families.

The Trump administration has broken their promise time and time again  to the American people, ripping funding and literal food from the hands  of my constituents.

The USDA must restore these shipments and funding before the  consequences become dire to families across Delaware.                     Celebrating Seaford's Transformation

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the  transformation happening in Seaford, Delaware, an investment in  economic growth, opportunity, and the future of western Sussex County.

Seaford is a small city rich in history. Just last week, I had the  privilege of meeting with Seaford's leadership to discuss the city's  progress and their vision for the future.

Over the last decade, Seaford has transformed its small but vibrant  downtown through Delaware's innovative Downtown Development District  program, started by our former Governor, Jack Markell. Through hard  work and dedicated investment, Seaford's Main Street has gone from 90  percent vacancy to more than 90 percent occupancy.

At the center of the next phase of Seaford's revitalization effort is  the Nylon Capital Center, a project that will breathe new life into a  space that was once a focal point of Seaford and  will soon serve as a hub for education, healthcare, and commerce.

With a $60 million investment, including $20 million in American  Rescue Plan funds, the new Nylon Capital Center will expand access to  education and workforce training with a new DelTech facility. It will  make healthcare more accessible with a new TidalHealth medical site.  Small businesses will have new space to grow, and a coworking center,  the Mill, will foster entrepreneurship. Critically, it will remain home  to the beloved Sal's Italian Restaurant.

This is a model of public and private partnership coming together to  create shared prosperity. With local, State, Federal, and private  investments, the future of Seaford is exactly what we should hope for  in our small cities and towns across America. The leaders of Seaford,  along with partners from across the State, are demonstrating what is  possible when communities come together. I am proud to stand with them  in this effort, and I look forward to seeing Seaford become a symbol of  progress and opportunities for generations to come.