Nearly One in Four Delawareans Rely on Medicaid


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691329/nearly-one-in-four-delawareans-rely-on-medicaid


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as the Representative of the  nearly one in four Delawareans who rely on Medicaid: families,  children, seniors, and people with disabilities whose lives now hang in  the balance.

Republicans in Congress have proposed not only the largest cut in  Medicaid in American history but the single largest evisceration of  healthcare in American history, period.

According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, this slash- and-burn proposal would strip health insurance from nearly 14 million  people. That is not belt-tightening; it is life threatening.

Since the majority in Congress began advancing this plan, I have  heard from hundreds of Delawareans who can't sleep, gripped by the fear  of losing the care that keeps them or their kids alive.

Caroline, a young woman from Newark, has a rare condition that  requires extensive medical intervention. Without Medicaid, she told me  that she could die. Caroline tragically is not alone. If these cuts  advance, people will die.

I have heard from doctors, nurses, hospital leaders, and community  health clinics across our State. They all agree: Republican cuts to  Medicaid will do irreparable harm, eliminating a lifeline for their  patients, and putting further strain on our hospital systems that are  already facing a workforce crisis.

Let's talk about what is actually in the Republican proposal. The  majority party wants to impose needless and excessive paperwork  requirements that serve no purpose but to push people off the rolls.  They are importing the worst parts of the private health insurance  industry, needless bureaucratic barriers and excessive paperwork into a  lifesaving program to make it harder to qualify for care, all to pad  the pockets of the ultrawealthy.

If that weren't enough, the bill also includes what can only be  described as a backdoor abortion ban, prohibiting Medicaid funding from  going to family planning clinics that provide abortion services, even  if that funding isn't being used for abortion care.

This means shuttering access to trusted providers and family planning  clinics, especially in rural areas where options are already scarce.  They are doing all of this while forcing working families to pay more  out of pocket. When you make working people pay more for basic  healthcare, that is a tax.

Republicans in Congress want to tax the healthcare of working people  all to just partially pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. This  administration and Republicans promised Americans three things last  year: lower costs, cutting red tape, and bringing down the deficit.

Let's review what their budget will actually do: It raises costs for  working families across the country through new out-of-pocket expenses,  higher premiums, and loss in coverage. It creates new bureaucratic red  tape for patients, providers, and State governments, barriers designed  to trip people up and push them out. It adds $3.7 trillion to the  deficit, not to expand care or invest in working people, but to fund  tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans.

I didn't come to Congress to rubberstamp cruelty. I came to fight for  the people I represent: the aging parents in Sussex County, the  caregivers in Kent, and kids in Wilmington.

Mr. Speaker, I am going to end with the words of another Delawarean,  a single mom: ``Without Medicaid, neither of us would have health  insurance. My employer doesn't offer health coverage, and I can't  afford the $500 a month private plan with high deductibles and out-of- pocket expenses. If we lose Medicaid, we lose everything.''

She added this: ``P.S., I am a healthcare worker with a bachelor's  degree. This isn't about being too lazy to work.''

We owe her and millions of others better than this. I urge my  colleagues to reject this cruel and catastrophic proposal.