Protecting American Maritime Research


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the ANCHOR Act,  a bipartisan bill to protect American maritime research and strengthen  our national security.

The University of Delaware's research vessel, the Hugh R. Sharp, is a  floating lab used by scientists and students to study everything from  our ocean health to fisheries and coastal storms.

All of this is happening right off of the coast of Delaware. Right  now, these vessels are often running on outdated technology, and that  makes them sitting ducks for cyberattacks from hackers and foreign  adversaries.

That is why I am proud to cosponsor the ANCHOR Act, which directs the  National Science Foundation to develop a plan to upgrade cybersecurity  and communications across the U.S. academic research fleet, including  the Sharp. This is because a secure country relies on secure labs, even  the ones at sea.

Protecting the Sharp and our entire academic research fleet helps  Delaware track sea level rise and protect our coastal communities. This  is a big deal for the lowest lying State in the Nation.

That is why I have also submitted a $1.5 million funding request to  make sure the Sharp gets the upgrades that it needs.

The ANCHOR Act passed out of committee with bipartisan support, and I  urge my colleagues to vote to get it over the finish line.                            Betraying Our Veterans

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, earlier this month, I joined veterans,  families, and care providers to celebrate 75 years of service at the  Wilmington VA Medical Center, a facility that provided 338,000  appointments last year alone. That is visits to a primary care doctor,  a dentist, and drug and alcohol counseling. Every single one of those  visits is fulfilling a sacred promise that the government has made to  show up for those who have sacrificed for all of us.

As we head into Memorial Day weekend, we must recognize the  responsibility that we have as elected officials, not just on Monday  but every day of the year, to honor those who have given their last  full measure of devotion by fulfilling our commitment to all of those  who have served our country.

Our country has long recognized the value of service by promising our  veterans that no matter who sits in the Oval Office or behind this  dais, they will be cared for and protected.

However, today, that promise is in jeopardy. Nearly 6,000 veterans  have already been summarily fired by the Trump administration, and now  they are pushing a plan to lay off 80,000 of the very workers who  process benefits and facilitate lifesaving care through the VA.  Moreover, if that weren't enough, as I speak, congressional Republicans  are continuing to advance a budget that would slash support for  veterans, even further undermining healthcare, housing assistance, and  food support.

Mr. Speaker, let me be clear: We don't support veterans by handing  them a folded flag with one hand and cutting their lifelines with the  other. More than 1.6 million veterans rely on Medicaid for their health  coverage.

If House Republicans succeed in their slash-and-burn proposal, it  will mean real harm for veterans and their families. My constituents  are warning me, and they are right, that cuts to SNAP, Medicaid, and VA  services will fall hardest on disabled and aging veterans, especially  in rural areas and communities of color.

House Republicans have chosen to unilaterally pursue a budget that  puts tax cuts for billionaires ahead of care for the people who wore  the uniform. That is not just bad budgeting, it is a betrayal of our  promise.

Delaware's veterans and veterans across this country don't need  slogans. They need support. They need stable housing. They need  accessible healthcare. They need us to keep our promise to them.  Veterans who fought for our country should not be forced to fight for  the coverage and assistance that they earned long ago.

I didn't come to Congress to sanction cruelty. I came to keep our  word, to ensure that the veterans I met at the Wilmington VA and the  tens of thousands more across Delaware are treated not as political  props but as patriots deserving dignity.

This Memorial Day, I urge my colleagues to follow the famous charge  of President Lincoln. Any Nation that does not honor its heroes will  not long endure. No mission is more important or righteous.