Recognizing Washington State University's Roar Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701327/recognizing-washington-state-universitys-roar-program


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor my friend and pastor,  the Reverend Dr. Gregory Knox Jones, and to congratulate him on his  retirement after 22 years leading Westminster Presbyterian Church in  Wilmington, Delaware.

I have had the pleasure of seeing Reverend Jones' ministry up close,  as a lifelong member of Westminster where I have been witness to a  community shaped by his dynamic leadership, incisive mind, eloquent  sermons, and his big heart.

Since joining Westminster in 2004, Reverend Jones has led with  compassion, putting his faith into action time and time again. He has  tirelessly centered peace and justice in his ministry both here in the  United States and around the world from Central America to the Middle  East.

Throughout his ministry, he has followed the example of Christ by  welcoming the stranger and building bridges with those too often cast  into the shadows of society. At a time of deepening divisions, he has  fostered interfaith relationships and partnerships across Delaware's  Christian, Jewish, and Muslim communities.

His tireless devotion to his neighbors is matched only by his  faithful counsel of our Westminster community, supporting congregants  and their families through love and loss--a privilege he has delivered  with exceptional care and grace. My own family and I are eternally  grateful for his guidance and support through the challenges we have  faced in our own lives.

While he has served as pastor to a First Lady and a U.S. Senator,  Reverend Jones has been there personally and professionally for all of  God's children, no matter who they are, where they come from, how they  look, or whom they love. As Westminster enters its 140th year, Reverend  Jones' impact is deep, and his example is profound.

I thank Reverend Jones and Camila for their remarkable stewardship of  Westminster, and I wish them all the best in their next chapter.

I congratulate Greg on a well-deserved retirement.                             Affordable Care Act

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, this week marks 16 years since the  Affordable Care Act became the law of the land. And for millions of  Americans,  including tens of thousands of Delawareans, the ACA has meant the  difference between getting care and going without.

The ACA had an ambitious but necessary goal: ensuring more Americans  have access to the healthcare they need to live and thrive in our  country.

Because of the ACA, more than 50 million Americans have gained health  coverage. People with preexisting conditions have been protected from  losing their insurance, and Medicaid expansion has helped families get  the care they need.

When people have access to care, lives are saved, families are more  stable, and communities are stronger.

But since its passage, the one through line of every Republican  Congress has been their concerted and coordinated effort to sabotage  the ACA and strip people of their healthcare.

Since this current Congress convened last January, the ACA tax  credits have expired, and the majority passed the single largest cut to  Medicaid in American history. They eviscerated the American healthcare  system, gutting coverage and financial support that makes it possible  for families to get care. They raided the healthcare of the American  people to fund this President's mass deportation machine and to give  massive tax breaks to his billionaire donors.

The consequence is a tax on working people, a tax on our most  vulnerable neighbors.

When you force working families to pay more out of pocket for basic  healthcare, that is a tax. It is a tax on getting sick and a tax on  staying alive.

Families across the country have already started losing coverage, and  millions more are facing skyrocketing premiums that are unsustainable.

Government should be working to make life easier for the people we  serve, not making healthcare harder for them to afford.

The right to lifesaving care is a foundational right, one that makes  all other rights possible. Americans will never truly be free until  every single one of us can get the healthcare that we need.

So, on this anniversary, we shouldn't just celebrate the ideals of  the ACA of 16 years ago, but we should also recommit ourselves to  ensuring that the promise of quality, affordable healthcare becomes a  reality for today's family.