Declaration of Mothers: A Proclamation and Pledge for the Preservation of Freedom and Virtue


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688744/declaration-of-mothers-a-proclamation-and-pledge-for-the-preservation-of-freedom-and-virtue


Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record the  declaration below on behalf of Moms for America.

As the mothers, chief architects of the homes of America,       and molders of the future of our nation, we declare that the       liberty and freedom of all people begin in the home and that       a nation is but a magnified home. The values and virtues       taught within the family will determine the values and       virtues of the Nation as a whole.

We uphold the laws of nature affirming the gender roles of       male and female as essential elements for the perpetuation of       life. As life is our most fundamental right, protected by the       Constitution, so too is the truth that God created two       distinct genders--male and female--each with purposeful       design and irreplaceable roles. We honor both mothers and       fathers working together to protect and nurture the       fundamental unit of society which is the family.

We recognize the sacred role of mother as the heart of the       home and home as the heart of society. The liberty of each       individual begins in the home and parents are, first and       foremost, the primary teachers and protectors of their       children in a free society. Properly constructed social,       religious, and governmental institutions are designed to       support and strengthen the family unit, not restrict it,       regulate, or replace it. No association or government       organization can replace the family no matter how well-      intentioned or well-designed it may be.

The privilege of living as a free people in a free society       is dependent on being a people of faith, virtue and       patriotism--the three pillars of liberty--and these       attributes are best developed and nurtured in the home. Each       generation has a responsibility to instill a love of liberty       and virtue in the hearts of the next generation.

We affirm that ``All men and women are endowed by their       Creator with certain unalienable rights and to secure these       rights, governments are instituted among men, [receiving]       their just powers from the consent of the governed.''

To secure the blessings of liberty, the Founding Fathers of       the United States of America created a written constitution       under the inspiration of Almighty God. The preservation of       this sacred document and trust is dependent upon each       generation who bears the stewardship of safeguarding the       constitution and teaching their children the rights and       responsibilities associated with the noble cause of liberty       and keeping the Republic.

Every individual is born with intrinsic dignity that is       inherent to each member of the human race with life being our       most fundamental inalienable divine right. All men and women       have the right to liberty, self-determination and self-      governance. The individual's responsibility of work,       education, and industry are crucial elements of self-      governance in society and the preservation of human dignity.

The rights of a free people are protected and preserved       through honorable, virtuous, leadership which invokes the       nobility inherent in all men and women. As the lessons of       history clearly demonstrate, we recognize that freedom is       fragile. It is a rare and prized       possession and requires constant care and vigilance for its       preservation. Living as a free people does not come       instinctively; principles of freedom must be studied and       applied. Home and families with mothers who nurture and teach       these principles produce leaders who honor and hold sacred       the intrinsic dignity of the individual and inalienable       rights endowed to all people.

To safeguard the liberty and enhance the future of our       grandchildren, we affirm our commitment to ``stand fast in       that liberty wherewith God has made us free'' that       ``government of the people, by the people, and for the people       shall not perish from the earth.''