Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690386/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-noinfxinf-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-and-for-other-purposes


Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support  of the rule, which includes several Congressional Review Acts against  the disastrous Biden-era electric vehicle mandates.

These create undue, burdensome rules, which impact our rural  communities. Rural communities are the backbone of our country. They  are the farmers, ranchers, teachers, and parents, and they are being  crushed by the costly and out-of-touch policies from Washington.

There is no doubt EV mandates only add further financial strain to  hardworking Americans, especially in my district.

Have you seen an electric tractor, baler, or plow? I haven't because  they  don't work on farms or in the real world. In fact, the heavy-duty  trucks in cold weather States lose 20 percent of their battery  capacity.

When compared to cities, rural areas have extremely low EV rates,  with the vast majority of rural areas having EV registration rates  between zero and a half of a percent. This means there are between zero  to five EVs registered per 10,000 people in rural areas.

It is simple. EVs are for urban elites in warm-weather States who  have no concept of rural America.

A government EV mandate is unjustifiable. Vehicle decisions should be  left up to the American consumers, not woke extreme climate activists.

I urge the passage of this rule.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, a resolution of inquiry--Congress wants to know. Give us  some answers.

It is not that big of a deal, except that, right now, I think they  just don't want to have to vote. They don't want to have to vote on  Signalgate. They don't want to have to actually take up an issue that  they know is controversial, and they don't have a reason to present to  the American people of why to shut this inquiry down.

I will acknowledge that we also had resolutions of inquiry, and there  was a reason that we explained to the world: There was a pandemic going  on. People were dying. The United States Government was in an  emergency, and we were trying to save lives. We were trying to make  sure that people were safe, not just here but in every single State. In  New Mexico, it was devastating. We were trying to deal with this  worldwide pandemic.

They have not offered any explanation for shutting down resolutions  of inquiry at this time. Mr. Speaker, can you tell me why? Last night,  we had an amendment to actually remove this, and we said: Why? Just  explain to us why. They could not answer.

I don't think it is a coincidence that the House Armed Services  Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee were set to take up these  inquiries about the Secretary of Defense using unclassified Signal  chats to share sensitive information about military strikes with his  family, his personal lawyer, and a journalist.

They don't want to vote on Signalgate, so they are rigging the rules  to block us. They are hoping maybe this issue will pass over. Maybe we  will forget about this lapse of judgment, this utter failure, this TV  personality who, I guess, still wants everybody to know what he is  doing, but when you are Secretary of Defense, you are not supposed to  be letting everybody know what we are doing and putting our  servicemembers at risk.

Lofgren), the ranking member and top Democrat on our Science,  Space, and Technology Committee.