Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689996/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support  of the SAVE Act, which includes robust measures to prevent illegal  aliens from participating in our elections.

Under Joe Biden, millions of illegal aliens flooded into our country,  and many were given the benefits and privileges that should be reserved  for American citizens.

In Illinois, JB Pritzker and the Democrats rolled out the red carpet  and actively enticed illegals and those covered by Biden's bogus asylum  programs to settle in my State, to the tune of over 500,000 people.  They received welfare benefits, CDL licenses, and State identification.  The Democrats have even voted to allow them to be law enforcement  officers.

I do not have to tell you how dangerous this situation is for  Americans, especially for Americans' confidence in the sanctity of our  elections.

As far-left jurisdictions seek to allow illegals to vote in local  elections, let me be clear about this one thing at this point: Every  vote cast by an illegal alien is a vote stolen from an American  citizen.

Congress must defend the integrity of our elections. We must  aggressively push back against the left's attempts to change the  electorate and dilute the voices of actual Americans in our democratic  process.

This past week and today, all we hear are the Democrats sharing their  concerns that rural Americans, women, and people of color are not  capable of getting an ID. This is insulting and condescending and an  untrue argument.

You need an ID for most everything else in daily life. Maybe if the  Democrats would quit pushing for our schools--

Mrs. MILLER of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, maybe the Democrats should quit  wasting so much time in our public schools indoctrinating our children  and, instead, teach them real-life skills such as reading, civics, and  how to get an ID.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this bill.