Veterans Accessibility Advisory Committee Act of 2025


Mrs. LUNA. Mr. Speaker, my colleagues are spending a lot of time  lecturing the American people on how this is going to require them to  show their papers. Last time I checked, during COVID they demanded that  if you simply wanted to go to a funeral, be with your loved one  while they are dying, or get married, then you have to show your  papers. In fact, in New York  City, Mr. Speaker, they were literally asking you for your COVID  passport.

Yet the SAVE America Act, a commonsense piece of legislation that  requires two things, voter ID, plus proof of citizenship, is being  labeled by people in the Senate and people in this very Chamber as Jim  Crow-era laws.

Let me remind the American people of history. It was the Democratic  Party who championed the Jim Crow-era laws. And this is the farthest  thing from it. In fact, Mr. Speaker, if you are doing that, then you  are insulting over 70 percent of your voters, Democrats, who believe  that voter ID is the best way to secure an election.

Then we have the argument that we have from BlueAnons saying that  Trump is trying to steal the election, and orange man bad, and this is  somehow going to fix the midterms. However, the fact is that if we are  going to play that game, then you would want voter ID and you would  want to secure the elections.

So please support this legislation.

I do not believe that Barack Obama in showing his voter ID was  engaging in Jim Crow-era law or pushing that type of perspective. And  for the same people who are advocating saying that Kristi Noem and ICE  will demand your personal information and you will be under  surveillance, might I remind them that they actually all authorized the  reauthorization of FISA, unreformed, that violated our constitutional  rights.

This is pretty simple. If you are not an American, Mr. Speaker, then  you do not get to vote in our elections. This not a free-for-all  country. A majority of Americans support this. A majority of the world  has voter ID in place. It is not racist.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my colleagues and the House Administration  Committee for doing this. I support all of my colleagues, and I urge  them to vote for this piece of legislation.