Congratulating Calvin W. Schmidt on His Service to Johnson Johnson


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Calvin  W. Schmidt for his years of service to Johnson & Johnson. Calvin is  currently the Sr. Vice President and Worldwide Leader, Government  Affairs & Policy, and is retiring after twenty years with the company.

During his tenure, Calvin exemplified the highest standards of  advocacy before Congress and engaged the American people on many  critical public health and public policy matters. I have had the  opportunity to work with Calvin and collaborate with J&J on those  pressing issues as well as the work of patient advocates and  associations dedicated to the better health of the Nation. Calvin has  also been a fierce advocate for Johnson & Johnson's business in  Pennsylvania and the thousands of innovators and healthcare  professionals that call J&J home.

After earning his bachelor's degree from Vanderbilt University,  Calvin spent fifteen years at Mars, Inc. His experience at J&J spans  many roles including: U.S. President, Internal Medicine; President,  Wellness & Prevention Inc., where he was the founding leader of Johnson  & Johnson's health and wellness business; and Worldwide Vice President,  Human Resources, where he supported the J&J Consumer Family of  Companies, Enterprise Supply Chain, Information Technology, and the Law  Department. His commitment to purpose-driven leadership, rooted in his  commitment to J&J's Credo, has greatly enriched Johnson & Johnson.

His commitment to improving healthcare goes beyond his day-to-day  work. Calvin serves on the Foundation Board of Overseers for the  Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, represents Johnson & Johnson on  the Healthcare Leadership Council as the associations 2024 to 2025  Chairman of the Board and sits on the Foreign Policy Association Board  of Directors, and is a member of the Board of Directors for Mars, Inc.

I hope that he and his wife Christa, and their children Gavin, Caidyn  and Alsten, will have many wonderful years ahead of them traveling the  world and enjoying a well-earned and much-deserved retirement.