Recognizing Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary Parish's 75th Anniversary


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an incredible  parish from my district--Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (BVM)  Parish in Feasterville, Pennsylvania. This year, Assumption BVM  celebrates its 75th Anniversary, an exceptional milestone that reflects  decades of spiritual dedication and charitable impact. It is my honor  to commend the parish on this remarkable achievement.

Since its founding on November 3, 1950, Assumption BVM has dedicated  themselves to ministry and outreach. By offering a welcoming place for  worship to the residents of Feasterville, Langhorne, Oakford, and  Trevose, the parish has been a steadfast presence in Bucks County for  three-quarters of a century.

Celebrating 75 years as a parish also means celebrating 75 years as  their self-titled Family of Faith. Through grounding their lives in  love and faith, Assumption BVM has become a source of strength,  spiritual growth, and support for countless individuals.

Assumption BVM works alongside the Society of St. Vincent de Paul to  assist people who struggle to afford basic necessities. To help ease  these burdens, Assumption BVM collects grocery store gift cards and  other monetary donations for those in need.

Their outreach also includes the Caring for Friends program, which  provides home-cooked meals to individuals facing food insecurity.  Additional efforts include a community meal program with Advocates for  Homeless and Those in Need, and the Change for Life Baby Bottle  Project, which supports families in crisis. And yet, these examples  capture only a fraction of Assumption BVM's deep commitment to serving  those in need.

The parish's Knights of Columbus chapter provides even more  opportunities for parishioners to engage in charitable outreach,  sponsoring events such as spring pancake breakfasts and baseball  outings that bring people together in fellowship and service.

It is my honor to celebrate 75 years of faith, generosity, and  service at Assumption BVM. Bucks County is a stronger, more  compassionate place because of the enduring presence of this  extraordinary parish. I am proud to celebrate Assumption BVM on this  remarkable milestone.