Recognizing Beauty Mood's One Year Anniversary


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  outstanding constituent from my district, Jenya Rahazhynskaya. Jenya is  the founder and owner of Beauty Mood, a hair and beauty salon located  in Warminster, Pennsylvania. With her business' mission to enhance  people's natural beauty and provide opportunities to indulge in self- care, Beauty Mood offers a wide range of services in a relaxing  environment, delivered by skilled professionals. On June 24, 2025,  Beauty Mood will be celebrating its first anniversary, commemorating a  year of giving clients a place to unwind, pamper themselves, and  receive hairdos of perfection.

With Jenya's commitment to her mission, Beauty Mood provides a vast  array of hair and beauty services, including haircuts, styling,  coloring, makeup, brow lamination with tint and shape, as well as  eyelash extensions, lifts, and tints. Her team of highly skilled and  experienced stylists and beauticians deliver exceptional services,  ensuring every client leaves feeling refreshed and renewed.

Beyond exceptional expertise, Jenya's salon offers impeccable  customer service and attention to detail. The staff is friendly,  professional, and always willing to go the extra mile to meet their  clients' needs. Whether you're looking for a quick trim or a complete  makeover, Beauty Mood has you covered.

In essence, Jenya's story embodies the American Dream. Hailing from  Minsk, Belarus, she came to the United States with the dream of opening  her own salon. In 2019, she earned her cosmetology license from the  Jean Madeline Aveda Institute. By combining her new certification with  skills cultivated during her upbringing in Eastern Europe, Jenya  brought a unique professional expertise to the Greater Philadelphia  area. After obtaining her United States Citizenship, Jenya fulfilled  her dream through opening her very own small business. Today, Beauty  Mood's popularity and success makes a difference in the lives of many  Bucks County individuals--an area I proudly serve and represent.

Ultimately, Jenya Rahazhynskaya's story serves as a shining example  of how dedication and ambition lead to success. Through earning her  cosmetology license and owning a successful small business, Jenya sets  a powerful example for others in the beauty industry--especially  through her professionalism, attention to detail, and passion for her  craft. Her salon attracts clients from diverse backgrounds, notably the  large Eastern European community in Bucks County. Through her ability  to blend American and Eastern European techniques with ever-changing  trends, her business serves as a true asset to the salon industry in  the United States.

We are incredibly grateful for the impact Jenya Rahazhynskaya has had  throughout her career and we happily celebrate the first anniversary of  her salon. We wish for her continued success as she continues to serve  and uplift our community.