Recognizing the Life and Service of United States Army Veteran Walt Hartnett


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker. I rise today to honor and recognize the  life of Walt Hartnett, a devoted Army Veteran, tireless advocate, and  passionate supporter of Veterans' rights. Walt's unwavering dedication  to serving his fellow Veterans and his community left an indelible mark  on all those who had the privilege of working with him.

Walt's military career spanned a total of 12 years, including 9 years  of active duty and three years in the Army reserves. As an artillery  crew member on active duty and a finance specialist during his time in  the reserves, Walt's expertise and commitment to service were clear. He  deployed to Afghanistan in 2010 to 2011 with the Army Reserves, where  he served honorably before being medically discharged.

After leaving active service, Walt continued his commitment to  helping fellow Veterans by becoming involved in Veteran organizations,  including serving as the Commander of VFW Post 1074 in Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania. Walt's leadership extended beyond his post as he also  served as District Commander of VFW Pennsylvania District 16. His  contributions to these organizations were rooted in his desire to  support and uplift fellow Veterans and their families, constantly  working to grow membership and expand community outreach.

In addition to his work in the VFW, Walt's passion for supporting  Veterans continued in his role as a Veterans Affairs Caseworker for the  United States House of Representatives. In this capacity, Walt worked  tirelessly to assist Veterans and Servicemembers in navigating the  complexities of federal benefits, healthcare, and other issues related  to the Department of Veterans Affairs. His work as a caseworker  included assisting with student nominations for military service  academies and communicating vital information to local Veteran  organizations.

Throughout his time in public service. Walt focused on leaving a  positive impact wherever he went. His mission was always clear: to  support his fellow Veterans, their families, and the communities that  supported them. He dedicated himself to making each day better for his  fellow Veterans, and his leadership, kindness, and dedication will not  be forgotten.

Walt's loss is profound, and it is impossible to overstate the impact  he had on the Veterans' community, his colleagues, and his family. A  true champion for Veterans, his legacy will live on in the work he did  and the countless lives he touched. Walt's commitment to serving his  fellow Veterans, his courage in the face of adversity, and his deep  love for his community will continue to inspire us all. His memory will  forever remind us of the importance of honoring those who serve and  making a lasting difference in the lives of others.

Mr. Speaker, I recognize the extraordinary life and service of Walt  Hartnett. May his memory continue to serve as a reminder of the impact  one person can have on a community, a country, and a cause.