Recognizing Jeffrey B. Caballero, Mph, Executive Director of the Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations (Aapcho)


Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an  outstanding member of our community, Executive Director of the  Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations Jeffrey B.  Caballero, MPH, who has received the Hepatitis B Foundation's 2025  Community Leadership Award.

Prior to becoming Executive Director of the Association of Asian  Pacific Community Health Organizations, Jeffrey began his journey at  the University of California, San Diego where he studied biochemistry  and cell biology. After graduating UC San Diego in 1988, he continued  his studies at the University of California, Los Angeles--School of  Public Health where he received his Master of Public Health degree. He  also attended UCLA Anderson School of Management's Health Care  Executive Program.

Since 1993, Jeffrey and his colleagues at the Association of Asian  Pacific Community Health Organizations have dedicated their time and  energy to promoting advocacy, collaboration, and leadership that  improves the health status and access of Asian Americans, Native  Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. Jeffrey's oversight of the overall  strategic direction and execution of the Association of Asian Pacific  Community Health Organizations' mission seeks to bring about a world in  which all the communities AAPCHO serves have equitable access to  affordable, high quality, and culturally and linguistically proficient  health care. To date, the Association of Asian Pacific Community Health  Organizations comprises 34 community health organizations serving over  750,000 patients nationwide.

Additionally, Jeffrey acts as the founding co-chair of Hep B United,  a national coalition to unify and enhance local coalitions and  community health centers dedicated to eliminating Hepatitis B virus  infections and its complications. Hep B United was founded in 2013 as a  partnership between the Hepatitis B Foundation and AAPCHO and has done  incredible work in elevating Hepatitis B as a national priority. His  lifetime commitment to eliminating health disparities related to  Hepatitis B as well as liver cancer and his broader efforts to  improving the lives of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have been  recognized by the Hepatitis B Foundation through his receiving the 2025  Community Leadership Award.

I wish to congratulate Jeffrey on his almost four decades of service  to Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders and on his  well-deserved recognition from the Hepatitis B Foundation.