Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. McCORMICK. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to Ms. Greene's  amendment to eliminate funding for the Taiwan Security Cooperation  Initiative.

I know that my colleague is trying to save money and put America  first, and I respect that, but defunding support to Taiwan that was  requested by the Trump administration has consequences that would do  exactly the opposite of what I believe the gentlewoman is trying to  achieve.

Peace through strength saves money, saves lives, and puts American  interests first. President Trump recognized that, which is why he  requested Congress double the funding for this program to preserve  peace in a critically important region.

Trade in the Indo-Pacific accounts for about 40 percent of the  world's GDP. Around 21 percent of the global trade passes through the  Taiwan Straits, including 40 percent of the world's container fleet.  The Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company produces 90 percent of  the world's AI chips, which are crucial to the American economy.

A war in this region would be a global catastrophe. Our Taiwanese  allies are already awaiting overdue delivery of American military  supplies.

Mr. McCORMICK. Mr. Chair, they are waiting for supplies they have  already paid for. This amendment sends the wrong signal at the worst  time. A withdrawal of our support would defeat Trump's initiatives to  shore up this critically important part of the world, save us money,  save us ultimate deficit spending in defense of a region that we need  to critically supply.

Mr. McCORMICK. Madam Chair, I rise and offer my amendment No. 25 to  H.R. 3838, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026.

My amendment expands on language already in law, in this bill, and in  the Senate NDAA to combat the indirect censorship of conservative news  outlets in the Department of War.

Section 1555 of the fiscal year 2024 NDAA required that the DOD, when  contracting with organizations that place military recruitment  advertisements, must certify that an organization does not place  advertisements based on political bias or the determination that a  media outlet spreads so-called misinformation.

The language is necessary because the DOD, or now the Department of  War, has contracted with organizations such as NewsGuard and the Global  Disinformation Index.

According to the Media Research Center, the average NewsGuard score  for the left and lean-left outlets was a green shield rating of 91 of  100, while the average rating for the right and lean-right outlets was  a low of 66 of 100.

A Global Disinformation Index report on the online news lists the 10  riskiest online news outlets as the New York Post, The Federalist, The  Blaze, The Daily Wire, Newsmax, One America News Network, The American  Spectator, The American Conservative, Reason Magazine, and RealClear  Politics. They are all conservative.

Left-leaning sites like ProPublica.com, NPR.org, NewYorkTimes.com,  WashingtonPost.com, BuzzFeedNews.com, and HuffingtonPost.com were among  the 10 lowest risk online news sites.

We should not be excluding large swaths of Americans simply because  they watch or read conservative news, especially when considering that  recruiting is hard enough without excluding this demographic.

My amendment adds language to clarify the standards on what exact  bias looks like, as well as by striking the 1-year sunset included in  subsection (c).

This language is already in the Senate NDAA. I thank Senator  Tuberville for his leadership in pushing this forward. I ask for my  colleagues' support on amendment No. 25.

Mr. McCORMICK. Madam Chair, I find it rather distracting that my peer  on the other side of the aisle thinks that one person controls the  truth. That, by and large, he thinks that conservative media is lying  and that liberal media is telling the truth.

The fact of the matter is, during the Biden administration when all  of this came to be, where we start fact-checking, recruiting went down  miserably. We had a recruiting problem we have never seen in America  since the Vietnam war. We had a problem getting the Army up to par. The  only service that made their recruiting goals was the United States  Marine Corps. I would like to say it is because of their amazing  commercials, but I am sure it is far more than that.

What we know is they have a job to do. We are hurting the recruitment  efforts by taking out a demographic based on your idea of what is  accurate and truthful, rather than doing your job of bringing people  into the military to make sure that we are sustaining a lethal force  moving forward. That is our goal. That is as American as you get, and  it is not a partisan issue.

Trying to figure out which news agency should be advertised on, based  on your idea of what the truth is, is really a side-note argument that  should be kept in this room, not on the political front in front of the  future soldiers, marines, sailors, and airmen that we need to sustain  our force.

Madam Chair, I would say, since we instituted this bill last year:  Guess what? Maybe it is because we have a  new President or maybe it is because we can now advertise to the people  who are most likely to join our Armed Services.

Mr. McCORMICK. Madam Chair, I love the fact the other side just said  that it is factual that COVID is the reason we couldn't recruit.

When I came into Congress, we had the President of the United States  say we can take off masks, that the pandemic is over. For the first 2  years of my service here in Congress, the pandemic was over. Yet we  could not recruit.

Therefore, I want to point out that the gentleman literally put  misinformation in his argument, which proves my point. Should I censor  him from being able to present his case right here in front of the  American people? No, I would say not. He is allowed to give us  misinformation like he just did.

COVID was over. We couldn't recruit. Then we changed the law. We  changed the President. We have mass recruiting efforts being  reinforced. It was downright misinformation just to say that COVID  didn't allow us to recruit. We have seen that in recent history.

The pandemic has been over for 2 years now. It didn't change until we  had a new President and new laws. That was misinformation. To my point,  they interpret their misinformation. I interpret mine.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.