-9999


Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, let's be honest. Let us face up to  reality and let us acknowledge that most Americans understand that our  great Nation, once the envy of the entire world, is now in the midst of  a deep decline. And for the sake of our children and future  generations, we must end that decline and turn this country around in  very fundamental ways.

Not so many years ago, the United States of America was admired,  respected by people throughout the world for our generosity, for our  concern for the poor of the world, for our democracy, for our  Constitution, for our rule of law, for our way of life. We were  admired, respected. People around the world said: Do you know what? We  would like our country to be like the United States of America.

Tragically, that is no longer the case. I was just on the phone this  afternoon with an elected official in Europe who literally could not  believe what is happening to our country today. And I fear that  millions of people throughout the world--on every continent of this  world, in every country in this world--are looking at the United States  of America and saying: What in God's name is happening to that great  country?

But it is not only our standing in the world and our increased  isolation from other countries that I worry about. We used to have the  highest standard of living of any country on Earth. That was it.  America, strongest middle class in the world. We used to be a country  where the American dream said that our young people will do better than  their parents.

My dad came to this country at the age of 17, having dropped out of  school at the age of 14, from Poland, with the dream that his son--his  sons--would do better than he did. My mom graduated high school with  the dream that maybe  her sons would have a college education.

That was the dream of millions of people: We work hard so that our  kids would do better.

The reality today, according to a number of studies, is that,  everything equal, unless we turn it around, our younger generation will  have a lower standard of living than their parents. They will own their  own home at a much older age than their parents.

And when we talk about America being in a state of decline and the  need to bring about fundamental transformation of this country,  understand that two-thirds of the American people, according to a New  York Times poll the other day--two-thirds of the American people now  believe that a middle-class lifestyle is out of reach. We used to be a  country of the middle class, and now two-thirds of the American people  say, no, the American middle-class lifestyle is out of my reach.

We used to be the best educated country on Earth, best public school  systems on Earth. That is not the case anymore. We used to have the  best healthcare system of any country on Earth. Not anymore. We used to  provide good, affordable housing for our people. Not anymore. We used  to have the most advanced transportation system in the world. Not  anymore. Just take a look at how the city of Washington is dealing with  the current snowstorm.

In many respects, our great Nation is falling further and further  behind other countries, and we must not allow that to continue.

The United States, our people, have faced horrific crises in the  past, going back to the very beginning, the origins of this country,  when a small number of people dared to have the dream and the courage  to take on King George III and the British Empire and the most powerful  military in the world because they wanted their independence, and they  wanted their freedom. That was a crisis, and they prevailed.

In the 1840s, there were people who were saying slavery is an  abomination. It is immoral. We can't talk about a Declaration of  Independence that says all men are created equal and enslave millions  of people. We have to end slavery. And they struggled and struggled,  the abolitionists, and it was a horrible civil war, where so many  people died. Finally, we ended the abomination of slavery.

The struggle continued with Martin Luther King, Jr., and the civil  rights movement and the end of segregation.

This country went through the Great Depression, where 25 percent of  our people were unemployed and government had to redefine itself and we  did that.

When the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941, December of 1941, we  were not prepared to fight a war in the East or a war against Hitler in  Europe. And yet, within a few years, because the country came together,  instead of building cars, we built tanks, and we built fighter planes.  We ended up winning that war. We won a war on two fronts.

Bottom line, in all of these crises and others, the Nation came  together and prevailed. We did it then, and I have little doubt, if we  do not allow people to divide us up by where we were born or the color  of our skin, we can, once again, overcome the crisis that we are in  right now, which, in my view, is the most serious crisis in the modern  history of our country.

Let me just say a few words about what is happening in Minneapolis  right now as I speak. Let me be very clear. America is not about and  must never be about a domestic military force called ICE, which as we  speak at this moment is occupying--a military occupation--of one of our  great American cities, Minneapolis, and is terrorizing the occupants in  that city.

America is not and must never be about Federal agents shooting  American citizens down in cold blood, breaking down doors to arrest  people, or sending 5-year-olds to detention centers--all in clear  violation of our Constitution. That is what takes place in  dictatorships, in authoritarian societies where there is not a rule of  law. It does not and it must not be allowed to take place in the United  States or any democracy on Earth.

So let me be very clear. ICE must get out of Minnesota now. ICE must  get out of Maine now. ICE must stop terrorizing the American people.  Not another penny should be given to ICE or Customs and Border  Protection unless there are fundamental reforms in how those Agencies  function and until there is new leadership at the Department of  Homeland Security and among those who run our immigration policy. To be  clear, Kristi Noem and Stephen Miller must go.

But Trump's movement toward authoritarianism is not just about the  use of his domestic army against the American people; it is about his  attack against Venezuela in direct violation of the Constitution and  international law, where he not only lacked congressional authorization  but where no one in Congress had any knowledge about what was taking  place.

Trump's authoritarianism is about disrupting the 100-plus-year  alliances we have had with our allies in Europe and, insanely,  threatening to seize Greenland from our longtime ally Denmark. Does  anyone in their right mind believe that the United States of America  should threaten violence against our longtime allies?

Trump's authoritarianism is about attacking Europe--every day, one  attack or another--because it is a continent of democratic countries  that are all very different, but they are democratic countries which  actually elect their leaders. Apparently and increasingly, Europe and  these countries will not simply do Trump's bidding--will not come to  him with all kinds of gifts--while at the same time, as he attacks  Europe every day--demeans Europe, insults Europe--he is busy cozying up  to his autocratic friends in Saudi Arabia who have helped line his  pockets with billions of dollars from cryptocurrency and real estate  deals. It is not a problem that the head of Saudi Arabia is a murderer,  who our intelligence Agency believed was responsible for the death of  Washington Post correspondent Jamal Khashoggi. He is our ally. He has  got a lot of money--a trillionaire family--the wealthiest family on  Earth--that can do the Trump family a lot of good. It is not a problem  that one of our allies is Binyamin Netanyahu, who has engaged in  atrocities against the people of Gaza and is now under indictment by  the International Criminal Court as a war criminal. He is a good ally.  Those are the kinds of guys we want, those who are war criminals and  trillionaires who put dissenters in jail--Saudi Arabia, a dictatorship.

Trump's authoritarianism is about his repeated threats to make  Canada--Canada--I live 50 miles away from the Canadian border--which is  one of our closest and most dependable allies, the 51st State. I mean,  just think for a minute. We have been allies for decades and decades-- close friends--and you go around insulting this country and saying: You  are going to become our 51st State.

What world does Trump live in? How does his mind tell him to do that?

Let's be clear. The American people want us to ally ourselves with  democracies around the world, not dictatorships, not authoritarian  societies. They do not want to be allied with or put American lives on  the line for dictatorships like those that exist in Saudi Arabia,  Qatar, the United Arab Emirates or, least of all, Putin's Russia.

Everyone in this Chamber, including my Republican colleagues,  understands, when Trump usurps the power of Congress, when he attacks  the courts, when he threatens and intimidates the media and  universities and perhaps, most significantly, when he brings criminal  charges against his political opponents, be they liberal Democrats or  conservative Republicans, that this man is a danger to everything this  country stands for. My Republican colleagues know this, and the time is  long overdue for them to begin speaking out against Trump's dangerous  movement toward authoritarianism. We can disagree on the issues--we do  disagree on the issues--but we should and must agree that this country  will not move toward being an authoritarian society, with more and more  power put in the hands of the President of the United States.

In that regard, let me applaud Chris Madel, who was a leading  Republican candidate for the Governor of Minnesota, who recently ended  his campaign because he could not defend the national Republican Party  in the face of what was happening in his own State of Minnesota.

Mr. Madel said:

When U.S. citizens, particularly those of color, live in       fear, and U.S. citizens are carrying papers to prove their       citizenship, that is wrong. Driving while Hispanic is not a       crime, neither is driving while Asian.

Mr. Madel is right, and more Republicans need to speak out if they  care about protecting the values this Nation was founded upon.

When we talk about authoritarianism, we must also talk about the Big  Lie--the lies that are told over and over again, that black is white  and white is black. It is a constant barrage of lies that comes from  the White House. We can disagree on the issues, but you cannot have a  democracy when the President of the United States lies profoundly every  single day.

No, Mr. President, Renee Good was not a domestic terrorist. She was  the mother of three, sitting in her car when she was shot.

No, Alex Pretti was not a would-be assassin as Trump's administration  has suggested.

No, last night's attack on Representative Ilhan Omar, while she was  conducting a townhall meeting, was not staged. Somebody attacked her-- threatened her.

No, the January 6 insurrectionists were not conducting peaceful  demonstrations. They were attempting to overthrow the results of an  election.

No, the 2020 election was not stolen from Donald Trump. He lost that  election by over 7 million votes. Yet today--today--as we speak right  now, Trump's FBI has raided an election office in Georgia to seize  their ballots. This is, by the way, after the Attorney General of the  United States demanded that Minnesota hand over its voter rolls as a  pretext for ICE's stopping its assault on that State.

President Trump's unacceptable actions are raising the question in  the hearts of millions of Americans as to whether or not there will be  free and fair elections in 2026 and 2028.

But it is not just Trump's authoritarianism that concerns me and  millions of Americans very deeply. I worry very much about the growing  economic and political power of the oligarchs in this country--the  multibillionaires who are side by side with Trump, who were in the  front row when he got inaugurated. I think all of us will remember Mr.  Musk there, Mr. Zuckerberg, Mr. Bezos, and some 14 other billionaires  sitting there when he was inaugurated.

Today, in America, we have more income and wealth inequality than we  have ever had in the history of our Nation. Unbelievably, Elon Musk-- the wealthiest man alive--now owns more wealth than the bottom 53  percent of American households. One man--one man--now owns more  wealth--some $700-billion plus--than the bottom 53 percent of American  households. The top 1 percent now owns more wealth than the bottom 93  percent. CEOs of large, profitable corporations now earn 350 times what  their average worker makes.

Meanwhile, in America today while the very rich become obscenely  richer, 60 percent of Americans are living paycheck to paycheck. They  are unable to afford the skyrocketing costs of housing, healthcare,  education, childcare, groceries, electricity, or other basic  necessities. The very rich are becoming phenomenally richer while tens  of millions of Americans are struggling to pay for their basic needs.

Let us understand that the oligarchs--the multibillionaires--do not  simply put their money under their mattresses. Not only do they want to  own and control our economy, they are determined to own and control our  corrupt political system as well. As we all know, Mr. Musk spent at  least $290 million to elect Trump. Do you think you are living in a  democracy when one guy can spend $290 million to elect his buddy to be  President? The 100 richest people in our country spent $2.6 billion on  the 2024 election--100 people.

Yes. You average American, you get the right to vote, but  billionaires can spend hundreds of millions of dollars in super PACs to  defeat the candidates who stand up for the working class and elect  those people who stand with the oligarchs. That number--the amount of  money being spent in these super PACs by the oligarchs--is growing and  growing every day. I should point out that it is not just the  Republican Party; it is Democratic billionaires as well. This is a  bipartisan effort on the part of the billionaire class.

Just recently, a super PAC representing the crypto industry just  announced that it has $193 million in cash at its disposal for the 2026  election. In other words, do you have concerns about crypto? Well, you  are going to have to face a barrage of 30-second ads from  extraordinarily wealthy people.

Big Tech oligarchs in Silicon Valley have already pledged to spend at  least $200 million on a super PAC that is sympathetic to the AI  industry, artificial intelligence--an industry that threatens to  displace tens of millions of American workers. Are you worried about  AI? Are you worried about robotics? Are you worried about the fact that  tens of millions of jobs are going to be lost during the next decade?  Are you concerned about it? Do you want to have some regulations? Well,  guess what? These guys have got hundreds of millions of dollars to  spend on a campaign.

That may sound like democracy to somebody, but it does not sound like  democracy to me. It sounds like a very corrupt system owned by the very  wealthiest people in the world. That is why, if we are going to come  out of our decline--if we are going to turn this country around-- probably there is nothing more important that we can do than to end the  disastrous Citizens United Supreme Court decision, abolish super PACs  and move to the public funding of elections. If somebody wants to run  against me who might disagree with my ideas, fine--go for it--but we  should not have a system where candidates are backed by billionaires  who can outspend heavily those candidates who are standing up for  working people. That is not democracy; that is oligarchy. In a  democracy, elections must be about one person, one vote, not  billionaires buying politicians.

But that is not all.

When we look at what is going on in America--and it is important that  we do that--take a look at our broken healthcare system. We are  spending twice as much per capita on healthcare as the people of any  other nation. Yet we are the only major country on Earth not to  guarantee healthcare to all. We have got 85 million Americans who are  uninsured or underinsured, and over 60,000 people die each year because  they can't afford to see a doctor on time.

Do you want to turn that around in America? Do you want to end our  decline? We are the richest country on Earth, and we spend more on  healthcare per person than any other country. Let us have the best  healthcare system in the world--guaranteeing healthcare to every man,  woman, and child.

That is what we should be doing, and that is why we should pass a  Medicare for All single-payer system. And when we talk about America  being in decline, we are talking about the skyrocketing price of  housing and the fact that tens of millions of Americans cannot afford  to buy a home.

We are seeing young people right now living with their parents  because they can't even afford an apartment of their own, married  couples who will buy their own home at a much older age than their  parents.

Today, we have 800,000 Americans who are homeless--800,000, including  people a few blocks from the U.S. Capitol. And 20 million households  are now spending over half of their limited incomes on housing.

Let us reverse this decline. Instead of giving tax breaks to  billionaires, let's build the low-income and affordable housing this  country desperately needs. In the wealthiest country on Earth, it is  not a radical proposition to say that every American should be able to  live in decent, affordable housing.

When we talk about America being in decline, we are talking about the  crisis in our education system. Several decades ago, the United States  was the best educated country on Earth. The United States used to lead  the world in the percentage of adults with a college degree. We were  No. 1.

Today, we are in 11th place behind countries like Japan, South Korea,  Australia, the UK, and Canada. Today, the United States ranks 28th out  of 37 developed countries in math, 12th in science, and 6th in reading.

This is the United States of America, the richest country on Earth.  Our kids  should be leading the world in science, in reading, in math, not being  in 28th place.

If we are going to come out of our decline and successfully compete  in a global economy, we need the best educated workforce in the world,  which means we need to revamp our educational system from childcare to  graduate school. Believe it or not--people don't know this--70 years  ago, major public universities in the city of New York, California,  great universities were tuition-free.

Maybe instead of spending a trillion dollars a year on the military,  we make sure that every kid in this country has the opportunity to get  a higher education because we make our public colleges and universities  tuition-free.

In New York City, in New Mexico, now there is significant movements  toward making childcare free and universal, and that is a lesson all of  us have got to learn right here in the Congress. That should be our  goal.

When we talk about America being in decline, we are talking about the  fact that we have a retirement crisis in our country today. In America  right now, over 20 percent of seniors are trying to survive on an  income of less than $15,000 a year.

Got it? Twenty percent of seniors are trying to survive on $15,000 or  less. One guy is worth over $700 billion.

Half of seniors are trying to get by on less than $30,000 a year.  These are the people who built this country. These are the people who  raised us. We need to treat them with respect and dignity. That is why  we should expand and strengthen Social Security benefits and bring back  defined benefit pension plans that guarantee a secure income in  retirement.

A great nation like the United States should not have the highest  rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country. We should not  have one of the highest rates of senior poverty of almost any major  country.

And when we talk about the decline in the standard of living in  America, the fact that 60 percent of the people in our country today  are struggling, as we speak, to put food on the table, we must  understand that in our country right now, Big Tech oligarchs are  working overtime to become even wealthier by throwing American workers  out on the street and replacing them with robots or artificial  intelligence.

Nobody knows exactly what the impact of AI and robotics will be, but  there are some very sophisticated studies that would suggest that tens  of millions of jobs will be replaced by AI and robotics, and we are in  no way prepared for that.

That is why I have called for a moratorium on new AI data centers  until we make sure that the economic gains of these revolutionary  technologies benefit the working families of this country and not just  a handful of multibillionaires in Silicon Valley.

AI robotics are neither good nor bad. It depends on how they are  utilized. If they can improve life for ordinary people, it is positive.  If they can reduce the workweek, it is positive. But if they simply  throw millions of people out on the street, that is not a positive.

In my view, we are living through one of the most difficult moments  in the modern history of our country. But the truth is that throughout  our Nation's history, we have faced great challenges as well. This is  not the first great and difficult challenge that we face.

We have been through an American revolution. We have been through a  civil war. We have been through a suffrage movement that demanded full  citizenship and the right to vote for our women. We have been through  the Great Depression, where 25 percent of our people were unemployed.  We have been through World War II. We have been through the Civil  Rights Movement and the effort to end segregation, and here we are  today.

At every moment of crisis in the history of our country, the American  people came together and chose democracy over authoritarianism, chose  justice over greed, and chose solidarity over division. They  understood, in the past--and we understand today--that when we stand  together, no matter how much money the oligarchs have, no matter how  much political power they have, we have the people.

At the end of the day, people coming together is far more powerful  than the billionaires and all of their money. If we summon that same  courage today, if we stand together against fear and hatred, if we  defend democracy and take on the power of the oligarchs, there is  nothing that this great Nation cannot accomplish.

That is how we end the decline; that is how we renew our democracy;  and that is how we build a future worthy of our children and  generations yet to come.