Critical Mineral Dominance Act


Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from California for  yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill. Critical minerals are  essential building blocks for a clean energy economy and many other  technologies central to our everyday lives. I do not dispute that, but  how we source and process these materials matters just as much as how  quickly we deploy them.

We must pursue critical minerals in a way that is responsible and in  a way that is sustainable. Demand for these  minerals is growing rapidly. Yet, global supply chains remain highly  concentrated and often linked to serious human rights abuses and  environmental harms.

This should push us toward thoughtful policies that strengthen  domestic supply chains and not reckless ones that endanger our  environment and communities like H.R. 4090.

One underutilized source of critical minerals is recycling. By  recovering and reusing already mined resources, we are tapping into a  new domestic supply. While recycling alone will not meet all of our  projected demand, it can significantly reduce pressure on primary  extraction if we invest now. This bill completely ignores the role of  recycling to strengthen our supply chains.

Another way to strengthen these supply chains is through enhanced  transparency. Last Congress, I introduced the bipartisan Critical  Materials TRACE Act to improve supply chain visibility. Transparency  can help drive responsible sourcing and innovation and reduce  environmental, labor, and human rights abuses, ultimately making our  supply chains more secure.

These are areas where bipartisan agreement is indeed possible, but  H.R. 4090 is not that answer. This bill would make it easier to sell  off public lands to polluting mining companies and weaken key  protections that safeguard our drinking water and protect communities.

We can meet our critical mineral needs without sacrificing public  lands, environmental laws, or, yes, public health. For these reasons, I  urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.