Republicans Have Delivered in 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698432/republicans-have-delivered-in-2025


Mr. LOUDERMILK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize a friend and  former member of my congressional staff, Mr. John Bart Mitcham, on his  milestone birthday and for his service to Georgia's 11th Congressional  District, the State of Georgia, and the United States of America.

Mr. Bart Mitcham was born on December 24, 1945, in Ada, Oklahoma, to  John and Virginia Mitcham. Bart's parents both served in the United  States Navy during World War II, with his father serving as a naval  aviator on the USS Hornet during some of the most critical moments in  the Pacific theater.

Bart knew from an early age that he wanted to serve his country as a  naval aviator. So eager to learn to fly, Bart washed aircraft in  exchange for 1 hour of flight time while he was in high school. He also  served as a cadet in the Civil Air Patrol, the civilian auxiliary of  the United States Air Force.

Bart attended Tyler Junior College on a music scholarship, where he  played in the school's band and performed at high-profile events,  including the Cotton Bowl, as well as Dallas Cowboys games. He later  transferred to the University of Oklahoma, Edmond, where he graduated  in 1968, commissioning as an ensign in the United States Navy.

Fulfilling his lifelong dream to become a naval aviator like his  father, Bart began naval flight training and, upon graduation, was  assigned to Naval Air Station Dallas, where he flew the storied F-4  Phantom.

Bart was then transferred to the USS Enterprise, where he flew combat  missions in Vietnam. He later served at the Defense Intelligence Agency  and as a commanding officer at Naval Air Station Atlanta before  retiring at the rank of captain in 1994, almost 26 years of service.

Bart is not only recognized for his exemplary service to our country  as a veteran, but he is also recognized as a man of numerous talents  and passions. Bart attained a law degree from Woodrow Wilson Law  School, attended New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary, and earned a  master of divinity from Andersonville Seminary. He operated a real  estate appraisal business while pastoring churches.

During his service in the United States Navy, Bart studied several  martial arts disciplines before achieving a seventh-degree black belt.  He then taught martial arts and self-defense classes, developed his own  self-defense technique, and was inducted into the Martial Arts Hall of  Fame.

Wanting to use his expertise, training, and talents to continue to  serve others, Bart became a licensed private investigator and an  executive protection agent. As his reputation expanded, Bart opened his  own agency and began teaching and facilitating classes in private  investigation and executive protection. For a time, he served as a  member of the Georgia Board of Private Detective and Security Agencies.

Due to Bart's vast experience and reputation, he became part of my  staff when I entered Congress. He was our veteran engagement liaison  and the security director for several years. He was an excellent choice  for this role, reaching out to help fellow veterans as well as helping  to ensure the safety and security of myself and our staff.

Bart continued his legacy of community service by taking on the role  of an associate magistrate judge for Bartow County, Georgia.

Throughout his exemplary career of service to others above self, Bart  has touched countless lives across our country.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United States House of  Representatives, the people of Georgia's 11th Congressional District, I  wish my friend, Bart Mitcham, a wonderful 80th birthday and extend my  sincerest gratitude for his lifetime of service. May God bless him, and  I wish him a happy birthday.