-9999


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President, I am so excited to be here today. I am  going to talk about one of my favorite--favorite--topics, eating. But  my mouth is a little dry here, so I want to take a moment and enjoy  some whole milk.

You know, I am not the only one that loves eating. America loves  eating. If I can share a story with my fellow Senators, I always  thought that I was my grandma's favorite grandchild, and I thought it  was because I was always the one that was the first to raise my hands  for seconds. Now, I don't know if I was her favorite, but certainly I  was one of her favorites.

The interesting thing was, we couldn't gain weight, though. Despite  eating seconds and an active lifestyle, nobody gained weight. We were  all in a good weight area.

And what did we eat? We ate real food. What did that real food look  like? Well, we had whole milk for breakfast and for lunch and for  supper. We had bacon and eggs in the morning. For lunch, we would have  one of the other proteins: turkey or chicken or ham--but vegetables  from our garden. That was it. Fresh vegetables, and we had, I think,  four or five different fruit trees: a pear tree, a peach tree, several  others. So we would have fresh fruits as well. And then for dinner--we  called it supper--beef was the main dish always, but still with more  fresh fruits, maybe some potatoes, some new potatoes. And, yes, we put  bacon in the new potatoes, but all my grandparents lived a long healthy  life on those diets as well.

You know, on a Saturday night--I don't want to forget. Once or twice  a month, on a Saturday night, we would finish work early, at 7 or 8  p.m., and we would make homemade ice cream with that cream that we had  from our own dairy herd.

And then the other piece that people forget about is we had canned  food--not in a metal can, but they were in bottles. And what that  canned food did is it was easier to digest. That fresh taste was locked  into it.

And, very simply, real food tastes better. I would hardly recognize  the taste of some of the fruits and vegetables today. When I was  growing up on our family farm, the strawberries melted in your mouth.  The green beans, potatoes all had a very fresh taste. The cantaloupe,  the watermelon--you would have thought they were adding sugar to it.

But today's world, unfortunately, we eat from a box. We eat from a  sack, and that is not real food. We did not have any of these  ultraprocessed foods in my diet growing up.

Now, I would like to talk a little bit more about eating, about  eating real food, and share the new nutritional guidelines released  yesterday by USDA, HHS, and FDA. Guess what their advice is. Their  advice is to eat real food, the same food that I was raised on.

Now, what I am excited about is--look, America was so hungry, so  hungry for a new food pyramid that we flipped it. We flipped the food  pyramid, and we made a triangle out of it.

The big emphasis here is common sense and eating real food. And the  big winner is going to be American families. It is going to be our  youth, especially where we are seeing an epidemic.

And I just want to give a shoutout to President Trump's leadership,  to Secretary Kennedy, to Secretary Rollins, to FDA Director Dr. Makary,  Dr. Oz at CMS, and Dr. Jay Bhattacharya at NIH for providing the real  science--and all the people that worked so hard to put together these  nutritional guidelines.

And for all you naysayers out here, the science is never settled. I  don't absolutely agree with everything on this pyramid as a physician,  but these are incredible guidelines and huge steps in the right  direction. And, again, use a little common sense as you go forward.

For too long, we overcomplicated nutrition. We buried families in  confusing charts, changing rules, and special-interest science. And  while all of this was happening, America got sicker.

Ninety percent of American dollars--healthcare dollars--are being  spent on chronic diseases. Seventy percent of Americans have a chronic  disease. A third of our children are prediabetic or diabetic. We simply  can't continue to live in that direction.

We were being told the last 20, 30 years to eat food from factories  rather than foods from the farm. And these ultraprocessed foods were  marketed as healthy. Well, people followed the advice in good faith,  and they got sicker rather than healthier.

Real food is food you recognize when you see it. Most of the time, it  is not coming from a box. It is not in a bag. Sometimes, it is in a  can; sometimes, it is not. You have to be careful. You have to look at  the can.

Did they add sugar to it? Did they add salt to it? Then I would  probably turn away from it.

It is fresh or frozen. Real food--healthy food--is fresh or frozen.

I am so glad that the SNAP program is now going to require all the  grocery stores to double the amount of opportunities of choices that  you are going to have from this real food selection.

Real food is protein. It is whole grains, and it is healthy fat. The  previous pyramid probably required that 50 percent of your calories  come from carbohydrates. We know that was probably a big mistake.  Instead, we are going to push more proteins.

People say: What is the new guideline talking about?

It is that same diet I was raised on back at our farm. It is the same  food your grandparents and my parents--my mom--made for us.

Look, long before we knew what MAHA moms were, my grandmothers were  MAHA grandmothers, and my mother was a MAHA mom. And my wife was  cooking MAHA food, as well. They seldom opened a box. If you are  opening a box to cook, think twice about it.

Another good option, as we discussed what the new guidelines are, is  putting water back where it belongs. I would argue water, whole milk-- those are your one-two drink alternatives, and certainly not sugary  sodas. We all should be drinking more water. If you want to drink  something besides water, I would suggest whole milk. A big point about  whole milk to me is it satisfies one's appetite longer. You drink a  sugary soda, and you are hungry again in 10 minutes. Your sugar is  bouncing up and down. But milk has protein in it, and it is going to  satisfy your hunger for longer, not to mention that it is full of  protein, vitamins, and minerals.

Let's take a look at this graph, our ``Eat Real Food'' graph, the new  dietary guidelines. I think it is interesting. The foods down here  aren't necessarily bad, but you should maybe eat less of them and more  of these. As you go up the triangle, these are the more healthy foods.

This is real simple. Down in the bottom of this, it looks like we  have whole grains. We have oatmeal and whole grain wheat from Kansas to  make bread. Then I believe this is rice and beans and nuts and  bananas--more nuts, seafood, butter. Butter is another one of those  full-fat foods derived from whole milk.

Then we have a bunch of fruit. We have more seafood and yogurt,  another milk product, as well.

And, of course, there are your vegetables grown in the garden. Here  are some frozen vegetables. Frozen vegetables are cheaper but really  close to the nutritional value of fresh out of the garden.

It looks like chicken and turkey. You probably have made those. The  guidelines here are for a protein source. The cheeses--cheese is a  great healthy source of food for you. And, of course, there is the  American hamburger. Americans can't get along without hamburger.

This is my favorite one. This is absolutely my favorite one. I am  going to call this a T-bone steak. Most of you know that a T-bone steak  not only has a bone in it, but on one side, of course, is the KC strip.  That is a Kansas City strip. Some mistakenly call it a New York strip,  but this is actually a KC strip, as well. And on this side, there is a  little bit more of a flavorless type of meat. I like this KC strip  here.

So, again, the whole concept is what? It is to eat some of these, but  more of these and a lot of these--basically, substituting more protein  for less carbohydrates.

We spend a lot of time here on the floor talking about healthcare  reform. But this is the biggest day in healthcare reform we are going  to see  in America. We are spending $5 trillion a year--my friends across the  aisle are quick to point out that America is getting sicker and that we  are spending more and more money on healthcare. Yes, we have all sorts  of new toys and new treatments available and new drugs out there, but  if you want me to impact the true cost of healthcare--whether you are  getting your insurance through your workplace, whether you are on  ObamaCare, or if you are on Medicaid or Medicare--if you want me to  save the Federal Government's budget, we need to fix the cost of  healthcare. Getting back on a truly healthy, ``eating real food'' type  of diet will impact more than any type of legislation that will ever be  done up here.

This nutrition needs to go back to the center of our healthcare.  Eating healthy food should be at the center of our healthcare reforms,  not necessarily all these policies that we are arguing about.

Yes, we can keep throwing money at it. Yes, we can start giving our  youth the latest GLP-1 drug. And rather than giving them a healthy  diet, we can start treating them with a drug and give them all some  type of drug addiction.

This new nutritional guideline is a win for our youth. I am  especially excited to see what we are going to do in the SNAP programs  as well. When we get food at our senior centers, I think there are more  healthy choices out there.

We have to think of ways to make it more affordable and things the  Federal Government can do to help make these nutrients more affordable  as well. I just can't emphasize enough that the best medicine in the  world is a healthy diet. This is what making America healthy again  looks like. It is all going to start with nutrition.

I can't help but add that Americans probably need to do a little bit  more walking and get outside a little bit more as well.

Again, I will finish up and say I am ecstatic that the Trump  administration has taken this bold, decisive action and is breaking  with decades of failed thinking. We are finally putting America on a  realistic path to a healthier living that puts eating real food at the  center. This is a huge win for the American families and the farmers  who grow the best medicine in the world.

Look, eating real food delivers real results. Let's make America  healthy again.

I have to do just one more thing. Even ice cream is healthy when  eaten in small amounts. I want to add my favorite sweet out here and  say it is OK to have a little ice cream. We need to have a lot more  protein.