Recognizing the Robert J. Dole Va Medical Center and the City of Wichita


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President. I rise today to recognize the Robert J.  Dole VA Medical Center and the city of Wichita for their exceptional  commitment to providing world-class healthcare to our Nation's  veterans.

Recently, Wichita was recognized as the top city in the Nation for  veterans' healthcare. This recognition highlights the unwavering  dedication of the staff of the Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center and  city leadership in delivering accessible, high-quality, and  compassionate healthcare to those who served our country.

For the second year in a row, the Dole VA received the maximum 5-star  rating from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services--a remarkable  achievement that places the Dole VA in the top 8 percent of hospitals  nationwide. This 5-star rating highlights the Dole VA's commitment to  not only meet but exceed the standards of the healthcare industry.

In addition to the 5-star rating, the Dole VA ranked first among 132  VA hospitals nationwide for access to specialty care. It offers the  shortest average wait time in the country for existing patients to see  a cardiologist--just 3.8 days. The Dole VA also ranks second in the  Nation for both routine specialty care access, at 95 percent, and  urgent specialty care access, at 90 percent. Additionally, it holds the  third-shortest wait time for new patients seeking pulmonology services.  These accomplishments are a testament to the outstanding leadership and  the tireless dedication of the staff at the Dole VA.

The city of Wichita is also playing a vital role in providing care  for our Nation's veterans, particularly in the area of mental health.  Wichita ranks fifth in the Nation for access to mental health services,  offering the seventh shortest average wait time for existing patients  to access care--just 0.3 days--and the ninth shortest for new patients,  at only 1.4 days. Additionally, Wichita ranks sixth nationally in  overall hospital care quality and holds the eighth shortest wait time  for existing patients seeking primary care. These distinctions reflect  a city deeply committed to ensuring those in need receive the high- quality healthcare necessary.

As a country, we owe a great debt to those who served, and the Dole  VA and the city of Wichita are setting the standard for how that debt  should be paid. I now ask that my colleagues join me in recognizing the  Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center and the city of Wichita for these  exceptional achievements. Furthermore, I ask that my colleagues join me  in thanking the dedicated healthcare workforce in Wichita for their  unwavering commitment to serving those who have worn the uniform.