Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700779/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. President, I rise today to say I support the SAVE  America Act. And, yes, even if that means ending the only barely more  than 100-year-old filibuster, the silent filibuster, I am still in  favor of the SAVE America Act.

As we just voted to get on this bill, the Senate now begins a long  and necessary process to advance the SAVE America Act. It is a  straightforward bill that provides proof of citizenship to register to  vote in our Federal elections, along with voter ID, and validating  mail-in ballots.

The purpose of this bill is about one simple thing: making sure only  duly registered American citizens cast ballots in American elections.  It is about making sure our elections are secure. Now, this shouldn't  be controversial. Voter ID is supported by the vast majority of  Americans--Republicans, Independents, and Democrats alike. Polls show  that even around 70 percent of Democrats believe voter ID is common  sense and essential for fair elections.

It is something most of us do every day. Show an ID to board a plane,  to open a bank account, to buy alcohol, to get a hotel room, to  purchase some prescriptions. Why should voting, the most sacred act in  a Republic, be the only place where we don't ask for basic proof that  you are eligible, that you are who you say you are?

Yet here we are, instead of passing this with overwhelming bipartisan  support, maybe even by unanimous consent, we are forced into a drawn- out battle because no one on the other side will join us.

I thought a lot about this. You know what the real question should  be? The real question that America should be asking their Senator: Why  won't just 10 Democrat Senators cross the aisle and support simple  voter ID?

We shouldn't be having to have filibustering debates or a thousand  other rabbit holes we are about to go down. I would challenge those  who, as Mark Twain once said, those who ``buy ink by the barrel,'' to  ask my colleagues across the aisle: Why won't you support voter ID?

Now, my colleagues across the aisle, they are clever. They won't  answer that question. They won't answer the simple question: Do you  support voter ID? They won't commit to that one issue.

Instead, they are going to pivot, and they will tell you what other  part of the bill they don't like. They will want to dive into  Parliamentarian procedures and Senate lore and traditions, but they  won't answer that one simple question: Do you support voter ID, just  like 70 percent of your Democrat supporters do?

And if we can start there, if we start there that we both agree that  we need voter ID, agreeing on that one issue, then maybe we could piece  together a compromise on the rest of the bill. But when you reject even  something as simple as voter ID, we should continue to ask them: Why  won't you stand with the American people who want secure elections? Why  won't you stand up and listen to the over 60 percent of Americans who  are concerned about the integrity of our elections?

Now, we all know that noncitizens aren't supposed to vote. It is  already illegal. But without proof of citizenship  at registration, we have no real safeguard. I could even hear President  Reagan now, if he were here, talking to the American people: Trust but  verify.

And that is what we want to do. That is what the SAVE America Act is  all about. It fixes all these challenges. It requires documents like a  passport, a birth certificate with ID, documents millions of Americans  already have or can easily obtain. It protects our elections without  disenfranchising a single eligible citizen.

Now, oh, by the way, to my colleagues across the aisle, if you have a  concern or a better way to make our elections more secure and more fair  let's move forward, and if that encourages and empowers every legal  citizen the opportunity to vote, then I am with you. Let's work  together to make our elections safe and secure.

This isn't, to me at least, about politics; it is about principles.  It is about fighting for the American people who deserve elections they  can trust. It is about making sure that my vote counts and isn't  canceled by an illegal vote.

Our Republic depends on it. When the people lose faith that their  vote counts and only citizens decide our future, we risk everything our  Founders built.

I will wrap up by saying: I urge my colleagues across the aisle,  listen to your constituents, listen to the 70 percent of Democrats who  support voter ID. Come across the aisle. Let us pass the SAVE America  Act quickly and get back to the people's business.

The American people are watching. They want secure elections. They  want us to protect this Republic. Let's show them we can still work  together on something so basic and so important.