Call Evil By its Name


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691864/call-evil-by-its-name


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today not just as a Member of Congress  but as the father of two Jewish boys. I speak for all the Jews across  the country, millions of them, who today go to the grocery store, their  jobs, and school and live their lives afraid of what might happen to  them.

Eighty years ago in Germany, Jews were burned in ovens for being  Jews, and on Sunday, as I sat at home with my children watching TV, we  saw that here in the United States, in 2025, Jews are being burned  again.

You see, Mr. Speaker, it feels like open hunting season on Jewish  Americans. I wear a kippah not because I am a proud and observant Jew.  I am not all that observant. I wear it out of respect for all the Jews  around America who do not feel safe wearing theirs today. That is  because, by wearing it, they feel they literally have a target on their  heads.

We have heard for 18 months that the intifada should be globalized.  We have heard ``resistance by any means necessary.'' On Sunday, and  again 2 weeks ago, we saw what that looked like.

In this country, we have a hard decision to make. We have to make a  decision about whether we are going to continue to be afraid or whether  we are going to call evil by its name.

I have news for you, Mr. Speaker. When someone chants ``Free  Palestine,'' what they are calling for is the destruction of the only  Jewish state in the world.

When someone says, ``From the river to the sea,'' what they are  calling for is the genocide of every Jew who lives in Israel and  abroad.

We have to make a decision as a country: Are we going to call evil by  its name, or are we going to continue to live in fear?

There are things that we can do, things that we must do, and things  that I will be working here to make happen.

We must join Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Bahrain and declare  the Muslim Brotherhood and all of its affiliates the terrorist  organization that it is.

We must tackle the anti-Semitism that we have seen at our  universities, and I have a bill that will deal with that. That is  because when people hear lies that come from the universities that they  believe are truthful and honest, and when they hear lies about what is  going on in the world, it inflames them and leads to the actions that  we have seen in the past couple of weeks.

The murderer--I don't know that he murdered anyone, so I apologize.  The attempted murderer in Colorado was someone who is here illegally.  That is the worst kind of crime because it is done by someone who  shouldn't even be here. We need to do everything possible to back  President Trump in getting these people out of this country.

There is no right to come to the United States if a person is not a  citizen. It is not a right. It is a privilege. If a person does not  share our values and if they do not believe in this country, then they  should not be here.

I call on every one of these illegal immigrants to either get out or  for us to get them out.

Lastly, as it relates to visas, I am a huge believer in immigration.  America is a country of immigrants. Immigrants are what have made us  great, but it is the immigrants who wish to come here and build us up,  not those who wish to come here and tear us down.

For those who come to this country and go to our universities and  work in other places, and their job is to undermine and defeat what has  existed for 249 years, it is time for us to revoke those visas and to  send them home.

The most important thing, Mr. Speaker, is that we must not be afraid  to tell the truth.