Directing the President Pursuant to Section 5(C) of the War Powers Resolution to Remove United States Armed Forces From Unauthorized Hostilities in the Islamic Republic of Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700484/directing-the-president-pursuant-to-section-5c-of-the-war-powers-resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-unauthorized-hostilities-in-the-islamic-republic-of-iran


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I believe in symbolic things at times. It was  47 years ago that Iran began chanting ``Death to America.'' I don't  think it is symbolic that the 47th President of the United States is  the first to do something about it, but only one number away from that  is 46. That is the number of Americans that, thanks to Iran, were  killed on October 7, 2023.

I don't think Iran had a meeting where they debated whether they  should support Hamas to go and do that attack. They did it, and now  America is in the position that we are in.

There was a press conference not too long ago where the Speaker was  asked: You are saying that the President did not need authorization  initially and still does not need any authorization from Congress? The  Speaker of the House answered that question: Yes. That was Nancy Pelosi  when asked about an attack on Libya.

President Trump is doing exactly what he is authorized to do:  protecting the United States by making sure a terrorist regime cannot  attack us using nuclear weapons.

While there may be some who want to wait until America is nuked to  have that discussion, I am not one of them. I support the President. I  support his judgment. He has not let us down. He has defined the  mission in clear, compelling, and concise ways to make sure they don't  get nukes, to make sure they can't develop intercontinental ballistic  missiles, and to make sure they don't have a military shield to support  them as they do that.

I don't have to have a debate before he does that sort of thing. That  is what our Framers intended.

The fact of the matter is I wouldn't trust some of the people in this  room to have that debate if we wanted to put handcuffs around him  before he did that.

The President is doing the right thing. Congress should stand by him.  Congress should trust Trump because he is not letting us down, and he  won't let us down.