Highlighting A Visit to Mbi Direct Mail Digital


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701142/highlighting-a-visit-to-mbi-direct-mail-digital


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to highlight a recent visit in my  district where I had the privilege of touring MBI Direct Mail +  Digital, a commercial printing facility in DeLand, Florida.

During my visit, I saw firsthand how hardworking people who show up  every day and take pride in doing things the right way make Florida  small businesses reach new heights every day.

Companies like this invest in their employees. I met people who had  worked there who measured their time in decades, not simply in years.

I appreciate the assistance of PRINTING United Alliance in helping  coordinate the visit and for their continued advocacy on behalf of  America's printing and graphic communications workforce.

These are the kinds of businesses that form the backbone of our  economy, creating good jobs, supporting families, and strengthening our  communities. They represent the best of American enterprise:  innovation, grit, and a commitment to serving their customers and  neighbors alike.

It was particularly entertaining for me because a long time ago back  when I worked in the private sector, I worked with companies like this  every day using the mailbox to change how people made their purchasing  decisions.

I am proud to represent businesses like MBI and will continue working  to ensure all small businesses across Florida have the opportunity to  grow and succeed.                  Federal Elections Must be Safe and Secure

Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, in the last election, the American people  overwhelmingly elected President Trump and gave him and the Republican  Party a mandate to Make America Great Again.

Core to that mandate was a promise to restore confidence in the  security of our elections--to guarantee that only Americans vote in  them.

This is a promise that virtually every American agrees with. Mr.  Speaker, 81 percent of all Americans, the overwhelming majority of  Democrats, Independents, Republicans; Black, White, Hispanic; men, and  women; college educated, not college educated; everyone overwhelmingly  agrees with this simple premise.

But this has become much more important in recent years. During the  Biden Presidency, the border was thrown open, and millions, some  believe tens of millions, of foreigners streamed into our country  uncontrolled.

But worse, that administration and allies at the State and local  level shoved millions of drivers' licenses and Social Security numbers  into the hands of these illegal immigrants. They created the means and  the opportunity for our elections to be stolen.

My friend and colleague Chip Roy introduced the SAVE America Act that  would fulfill a promise that we made to prevent foreigners from voting  in our elections.

I and my Republican colleagues in this room have voted several times  for this piece of legislation and passed it out of our Chamber.

The House agrees. Our elections must be safe and secure, where only  Americans determine the leadership of this country.

If you don't think this is an issue, just last week in Florida in a  local city election, someone won the election of mayor of one of our  largest cities by only one vote.

It is critical that we have confidence in every single one of those  votes, but unfortunately, as of now, the Senate does not agree with us.  They have not been willing to state that only Americans should vote in  American elections.

This legislation has been stalled, infuriating the American people.  It stalled because the Senate refuses to use the talking filibuster to  give the American people what they want.

Just yesterday, I toured the National Archives, and I was shown a  document--I didn't ask to see it; it happened to be a document that  they showed me--from when the Civil Rights Act was passed in the 1960s.  Debate went on month after month after month in order to get it passed  before they could bring that to a vote. Why did the Senate in the  sixties, why were they willing to do that? They were willing to do that  because making sure that every American who had the right to vote was  able to do so.

Well, now we are faced with a similar challenge: making sure that  only Americans can vote. If it takes months to make that happen in the  same way it took months to make sure that Americans could vote, then  that is what must be done.

To make that point clear, I and 24 of my distinguished colleagues  signed a letter a week ago to Leader Thune that said we will vote  ``no'' on all Senate legislation, save what is necessary to get the  government reopened, until the SAVE America Act is passed.

I was encouraged to see debate for the SAVE America Act finally  begin. The Senate should debate it for as long as it takes 24 hours a  day, 7 days a week, week after week after week until they figure out  how to get the SAVE America Act to the President's desk.

Until that happens, I and, I presume, the other 23 who signed that  letter alongside me will continue to vote against Senate legislation  here on the House floor.

Let's do the work of the American people. Let's get the SAVE America  Act to the President's desk.