Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691168/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-improving-law-enforcement-officer-safety-and-wellness-through-data-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-leosa-reform-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-federal-law-enforcement-officer-service-weapon-purchase-act-of-2025


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy) for  the opportunity to speak today, and I think 4 minutes will turn out to  be an appropriate amount of time.

My colleague on the other side talked about the nature of things  being deadly. I would like to talk about that.

On April 17, less than 1 month ago, at 11:56 in the morning, a  shooter carrying a gun walked onto the campus of Florida State  University and began to shoot students and adults. It was a gun crime  that we would all agree was horrific.

Mr. Speaker, I am new in this place. I only got elected here a month  ago. What I will tell you of my observation of my first 4 weeks of  being here is I hear a lot of canned speeches that don't actually  address the bills and issues that the American people have sent us here  to work on. I think it is why we may be held, to some degree, in such  low regard.

During this shooting at 11:56 on April 17, seven people were shot.  Fortunately, five were not killed. We only know one of them. She was a  graduate student. The other names have not been released. In that  shooting, two were killed.

Robert Morales was 57 years old and a dining coordinator at Florida  State. Tiru Chabba was a vice president at the food service company at  Florida State.

Why do I tell this story? Law enforcement at Florida State did  everything right. They rushed to the scene. They subdued the shooter.  Mr. Speaker, do you know how long it took them to do that? It took them  4 minutes, the amount of time that I will speak here today. In those 4  minutes, with law enforcement doing everything, seven people were shot,  and two were killed.

H.R. 2243 would say that if any one of them were a retired or an off- duty law enforcement officer, they could have protected themselves.

When these horrific things happen, the fact of the matter is that it  will take law enforcement time to get there. Mr. Speaker, the only way  for you to defend yourself is for you to do it.

I am not saying that, had that bill passed, these seven people  wouldn't have been shot. I don't know if there was retired law  enforcement there. I don't know that any of these people were that.

I know that when shooters consider the places that they are going to  go, one of the things they think about is what might be the response.  When we tell people who have spent their entire careers and who are  trained--not just anyone but someone who for their entire career gave  themselves selflessly to protect us all, when we tell that person  because they are off-duty, because they are retired, all of that  service is no longer useful, we needlessly put people at risk.

I don't want another shooting like we had at Florida State. God  forbid, if there ever is another one, I want people there to respond. I  am grateful to the law enforcement officers who took longer to get  there than my speech will take, but I worry about what will happen next  time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Bacon for bringing this bill  forward. I thank Representative Roy for giving me the opportunity to  speak. We were told we should stand up for our citizens in this  process. When we stand up to keep them safe, that is exactly what we  are doing.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I am really wondering what kind of people they want to  defend over there. Let's talk about those pardons. Let's talk about the  fact that this isn't something that happened over there. This happened  in this Capitol. Those violent offenders were violent before they got  there.

Let me talk about a couple of them. Do my colleagues want to defend  Steven Cappuccio? He was convicted of six felonies, including  assaulting a police officer.

Mr. Speaker, he was together with David Dempsey. David Dempsey was  sentenced to 20 years. He stomped on a police officer's head, and he  struck an officer in the head with a metal crutch.

This is the kind of person the Republicans want to defend.

Enrique Tarrio, a former national leader of the Proud Boys and a  domestic terrorist, was pardoned by Donald Trump.

Guy Reffitt, somebody who brought a gun, zip ties, and body armor,  was pardoned by Donald Trump.

Not only that, they have gone after their pardons, and they haven't  stopped the criminal spree.

A Houston man was pardoned by Trump and then arrested on sex charges.