Providing for Consideration of H.R. Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700516/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-further-additional-continuing-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today angry. I rise angry by the  stunning disparity between the priorities of the two parties.

This week, Republicans' number one priority is to reopen the  Department of Homeland Security because our homeland is under threat,  whereas Democrats' number one priority, as we will see this afternoon,  is to stop and protect those who would endanger our homeland.

The U.S. Coast Guard is actively in operations in Bahrain, protecting  the United States, and every one of those brave individuals is not  being paid. Not only that, but the DHS Office of Counterterrorism and  Homeland Threats is not being paid to look after those who would  threaten us in the United States.

What has changed in the last 3 weeks? Let me give you some examples.  Today is March 4. Two days ago in Michigan, Islamic scholar and expert  in Islam Hassanain Rajabali said the following about the killing of  Khamenei: Why do we keep hearing our leaders--this is someone in  America referring to Khamenei as ``our leader''--why are we hearing our  leaders are being killed and the other side does not? It will come.  Don't worry. ``Mahdi will cut tentacles of Rothschilds.''

We need Homeland Security to protect us from this guy.

On February 28, someone who came to Michigan in 1991, who got two  degrees at American universities, Dearborn Heights Imam--a religious  leader running a mosque--Mohammad Ali Elahi eulogized Khamenei: He  would have loved to end his life this way--being killed by the most  wretched hands on Earth--speaking about the United States. Even  Democrats believe Khamenei was a bad guy. Nothing is greater than  martyrdom after 86 years of service.

We need DHS to be funded to protect us from this guy.

Third example: A taxpayer-funded government employee working at Henry  Ford Community College in Dearborn, Ali Akbar Shdid: Trump made a huge  mistake by killing our leader--again, ``our leader'' being Khamenei. He  continued: We are going to continue on his path. We are going to hold  his blood and ideology and teach it to our children.

We are paying for this. We need DHS to protect us from this guy. That  is just Michigan.

State number two, California: February 28, someone who came from Iraq  to the United States in 1994, another Muslim scholar, an expert in  Islam, Dr. Sayed Moustafa Qazwini, a Ph.D.: I pray to exit life as a  martyr. Like Khamenei, may Allah be pleased with him, not in bed, home,  or hospital.

DHS needs to protect us from him.

Mr. Speaker, down the road in Virginia, a mosque in Manassas honoring  what they call, again, our leader, Khamenei, extending condolences and  glad tidings on his martyrdom.

By the way, these are not being captured with a hidden microphone.  They are proudly broadcasting this.

In New York, Zohran Mamdani, February 20, attended a mosque with  known ties to Iran and sat there as the imam prayed for the Mahdi to  kill the infidels by his sword. We need DHS open to protect us from  that.

This is personal for me. In Austin, a Muslim terrorist, who never  should have been in this country, just killed three people, and I will  talk about him in a bit.

He retweeted, commented on one of my tweets, upset about my criticism  of the kind of terrorism that he so engaged in. I didn't find it. So  lest any Member of Congress think these threats are not real, if they  can do it to me, they can do it to any one of you.

I will close with this. We hear the names of the two who died in  Minnesota, but how do we not say the names of Ryder Harrington, Savitha  Shan, and Jorge Pederson, who were killed by that man in Austin.

We need the Department of Homeland Security open to protect us from  them. How many Americans are going to die while the Department of  Homeland Security is closed? We swore an oath to protect Americans, not  to protect terrorists. We need to get the Department of Homeland  Security open so that we can live up to that obligation.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, we can get DHS open if Republicans would vote to return  this bill so that we could, indeed, fund FEMA, the Coast Guard, and the  other agencies.

Let's talk a little bit about FEMA because what we are seeing this  President do is use this moment to make life more miserable for  Americans. FEMA has $4 billion in Disaster Relief Fund. Even though it  has that money, DHS is shutting down assistance to victims. It is doing  that even though it has the money.

This is just like what Trump did last time where he had the money for  nutrition assistance to fund SNAP and he said no. I would prefer that  children go hungry, even though I have the money in the bank.

This shouldn't be surprising given Secretary Noem's record. She has  put roadblock after roadblock to actually let FEMA do work. She says  anything over $100,000 has to come to my office. That didn't stop her  from giving away several millions of dollars in ad funding to somebody  related to her because this is, indeed, a corrupt administration. There  is corruption at the highest level, and we see that over and over  again.

When we talk about U.S. citizens harmed, let's talk about U.S.  citizens harmed by our own agency.

Marimar Martinez was a teaching assistant. She was shot five times by  a Border Patrol agent in October. She was in a car. That agent said,  bragging: ``I fired five rounds, and she had seven holes.'' He had to  recant their allegations that she had done anything wrong.

George Retes, a former Army infantryman and disabled veteran, pulled  out of his car telling ICE: I am a veteran. I am a citizen. He then  spent time in detention. He came to the House and was a guest for the  State of the Union Address. We got to meet him.

Peter Yazzie, a Navajo Nation, our first Americans, and Laguna Pueblo  member, was detained by ICE members. He told them: I am a Native  American. I have my Certificate of Indian Blood. He was detained,  arrested, abused in that moment.

Jose Roberto ``Beto'' Ramirez, 20-year-old member of the Ojibwe  Nation, was yanked from the passenger's seat of his aunt's car, slammed  on the hood, handcuffed, and held in custody.

Aliya Rahman is a disabled social activist. She had her windows  broken, pulled out by force, and experienced shooting pain.

These are citizens. These are citizens, and they don't seem to care.  It is something when you can't control the horrible actions.

We condemn the terrorism. We condemn the Ayatollah. We condemn all of  that. We don't control them, but we sure should control our own agents  and our own agencies.

He has  led and inspired us in so many different times, and I look forward to  listening to him.