Reaffirming Iran Remains the Largest State Sponsor of Terrorism


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700432/reaffirming-iran-remains-the-largest-state-sponsor-of-terrorism


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I approach this debate from a very simple  perspective: When people say they want to kill you, you should believe  them.

For 47 years, the Iranian Government in their version of this Hall,  on the streets, on television, anywhere they can find, has yelled  ``death to America.'' They don't just yell it. They actually do it.  Over those 47 years, it is estimated that 1,200 Americans have been  killed by those saying ``death to America.''

Not all of those were military. On October 7, Hamas, directly funded  by Iran, killed 46 Americans--46.

We hear a lot about how bad they are. We can agree they are bad, but  there is always a ``but''--``but we shouldn't do anything,'' I guess.

Again, I believe that when someone tells you thousands of times over  47 years that they want to kill you, you should believe them.

This resolution makes a simple premise that we cannot allow Iran to  get nuclear weapons. Why? We cannot allow Iran to get nuclear weapons  because of the second thing Iran seeks to do: create missile capability  to deliver those missiles to the United States of America. We have to  stop them from creating the missile shield, the drones, and the shorter  missiles that they can use to overwhelm our forces in the region, that  gives them a shield to continue to deliver those weapons.

We have a choice. We can say: Well, they say ``death to America,''  but they aren't really going to do it, or we can realize they have  given us 1,200 reasons over the last 47 years to believe them.

I hope this passes unanimously. It certainly should. It is three  lines long, this resolution. It says that: ``The House of  Representatives declares it is the policy of the United States that  Iran continues to be the largest state sponsor of terrorism.'' That is  all it does.

If you believe like I do when people say ``death to America'' you  should believe them, then you should vote for this, and this should be  an easy vote. I thank the chairman for bringing this up today, and I  hope all of my colleagues will support it.