Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Iran


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701838/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-iran


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, for 47 years, there has been a war involving  Iran. It has been a war against the United States. It started 47 years  ago with: ``Death to America.'' When they chanted it, they meant it. It  started in 1979, when they took our hostages. In 1983, when Iran killed  241 Americans, including 220 marines, Iran recognized they were at war  with us. In 1996, at Khobar Towers, Iran, in their war for death to  America, killed 19 more Americans. From 2003 to 2011, Iran, thinking  they were at war with America, killed over 600 of our soldiers who were  in Iraq. On October 7, 2023, Iran, realizing death to America, war with  America, killed 46 Americans who were living in Israel.

Iran has not just been at war with us. They have been at war with  their own people. We can hear tears for the schoolchildren who died,  but we do not hear the tears for the 35,000 Iranians that we know of  who they killed in January. We don't hear the cries for the Iranian  people because of their war with their own people that has kept the  internet off in their country for months now.

We will hear that we should just have more diplomacy. The 47 years of  diplomacy are not enough. Make no mistake, Iran uses diplomacy as a  weapon to create cover for their nuclear program.

We have to understand what is at stake today as President Trump makes  extraordinary steps. For 47 years, as Iran has declared war with us,  they have tried to build a nuclear weapon. They have enough material to  build a couple.

While we do not believe that they could deliver that nuclear weapon  to the United States today, that is their single-minded purpose. Their  goal was to create a military infrastructure that created a shield so  that they could develop those nuclear weapons and develop that missile.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle might be fine learning  that they have that nuclear weapon and they have that missile when one  lands right here in the United States of America. Thank God President  Trump and the rest of us do not.

This resolution is a terrible idea. We should stand with our  President. We should stand with our troops. We must end the 47-year war  that Iran has had with the United States.

Mr. Speaker, I am grateful that President Trump is doing that right  now. Vote ``no'' on this.