Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701407/sharia-free-america


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I will start by acknowledging that I think  this is a bit of a historic moment to my colleague, Congressman Self,  because you have just had more than a dozen Members of Congress talk  openly and honestly about one of the greatest threats that is facing  the United States today, the Islamification of our country.

As I will talk about in my remarks, too many would try to shut us  down, using open threats and words to try to stop what they consider  blasphemy. I will acknowledge before I begin the efforts of Congressman  Self and Congressman Roy to form this caucus, reaching 60 members.

Every time I get asked how many there are, I get the number wrong  because there is always one or two more, but I don't think we will be  happy until every Member is a part of this caucus.

Why now? Why now? Why do we deal with this issue now? Why do we deal  with this issue today? Because we have seen what lies before us. We can  see it if we look across the ocean.

France, the United Kingdom, and Western Europe are no longer  recognizable.

In France, they have had to cancel celebrations because they are  afraid that they are not sharia compliant.

In the United Kingdom, they are actually debating in Parliament the  idea of cousin marriage, a Member of Parliament crying, how could it be  banned because under sharia it is allowed.

We have seen these countries become unrecognizable, but why now?  Because we have to worry about it coming here. I could have done a  greatest hits and read hundreds of quotes, quotes that are not hidden.  They are not hidden camera quotes. These are statements that imams and  Mosques in the United States publicly make with pride about their  intention, but I just want to read one from one person, and I will put  it in context again for why now.

I will read some quotes from Imam Siraj Wahhaj from Brooklyn, New  York, that he has said quite openly.

``Islam is better than democracy. Allah will cause Islam to become a  complete way of life, to prevail over every kind of system.'' I wonder  what system he is talking about. ``And you know what? It will happen.''  That is his first quote.

Second quote: ``If only Muslims were clever politically, they could  take over the United States and replace its constitutional government  with a caliphate.'' ``If we were united and strong, we would elect our  own emir and give allegiance to him . . . `' ``Take my word, if 8  million Muslims unite in America, the country will come to us.''

The final quote: ``You don't get involved in politics because it is  the American thing to do. You get involved in politics because politics  are a weapon to use in the cause of Islam.''

Now, why this imam? Why read three quotes from one leader when I told  you I could read many. Because I want to explain who publicly praised  him just a few months ago as ``one of the Nation's foremost Muslim  leaders.'' That is a quote, ``one of the Nation's foremost Muslim  leader.''

That is not my statement. That was the statement of the leading  American-Muslim politician in the United States, the new mayor of New  York, Zohran Mamdani. Every quote that I read, again, as he put it,  ``one of the Nation's foremost Muslim leaders.''

We have a challenge in this debate. Even some of my colleagues here  today want to talk about radical Islam. I will talk about why they do  that, but when you look at who the leading Muslim politicians are in  the United States and their views on the issues, affinity for sharia,  embracing of Muslim terror, you have to say that is not radical. That  is the mainstream.

We have had four terror attacks by those who believe in sharia over  the past month or so, but not outcries from those who are upset about  it. So, having this discussion and talking about this is critical  because what we have learned is, they will use our values to impose  theirs upon us. It is okay to come to the United States and it is okay  to practice your religion in peace and prosperity, but the line gets  crossed when in order to advance your religion, others must submit to  it.

Congressman Self was talking about not all cultures being equal, but  part of what makes this debate so difficult is we are told that we are  one giant, human family, that we all believe the same things, that we  all share the same ideals, but if we have learned anything in the past  few years, that is not always true.

We have seen those who have taken to terror to stop freedom of  assembly in New York, freedom of worship in Michigan, freedom to go to  a bar in Austin, Texas, and freedom to go to a university in Virginia.

I saw what sharia could do to the human soul on October 7, and not  all Muslims are terrorists. Not even everyone who believes in sharia  wants to hurt everybody else, but the fact that not all do doesn't mean  that none do.

On October 7, a young man called his parents to brag about an  achievement that he had done in his faith in advancing sharia, and he  called his parents and he told them, mom and dad, I had an  extraordinary achievement today, and his parents were crying.

Now, for us, in our culture, in our society, you would have thought  he got into college, he got a job, he had a baby, or he is getting  married. No. He called his parents who cried with joy because he had  killed 10 infidels. He had killed 10 Jews.

Not only did he feel that was something to brag about to his parents,  but his parents cried with tears of joy.

We have to be willing to have the difficult conversations about the  threat that exists because, as Congressman Self said: The enemy is no  longer at the gates. They are inside.

Now, they will stop at nothing to stop us from having this  conversation. They will ratchet up. They will use a war of rhetoric to  try to silence us. They will claim that we are racist, despite the fact  that the philosophy we are talking about is not limited to any one  race. It doesn't matter what you look like. You can believe in sharia.

They will say we are irrationally afraid of it. They will use the  term ``Islamophobia,'' a word developed, by the way, not to say you are  against something but to say that you are afraid of something.

Well, I think all of us who have spoken today would say this: We are  afraid. We are afraid of what we have seen in Afghanistan. We are  afraid of what we have seen in Iran. We are afraid of what we have seen  in Gaza. We are afraid of what we have seen in France and Germany and  the U.K. We are afraid of what we have seen in Dearborn and at Old  Dominion University and in New York City. We are afraid of what we saw  on September 11, 25 years ago.

We have ample reason to be afraid, but the good news is, because of  these 60-and-counting folks being led by Congressman Roy and  Congressman Self, perhaps there is hope that we will not need to be  afraid for too much longer.

Again, I thank my colleagues for organizing this. It is an  extraordinary moment. I know that this fight is just beginning, but I  know by working together we will ultimately win it. We will make sure  that we can continue to have that phrase that we put up there above  that flag, above the Speaker's rostrum: In God we trust.