Thanking President Trump for Saving the World


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692703/thanking-president-trump-for-saving-the-world


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank President Trump for  saving the world. For those who don't recognize it, we have been at war  with Iran for the last 46 years, or more likely and more accurately,  Iran has been at war with us.

In 1979, they took American citizens hostage and paraded them out on  the news day after day after day until President Reagan secured their  release.

In 1983, a suicide bomb in Beirut, paid for by the Iranians, killed  63 people, including 17 Americans. In 1983, later that year, we all  know they blew up our barracks with our marines, killing 241 people.  Between 2003 and 2011, more than 600 American soldiers were killed by  Iranian proxies.

Then obviously on October 7, 2023, 1,200 people were killed by Hamas,  but Hamas is a proxy and largely paid for by Iran. Within that 1,200  people, 48 were Americans.

It leads me to ask this simple question: What if they had had a  nuclear weapon?

For decades, American Presidents have said Iran can never have a  nuclear weapon. It is a lot of talk but not a lot of action. Over and  over and over again, Iran moved forward, building their bunkers deeper,  building their sites more widespread, putting the world further at  risk.

When Donald Trump talks, he doesn't just talk. When he says he is  going to do something, he does it.

Over the weekend, we saw this President do what has been necessary  for decades: To make sure the largest sponsor of terrorism in the world  does not have the power to kill us all.

Make no mistake, just imagine if they had a nuclear weapon on 9/11.  Imagine if they had a nuclear weapon on October 7.

When our enemies tell us they want to kill us, we should believe  them. When they say, ``death to Israel,'' when they say, ``death to  America,'' and when they say they want to wipe us off the map, they  mean it. They mean it because we live in a world where we do not all  share the same values. We live in a world where there is good and evil  in our civilization.

In the Judeo-Christian civilization of the United States and the  West, we believe in life. We believe in prosperity. We do not believe  in martyrdom. We do not celebrate death. That is not what we believe.  There are those that do, and we put ourselves in great peril when we  fail to recognize that.

Donald Trump recognized it. Our brave American soldiers who flew 40  hours round trip to deliver a message that under this President and  under the Congress that is here and under this leadership, we will  never allow Iran to have those nuclear weapons.

The days ahead will be scary because Iran has said that they will  respond. They should make no mistake: They mess with America at their  own peril.

The last thing I will say is this, and I say this to those on my  side. It is one thing when I call out the anti-Semitism of those who do  not stand in my party, who do not agree with me, who do not call  themselves conservatives, but I am an equal opportunist. It is easy to  call it out on the other side. You must do it on your own.

To those on my side who hate Jews and hate Israel so much that they  are willing to jeopardize the security of the United States, know this:  You are in the minority, you will lose, and I and President Trump are  going to fight you every step of the way.