Together We Will Make America Great Again


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689443/together-we-will-make-america-great-again


Mr. FINE. Mr. Speaker, 35 years ago, a 16-year-old boy walked through  those doors, and he marveled in this room at this temple of democracy  as he watched people who gave of their lives, who gave up time with  their families, and who gave up their careers in order to serve their  country.

When I spent 1 year working here as a House page, I learned from so  many people--five of whom, by the way, are still serving today--what it  meant to serve America and what it meant to put the needs of the  country before yourself.

I want to recognize my family because when I did this opportunity,  being a good Jewish boy, my family would not send me alone. My mother,  my father, and my sister moved to Washington. My mom, who I will talk  about in a little bit, used to sit where my wife, Wendy, and my father  are. My sons are over there. I want to recognize all of them and thank  them so much for being here. My mom used to sit up there, and she used  to watch me every day. She used to tell me every day: Randy, God has a  plan.

Now, I believe that when Donald Trump's life was saved in Butler,  Pennsylvania, it was so that he could save the world. It is an honor of  a lifetime that God's plan for me is to come and help all of you  implement that plan.

However, today is also a sad day for me because the person I most  wished to be here to watch this can't be here. I will tell you a story  about my mom. She was my biggest champion. She was the one who taught  me how to fight. If you don't know me, and if you haven't followed me,  ``fighter'' will be the word that you will know soon enough.

One day when I was 16 years old, my mother came with me, and we went  to the stationery store which is still in the same place that it is  today. We went into that store, and my mom saw something that she  thought that I should buy. She said: Randy you never know when you  might actually need this.

Now, I bought that thing that day. I thought it was kind of crazy,  and it has been sitting in my closet for 35 years. It is in that bag  over there. It is a metal seal that says: ``Member of Congress.''

When I leave here and I go back to my office, it will be the first  thing that I hang. That is because God has a plan for us all. He has a  plan for all of you. He has a plan for me. He has a plan for every  member of my family, and He has a plan for every person who is watching  here today.

I believe that His plan in the days ahead is that we do everything in  our power to deliver on the promise that the voters asked us to do in  November, and that is to Make America Great Again.