Cares Act


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, let me first of all join with my good  friend, Senator Cardin, in appreciating the incredible work that really  so many Federal employees have done to make these programs work. 

  I was with the SBA Director about 2 weeks ago on Friday. She said  that in the first 14 days of the PPP program they did 14 months of  loans in that 14-day period. I thought many times that Secretary  Mnuchin set these high standards for how quickly we would get to each  of these points and probably only later realized just how difficult it  is to get the Federal Government to move. 

  In this case, the Federal Government has moved. The Congress has  moved working together. We didn't have the element of time on our side.  We really had to move quickly. I think we all knew when we were doing  so that we were going to have some miscalculations, whether it was the  amount of money for PPP or a program that wasn't quite as refined as it  needed to be. And, hopefully, we are right now trying to look at not  only how we have filled in the blanks on the programs that we so  quickly dealt with in March, but also to look forward to May and July  and try to figure out what the  economy is going to need and where we are going to be in this  healthcare crisis in May and July. 

  Certainly, a number of our States are beginning to reopen. States  like Missouri are opening in what I think is exactly the appropriate  way. The Governor looked at the whole State and said: We are going to  step back from our initial order in the entire State. We are going to  remove that order. He has worked thoughtfully and carefully with the  mayor of St. Louis and the mayor of Kansas City, the county executives  of bigger counties, and the mayors of Columbia and Springfield, and he  has not gotten into fights with local officials about situations where  they have every reason to know more than he does, just like the  Governor of Missouri has every reason to know more than somebody in  Washington, DC, about when our State should reopen 

  I am glad the President has let Governors have that sort of  authority. I think in most States, including mine, Governors have  stepped back and let local officials assert their view of what should  happen in the area where they have been elected to be responsible. With  that combination of things, we are going to reopen and begin to see the  economy reconnect again like it has not connected for the last couple  of months. 

  At the same time, we have these two fights. One is to save the  economy and one is this important fight against the virus. I think in  the 2 months since we went home after the CARES Act, I spent most of my  time working on the healthcare side of this. Senator Alexander is the  authorizing chairman for these healthcare programs. I am the  appropriating chairman for most of them. These are programs that,  certainly, in the last months, Americans have learned a lot more about  than they ever knew about before. Who knew the Centers for Disease  Control, or the CDC, was doing what it was doing or that Health and  Human Services has the responsibility they have or how troublesome it  was if we let our hospitals get out of whack in terms of income and  continuing expenses? All of those things happen. 

  One of the things I worked hard on has been to get that research  funding at the National Institutes of Health, where Dr. Fauci runs only  one of the double handful of agencies at NIH, the infectious disease  part of that. 

  The American people are beginning to see those things that the  government does and also see that the government, like every other  family or every other institution, doesn't respond to crisis with  immediate efficiency, but does begin to work its way toward a solution.  Senator Alexander and I have spent a lot of time together with FDA and  all those other agencies. What we see happening is a real willingness  with the total backing of the Congress to get out there and try to move  these solutions at a faster rate than we ever have before. Dr. Fauci  said early on that if we developed a vaccine in 18 months, that would  be the world record for a U.S.-developed vaccine from a new virus to  having a vaccine available. 

  We are trying to do everything we can, not only to meet that  potential world record but to beat that world record. How are we doing  that? We are doing that with things like the shark tank concept at NIH,  which we specifically put $1 billion behind in the last bill--$1  billion for a place where people would bring ideas for a vaccine, for  therapy, for testing, and you would have that shark tank environment  begin to evaluate which of those ideas deserve the help of the Federal  Government to push them forward faster. 

  How would we push them forward faster? Obviously, a vaccine is what  we need to fully emerge, in my view, from this. We need therapies to  deal with people who get the virus before we have the vaccine and  testing to know if you had it or not. Hopefully, we would have some  level of immunity or testing to know whether you have it. We have to do  better on all of those fronts. 

  We need tests that are easier to take and get a quick response. We  need millions of these tests that millions of Americans will take more  than once. If you are at a factory, if you are in a close situation, or  if you are on a college campus, the administrator or the boss or you  may decide: I want to take that test every week, and I want to call my  mother every week from this college campus and tell her I have taken  the test again like I told you I would. I was OK last week. I am still  feeling OK. Nobody in my dorm is sick. It is OK that I am here. 

  That is the kind of thing that will get us started. How do we get to  that quick, easy response test? How do we get to that therapy, and how  would the shark tank work? 

  People bring in ideas. Let's assume on testing that the shark tank  decides there are really 10 of these that have real potential to work  and we are going to begin to advance them. Then, at some point, there  are four of them that are still one or two steps away from being fully  vetted, but you don't want to wait until they are fully vetted to go  into production. That is where another billion dollars in an agency  called BARDA is. Take that billion dollars and find a private partner  and say that we are going to produce all four of these tests. We are  going to have all four of these tests ready 30 days from now when we  know which one works because 30 days really matters--30 days in getting  back to school, 30 days in generating the economy. If you are 30 days  ahead of where you would have been otherwise, you can put a lot of  money behind that and still pay only a fraction of what we have been  putting behind trying to stabilize the economy. If two of them work in  that 30-day period of time when you are going ahead and manufacturing  all four of them, they are just ready quicker than they would have been  otherwise. 

  We hear often the idea that failure is not an option. This is a case  where actually failure is almost a certainty on some of the things you  are trying. If you are not failing, you are not trying enough things.  If all you did was advance four things that were going to work anyway,  you really didn't take much of a chance to fast forward or dual-track  what you are trying to do.  

  We are working hard to get ready to have those tests so when you have  a normal blood draw to check your cholesterol, when you turn that into  your doctor, you could ask your doctor to also check for COVID-19 if  they don't ask you if you want to check for COVID-19. They could say  you have it. 

  Hopefully, by the time that test is available, they can say you have  it and you have enough of the antibodies or you have enough of what it  took to fight this off that you should have immunity up until the time  we are likely to have a vaccine. Many Americans then know they are out  there with no danger to themselves or no danger to others. Many  Americans then know that, in all likelihood, they can safely visit  somebody they haven't been visiting for a while because they didn't  want to take a chance of carrying a virus that now they know they can't  possibly get. So those kinds of things will make a real difference in  our economy. 

  On therapeutics, if we don't have the vaccine for it yet and if you  get the disease, we need to find and fast forward the manufacturer of  the therapeutics that we think are most likely to work. 

  It is the same with vaccines. On all those fronts, we are making  headway. I think we are probably testing sophisticated testing for the  antibodies and for a diagnostic test. We are having lots of interest in  that. There is a lot of private sector interest for an antibody test,  for this coronavirus test, where particularly, if scientists can say  that you have it and you have this level of antibody that you can't get  it again. Who wouldn't want to take that test? 

  The authorizing chairman of the Appropriating Committee, Senator  Shelby, Senator Alexander, Senator Murray, and I all believe that the  government should pay for that test. We have said the government should  pay for that test if your insurance company will not. Most insurance  companies said they would pay for that test. It seems to me that if you  have millions of customers and a guaranteed payer, this is one that the  private sector is quickly about to take care of on their own. Thank  goodness for that. This is one of those times when the most  sophisticated pharmaceutical-medical science laboratory system in the  world begins to pay off. That is what we are going to see here. 

  We have other areas where companies are working together like they  haven't before. I know they told our friends at  the National Institutes of Health that if we can test their experiment  better at our facility than they can, bring it over here to test it  over here. We need an all-out effort to get this economy going again.  We need an all-out effort to get people's health secure. Once that has  happened, I think we will see all those things come together. 

  I think we made great strides. I haven't heard anybody say in some  time on this issue that Congress just hasn't provided enough resources  to do this job on the testing, therapeutics, and the medical device  side of this or the personal protective equipment side of this. People  looked at what the Congress has stepped up and done and said the  Congress has given us the tools. 

  The administration, the research of scientists of America, American  pharmaceutical companies, and the medical companies have to step in. I  believe they are stepping in. Let's break some records here. Let's do  some things quicker with the same amount of safety that we have done in  the past. There is a dynamic need to do this. The American people  understand why it needs to be done. People all over the world will  benefit from our leadership here. I think we are seeing it. 

  Hopefully, we can continue on these efforts to have the bipartisan  determination to win these two fights: the fight against the virus and  the fight for the economy that the American people deserve. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT