Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, the response to the coronavirus has made it  clear that there are lots of things that  are the responsibility of individuals, things like staying at home if  you are sick--frankly, staying home if you are more likely than others  to be sick--and practicing the kinds of hygiene our mothers taught us  we should follow all along. Personally, I may have set a new personal  record for just washing my hands in the last 2 weeks. I have never been  averse to washing my hands, but I don't know that I have ever washed  them half a dozen times a day or more before. Those kinds of things are  left up to us. 

  Then there are things that are left up to the local level, things  like determining in a local community whether things should be open or  not and what kinds of activities should be the activities where you  draw the lines in terms of crowds. That is more likely to be better  decided at a local level by even a State or, more likely, by a mayor or  a county executive than by somebody here in Washington. 

  Then at the national level, we are moving toward our third package  now in the last few days to try to deal with this. The first package  was about $8 billion, which was really focused on the immediate health  response--supplies, developing a vaccine, trying to figure out what the  right therapies were, understanding the things we needed to do to  further help hospitals get ready and to further encourage people to go  places other than hospitals when that worked. All of those things were  part of that first package. 

  The package we sent to the President that the President signed last  night was about $100 billion. By almost any standard, it is a huge  amount of money to put together in just a short period of time. That  $100 billion, while it continued to work on the healthcare side, was  also very focused on just keeping people on a payroll if they are on a  payroll. That $100 billion focused to a great extent on how you keep  people who have decided they need to be quarantined or who were in  quarantine by a doctor or by a business that, in fact, was quarantined  because it was closed--keeping those people on that payroll and  continuing to keep that part of our economy going. 

  Today, we move to the third package, which is $1 trillion--$8  billion, $100 billion, now $1 trillion. That $1 trillion is designed to  continue to do all the other things that I talked about but also  designed to keep this economy at a point where, when we get through  this, we will be as nearly to where we would have been otherwise if at  all possible. 

  You know, interestingly, here we are going into a situation where we  are trying to protect an economy that didn't have any systemic problems  with it. It was an economy that was by all measures unbelievably good,  and then suddenly people are encouraged--sometimes required--to back  away from that economy and to cease participating in lots of that  economy, partly because we have encouraged part of that economy to  cease being part of the active economy. 

  What do we do there? This is going to be a different kind of  response, more focused in many cases. Where, in the past, people have  said ``We need more of your money,'' many of the requests are ``We just  need to have access to more money that we can easily pay back when we  get through this. We are willing to have securitized loans. We are  willing to have lots of things,'' figuring out how to deal with that  liquidity issue. 

  Then there are some things we need to put in this package that simply  the government is going to have to look at in ways we haven't looked at  before. I want to spend a few minutes talking about one of those things  today, which, just frankly, is securing our medical supply chain. 

  In the past, the idea that we would worry about the supply chain  would not have been at the top of the list of the things the American  people would be thinking needed to be on the first list they needed to  look at when they think about public health, but what we see happening  now is a direct reminder that the medical supplies we use can come from  all over the world.  

  In a pandemic, everybody in the world may think they need what you  think you would have received and expected to get more than they think  they should send it to you. 

  We depend on manufacturers in other countries. Approximately 40  percent of the finished drugs and 80 percent of the active  pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured overseas--primarily in  China and India. The ongoing global coronavirus outbreak has really  highlighted for the first time in today's supply chain what happens if  you might not be able to get what you need when you need it. It is also  a spotlight on our supply chain challenges generally. I think that, as  a result of this, we are going to look at that sooner than we would  have, but right now, in this bill, I am hoping we include an immediate  look because we have quickly gone through a series of warning signs now  that make us understand why we need to look at this and look at it now. 

  On February 27, the Food and Drug Administration announced the first  coronavirus-related drug shortage--February 27. On March 10, the FDA  halted its routine overseas inspections of drugs and devices. Last  week, State health departments and the Centers for Disease Control and  Prevention raised concerns about the looming shortage of coronavirus  extraction kit reagents needed to actually conduct the diagnostic test,  not to mention some concerns about the swab you might need, in some  cases, to take just the normal flu exam. 

  It is more and more clear that protecting our Nation's medical supply  chain is both a priority for public health and for national security. 

  Obviously, the supply chain has become more and more global. Economic  efficiency makes sense, and being more competitive makes sense. It is  fine to buy things from other countries, but it is better if you have  multiple options. It is better if you have other options, including  domestic production. That is especially true when it comes to vital  things, like medical devices, medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, or the  products we need for public health and safety. 

  We see how this is a problem. It is a problem that has sort of come  upon us in this pandemic environment in a way that we had not thought  we would have to deal with before, but we do have to deal with it. We  are hoping, with this bill, this is one of the places we can deal with  it. 

  You know, in our supply chain, generally, if you are making something  and it takes 300 parts and you have 299 of them, you are in really good  shape, except you can't make what you hope to make because you don't  have that one essential 300th part. If you are relying on factories in  China or South Korea or some other place that have shut down  temporarily, suddenly your factory has become too dependent on a  partner that is no longer there. 

  So a bipartisan group of Senators--including myself and Senator  Alexander and Senator Durbin and Senator Murray--has written  legislation to figure out how to assess our vulnerability in the global  supply chain for medical supplies. We want the National Academy of  Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to look at this issue and to look  at it now, to look at this issue and determine how dependent we have  really become on supplies from other countries and then to make  recommendations as to what some of our options might be. We would also  like to hear their views on how they can make our supply chain more  resilient for critical drugs and equipment; what kind of backup plan we  need to always be thinking about if our frontline plan continues to be  that other partner in another country; what our quick, go-to backup is  and how essential it is that we have that backup. That would include  asking how we can encourage domestic manufacturers of some things to be  able to step up and reorient what they do when they need it and in a  crisis. 

  The President, to some extent, addressed this idea yesterday by  talking about a defense manufacturing strategy. That defense  manufacturing strategy may need to be more robust in some areas.  Whether it is component parts to a medical device or pharmaceutical  ingredients or simply the gloves and masks and swab sticks and things  that you need for basic healthcare when you are trying to determine  what your healthcare environment is and then deal with it, we need to  look at it. 

  One example may be just, again, the daily dependence on the daily  protective equipment that our healthcare providers have. We are  interested to know what we need to do over the next 60 to 90 days and  what we need to do  over the next 2 or 3 years. That is what we are going to be asking this  commission to look at, and we want it to look at it quickly. 

  This is a priority. It has become an immediate priority. We need to  know, as we now look at another one of these in a series of epidemics  where this has been a concern; whether it is Ebola or swine flu, or  bird flu or Zika or SARS, we have had too many of these in too short a  period of time. And during that same period of time, the globalization  of the supply chain has dramatically changed. 

  So as we prepare for future hazards, we want to ensure that a supply  chain is in place to allow us to provide the kind of healthcare we  need, the kind of response we need, and the kind of protection we need.  This should be part of the bill we send to the President, hopefully,  between now and no later than the end of next week. It is one of the  things that will begin to move us in a better direction and create  greater security--greater health security--as we look at our other  security concerns. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT