Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, Qasem Soleimani, the commander of the Quds  Force, was killed by U.S. forces last week. That has already been well  discussed and well understood. The failing regime in Iran has done  everything it could, between his death and right now, to make the most  of it, to make him a martyr to the cause of terrorism. 

  I think we should all understand that the cause of terrorism was his  cause. He is not a general in any traditional sense of what that would  mean. He has been described a number of different ways. He has been  referred to as Iran's top general. Don't think for a minute that means  anything like almost any other country's top general. 

  One newspaper called him Iran's ``most revered military leader.''  That might be true, but remember Iran's purpose as a State is to  encourage terrorism all over the world. 

  I heard one news broadcast where he was referred to as ``an  irreplaceable figurehead,'' though they went on to explain that he was  a significant person. There apparently are no editors anymore because  the term ``figurehead'' doesn't mean what they were suggesting. If they  meant he was an irreplaceable figure, I hope that he is. I think he is  hard to replace, and I hope he is hard to replace. I would like to  think that in many ways he will not be able to be replaced, but that  doesn't mean he deserves our sympathy, respect, or our grief. 

  He was, in fact, a bad person. He spent his career largely outside  the boundaries of what any civilized nation would consider a military  context. He led Iran's terrorism agenda around the world. 

  Iran funded and provided weapons to the Shia militias in Iraq. They  provided arms depots and military forces to the Assad regime in Syria.  They supported Hezbollah terrorists in Lebanon. They provided advanced  weapons to the Houthi rebels in Yemen. Hundreds of U.S. military  personnel in Iraq were either killed or injured by the IED attacks  encouraged and funded by Iran in Iraq. That is what the Soleimani  agenda was all about. 

  Over this past year, Iran has continued its campaign of aggression  against the United States and our allies. In almost every report of  these activities, Soleimani was one of the persons mentioned as, again,  structuring, masterminding, encouraging, or taking credit for these  things as they happened in some cases and denying responsibility in  others for activities for which he and Iran were responsible. 

  Last June, Iran shot down a U.S. intelligence drone flying in  international space. In July, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps  captured a British-flagged commercial vessel in the Strait of Hormuz.  Iran was behind the attack on Saudi oilfields last September using  drones and cruise missiles. Iran was been behind an earlier attack on a  Saudi airport used by civilians. The Quds Force also launched a  crackdown on Iranian citizens who protested oil prices and are  vigorously seeking out others who are complaining about the failing  economy in Iran's failing system. 

  Someone has already been named to replace Soleimani as the head of  the Quds Force, but hopefully no one really can fully replace him. 

  I am not at all sympathetic to the idea that this action to eliminate  this individual somehow came out of the blue. I think the President has  been presented multiple times with this option as one of the things we  could do if we wanted to send the clearest possible message to Iran.  The President was criticized last year because when going down the list  of things I mentioned, he was hesitant to act--until last week. The  same exact critics in many cases decided, after a year of thinking what  would be the best response, that when the President did act it was  suddenly a hasty action. They went from calling his actions hesitant to  calling this hasty, looking for a way to criticize the President. 

  The President took this action after an American contractor was  killed by forces associated with Iran and Soleimani, after the U.S.  Embassy in Baghdad was attacked and weapons were used to get into the  building. 

  There have even been some suggestions that we shouldn't have done  this because we should be afraid of how Iran will react. We do have to  be thinking about how Iran would react. We need to be thinking about  what their next aggressive act might be. It would not be their first  aggressive act, and I have already gone down a pretty long list that  others can expand upon of the aggressive acts Iran has done up until  the last few days. 

  We do have to be thinking about what is an appropriate response, but  maybe it is now time for Iran to be thinking about what our next  response may be to their next aggression. The aggressive list is long,  the response that the U.S. Government took was significant, but we  can't fail to act decisively just because it might upset our terrorist  enemies. We can't fail to act decisively just because it might upset  the No. 1 state sponsor of terrorism, Iraq. 

  Soleimani was not a high-ranking military official in any acceptable  military structure. If your idea of a leading general is a general who  leads in terrorist efforts, I think you have the wrong idea of what a  military leader is supposed to do. 

  Soleimani was not a high-ranking government official in any job that  a responsible government would have. Soleimani was the mastermind of  terrorist activities of the No. 1 state sponsor of terrorism in the  world today. Soleimani has been eliminated and hopefully will be  impossible to fully replace. 

  I would say, in response to that decision, good job to the U.S.  forces that executed the strike, and good job, Mr. President, in being  willing to make the call. A bad person and a determined enemy of  freedom and democracy in the United States of America has been  eliminated. It is time for the Iranians to be thinking about what our  next action might be instead of quietly and vigorously planning on what  their next action might be. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT