Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, today we are on the Senate floor at a  time when, once again, we are attempting as a country to reconcile  things that should have been reconciled long ago. The deaths of George  Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery shocked and outraged the  country. The three of them, in a very short period of time, brought  again this division we have in our country where we look at the country  and particularly look at law enforcement in two different ways. 

  The discussion I have had with my sons is different from the  discussion that many of my African-American friends have had--in fact,  as far as I know, all of my African-American friends who ever talked to  me about this have had--with their sons. With my sons, I would say: If  you get in trouble, look for a police officer. 

  That is not the police officer discussion that African-American  fathers often have with their sons. That discussion goes more like  this: If you are picked up by the police, do exactly what you are told  until I get there, and we will straighten it out once I get there. 

  Those are the two views of what happens. 

  We see in all of these cases some reason to believe that those  concerns are absolute and legitimate. Because of that, there is a wide  support for the protests going on around the country. At our leadership  stakeout today on the Republican side, everybody was great, I think,  understanding the emotion and empathy, and they talked about the  importance of peaceful protests as we see these things that have  happened. 

  The problem is we have protests peacefully during the day that turn  into violence and chaos at night. The peaceful protests shouldn't  become a cover for violent activity. In fact, one of my good friends  who planned some protest marches told me today that there has never  been a peaceful protest march planned for the nighttime. Nighttime is  not the time for peaceful protest marching. It might be the time for a  candlelight vigil, but not a time for peaceful protests. 

  What we see at night are people who either weren't part of that  daytime protesting activity or were there in the daytime so they could  transition to violence and looting at night. It is absolutely  outrageous and absolutely unacceptable. 

  We saw George Floyd's brother yesterday go to the place where his  brother died and say: If I am not looting, if I am not rioting, if I am  not destroying other people's property, why would you be doing that? 

  He was saying: I lost my brother, and I am not trying to destroy my  neighborhood because I lost my brother. I am not trying to destroy his  neighborhood because my brother is gone. 

  Yet we see activities happen that are unacceptable on all fronts.  Last night, in St. Louis, we had four police officers shot in the line  of duty. Sometime earlier in the day, it had been anticipated that at  the City Justice Center there would be a planned violent activity. You  don't manage to shoot four police officers unless you are thinking  about it and normally thinking about it in advance, but that is what  happened. Fortunately, those wounds were all survivable. 

  I talked to people in the police department in St. Louis today, and  they had six other events last night where police were shot at during  the course of the night. We need to realize that the police officers  who work and the National Guard men and women who are working are out  there risking their lives trying to protect others. We need  to realize that when they go to work every day, the members of their  family have every reason to be concerned all day and every day of what  might happen. They don't know what door the person they love may be  asked to knock on, what car they may stop, or what moment may happen  that makes the difficult life of being in law enforcement even more  difficult. 

  We have certainly seen plenty of tragedies there in recent years,  too. It hasn't been that long ago that police officers were being  ambushed routinely and a number of police officers were killed while on  duty, not while they were trying to apprehend a felon, but when  somebody just walks up behind them in the car or on the street and  their life is ended. 

  Then we see the horrifying image of George Floyd's murder. We have  the same fear for people in that situation and the people whom they  love. In fact, nobody should live in fear in our society of just their  personal safety--not the law enforcement officers, not their families,  not people who are peacefully protesting, or people who have violated  the law and are being arrested, as they should be, but not with the  result that we saw. Whether that arrest was appropriate or not, no  arrest is appropriate to decide you are going to be the punishing  officer as well as the arresting officer. 

  Those who are in power should be held accountable. Those who are in  power should set an example. 

  I talked this morning to the police chief in Kansas City, Rick Smith,  who tomorrow will be joining a unity march with other leaders in the  community and protesters in the community. Marching along with the  protesters will be Chief Smith and other officers and other elected  leaders. That is one way to begin to resolve this. 

  I also think, having had some experience with this particular topic,  that the Justice Department needs to reinstate their full review of  department pattern and practice. This is something they have walked  away from in recent years, but in our State we had three departments  since 2014 that had a full pattern and practice review by the Justice  Department. At least one of those entered into a consent decree with  the Department as to how they would focus in the future. 

  I think one of those three--St. Louis County--asked for the review.  St. Louis County, the city of Ferguson, St. Louis city--all believe  they benefited from that review. 

  Reviewing an officer or a number of officers is just often not  enough, so I am encouraging the Department of Justice to get back to  having one of the options on the table a full review by the Civil  Rights Division or some other division in the Justice Department,  depending on the circumstances, of not only the procedures but also the  pattern that a department may have fallen into. 

  We cannot continue over and over again to have the same thing happen,  as we as a society try to grapple with the same exact problem. This is  not a new problem. It is long past the time we should have figured out  how to deal with it. 

  If departments need help in figuring out how to deal with it, that is  one of the things that--whether it was St. Louis or Baltimore--the  Justice Department has shown some ability and some success in doing. I  hope they will look at that again as they look at these three instances  that I mentioned today and others. 

  It is time to move forward. It is well past time to move forward. It  is a time when people should have a society--have confidence in the  institutions of the society, and those who serve in law enforcement and  public assistance of all kinds should also have the appreciation and  respect that we should have for them, and, of course, that is a  contract where you earn that respect, but you also get that respect  when you have earned it, as well over 99.9 percent of those who serve  every day do. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT