Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, let me join my other colleagues in  appreciation for Senator Ernst and her service in Iraqi Freedom, her  two decades of service, being ready and able to go whenever she was  called to go, and her continued service here, and her appreciation for  those who serve, which she feels in such a unique way. 

  She pointed out that this is a different Memorial Day. Communities  across Missouri and across the country have traditional events that  were long planned on Memorial Day. Every year, Memorial Day looks the  same. It will not look the same in very many places this year. If you  did have a parade or an event planned, it was probably canceled weeks  ago. Even with the best of efforts, it was probably not put together  for Monday. 

  But it doesn't mean that we still don't have an opportunity and an  obligation, in fact, to remember those who served. Also, Memorial Day  has long become a time, at least where I live, in the middle of the  country--and it may be more southern and in southern Missouri than in  other places. Memorial Day really became a day to remember all of those  who have gone before us, those who passed along values to us, those who  have done things that made life possible today. 

  When I was growing up, sometimes we called Memorial Day ``Decoration  Day,'' because it was the beginning of the tradition of Memorial Day,  and people would go and decorate the graves of soldiers after the Civil  War. That has continued. Memorial Day became a time when families would  go to cemeteries, and you sort of had the genealogical lesson right  there, as you walked from gravestone to gravestone, and it was  explained to you how those people were related to you. 

  Many family members who were here last year aren't here today and  will not be here on Monday. Clearly, the coronavirus pandemic has had a  devastating impact on families. It has had a devastating impact on  communities. It has had a devastating impact on lives. 

  As we support this Memorial Day, as we think about this Memorial Day,  we will be remembering a unique Memorial Day, where so many have given  their lives in a war that was different than other wars, to an enemy  that was not easily seen, to an enemy that turned out to be deadlier  around the world than any would have predicted. And that is part of  Memorial Day this year. 

  Part of Memorial Day is remembering the sacrifices that people have  made, and we also on this day want to remember the sacrifices that  people made to try to keep people alive with this virus--the sacrifices  people have made to try to give care, to bring people out of the  emergency room, to bring people off the ventilators, and to do those  things. 

  It is, in fact, a unique Memorial Day. It is a Memorial Day where, 75  years ago, we were just finishing the incredibly devastating war of  World War II. V-E Day ended the war in Europe on May 8. Seventy-five  years ago right now, American soldiers were fighting the Battle of  Okinawa. Just 2 weeks before that, our country and our allies fought  the fierce Battle of Iwo Jima. These were really the two last major  battles. 

  One of the people who died on Iwo Jima was an 18-year-old marine from  Bates County, MO, named George Phillips. On the night of March 14, an  enemy hand grenade was tossed into the area where his squad had sought  shelter. Private Phillips shouted a warning and threw his body on top  of the grenade, saving the lives of every other person there, but gave  his life to save theirs. 

  For his actions that day, he was awarded the Medal of Honor. The  citation was signed by another former soldier from Missouri--President  Truman--honoring that bravery. 

  That kind of unhesitating bravery is a characteristic of American  soldiers over centuries of understanding what it meant to defend your  family, to defend your friends, to defend those serving with you, and,  in the case of our country, to be willing to defend freedom, to be  willing to jump on the grenade, to be willing to do what is necessary  to protect others. 

  We have seen many examples of that in the last year. Some of those  examples were in the military. Others were in those who protect us and  in first responders and police and fire, and then many examples of  people who risked their lives to save others with the virus that has  attacked our country. 

  We have a lot to think about this Memorial Day, a lot to dedicate  ourselves toward as we look to a future where people continue to help  others, where people continue to give selflessly, and for those who  have served in the military, to be willing to pay whatever price, and  we stand in appreciation of that on this Memorial Day, as we approach  this weekend. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT