Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, later today I will vote to acquit the  President on the charges of the two Articles of Impeachment. A not- guilty verdict, as every Senator on this floor has known for some time,  was always what would happen in a House-driven, partisan impeachment  process. 

  Less than a year ago, the Speaker of the House said that we should  not go through this process unless something was compelling, unless  something was overwhelming, unless something was bipartisan. I think  the Speaker was exactly right then, and I hope all future Speakers look  at that guidance as we think about this process of impeachment. 

  In the first 180 years of the Constitution, individual Members talked  about impeachment of Presidents--maybe of almost every President--but  the Congress only seriously touched this topic one time--one time in  180 years. 

  In the last 46 years, Presidential impeachment has been before the  country three times, and each case has been less compelling than the  one before it. We don't want partisan impeachment to become an exercise  that happens when one party--not the party of the President--happens to  have a majority of the votes in the House of Representatives. 

  Impeachment is fundamentally a political process. The Members of the  Senate meet no standards for a regular jury. The jury can override the  judge. Two-thirds of the Senate is necessary to remove the President.  We really have no better term in the Constitution, I suppose, to use  than ``trial,'' but in any classic sense, this isn't a trial. In any  classic sense, a partisan impeachment isn't any kind of a real  indictment. 

  Maybe, first and foremost, the House has to do its job. Part of that  job would be to create a case that would produce a bipartisan vote on  the articles in the House. If you haven't met that standard--going back  to the Speaker's standard--you should work on the case some more and  then wonder, if you can't meet the standard, what is wrong with the  process you are going through. Part of that job is to do everything  necessary to have Articles of Impeachment that are compelling and  complete. 

  The House has time available to it to consider impeachment as they go  about their essential work. They can continue to do the work of the  Congress. They have weeks, months, if they choose to have, even maybe  years to put a case together. They can call witnesses. They can go to  court to seek testimony. They can determine if this is an impeachment  question or just an oversight question. 

  The House can do lots of things, but once the Senate gets the  Articles of Presidential Impeachment, they become for the Senate an  absolute priority. Both our rules and reality mean we cannot do  anything else, realistically, until we are done dealing with the case  the House sent over. 

  That was fundamentally what was so wrong with the House sending over  a case that they said needed more work. If it needed more work, it  should have had more work. 

  You can be for strong review of the executive. You can be for strong  congressional oversight and still support the idea of executive  privilege. The  President has the right to unfettered advice and to know all the  options. In fact, I think when you pierce that right, you begin to have  advisers who may not want to give all the options to the President  because it might appear they were for all the options. But the  President's advisers need to see that the President understands all the  options and implications of a decision. 

  The President, by the way--another topic that came up here several  times--the President determines executive policy. The staff, the  assistants, and whoever else works in the executive branch doesn't  determine executive policy; the President determines executive policy.  The staff can put all the notes in front of the President they want to,  but it is the President's decision what the policy of the  administration will be. Sharing that decision with the Congress,  sharing how he got to that point--or later, she got to that point--with  that decision is a negotiated balance. 

  Congress says: We want to know this. 

  The President says: No. I need to have some ability for people to  give me advice that isn't all available for the Congress. 

  So this is balanced out, and if that can't happen, if that balance  can't be achieved, the judiciary decides what the balance is. The  judiciary decides a question and says: You really must talk to the  Congress about this, but you don't have to talk to them about the next  sentence you said at that same meeting. 

  That is the kind of balance that occurs. 

  The idea repeatedly advanced by the House managers that the Senate,  by majority vote, can decide these questions is both outrageous and  dangerous. 

  The idea that the government would balance itself is, frankly, the  miracle of the Constitution. Nobody had ever proposed, until  Philadelphia in 1787, one, that the basis for government was the people  themselves, and two, you could have a government that was so finely  balanced that it would operate and maintain itself over time. 

  The House managers would really upend that balance. By being  unwilling to take the time the House had to pursue the constitutional  solution, they decided: We don't have to worry about the Constitution  to have that solution. 

  To charge that the President's assertion of article II rights that go  back to Washington is one of the actual Articles of Impeachment--that  is dangerous. 

  The legislative branch cannot also be the judicial branch. The  legislative branch can't also decide ``here is the balance'' if the  executive and legislative branch are in a fight about what should be  disclosed and what shouldn't. You can't continue to have the three  balances of power in our government if one of the branches can decide  what the legislative branch should decide. 

  In their haste to put this case together, the House sent the Senate  the two weakest Articles of Impeachment possible. Presidents since  Washington have been accused by some Members of Congress of abuse of  power. Presidents since Washington have been accused by some Members of  Congress of failure to cooperate with the Congress. 

  The House managers argued against their own case. They repeatedly  contended that they had made their case completely, they had made their  case totally, they had made their case incontrovertibly, but they  wanted us to call witnesses they had chosen not to call. They said they  had already been in court 9 months to get the President's former White  House Counsel to testify and weren't done yet, but somehow they thought  the Senate could get that person and others in a matter of days. 

  These arguments have been and should have been rejected by the  Senate. 

  Today, the Articles of Impeachment should be and will be rejected by  the Senate. Based on the Speaker's March comments, these articles  should have never been sent to the Senate. They were not compelling,  they were not overwhelming, they were not bipartisan, and most  importantly, they were not necessary. 

  One of the lessons we send today is to this House and to future  Houses of Representatives: Do your job. Take it seriously. Don't make  it political. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT