National Police Week


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, this is National Police Week. It is one of  the weeks that I always look forward to. 

  For years now, it has been an opportunity to spend time with people  who protect us--who protect all of us. We get a chance each day to say  thank you to the Capitol Police, who work here at the Capitol. As the  chairman of the Law Enforcement Caucus, I have lots of opportunities in  our State to see officers in groups and one at a time, and I always try  to be thankful to them when I see them. Yet this is a time every year  when we get a chance to see people from all over the country come to  Washington, and it is a chance for us to say thank you to them and  thank you to their families. 

  This year in particular, Chief Jon Belmar--the just recently retiring  chief at the St. Louis County Police Department and good friend who was  always there for advice, always brought a big contingent of officers to  Police Week. So I am thinking about him and of not seeing him at Police  Week in Washington. 

  I am also thinking about the new chief of the St. Louis County Police  Department, Chief Mary Barton. This is a county of over a million  people, so it is a substantial job. It is a place to really affect how  police work is done. I look forward to spending time with Chief Barton  as she moves forward with what she can do to build on what has happened  in the department over the years. 

  Like so much else this year, Police Week is different than it has  been before. There are no sounds of hundreds of motorcycles going down  the streets of Washington as we celebrate the week. There are no groups  of law enforcement officers or police vehicles from all over the  country coming here. I am grateful for them. They protect  our safety. This is a job wherein, every day when you leave home, you  have no idea what events may come before you that day, and, frankly,  your family has no idea what may happen that day. 

  I have told a number of officers, in thinking about their families,  including the officers who serve here at the Capitol, that they  generally have some sense as to whether they are in a moment that could  lead to danger or not beyond the normal readiness to serve us but that  their families, with their not being with them when they are at work,  have to wonder over and over again during the day what threat may come  to the person about whom they care so much as that person protects  others. 

  Each year, one of the memorable events of National Police Week is the  candlelight vigil that is held at the Law Enforcement Officers Memorial  a few blocks from here. We gather there annually to hear the names of  officers who have lost their lives and to bear witness to and be  grateful for their service. 

  Sadly, in the past year, Missouri has lost three dedicated officers. 

  Last June, Lakeshire Chief of Police Wayne Neidenberg passed away  after assisting at the scene of a rollover crash in O'Fallon, MO. Chief  Neidenberg had stopped at the scene on his way home, called for  assistance, and proceeded on after the situation was stabilized, but  before he got out of his car at home, he had a heart attack. We lost  Chief Neidenberg at that moment. 

  He spent his entire career in law enforcement. He served in both the  St. Louis County Police Department and in the Lakeshire Police  Department. He was an Army veteran. He is survived by Ardell, his wife;  Cori, his daughter; and his three sons, Matthew, Darek, and Aaron. 

  On Sunday, June 23, North County Police Cooperative Officer Michael  Langsdorf responded to a complaint of check fraud at a local business  in Wellston, MO. The man who has been charged with his murder shot  Officer Langsdorf after a struggle inside the store. He had served with  the department for only 3 months, but before that, for 17 years, he had  been part of the St. Louis City Metropolitan Police force. 

  At his memorial service, Officer Langsdorf's son, Kaleb, remembered  his dad this way:  

       They say never to meet your heroes because you'll end up       disappointed. Well, I had the chance to be raised by mine,       and he never disappointed. He taught me that a life of       rescuing, defending and serving is the only life worth       living.  

  In addition to Kaleb, Officer Langsdorf is survived by Kim, his  fiancee; by Olivia, his daughter; and by his future stepchildren, Devin  and Kaitlyn. 

  Officer Christopher Walsh joined the Springfield Police Department in  2016. On the evening of Sunday, March 15 of this year, Officer Walsh  responded to an active shooter situation at a convenience store. The  shooter had opened fire in the store, killing three people and injuring  a fourth person. Officer Walsh rushed into harm's way to protect  others. The shooter opened fire on Officer Walsh and killed him. His  fellow officer, Josiah Overton, was injured in the same attack. Officer  Walsh was fatally wounded and died the next day. 

  He was a U.S. Army Reservist. During his 14 years of service in the  Reserves, he completed tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. Sheri, his wife,  and Morgan, their daughter, will live with his loss for the rest of  their lives. 

  Let me share a passage from Chris's obituary. Chris, by the way, was  the first Springfield officer of the town I live in to be killed on  duty since the 1930s. It is a great city with the great, good fortune  of its officers' managing to do their jobs without having a loss like  this, but we had one this year. 

  The quote from his obituary reads:  

       Christopher Ryan Walsh, a man devoid of vanity and devoted       to the service and to the welfare of others, would hope that       out of these tragic circumstances something beautiful could       take root in all of our hearts. Chris would hope that his       memory would serve as an example to spur small kindnesses and       acts of devotion and service to all of our community, friends       and loved ones, to look past the things that separate us and       to focus on the things that unite us.  

  So Police Week is exactly the time to think about the things that  unite us, to think about these officers and their courage, to think  about their acts of devotion and service as we remember them. 

  Congress wants to make sure that law enforcement officers have the  support they need and never get into a situation without the resources  needed to back them up. I am honored to serve as cochairman of the  bipartisan Senate Law Enforcement Caucus, which advances legislation  that supports the efforts of law enforcement nationwide. Senator Coons  from Delaware is the other founder and cochair. 

  Together, we sponsored the National Law Enforcement Museum  Commemorative Coin Act that became law last year. The proceeds of the  sales from those coins minted under the law would go to education and  outreach about the service and sacrifice of law enforcement officers  throughout our country's history. 

  I am also a cosponsor of legislation that would provide resources to  protect officers' mental and physical well-being, including the Law  Enforcement Suicide Data Collection Act and the Lifesaving Gear for  Police Act. I am glad to be a cosponsor of the Thin Blue Line Act and  the Back the Blue Act, both of which are designed to better protect  police officers and hold perpetrators who attack them accountable.  Through these pieces of legislation and several others, the Congress  has a chance to once again show its support of the men and women who  serve in law enforcement. 

  Police Week is different this year. I think we are all particularly  appreciative of how law enforcement is having to step up in the crisis  of the virus, doing what needs to be done, and again often making way  for first responders and others to do what they can to save life and to  protect other people who somehow are on the edges of this virus. They  deal with people who are isolated in their homes, and because they are  isolated, their mental health issues have become bigger issues. This is  not an easy time for any of those who serve. 

  Every year, we remember law enforcement, but this year I think we  need to be particularly grateful for those who serve and protect us. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT