Sens. Blunt & Coons, Reps. Scanlon & Chabot Introduce Resolution Marking Public Radio Music Day


Yesterday, U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Chris Coons (Del.), along with U.S. Representatives Mary Gay Scanlon (Pa.) and Steve Chabot (Ohio), introduced a bipartisan, bicameral resolution to mark April 16, 2020, as Public Radio Music Day. The resolution celebrates local public radio music stations and their service to listeners, artists, and communities across America.

"More than twenty million Americans tune in to local public radio music stations every week," said Blunt. "These stations provide a unique listening experience by spotlighting local artists, playing a wide variety of music, and engaging with audiences in the communities they serve. I'm proud to support this bipartisan resolution marking Public Radio Music Day and celebrating public radio's contributions to the arts, education, and culture."

"I am pleased to join my colleagues in this bicameral, bipartisan recognition of public radio music stations," said Coons. "Every day, hundreds of local public radio stations enrich the lives of the millions of Americans who tune in to discover emerging artists, connect with local culture, enjoy unique musical curations, and experience innovative programming. Public Radio Music Day celebrates the performers, fans, and stations who form these amazing communities around the universal language of music."

"Our public radio stations are the gateway to the world for listeners across the country," said Scanlon. "Public radio stations offer audiences, musicians and artists a platform for innovative and diverse music programming on air, online, and on-the-go. These public service music stations encourage and showcase new and emerging local artists to construct deep and lasting relationships with audiences in our congressional districts. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing a bicameral, bipartisan resolution to designate April 16, 2020 as Public Radio Music Day, and to continue to support access to public radio music stations for all audiences."

"Even in an ever-transforming media and entertainment environment, local public radio music stations continue to provide a unique service to our communities and our nation," said Chabot. "Local public radio stations are often the primary, if not only, resource for music lovers to encounter local artists and performing groups, as well as more traditional music forms like jazz and classical music. Public Radio Music Day will highlight the need to give more Americans more opportunities to experience the unique and valuable programming available on our nation's local public radio stations."