Operation Uptown Funk


Mr. BUDD. Madam President, I rise to recognize and commend the  outstanding efforts of our law enforcement community in western North  Carolina for their role in the success of Operation Uptown Funk. Now,  that is a pretty creative name, but it is a very serious issue. It was  a yearlong investigation into drug trafficking in Appalachia.

This coordinated operation has involved law enforcement agencies from  Buncombe, Henderson, Haywood, and Transylvania Counties in North  Carolina as well as Greenville and Spartanburg Counties in South  Carolina, and it has been supported by the Drug Enforcement  Administration. This is nothing short of a strong testament to the  commitment of our law enforcement officers to put the welfare of our  communities first.

Over the course of this investigation, authorities confiscated more  than $175,000 in illicit funds, 20 firearms, and 30 pounds of illegal  drugs, including substantial quantities of cocaine, methamphetamine,  and fentanyl. More than 30 individuals from Henderson County have been  arrested and are being held accountable for their role in this  dangerous drug network.

These results are not just statistics. They represent lives saved,  overdoses prevented, and neighborhoods that can breathe easier knowing  that they are a lot safer.

In a region still working to recover from the devastation caused by  Hurricane Helene, dismantling this trafficking ring has brought a  renewed sense of hope and security for Western North Carolinians.

On behalf of the people of North Carolina, I extend my deepest  gratitude and congratulations to Sheriff Lowell Griffin of Henderson  County, Sheriff Quentin Miller of Buncombe County, Sheriff Bill Wilke  of Haywood County, and Sheriff Chuck Owenby of Transylvania County. I  also want to thank the dedicated men and women within their  departments--especially the Henderson County Drug Interdiction and  Criminal Enforcement Unit, or DICE--for their service. Their courage  has protected countless families and made it clear to drug traffickers  they will find no refuge in the mountains of our beautiful Western  North Carolina.

It is my honor to represent a State whose law enforcement  professionals lead with tremendous integrity and commitment to our  citizens. I will continue working in the U.S. Senate to ensure that  they have the tools, resources, and support they need to keep our  communities safe.