-9999


Mr. LEE.  It has not received a legislative hearing, and  it hasn't been marked up. And it hasn't been reported by the committee  of jurisdiction. As a result, there has been no opportunity, with all  of those stops along the legislative pathway having been skipped--there  has been no opportunity--for Members of this body, for members of the  Trump administration, for the two principal involved Agencies within  the U.S. Department of the Interior, known as BOEM and BSEE, to provide  their feedback or offer testimony on the implications of this  legislation.

Now, look, the Senate's committee process exists, and it exists for a  reason. It exists for exactly these sets of reasons. While it might  have slightly different implications depending on the committee  involved and depending on the type of legislation, there are reasons  why these things are there, and almost regardless of which committee is  affected, you can normally benefit from this. And, in fact, it is  normally quite hazardous to just bypass all of this, because that is  how we legislate, without making sure that we have gone through all the  necessary steps.

This process that has evolved over the last, roughly, two and a half  centuries allows legislation to be examined in a transparent and a  deliberative  way, with input from affected Agencies, from industries, from the  President of the United States and members of his administration, and  Senators on both sides of the aisle, including but not limited to the  Senators of the States who might be behind the legislation in question.

Before legislation is advanced to the floor, it should be vetted  through that process so that the Senate can fully understand and  appreciate its scope, its effect, its legal posture, and whatever  unintended or intended consequences the legislation might have.

I have made it clear, from the beginning, that I am willing to work  with the Senator from Florida. In fact, I have offered to place it on  the agenda for the next subcommittee hearing within the Energy  Subcommittee of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee. That would  provide the Trump administration with the opportunity to weigh in with  its views and allow us to hear analysis from BOEM and BSEE and any  other Agencies that are affected--consistent with how the committee has  considered other legislation within its jurisdiction this year, and  consistent with the way it has always done it in the 15 years I have  been a U.S. Senator.

As chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, I have  consistently stated that bills within the committee's jurisdiction  should proceed through regular order. That process positions bills for  successful consideration on the floor, consideration by the House, and,  ultimately, enactment into law.

Skipping that process allows a bill to jump ahead of others that have  followed the rules and respected the committee system.

So my objection today is not based on the merits of the underlying  policy. It is based on the process. But the process is important to  getting the policy right. That is why we don't skip it. That is why, in  the absence of a compelling, overwhelming, urgent reason, we don't just  ignore it, and I can't and won't ignore it here.

The Senate should not abandon its regular order by advancing  legislation that has not been considered by the committee of  jurisdiction.

I look forward to working with my friend and colleague the  distinguished Senator from Florida to consider her bill in the Energy  and Natural Resources Committee in a transparent matter.

Until that occurs, I must object and object now.

Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I respect and deeply appreciate my friend and  colleague the distinguished Senator from Florida. And I respect and  admire her great devotion to protecting her State, its pristine  beaches, and the many qualities that it enjoys. People from all over  the United States of America and all over the world love going to  Florida. No one wants to take that away.

I, nonetheless, take umbrage--great umbrage in fact--to a couple of  characterizations to which I must now respond. First, as to what she  characterizes as the ``long bureaucratic process,'' this process is  itself quite short, especially in comparison to an actual bureaucratic  process, which it is not. Make no mistake, this is not a bureau; this  is not bureaucratic process; this is a legislative process. It is a  legislative process that has endured for hundreds of years in this  country, and it may not be perfect, but it is the best one we have got.  It existed for many hundreds of years before that in our mother  country, before we became our own country. There are reasons why these  things develop. To call it a long bureaucratic process is neither fair  nor accurate, and it misapprehends the nature of the legislative task,  including the legislative task before us at this very moment.

Now, with regard to the suggestion that by not passing this today-- not passing it after leapfrogging over about 10 legislative steps that  are essential to that process--we are somehow threatening Florida's  pristine beaches and waters, this is simply not true. That couldn't be  more untrue.

Let's remember what happened in 2020. President Trump issued a  moratorium. That moratorium stays in place until 2032. Absent some  other action taken pursuant to that, the status quo is to protect them.

What she is trying to do is to protect against President Trump doing  anything consistent with his authority, consistent with that 2020  order. She is trying to tie his hands to prevent him from even figuring  out what is there, to figure out whether there is a cost-benefit  analysis on any of that.

Now, sure, the Senate can consider that from time to time. And  perhaps after the legislative process--not the bureaucratic process.  That is something different. That doesn't exist here. Nor is this  simply a delay for the sake of delay. I pride myself in running the  Energy and Natural Resources Committee and bringing forth these  hearings as expeditiously as possible, and I have offered to put it on  the next appropriate subcommittee hearing.

Now, if a mere delay of a few weeks or a few months, where it takes  that time, isn't acceptable, I would like to know why. We have yet to  hear a single reason, a single argument as to the parade of horribles  of what could happen if we don't, as she would do here, tie President  Trump's hands and bind further legislatively beyond what he has already  bound himself to through his own 2020 Executive order.

So this is in place. It will remain in place. And there has yet to be  a single reason articulated as to why we should treat this as an  emergency. There is nobody going down there to drill right now. We  still have got the Agencies that are looking at it. The least we can do  in consideration of President Trump, his administration, and the  affected Agencies, including those that I have mentioned earlier  today--most particularly BOEM--is to hear them out first. In the  absence of a compelling reason to leapfrog all of that, I must and will  continue to object.