Providing for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter 8 of Title United States Code, of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Relating to ``Protection of Marine Archaeological


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1687975/providing-for-congressional-disapproval-under-chapter-8-of-title-united-states-code-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-ocean-energy-management-relating-to-protection-of-marine-archaeological


Ms. LUMMIS. Mr. President, I rise to speak in support of President  Trump's energy dominance agenda and to oppose my colleagues who want to  keep America literally in the Dark Ages when it comes to producing  energy. This, the greatest energy-producing country, is being asked to  take a step back.

Our energy is cleaner. We produce it cleaner. We transport it  cleaner. And yet the Biden agenda had us deferring to other countries  that produce energy dirtier, transport it to countries that are paying  for it so the Russians, for example, can spend money to fight a war  that we are on the other side of.

These are matters that President Trump is addressing and has  committed to the American people, pursuant to his Executive order on  January 20 of this year--the first day he took office--to make it a  priority. As we all know, during President Trump's campaign, he chose  to make exporting energy dominance and energy independence a hallmark  of his campaign.

He did it because he knows about the connection between energy  independence and bringing down inflation. When you go to the grocery  store, we see products all over the shelves that have been brought  there by trucks--trucks that are paying a lot for gasoline and diesel  fuel.

You see frozen food refrigerators lining the aisles that are plugged  into electricity that comes from oil, gas, coal, wind, and solar. And  the more expensive it is, the more expensive the products are that we  buy in those stores.

The same is true in any retail store around this country. Over the  last 4 years, the Biden administration worked overtime to stick it to  the energy industry at every turn while my colleagues here cheered them  on and helped them. On day one, President Biden placed a moratorium on  public land energy development that never truly went away until January  20, 2025, when President Trump was sworn into office and signed an  Executive order.

Wyoming and the West have fallen victim to the previous  administration's regulatory regime designed specifically to kill the  industry. Then, once he kills it, he goes overseas and asks countries  like Saudi Arabia and Venezuela to fill in the difference. These are  countries that cannot produce energy as cleanly as we can and do, and  yet he would rather get the energy from them to placate the radical  environmental community in this country--that very same community that  knows that we can do it cleaner here.

During the Biden administration, the BLM declined to offer up lands  for oil and gas leasing. And when they did, they ignored the spirit of  the law and offered the fewest acres possible.

In September 2023, the BLM collected a measly and insulting $27,000  from an oil and gas lease sale in Wyoming. Compare that to the  September 2021 lease sale that netted over $1.3 million.

The people of Wyoming are elated that President Trump, on day one,  committed to fixing the sins of the previous administration by  declaring a national energy emergency.

You know, I was in Seoul, South Korea, last spring. And one day, we  had clear air. The next day, it was so dirty that you couldn't see, Mr.  President, from where I am standing to where you are sitting. And I  said: What went wrong over 24 hours? And they told me the wind shifted  and was coming in from China. China's dirty air was blowing in because  China is producing dirty energy.

And yet we would rather defer to them when we know we can produce it  cleaner. In my State of Wyoming, the Dry Fork energy plant is the  cleanest coal-producing energy ever produced anywhere. In fact, it is  so clean that when they began emitting from that plant, they didn't  want to tell the U.S. EPA how clean they could do it for fear that the  EPA would apply that same standard to all of America's legacy coal  plants--none of which could afford to retrofit to the modern technology  of Gillette's coal-fired powerplant.

In Wyoming, we have abundant oil, gas, uranium, coal, and more. Under  the order, Wyoming's public lands can return to Congress the intended  goal of multiple use, which includes responsible resource extraction.  If you go back to FLPMA, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act,  which passed in the 1970s, it mandates multiple use of public lands-- not single use, not preservation or conservation alone, not oil and gas  alone, not recreation alone. It is all of these multiple uses.

Energy production is the backbone of my State and many other Western  States. We are proud to power the Nation and to support a President who  supports us.

With the rise of artificial intelligence and a thriving data center  industry, our Nation will need all the energy it can get. I was out in  California during October and went to AI companies--large, medium, and  small--and they all told me the same thing: that the bottleneck for  America in being the world leader in AI is energy.

We are going to need way more energy than we have needed in the past,  and in order to make artificial intelligence work for us and to be  dominant in this technology, we need more energy, not less. And we know  we can do it cleaner than other countries.

If my colleagues succeed in passing their resolution that is under  consideration, we are setting the stage for failure. We are setting up  our economy and future generations for failure. Voting to approve the  resolution is a vote for an unstable energy supply, higher energy  costs, and more.

I urge my colleagues to vote no against the resolution that is  brought by my colleague Senator Heinrich from New Mexico. I urge my  colleagues to stand with President Trump and to oppose this resolution.