Denouncing the Antisemitic Terrorist Attack in Boulder, Colorado


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692191/denouncing-the-antisemitic-terrorist-attack-in-boulder-colorado


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, as Mr. Goldman mentioned, I represent  Boulder, Colorado, in the Congress. I live in Boulder County. My wife  and I are incredibly blessed and lucky to be raising our family in this  community.

Last week, I introduced a bipartisan resolution denouncing this  heinous anti-Semitic terror attack in my community. H. Res. 476, a  resolution that makes clear that we stand with the Jewish people, the  Jewish community, and which explicitly calls for us to do more to  address the scourge of anti-Semitism.

Mr. Speaker, that resolution is broadly supported by the members of  Colorado's congressional delegation. Colorado has eight Federal  lawmakers here in Washington. Six of the eight joined that resolution.  I thank Republican Representatives Jeff Crank and Jeff Hurd for doing  the right thing and joining that resolution so that we could speak in  one voice in denouncing this attack.

There were two Members of Colorado's entire congressional delegation  who refused to join this resolution. One of them, Mr. Gabe Evans of  Colorado, instead decided to introduce the resolution that the House is  going to consider today. This resolution is not bipartisan. It is not  carried by the Member who represents this community. This a first, by  the way, Mr. Speaker, in the precedence of this House, that the  majority would not give the Representative who represents the victims  the opportunity to speak on behalf of their community, but Mr. Evans  decided to proceed anyway.

Mr. Speaker, of course, because Mr. Evans does not represent this  community, the resolution that he has introduced is riddled with  inaccuracies. That is not a surprise. It is why it is important for  Members who represent communities that are besieged by tragedies like  this one to have the opportunity to introduce a resolution and have  that resolution considered on the floor.

Let me give you some examples, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Evans' resolution  claims that there were 14 victims of this attack. He is wrong. There  are 15 victims. Maybe he got that from Google or found it in a  newspaper article, but had he been involved in the conversations with  law enforcement, as I have, he would know that there were 15 victims of  this terrible attack.

It is poor decorum to ask this body to vote on a resolution that  lists the wrong number of victims. They are my constituents. They are  real people who were burned half to death by a terrorist 7 days ago.  The least you can do is list the right number.

Mr. Evans' resolution also says that ``reportedly one victim was a  Holocaust survivor.'' She is not reportedly a survivor. She is a  Holocaust survivor. There is no doubt to that. There is no allegation  to that. I know because she is my constituent. The word ``reportedly''  should be struck from this resolution.

My colleague's resolution, Mr. Speaker--Mr. Evans' resolution, to be  clear, because we are considering multiple resolutions today, so I am  talking about the resolution from Mr. Gabe Evans of Colorado--does not  mention once, not once, the Boulder Police Department, the officers who  I represent who put their lives on the line to save members of the  community 7 days ago.

The resolution that Mr. Evans has offered doesn't mention the FBI  once, not once, whose swift response was so integral. The only law  enforcement agency that Mr. Evans mentions is ICE, the one agency that  was not in Boulder that day.

We should have the decency to recognize the Boulder Police Department  and the officers who I represent who put their lives on the line 7 days  ago. It is the least we can do. We have a resolution that does that in  a bipartisan way. Had the House majority, the Republicans, done what  Republicans and Democrats in this Chamber have done since time  immemorial, since I have served in this body, which is allow a Member  to put his resolution to the floor for a vote, mistakes like this  wouldn't happen.

Now, I know that an earlier version of this resolution that Mr. Evans  introduced, which he tweeted about, talked about the fact that this was  because Colorado was a sanctuary State. He has removed that language  from this resolution, so I am heartened that he now concedes that is an  inaccurate claim, that that language is not in this resolution.

However, in times like these, I would have hoped that my colleagues  would be willing to come together to properly honor the victims and to  condemn anti-Semitism, as I have said, as our resolution does.

It is not hard to do the right thing, Mr. Speaker. The question that  Mr. Evans should answer is: Why? Why not join his two other Republican  colleagues in Colorado and join the bipartisan resolution that thanks  the Boulder Police Department, that thanks the FBI?

The purpose of these resolutions is to unite the Congress, not divide  it. The purpose is to unite us in condemning violent attacks like  these, to make clear that we stand with the Jewish community today and  always and that we will be there for them in the weeks and months  ahead.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage you, read the resolution that Mr. Evans  introduced. You will not find a single reference--not one--to the  victims' families, the people I met with over the weekend, the people I  marched with. There is nothing in Mr. Evans' resolution about standing  with the Jewish people. Nothing. The word ``Jewish'' is mentioned once  in this resolution. The terrorist's name is mentioned 13 times. There  is no mention of this being a hate crime. There is nothing in the  resolution about the anti-Semitism that is metastasizing across the  country that Mr. Van Drew and I agree is a scourge.

So much of what Mr. Van Drew said is in the bipartisan resolution  that I introduced. None of it is in the one that Mr. Evans introduced.  There is not one mention, Mr. Speaker, in his resolution of Run for  Their Lives, the organization that was targeted by this terrorist, the  organization that has been pushing for the release of the hostages.  They couldn't include one reference to the organization that was  targeted? One?

I have served in this body, as I mentioned previously, Mr. Speaker,  for 6\1/2\ years, and I have seen a lot of partisan debate unfold on  this floor, but I think it is disgraceful to not give my community an  opportunity to see our resolution considered on this floor.

I don't know how the Republican majority can force a vote on a  resolution like this that gets so many of the basic facts wrong. I had  hoped that my Republican colleagues would choose a different course,  but they have yet to do so. There is still time.

The Speaker, the majority leader could put our bipartisan resolution  on the floor for a vote. They could fix the defects in the resolution  that Mr. Evans has introduced. I would implore them to do so.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Colorado for such moving and important remarks, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, just a few words first. I want to speak a  little bit about Mr. Evans because he may not say it himself. He has  served in our military, served proudly in our Army, and he has served  in Colorado as a police officer. He has done more, not only served in  one or the other, but served both, and did so with honor, decency, and  respect. I think the benefit of having him here, he brings a lot to the  table about this issue because I know that he has served and worked in  Mr. Neguse's actual district, in his territory, as well. I hope maybe  he will speak about that, although I know he didn't necessarily plan to  do so. He is my friend and a good man. I know he cares deeply about  this issue.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I have a parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, very simply, can we amend Mr. Gabe Evans'  resolution with the inaccurate information so that it reflects the  accurate information about the number of victims? Can we just change  the number from 14 to 15 and add the Boulder Police Department and the  FBI? Then, the law enforcement agencies in my district, in particular,  the Boulder Police Department, can be recognized by this House.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, there are three Republican Members in the  Chamber: Mr. Van Drew, Mr. Crank, and Mr. Evans.

Res. 476, the bipartisan resolution condemning the anti-Semitic  attack in Boulder.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I again simply ask Republican leadership to  do the right thing and to bring H. Res. 476, the resolution I have  introduced to condemn this attack in my community and in my district,  to the floor for a vote. I think what the Republicans have decided to  do is shameful. I couldn't be more disappointed.