Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act--Veto Message From the President of the United States


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for the time. I  support this bill for many reasons. I support it for the reasons that  were articulated by the sponsor, my colleague from Colorado, Ms.  Boebert; by the ranking member; and by the chairman. I think they have  ably explained why this water infrastructure project for southeastern  Colorado is so critical, a project 60 years in the making.

I support it because, as was noted, there are no cogent issues with  this bill as were purportedly articulated in the veto message from  President Trump. Far from it, this bill will cost taxpayers virtually  nothing as was referenced. It makes good on a promise to the people of  rural Colorado.

I support the bill because I believe that the people of Otero County  and Bent County and Crowley County deserve access to clean water just  as every citizen of the great State that I serve and that Ms. Boebert  serves, that Mr. Hurd serves, and my other colleagues in the Colorado  congressional delegation deserve.

I think what is perhaps missing from this debate, and it is important  for us to level with the American people, is: Why are we here? Why,  despite all the reasons that this bill makes a whole lot of sense? Why,  despite the fact that this bill passed unanimously in the House and in  the Senate, Mr. Speaker? Why did the President veto this bill?

We are here, unfortunately and profoundly, because the President has  declared war on our State. In the last 40 days, he has taken step after  step to harm the people whom I serve and whom I represent. He is  denying disaster assistance for folks in Rio Blanco County and down  south in La Plata County. He is freezing childcare assistance and food  assistance for hungry families across our State and trying to dismantle  a scientific institution in my district. Now, he is denying access to  clean water to 50,000 people in southeastern Colorado.

It is unconscionable.

Now, I am speaking to my Democratic colleagues. To be clear, it is  important in this moment for Members to support this override and  ensure that this promise that was made to the people of southeastern  Colorado is not impaired and is not abrogated by the President's  retaliation against the State of Colorado. We cannot let that become  the new normal.

I will say to all of my colleagues: As you consider where you land on  this particular vote, let me be abundantly clear. It does not matter if  your community supported Donald Trump politically. If we don't take  this step, then, trust me, no town is safe, no county is safe, and no  State is safe from political retaliation by the administration. We will  be back here on the floor debating a veto for a project in Arkansas or  in Texas or in Ohio.

The House has an opportunity, in my view, to do the right thing on  the merits and to support this important legislation that Ms. Boebert  has introduced and that she has fought for with our colleagues in the  Senate, Senator Bennet and Senator Hickenlooper.

I am urging every Member of this body: Put aside political  differences. Recognize that this is a bill you already supported as  recently as last month. Recognize that it is going to  have a dramatic and consequential impact on a lot of hardworking  Americans in the rural parts of our country. Vote in the affirmative on  the override.