Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692346/halt-all-lethal-trafficking-of-fentanyl-act


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time.

First, I thank the ranking member for his leadership in addressing  the scourge of fentanyl overdoses across our country.

I serve as one of the co-chairs of the Bipartisan Fentanyl Prevention  Caucus with Representative Darrell Issa and Representative Madeleine  Dean. It is certainly an issue that we have worked tirelessly on. I  appreciate the bipartisan cooperation, notwithstanding, obviously, the  disagreements with respect to this particular bill. I think the ranking  member has spoken very eloquently with respect to his concerns.

I thank the ranking member for indulging me and giving me a few  minutes to speak on the floor because, at the conclusion of this  debate, I intend to make a unanimous consent request of the Chair. I  would hope that it is a consent request that everyone in this House  could agree to.

As many of my colleagues, of course, are well aware, there was a  terrible, heinous terrorist attack in my district 10 days ago in  Boulder, Colorado. We have introduced a resolution, H. Res. 476. It is  a bipartisan resolution. Several of my Republican colleagues have  joined me on this resolution.

It denounces anti-Semitism, condemns the horrific attack in my  community, and lifts up the organization Run for Their Lives, which was  heinously targeted by this terrorist. This is an organization that has  been working every week to peacefully call for the release of the  hostages held by Hamas in Gaza.

Mr. Speaker, I am simply asking for this House to consider my  resolution. This terrible attack happened in my district. I have no  doubt that if Republican leadership just puts the resolution on the  floor, it will pass unanimously in this House. I have no doubt, so I am  just asking my colleagues to give us the opportunity to weigh in or at  least explain to us and my constituents why my community is being  deprived of this resolution that honors law enforcement, the FBI and  the Boulder Police Department, which acted so swiftly in response to  this terrorist attack.

Mr. Speaker, I know Mr. Griffith, in particular, to be somebody who  shares, I believe, my views as I have articulated them with respect to  this particular attack, and I just hope that my colleagues would agree  to give this resolution its due course.