It is Time for the Corruption to End


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699746/it-is-time-for-the-corruption-to-end


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to sound an alarm, to sound an  alarm about something dangerous and dark and pernicious that is  happening inside our government. I recognize there are only a handful  of my colleagues in the Chamber to hear that alarm and a few folks in  the gallery, but I pray that Americans writ large will hear it.

George Orwell in his famous book ``1984'' wrote of a time when ``The  party told you to reject the evidence of your eyes and ears. It was  their final, most essential command.'' His warning proved pressing  because today the Trump administration asks the American people to  ignore what they see with their own eyes and what they hear with their  own ears, which is the complete corruption of their government from the  inside out.

The Trump administration's pay-to-play schemes are literally ripping  off hardworking American taxpayers as we speak. We see the evidence  everywhere: A $10 billion payout that Donald Trump, the President of  the United States of America, now demands from his own Treasury  Department in a lawsuit that he filed against the IRS.

By the way, who does he demand pay him this $10 billion? The American  taxpayer. The countless pay-to-play schemes and vanity projects that  have consumed his administration, all paid by American taxpayers, are  stripping the pocketbooks of Americans to line their own.

Last weekend, The New Yorker reported that the President and his  family have raked in $4 billion in personal profits by leveraging the  Presidency. Let's think about that, $4 billion.

The most salient example of this, by the way, we just learned about  in the last 7 days. It was an expose by The Wall Street Journal about a  scheme that the Trump administration engaged in last year.

The Trump family, according to these public reports, sold a 49  percent stake in their crypto company to a member of the Emirati royal  family. They did so for nearly half a billion dollars.

We don't know every detail of this transaction. We do know that the  Trump family received $187 million from that transaction, a payday  entangling the President's financial interests with a foreign country.

Months later, we know that the Trump administration approved a crypto  deal with the UAE that included transferring advanced U.S. technology  and AI chips.

Mr. Speaker, this is corruption, plain and simple.

It is the prioritization of personal profit over the national  security interests of our country, the country we all love so dearly.

It is wrong. It is immoral, and my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle say nothing. Worse, some of them defend this conduct,  notwithstanding that they know it is unlawful, that it is violative of  our Constitution.

We have an Emoluments Clause, Mr. Speaker, for a reason. The Foreign  Emoluments Clause was one of the few provisions to survive and be  transferred from the Articles of Confederation to the Constitution in  1787. It was contemplated for precisely a scenario as this one.

George Mason, one of our Founding Fathers during the Constitutional  Convention, warned his fellow delegates that ``if we do not provide  against corruption, our government will soon be at an end.'' His words  are as true today as they were when he said them 240 some-odd years  ago.

It is shameful the lack of courage from my Republican colleagues. It  is repugnant to the constitutional order that we all have been sworn to  defend, to protect, and to vindicate.

The question I have, Mr. Speaker, for my Republican colleagues and  for every American of good faith is: When is enough enough? How many  sweetheart deals will Republicans refuse to condemn?

The corruption must end, Mr. Speaker. The corruption must end.