Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Department of Energy Relating to ``Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for Commercial Refrigerators, Freezers, and Refrigerator-freezers''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689052/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-walk-in-coolers-and-walk-in-freezers-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-office-of-energy-efficiency-and-renewable-energy-department-of-energy-relating-to-energy-conservation-program-energy-conservation-standards-for-commercial-refrigerators-freezers-and-refrigerator-freezers-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-defending-education-transparency-and-ending-rogue-regimes-engaging-in-nefarious-transactions-act


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North Carolina,  Chairwoman Foxx, for the customary 30 minutes.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today yet again to expose to the American public  the misplaced priorities of the House Republican Conference and the  Republican majority here in the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, the Republican majority gaveled us out of session 11  days ago. Here we are back in Washington, D.C. Of course, for us, it  feels a lot like ``Groundhog Day'' because, notwithstanding all the  economic turmoil, the conflicts across the globe, the various ways in  which this administration is making life harder for the people of  Colorado, for folks across our country, notwithstanding all the  challenges that our country is grappling with, House Republicans have  decided to spend this week debating what? Three bills: walk-in  freezers, commercial refrigerators, and giving new responsibilities to  a Department, the Department of Education, that they are seeking to  dismantle, that they want to abolish. That is what we are debating here  today, Mr. Speaker.

I listened to every word of the chairwoman's address outlining every  component of the bills that we are considering, but for folks who are  watching, for those who have graced us with their presence in the  gallery, please understand the three bills: one regulating commercial  refrigerators; another regulating walk-in refrigerators; and the third,  a bill to give new responsibilities to an agency that they are seeking  to destroy. That is it. That is what we are debating this week in  Washington, D.C.

If folks in the gallery stay here through the week, that is what you  will hear. You will hear a debate today, a debate tomorrow, and a  debate on Thursday on those three bills.

I suspect that the folks who are watching this debate, Mr. Speaker,  would agree with me that there are better things for us to spend our  time on here in Washington, D.C., than debating walk-in refrigerators.  Seriously? I don't know, maybe for Madam Chairwoman it is really  important to the people of North Carolina. She may have a lot of  constituents who have walk-in refrigerators. I don't know.

For me, I can tell you I just spent a week in Colorado, in the rural  communities that I represent, hosting townhalls, visiting with folks in  my community, constituents, ranchers, farmers, teachers, working  families, packed townhalls. At those townhalls, do you know the one  subject that no one brought up? Commercial refrigerators. It never came  up.

At a townhall that we held 3 days ago with over a thousand people in  my community, no one at that townhall approached me and said:  ``Congressman, can you please go back to Washington and pass  legislation on commercial refrigerators? It is really important.''  Nobody said that.

They are really concerned about the Republicans' plan to gut  Medicaid. They are pretty concerned about the Republican plans to  dismantle Social Security offices across the country. They are deeply  concerned about reports that this administration is going to end phone  line customer service for senior citizens who are relying on Social  Security. They are pretty concerned about a Secretary of Defense who  apparently is sending out war plans on unencrypted messaging apps,  putting our national security at risk.

Those are the topics that my constituents care about. Commercial  refrigerators is not one of them.

You can tell the frustration, I suppose, Mr. Speaker, in my voice. It  is the frustration borne from having to come to the floor every week  and debate appliances. Can the Republicans just put all the appliance  bills in for consideration for 1 week? We can just do them all and then  be done with it, and we can move on to having a debate about defending  Medicaid, defending healthcare for the millions of Americans who rely  on it. Is that too much to ask?

I just would beg of the chairwoman, I understand this is an important  priority to her. It is important to the Republican Conference. We get  it. They are obsessed with appliance regulation. After this week, can  we please just be done with these appliance resolutions and get back to  debating the issues that the American people expect us to debate?

Mr. Speaker, just to be clear, I am not trying to make their  legislation on commercial freezers look frivolous. It is frivolous. The  American people understand that. They get it. Maybe there are a lot of  people in the chairwoman's district buying commercial freezers. Again,  Mr. Speaker, I can assure you it is not the top priority of the people  whom I represent in northern Colorado and in western Colorado. It is  far from it.

Now, I must say, I did hear with interest the chairwoman reference  visiting with her constituents. I would simply say that my  understanding was that the chairwoman doesn't do townhalls. I think she  recently said in an interview that she doesn't do townhalls because  they are an opportunity for constituents to yell at their  Congressperson. So I find it of great interest.

I would just encourage the chairwoman and every member of the  Republican caucus to do a townhall. They are nothing to be afraid of.  It is a great opportunity to visit with our constituents. Perhaps if  the gentlewoman would do that, she would come away with the same  conclusion that I did, which is that the legislation we are considering  today is a waste of time and grossly disproportionate to the priorities  of the American people. It is simple.

Mr. NEGUSE.                             Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. NEGUSE. First, I just want to note, Mr. Speaker, and perhaps it  is a point of information for your purposes, you admonished the prior  speaker, the ranking member, for not making personalities, or rather  making personalities against the President. My understanding is the  only person he referenced throughout the duration of his speech was  Elon Musk. So I am not sure if that was an accident on your part or if  that is intentional, and perhaps the Speaker can clarify because I  don't believe he referenced President Trump, but apparently you mistook  his references to Elon Musk as a reference to the President.

Mr. NEGUSE. I would just say, Mr. Speaker, that would be an important  thing to clarify in the House moving forward that references to Elon  Musk will be treated as references to the President of the United  States, which is apparently what the Speaker is doing, that if someone  references Elon Musk, that the Chair, that the Speaker will treat it as  though we are referencing the President.

Mr. NEGUSE. It is perhaps a point of clarification for a future time.  I will say this, before yielding some time to the distinguished  gentlewoman from New Mexico, the chairwoman made reference to supposed  fear-mongering regarding Social Security. It isn't fear-mongering. It  is on the front page of The Washington Post.

I will read you the quote: ``Elon Musk put a big target on the Social  Security Administration in the first weeks of the Trump  administration.''

So it is not fear-mongering to share on this floor the concerns that  have been articulated by our constituents regarding the dismantling of  the Social Security Administration that President Trump and his  administration is engaged in. It happens to be the truth.

Leger Fernandez), who is a member of the Rules  Committee.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, we are in a constitutional crisis.  President Trump and his co-president Musk apparently are blatantly  rejecting the role of the courts while Republicans in Congress are too  scared to stand up for their constituents or the Constitution.

When we talk about Social Security, the idea I kept hearing from the  other side is: We have done nothing to Social Security.

Yes, they have. Republicans have done nothing to stand up for their  constituents who are worried about their Social Security check. They  are appropriately worried about their Social Security check because  Republicans have done nothing to complain about the executive cutting  the workers at the Social Security Administration. Republicans have  done nothing to complain about the closing of offices at Social  Security or done nothing about the idea that a person can no longer  call Social Security. Republicans have done nothing to reject Project  2025 cuts and proposals to cut Social Security.

Social Security is also important, Mr. Speaker, because we are in a  cost-of-living crisis. Prices for groceries, food, and housing are  rising thanks to Trump's policies and Trump's tariffs.

What are House Republicans doing in response to these crises?  Bringing appliance bills, appliance bills which show how out of touch  they are with their constituents. These appliance bills, by the way,  have consequences. They raise costs. They raise costs so that American  small businesses will pay for utilities so that big companies, those  big utility companies, can continue racking up more profit.

Republicans seem to always stand with the greediest corporations and  not the consumers.

For those few Republicans--not our colleague here--but those few  Republicans who are willing to hold townhalls, they are hearing a lot  of anger  about Medicaid and Social Security cuts, but not much about  refrigerators, are they?

What do they say in Iowa?

In Iowa they said that Trump and Musk are ``moving very rapidly  toward a dictatorship and an oligarchy.''

This is in Iowa.

In Wyoming, farmers shared with their Representative that Trump's  cuts will limit the resources they need to deal with the devastating  impacts of drought.

H.R. 1048 under this rule continues Trump's and Republicans' attacks  on higher education and the lifesaving and innovative research  conducted at our universities. I don't know why they hate our  universities so much, because we already have a law that requires  disclosures of foreign gifts. However, this Republican bill will have  impossible burdens of reporting to a Department that they want to  eliminate.

What are we doing here with a bill that goes to a Department they  want to eliminate?

This bill shows how out of touch Republicans are, once again, to  Americans' concerns because a majority of Americans want to keep the  Department of Education that funds programs for kids with disabilities,  provides student loans, and makes sure poorer schools can hire enough  teachers.

If Republicans were truly worried about national security, they would  look at how this administration is destroying America's leadership  abroad, from having Signal chats about our national security to  everything else they are doing.

I will end with this Mr. Speaker: While Republicans' billionaire  class might not need public schools for their kids, the kids in my  district do.

I understand the chairwoman apparently now is saying she won't  believe The Washington Post articles. I wonder if she will believe the  sentiments of her own colleagues? I believe it was Mr. Lawler from New  York who a week ago was bemoaning online the closure of one of the  Social Security offices in his own district.

What are we talking about? These offices are being closed in North  Carolina, as well, I believe. This isn't some fictional, imaginary  hypothetical. The Social Security Administration is closing down  offices. Wait times are getting longer.

I just would urge my colleague, whom I have great respect for, to  visit with her own constituents, and I suspect that they would share  the same frustrations that I am articulating here on the floor.

Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an  amendment to the rule to bring up H.R. 433, the Department of Education  Protection Act, which would shield the U.S. Department of Education  from efforts to dismantle the agency and ensure that every student  receives the education they deserve.

As my colleague Representative Leger Fernandez already articulated,  it makes no sense that Republicans have pushed forward a bill today to  give more responsibilities to an agency that they are trying actively  to dismantle.

Nonetheless, there is a way forward to save teachers and students and  rural schools across the country, including back in Colorado, and that  is by ensuring that the Department of Education Protection Act receives  a vote here on the House floor.

Mr. NEGUSE.  Mrs.  Hayes is the author and the sponsor of this legislation, a former  public schoolteacher, and a National Teacher of the Year. She is  someone who has spent her life serving the students, the young folks,  and the working families of the people of Connecticut.

Mr. Speaker, some of this can get lost in translation, so I will try  make this very simple. The gentlewoman, who I respect, wants to abolish  the Department of Education. She is unabashed about that. She has voted  to close the Department of Education. She supports the President's  efforts to dismantle the Department of Education. I presume she  supports the President's efforts to reduce the workforce by half. Mr.  Speaker, 50 percent of the personnel in the Department of Education are  now gone on administrative leave.

Yet, here we are today, debating her bill to create new  responsibilities, new requirements, new duties on the very department  she seeks to destroy.

What are we doing here?

If they don't want the Department of Education--again, that is their  view; they don't want a Federal Department of Education; they are not  hiding that--why are we debating a bill to give the Department of  Education more power? It is insanity, insanity.

Stansbury).

Mr. Speaker, I simply echo the sentiments that have been expressed by  so many of my colleagues that the policies that Republicans are  pursuing here on the House floor are not the priorities of the American  people. I think we all would be far better served if we debated the  actual issues of the day, such as the challenges that Representative  Stansbury and so many others described so eloquently.

Mr. Speaker, there has been a lot of discussion about townhalls. I  don't quite understand, and perhaps the gentlewoman would be willing to  expound upon her opposition and the opposition of so many of my  colleagues in the Republican Conference to doing townhalls.

I have held 100 townhalls over the course of the time that I have had  the privilege of representing Colorado in the United States Congress.  We have held them everywhere in my district. I represent communities  and counties that voted for Donald Trump, and I have held townhalls and  will continue to hold townhalls in those communities because my  obligation is to represent every person in western Colorado and in  northern Colorado in the district that I serve.

My job is to be accessible to my constituents regardless of their  political beliefs. I understand that Republicans are scared right now  to host townhalls because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  know that the policies that the majority is pursuing in Washington are  deeply unpopular.

If I spent my week in Washington pushing bills on commercial  freezers, I would probably be a little nervous to do a townhall back in  my district, too. I get it. I understand where Republicans are coming  from. However, maybe the way forward is to spend our time in Washington  working on matters of substance. If we do that, I can promise  Republicans that their townhalls will go just fine. They will go just  fine.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from  Colorado (Mr. Neguse) for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my disappointment that my  commonsense amendment to the DETERRENT Act was rejected yesterday in  the Rules Committee by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

My amendment would have distinguished between benign donations from  friendly democratic countries and donations from potential adversarial,  undemocratic states.

My amendment would enact strict oversight on funding from regimes  seeking to manipulate students on university campuses and to spread  hate, particularly anti-Semitism, on those campuses for their own  agendas.

My amendment would have significantly expanded the list of countries  whose donations the universities would be required to disclose,  including a number of countries not included in the DETERRENT Act that  have given  billions and billions of dollars to universities in recent years.

More importantly, my amendment would also require that universities  disclose the detailed terms and conditions that they agreed to in  return for the foreign donation from this expanded list of countries,  critically revealing whether those foreign donations come with strings  attached that can foment antidemocratic influences on campuses.

Instead, this bill hampers universities' abilities to engage in  important educational programming in conjunction with our democratic  allies while failing to confront the real problem of antidemocratic and  anti-Semitic foreign influence.

Mr. Speaker, it is a shame that we could not work in a bipartisan way  to make this bill better and to address the root issue that both sides  of the aisle are trying to address, which is the potential nefarious  foreign influence on college campuses from a list of countries far  greater than the four countries of concern outlined in the DETERRENT  Act.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I don't know if the gentleman from New York  (Mr. Goldman) is still here, but I will relay the substance of the  chairwoman's remarks regarding his amendment and the timing of his  amendment submission.

Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close. I have only a few minutes of  debate left. As the chairwoman said, this is the people's House, a  House that I have great reverence for.

Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I might, via the Speaker, make a request to  the chairwoman to engage in a brief colloquy. Perhaps that could  provide the viewing public a sense of real debate, as opposed to us  just giving speeches.

Mr. Speaker, with much respect to the gentlewoman, I think that is a  shame because I think the American people ought to be able to hear a  fair and full exchange of views in an active debate. I think that is  far more present when we actually have a colloquy as opposed to just  making speeches.

I simply say that the question I was going to pose to the chairwoman  is that she has made clear that these three bills, the bill to give  more power to the Department of Education that she seeks to dismantle  and bills on the regulation standards for refrigerant walk-in freezers  and commercial refrigerators, that those bills are very important to  the House Republican Conference, that they are a top priority.  Interestingly enough, not a single Republican Member of Congress in the  last hour that we have had allocated for debate has indulged us with  their presence today to come to the floor and extol the virtues of the  legislation that Republicans have pursued on commercial refrigerators.  I wonder why. It is probably not an accident.

Mr. Speaker, I can't imagine that there are a lot of Republican  Members of Congress who wanted to sign up to come do floor debate today  on commercial refrigerators. In light of the biggest mishap on a  national security front in decades and in light of all of the  challenges that our country is facing, debating refrigerators  apparently was not something that many of my chairwoman's colleagues  wanted to do.

Nonetheless, I am grateful that we have had an opportunity to share  with the American public and give them full transparency into how the  Republicans have decided to spend their time and their majority here in  Washington, D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I am sure we will proceed with a few more days of  debate. I am sure Republicans will pass their bills on commercial  freezers and walk-in refrigerators, and then we will be back next week.  One can only hope that Republicans will have seen the light by then and  that we won't be up for appliance week number 4, 5, 6, or whatever it  is now.

Mr. Speaker, if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would  like to actually debate substantive issues, there is an easy way to do  it: opposing the previous question and opposing the rule and the  underlying bills so that the House can get back to doing the people's  work.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.