Providing for Consideration of Senate Amendment to H.R. One Big Beautiful Bill Act


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, my understanding is that Republican  leadership has issued a notice to their Members that they aren't  required to be on the floor, essentially an informal adjournment,  notwithstanding that this amendment vote is pending. Is it appropriate  under the Rules of the House of Representatives' procedure or  Jefferson's Manual to keep a vote open while simultaneously declaring  to Members that they are free to leave?

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, it does, and I appreciate the Speaker's  response. Is it customary for a vote to go over 1 hour?

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, my final parliamentary procedure request:  Would it be permissible, Mr. Speaker, or would the Speaker entertain a  motion to adjourn, given that Republicans don't intend to complete this  vote?

Mr. NEGUSE. I thank the Speaker.                            Parliamentary Inquiry

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I have a parliamentary inquiry.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, my understanding is that House Republicans  have kept this vote open longer than any other Congress in the history  of the House of Representatives.

At what point will the Speaker ascertain whether this practice is  violative of rule XVII with respect to the order of the House or rule  XX with respect to the voting procedures of the House?

Mr. NEGUSE. Nine hours ago, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I asked whether or not it was violative of  rule XVII or rule XX for Republicans to keep this vote open longer than  any other Congress in the history of the United States House of  Representatives.

We know for certain that this, in fact, is a new precedent that has  been broken by Republicans. This is the longest--yes, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I conclude simply by saying: Is it  permissible under the rules for this vote to be held open for 24 hours,  48 hours, 3 months? How long, in the Speaker's judgment, is it  permissible to hold the vote?