Providing for Consideration of H.R. Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act; Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Esa Amendments Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701981/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-reliable-federal-infrastructure-act-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-esa-amendments-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Let me first just say congratulations to my colleague from Texas (Mr.  Roy) for congratulating himself. It is a special thing here in the  House of Representatives. Apparently, if you work hard enough, you can  introduce a resolution congratulating yourself and your colleagues for  the resolutions or the bills that you have passed. It is a  participation trophy, a   Mike Johnson participation trophy, that my  colleague from Texas is a proud recipient of along with the other  members of the House Republican Conference.

Madam Speaker, it has been 15 months now, 15 months since this  Republican majority and the President were elected into office. For  nearly a year and a half, Republicans have presided over what is now  widely considered to be one of the least productive Congresses in the  modern history of our country.

Since President Trump took office, only 86 pieces of legislation have  been signed into law. Of course, of those 86, many bills have harmed  tragically, profoundly the American public.

Fifteen million Americans have lost access to health insurance since  President Trump took office. Millions of Americans are going hungry  because of lost SNAP benefits that my colleagues are so proud to have  enacted. The country is now involved in yet another deeply unpopular  war in the Middle East.

President Trump campaigned on lowering gas prices and no new wars, he  said. Of course, that couldn't have been further from the truth.

Last week I stood in this exact same spot and I posed a very simple  question, Madam Speaker: Would Republicans continue to waste our time  on self-congratulatory, commemorative, meaningless resolutions,  saluting themselves, applauding themselves?

Apparently, that was a rhetorical question. We have our answer. The  answer is H. Res. 1182. I encourage everyone watching to go online and  read the resolution that we are here to debate this week, ``recognizing  the work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress.''

This is what Republicans choose to spend their time on: resolutions  congratulating themselves, giving themselves a pat on the back,  participation trophies. It is an utter absurd waste of time, and it is  illogical.

It is nonsensical that Republicans would choose to spend their time  for the second week in a row on a resolution that does nothing, changes  nothing, accomplishes nothing, but congratulating themselves for what  they would describe as a job well done.

They have the audacity to suggest that they are supporting rural  communities. I represent a district that is one-third rural. Let me  tell you, families are struggling in northern and western Colorado as a  result of the policies that the Republican Conference have implemented,  as a result of President Trump's reckless and extreme agenda.

It is no wonder that President Trump is deeply unpopular, the most  unpopular President in the modern history of our country.

I simply say to you, Madam Speaker, that I suspect we will have some  debate about the underlying bills that my colleagues have introduced  and are asking this august Chamber to consider, bills that weaken a  variety of different environmental standards, bills that weaken  protections for endangered species. They are not the kind of matters  that are coming up at my townhalls in Colorado. Perhaps my colleague  from Texas has a different experience in his district.

What I am confident of is that no citizen in our country, no  Republican--I am not talking about the politicians here in Washington,  D.C. I am talking about their voters--would think that it would be a  prudent use of our time to pass self-congratulatory resolutions.

Honestly, I hope if there are folks watching, Republicans watching  this--I understand we will have principled disagreements about a wide  variety of policy matters and proposals that this House ought to  consider, but just understand something: They are squandering their  majority.

They are not here debating immigration or gas prices or healthcare  costs or any number of priorities. They are not here debating  legislation that, frankly, I am likely to oppose, but nonetheless would  be legislation and priorities that Republican voters might care about.  They are not here debating that. We are here wasting time handing out  another participation trophy to the 218 Members of the House Republican  Conference.

Madam Speaker, I ask my friend, my colleague on the other side of the  aisle, it may just be easier next time to put this into a press  release. Put it into a letter. We will help you and that way we can get  back to the business of the House.

Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, first, I will say with respect to the shutdown of DHS,  I find it exceedingly rich that my colleague would say what he said  when, last night, he voted against an amendment in the Rules Committee  that would have enabled this body to consider the bill that passed the  United States Senate twice on a unanimous basis to fund the Department  of Homeland Security.

Ted Cruz didn't object. Mike Lee didn't object. No Member of the  United States Senate objected to that bill. If it were put on the floor  for a vote, it would pass with an overwhelming two-thirds majority  today.

He knows it. You know it, Madam Speaker. So, spare me these  complaints that somehow Democrats are responsible. It is contradicted  by the clear facts and procedural history.

Madam Speaker, I will also say, with all respect to my colleague,  that the gentleman covered a lot of topics: immigration, Joe Biden, gas  prices, and Joe Biden again. What is fascinating is that the resolution  that the gentleman has offered, or, rather, that he is being asked to  debate today, has nothing to do with any of it.

``Resolved, That the House of Representatives, through policies . . .  has demonstrated support for the prosperity and economic growth of the  United States.'' They are saluting themselves. What are we doing here?

Again, I understand that the gentleman from Texas does not decide  what bills we debate on the floor, so I am talking to Speaker Johnson.  If he wanted to, he could put a bill on the floor today to pay TSA  agents. He could put a bill on the floor regarding healthcare costs. We  could spend all week debating hundreds of bills that have been  introduced by Democratic Members and Republican Members. He has decided  to force the House to vote on this press release instead for the second  time.

What is this obsession with the House recognizing House Republicans?  We get it. They are proud of themselves. Everyone understands that. Can  we move on?

That, to me, is the absurdity of what we are debating here on the  floor today. I am hopeful that this will be the last week, but I am not  optimistic.

Last week, I thought it was a joke. I said that maybe next week, we  will debate a resolution congratulating House Republicans for passing  the congratulatory resolution that they passed last week. Apparently,  that was not a joke.

If the Speaker is listening, I didn't mean that literally. I think we  should stop with the self-congratulatory resolutions so that Mr. Roy  and I can actually debate the underlying policies and the challenges  that are facing the country.

Yet, this is not that.

Madam Speaker, before I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr.  Tran), I just will explain that if we defeat the previous question, I  intend to offer an amendment to the rule to adopt the Senate amendment  to H.R. 7147, which was and is the bipartisan Senate compromise bill  that I just referenced a few moments ago that the Senate unanimously  passed twice now.

I understand Mr. Roy is vehemently against that bill. I get it. I  understand that he believes that the bill that Mike Lee and Ted Cruz  didn't object to doesn't satisfy his ideological goals. I understand  that.

Yet, I suspect that the vast majority of the Republican Conference  would pass that bill today if we had an opportunity to. The good news  is that we hope to create that opportunity by ultimately defeating the  previous question and enabling the House to be able to consider that  bill.

Spare us more debates on commemorative resolutions, and let's fund  the government.

Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman  from California (Mr. Tran).

Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, a lot to respond to. Apparently, my colleague from  Texas wants the American people to believe that the reason they are  paying astronomically high prices for gas is because the protections  for bald eagles and humpback whales are too strong; that we need to  weaken protections for endangered species, and lo and behold, we do  that, gas prices will drop. It has nothing to do with the war in Iran.  It couldn't possibly be connected to the unconstitutional war that the  President has decided to wage. It must be the protections for bald  eagles. I am sure that is the case.

Give me a break. The American people know better.

They have the audacity to lecture the House, lecture their colleagues  on the other side of the aisle about affordability when, right now,  everything is getting more expensive.

For families back home in Colorado, the families that I am privileged  to represent, times are tough. Costs for everything are going up.  Health insurance, car insurance, appliances, gasoline, you name it, the  price is going up.

I am sure it will come as great solace to those families that House  Republicans have decided this week that the best way to address it is  to pass a resolution congratulating themselves for the work that they  have done. I am sure that is going to solve the problem. Republicans  are on the case.

Again, with all respect to my colleague, I think he has been given an  impossible assignment today: to defend that resolution. I suppose that  is why he focused on some of the other bills that we are considering  today, because that resolution is indefensible.

I suspect my Republican colleagues aren't necessarily watching today.  I think me and my colleague from Texas are the only two Members of  Congress in this Chamber. Nobody else is here--oh, of course, the  Speaker as well--three Members. There is nobody else who will be here  to debate this resolution.

I hope that some of my Republican colleagues, perhaps, may watch some  of this and maybe decide tomorrow to vote against the rule because  voting for the rule is an endorsement of Speaker Johnson's strategy to  waste everyone's time, to waste our time, and to waste your time, and  fundamentally, more than anything else, to waste the American people's  time when there are real issues of consequence that merit our  attention, our scrutiny, our inquiry, and our work.

The best way to stop this Chamber from debating meaningless and  needless self-congratulatory resolutions is for a few Republicans to  vote against the rule and to suggest that maybe there are some other  issues that they would like this body to consider.

I hear a lot--you see all of this on social media all the time--my  Republican colleagues who will demand votes on this legislation and  that legislation, a laundry list of Republican priorities, none of  which the House is considering, none of it. I guess we will find out,  but I look forward to--I don't look forward, actually. I bemoan the  fact. I suspect maybe Mr. McGovern will be managing that rule next week  when we do the congratulatory resolution on the resolution for the last  resolution. We will have someone else debate that one because I suspect  Mr. Roy and I will have grown tired of engaging in this debate.

In any event,

Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, first and foremost, I would just say the approach that  my friend from Texas describes is wrong and imprudent and whatever  adjectives he might characterize it as. That is the approach that  Senate Republicans took, so the argument is best made to your  colleagues in the upper Chamber. Republicans control the Senate, not  Democrats. They passed that bill. They sent it here to the House, not  once, but twice.

I understand that my colleague from Texas opposes that bill, and he  has explained the reasons why he opposes it. I believe, as I said  previously, that the vast majority of this House would vote in favor of  that bill, which is why it ought to come up for an up-or-down vote. Let  the chips fall where they may, no pun intended.

I will say this, Madam Speaker: I have been keeping meticulous count.  I have a little, I guess you could call it, Biden bingo card here. I  like to keep track. My colleague from Texas has mentioned Biden six  times, six times and counting, in the last couple minutes.

I get it. I understand. He does not like Joe Biden. I understand. The  message is received. Joe Biden isn't President anymore. Republicans  have been in charge for 16 months. Republicans have had the majority  for 16 months. Republicans have had complete control in Washington, the  Senate, the Presidency.

What do Republicans have to show for it? Republicans have meaningless  resolutions, whereas clause after whereas clause: We are wonderful. We  have passed this resolution. We passed this bill. We are frustrated  that some Senate Democrats have opposed it.

That is it.

This is 16 months of work.

Again, I would just say to you: I certainly can say very confidently  that citizens in our country are not satisfied or pleased or heartened  by the way in which this body is functioning. I think my colleague from  Texas knows that too.

For the Republican voters out there, for those who believe in the  House Republican Conference's policies or, you know, perhaps share  their worldview, share their ideology, I am here to tell you they are  not pursuing that agenda either. It is not that I disagree in this  instance with the substance of what they are pursuing; it is that they  are not pursuing any substance; it is that we are just wasting time.

Again, my colleague from Texas has spoken with great passion, great  passion about any number of issues and policies that he favors and he  would like to see accomplished. None of that has anything to do with  the resolution that we are debating today. We might as well just--we  can set aside a different time for Mr. Roy and I to engage in that  debate.

Today, we are debating the resolution that is before us, a resolution  that does nothing, achieves nothing, and changes nothing. As I said, it  is a participation trophy.

I wish that I would have proposed perhaps a motion to recommit that  would maybe change the name of this resolution to the participation  trophy. We will have to think of that for next week. I have no doubt I  will have another opportunity because I imagine that Speaker Johnson is  going to keep this going for the next 7 months.

I am very curious about what participation trophy House Republicans  intend to hand out to themselves next week. This week's was--I think  rural America was the caveat that they added. Last week's was the big,  beautiful bill--or not the big, beautiful bill. That is what Mr. Roy  called it today. They changed it last week to the working families bill  or something to that effect.

So anyway, we will have to see. I don't know. Maybe next week's  resolution will be a commemorative resolution to congratulate House  Republicans on the 14-day FISA extension that they passed, and we can  spend a half an hour talking about all the ways that House Republicans  have changed the country for the better. They are so desperate to  convince Americans that they decided that a House resolution is a tool  for them to make that case.

Again, there are better ways, Mr. Speaker, to spend this body's time.

I can't imagine that our Framers--that James Madison would have  thought that this is how the House of Representatives would be  functioning 250 years later. I can't possibly believe that.

Mr. Speaker, I regret that our time for debate has come to a close. I  will note, as I did last week, the fact that not a single member of the  House Republican Conference is willing to come down to the floor and  debate in support of these bills is telling. It tells you all you need  to know. For those that are watching in the gallery and all of those  who might be watching from home on C-SPAN, there are 218 members of the  House Republican Conference, 218. None of them, save for my colleague  from Texas, were willing to come to the floor to speak in support of  the resolution congratulating themselves for the work that they have  done this year, not one.

What is even more fascinating, because, of course, as you know, Mr.  Speaker, this resolution is a long resolution, four or five pages,  whereas clause after whereas clause recounting all of the bills and the  resolutions that were passed last spring and last fall and last summer,  and this winter, they gave this resolution to the newest member of the  House Republican Conference. He has been in Congress for like 6 days, I  think. He was sworn in last Tuesday or Wednesday.

I get it. I understand why they gave this resolution to the new guy.  You know, it is a tough assignment to say your first bill is going to  be a bill congratulating the rest of us for a job well done. That is a  tough assignment.

Mr. Speaker, rural America is struggling. I know I don't need to tell  you that. Rural farmers in my State are struggling. The cost of  everything is going up. Trump's burdensome tariffs forced costs to  skyrocket a year ago.

In 2025, 15,000 farms closed, 15,000 farms. The rate of bankruptcy  for America's farmers has never been higher. It has never been higher.  I challenge any of my Republican colleagues, those who, like me,  represent rural communities and farmers and ranchers, I challenge them  to go take this resolution to their constituents. Ask them whether they  think that this House deserves applause and plaudits and credit and  congratulations for a job well done.

I am pretty sure I know the answer. I urge my colleagues, if they,  like me, are sick and tired of this place wasting time functioning in  this dysfunctional way, then oppose the previous question, oppose the  rule, oppose the underlying bills, and join us so that we can get back  to the serious issues that face the American people.

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.