Providing for Disposition of Senate Amendment to H.R. Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701506/providing-for-disposition-of-senate-amendment-to-hr-department-of-homeland-security-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, 237 years ago, one of our Founding Fathers,  John Adams, laid bare his greatest fear for our country, which is that  in every assembly, Congresses like this one, Members would gain  influence not by sense, but by noise; not by greatness, but by  meanness; not by learning, but by ignorance.

Why am I quoting John Adams at 10:30 p.m. on a Friday night? It is  because this debate, the Judiciary chairman's remarks, are emblematic  of the reality, the cold, hard truth that John Adams' fears proved  prescient. All we hear is noise from the other side.

It is the kind of noise that expects the American people to believe  that a bill that passed unanimously in the United States Senate somehow  defunds the police. It is the kind of noise that expects the American  people to believe that every conservative Republican U.S. Senator  passed a bill last night that defunds the police. That is their  argument.

The bill that the Senate passed, every conservative Senator and every  liberal one came to a consensus that the stalemate needed to end, that  TSA agents needed to be paid, and that FEMA needed to be funded. They  passed that bill on a unanimous basis.

The only reason we are not considering it is because our colleagues  on the other side of the aisle have been captured by the far-right wing  of their party. It is shameful.

We have an opportunity tonight to perhaps rise to the occasion and  prove John Adams wrong.

Mr. NEGUSE. If a handful of Republicans--I am not talking about 30 or  20 or 10--if three vote to defeat the previous question, then we can  take up the Senate bill tonight, and TSA agents will be paid. It is  simple.

It is time for our Republican colleagues to do the right thing and  defeat this bill.