Recognizing Sally Anderson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701444/recognizing-sally-anderson


Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, before I was first sworn in to the United  States Congress, my predecessor gave me a great piece of advice. He  told me that the most important thing to do as I was getting started  was to build a great team.

I am glad I took his advice. The first person that I hired when I  became a Member of Congress, to help build the team and to ultimately  help lead it, was Sally Anderson.

I rise today 7\1/2\ years later to thank her for her selfless,  tireless, and dedicated service--her service to the people of  Colorado's Second District, her service to the people of Colorado, and  her service to our country.

Sally first served as my district director and later became my  Colorado chief of staff. Throughout her tenure, she worked incredibly  hard each and every day to serve the citizens of our district. One can  imagine the various challenges that our communities face from year to  year. She faced each of those challenges with empathy, with compassion,  and with unwavering determination. Historic wildfires, terrible flash  floods, a devastating mass shooting, emergency after emergency, crisis  after crisis, Sally was often the first call that I would make when  grappling with how to solve a challenge, address an emergency in my  district, and to do the work that we are solemnly charged with doing.  She joined me at funerals, memorials, and remembrances. She played a  pivotal role in the development of legislation here in Washington, D.C.

I could spend hours, Madam Speaker, regaling you with the stories of  the constituents' lives that she shaped, the casework that she  supervised, and the countless examples of her kindness, leaving an  indelible impression in the hearts and minds of the people I represent  from Boulder to Fort Collins, from Vail to Steamboat Springs, and every  corner in between.

Sally was also a leader here in Washington. She was a mentor to  district directors across the country as part of our district  directors' service program. I have heard countless stories from my  colleagues who have told me from their district directors of their  experience, when they have relied on her counsel and advice when faced  with a challenge or crisis.

Perhaps most importantly, above all else, her professionalism and the  ways in which she approached her job--selfless, thankless, and always  available to help a constituent in need--in my view, it helped restore  some trust in our government, which is so desperately needed now more  than ever.

Put simply, the Second District and our office will miss her. I wish  her well and am so excited for her next chapter. On behalf of the  people of the Second District, I thank Sally for her service.                         Nexstar Acquisition of Tegna

Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, last night, in the dead of night, the FCC  and the Department of Justice did something unprecedented. They  approved a merger that would create the Nation's largest local  television station operator.

Nexstar Media Group's $6.2 billion acquisition of Tegna would make it  the largest local television station owner in the United States: 265  stations across 44 States, reaching 80 percent of American households.  Why did they approve it? Simple reason: Because Donald Trump wanted  them to.

The deal is outrageous. It is devastating for local news, devastating  for consumers, devastating for freedom of the press, but perhaps most  problematic of all, Mr. Speaker, it is unlawful. The merger and the  decision to approve it violates the law.

By the way, this isn't complicated. It is simple. In 2004, Congress  created a very specific 39 percent national audience limitation. That  is in the law. It is not ambiguous. It is not nebulous. It is clear- cut, and this merger violates it.

Let me read, Mr. Speaker, the dissent from one of the FCC  commissioners. I hope every Member of this body reads it in full. ``The  order is wrong on the law, wrong on the policy, and the process by  which it was issued is indefensible.

``The Commission does not have the authority to raise or waive the 39  percent national audience reach limitation. Simply put: The national  audience reach limitation is a statutory requirement, and only Congress  has the authority to raise it.''

It is clear-cut, simple. We cannot allow this debasement of the FCC's  processes to continue.

Mr. Speaker, I have a solution: Let's rein in this lawless agency  through the appropriations process. That is exactly what I intend to  propose. I hope my colleagues will join me.