Restoring Election Integrity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699238/restoring-election-integrity


Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Virginia for this  opportunity to speak on the floor today. He is new to the Congress, but  he has already made an outsized impact during the course of his 13  months of service in this august body taking on corruption. I am deeply  grateful to him for his efforts in that regard, not just with respect  to overturning Citizens United, but tackling the corruption that has  become so pervasive here in Washington, D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I stand on the floor of the people's House to deliver  what I believe to be an urgent message: The time to confront political  corruption and clean up government is now.

Sixteen years ago to this very day, the Supreme Court issued its  ruling in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. As you know,  Mr. Speaker, that decision overturned longstanding precedent and limits  on political spending by special interests.

The decision created a dark money system, where money speaks louder  than everyday Americans. It has shifted power and influence away from  everyday Americans, from the folks in our communities that we are  privileged to serve, to instead these shadowy special interests that  flood television screens every evening.

In my view, Citizens United undermined what it means to be a country  of the people, by the people, for the people, and, above all,  accountable to the people. Unfortunately, for far too long, this  Chamber has failed to do what needs to be done to renew the faith of  the American people in our democracy. We cannot accept that. We have to  do something about it.

As you know, Mr. Speaker, earlier this year, I introduced legislation  in the form of a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution  that would revoke Citizens United. It would ensure transparency through  our campaign finance reform and prevent unrestrained spending and dark  money in our elections. Put bluntly, it would put the power back in the  hands of the American people.

I thank my Democratic colleagues, 73 of them, who have already  cosponsored this legislation, who are joining us tonight to be part of  this effort, this clarion call, supporting the restoration of integrity  and transparency to Washington.

Together, I honestly believe, with enough reformers, we can change  the Congress. We can ban stock trading by Members of Congress. We can  end dark money in our politics. We can overturn Citizens United. We  just have to have the political will to do it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Virginia for having that will  and all of my colleagues who joined us on the floor this evening.