State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. Pallone for yielding me the  time.

Madam Speaker, only in Washington, D.C., can politicians who vote to  give tax breaks to the biggest oil companies and fossil fuel companies  on planet Earth come down to the floor of the House and argue that  their legislative efforts are going to lower electricity prices.

Only in Washington, D.C., can politicians stand by as energy projects  in their own districts are decimated by their inaction and then claim  that they are championing efforts to improve the reliability of the  grid.

My colleague from Colorado made a lot of references to local utility  efforts in our home State. What he failed to mention in his quest to  improve reliability of the grid is that several projects in his own  district were eliminated by the Trump administration just 5 weeks ago.  My colleague from Colorado, like virtually every single Member of the  Republican Conference, did nothing to stop it, nothing.

By the way, we are not talking about small projects. This is the  headline. ``Colorado company may close after Trump administration cuts  funding for nearly 3 dozen energy projects in the State.''

I will quote this article, Madam Speaker: ``In all, DOE eliminated  $7.6 billion in projects in 16 States, all of which are led by  Democrats.''

Here is the kicker: ``But some of the projects are in Republican  congressional districts, including a $27 million grant in Colorado's  Eighth Congressional District, which Representative Gabe Evans, a  Republican, represents.''

Gabe Evans is the author of this legislation we are debating today.

I will quote another article. This is the local utility, Madam  Speaker, in Fort Lupton, which I believe is the sponsor of this  legislation's hometown. I will just quote: ``The Fort Lupton Microgrid  project was submitted with the goal of increasing the reliability of  the city's municipal water treatment plant.''

This is another project, $6.1 million, Madam Speaker, that was  unceremoniously cut 1 month ago by President Trump.

If we want to get serious about the reliability of the grid and if we  want to address the ballooning electricity costs that are a direct  byproduct of the bill that Republicans passed earlier this summer, then  a good way to start would be to tell the Department of Energy to stop  eliminating energy projects in Brighton, in Fort Lupton, in Fort  Collins, and in Longmont, the communities I represent and the  communities that my colleague from Colorado represents.

Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member for his  indulgence.

By the way, Madam Speaker, just so that we are clear, this bill does  absolutely nothing as a practical matter. I welcome Chairman Guthrie's  response on this front. It does nothing to impose new standards, it  does nothing to compel State public utility commissions to adopt new  standards, and it does nothing to require these commissions to  implement new standards.

It simply says that commissions must consider them.

This is basically a press release. That is what this bill is. We  could have spared everyone the time and just got on with it so that we  can actually get to the substance of addressing the inflation cost  crisis that Republicans have unleashed on Coloradans and on Americans  writ large, but, no, we are here to debate this very carefully  constructed press release that ultimately will accomplish nothing if it  is ever signed into law.

Madam Speaker, I am voting ``no,'' and I urge my colleagues to do the  same.