Bringing America Back to its Roots


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698106/bringing-america-back-to-its-roots


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, it was great to have had the chance last night  to be at the White House with the President, his Cabinet, and my  colleagues.

Obviously, we celebrated the Christmas season and our collective  belief that this season is particularly important for the American  people in recognition of who we are as a people in a Judeo-Christian  society and celebrating the birth of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

It is not just a holiday for white lights and garland and making  merry. It is a holiday that serves as the center of who we are as a  people.

As the Speaker knows, sitting there in the Speaker's chair under ``In  God We Trust,'' it is that collective faith that we have in the Lord  Almighty and our collective belief in his Son that has served as the  core of the strength of this country from its founding. I will talk  about two things today that are related to that.

One is a policy issue. That issue is the ability of the American  people to get healthcare and care for one another. The other is  defending our Judeo-Christian heritage in Western civilization from the  onslaught of those who wish to push the Islamification of our country  into the forefront.

Mr. Speaker, I will start on the point of the healthcare policy  because I think it goes to the central problem we face as a people  right now. A lot of folks are talking about ``affordability.'' It has  become the political hot-button buzzword. It is affordability.

This is being driven intentionally by my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle because they have got virtually nothing to run on. They  made a choice to shut the government down in order to set up a fight  and to try to elevate the issue of healthcare because they believe they  can win on it politically.

Mr. Speaker, I want everyone to think about that for a minute. They  shut down the government because they want to politicize the issue of  healthcare and not actually work to solve the problem.

Republicans, in my view, have avoided the issue of healthcare out of  political fear historically. I believe that this Republican Congress,  this Republican House and Senate, and this Republican-led White House  have the opportunity today to transform healthcare for the American  people so that it can be affordable, so that they can have choice and  they can go to the doctor of their choice, and to empower doctors and  patients, not insurance bureaucrats and government bureaucrats.

I want to repeat that again because I am going to engage in a  colloquy and yield to my friend from Missouri in a moment on this  important topic.

Right now, the average American family is getting crushed and is  unable to afford healthcare because Democrats broke our healthcare  system.

I want to be very clear: Democrats knowingly chose to break the  American healthcare system 15 years ago. We told the world what would  happen, and it has come true.

American families and the businesses that employ most of them are  spending about $25,000 a year for insurance premiums that give them  fewer options and restricts them on what they can do, gives them higher  copays, higher deductibles, and fundamentally makes it impossible for  them to have actual care.

I go back to my point about In God We Trust and celebrating the  Christmas season. As Christians, we are called to take care of those  less fortunate than we are. We are called to help those who need help.  That is why so many of our hospitals historically were nonprofits built  up from faith-centered institutions. That is why so many hospitals are  Saint Fill-in-the-Blank Hospital. It is because Christians came  together to say that we should care for those who need help, but then  came in government.

In all of its infinite wisdom, government came in and regulated  healthcare, restricted our options and socialized the payments.

Now what is the result?

It is an impossibility of the average American family to be able to  actually get healthcare from the doctor of their choice. It is the  inability for them to go get insurance that will give them comfort that  if the cancer that I got in 2011 hits them, that they will be able to  go get care because they can't afford it. They can't afford it because  we have broken it. We didn't break it, Democrats broke it.

Right now, Republicans have a choice: Go along with Democrats to  continue to socialize healthcare, continue to enrich insurance  companies and continue to take away options from the American people or  we can stand up for healthcare freedom and stand up for the ability of  an average American family to be able to go to the doctor of their  choice, get insurance, and go on health-sharing ministries such as  Medishare and be able to defray costs, rather than having constrained,  regulated, no-option, expensive health management by bureaucrats.

That is what we have.

The fact is, Mr. Speaker, there is this big debate right now about  so-called subsidies. I want to be very clear about what we are talking  about. We are talking about COVID-era pandemic cash that was thrown out  into our economy in this case for some plus-ups for some subsidies for  the broken ObamaCare system.

Now we are 5 years removed from COVID, and my Democrat colleagues are  trying to say that if we don't extend those subsidies that somehow we  are denying people healthcare. That is just flat false. It is a lie.

The fact is, ObamaCare remains in place. Its subsidy structure  remains in place for better or worse, and those subsidies that they are  talking about would literally go into the pockets of insurance  companies whose profits have gone up 1,000-plus percent over the last  decade.

It is an insurance enrichment scheme.

My Democratic colleagues broke healthcare, and now they are down here  saying: We must give more money to insurance companies.

That is what they are saying.

Any Republican who goes along with that needs to answer for doing the  same thing.

Why would we give more money to the insurance companies that saddled  up with government to enrich themselves rather than help the American  people?

Mr. Speaker, 85 percent of all Affordable Care Act revenue insurers  received comes from the Federal taxpayers. Mr. Speaker, 85 percent of  all the revenue, I should say, that the insurers receive are coming  from the Federal taxpayers. Insurers received at least $35 billion in  Federal subsidies in 2024 for people who didn't use their plan a single  time. Mr. Speaker, $35 billion went into the pockets of insurance  companies for people who didn't even use their plan.

I want to say this, and then I am going to yield to my friend from  Missouri: We have solutions. When people say that Republicans don't  have a plan, it is false. We put out plans. We have put out solutions.  We have solutions.

We believe in expanding people's access to care by empowering them  with the same tax treatment, equal tax treatment, the corporations get.  Individuals should get the same tax deductions and tax breaks to be  able to have healthcare.

Mr. Speaker, we believe in expanded health savings accounts that you  can use for direct primary care to go to a doctor, have that doctor's  cell phone number, have a relationship with that doctor and not be put  into some complicated scheme where you have to get approval for  somebody who is in network or not in network and who may or may not be  within 100 miles of your house.

We want the American people to be empowered. We want them to be able  to go defray costs and share costs in health-sharing ministries and  Medishare and all these different organizations that are, frankly, the  last lifeboat that people have right now for access to care.

We want to allow providers to own hospitals rather than be restricted  from being able to do that so that the corporate, monolithic hospitals  are not the only option.

We want 1,000 flowers to bloom and for people to have the freedom  option.

Guess what, Mr. Speaker?

You can leave ObamaCare, the Affordable Care Act, structure all in  place. Leave it all sitting there, but just provide the American family  with a freedom option. Allow them to have choice.

Shouldn't that be our right as Americans?

People talk about a right to healthcare. What they are really saying  with that is that government should be providing healthcare rather than  the individual, the family being able to have the right to get the care  of their choice.

What on Earth kind of freedom do you have in a country where you  literally can't go get healthcare and you are prohibited from it?

The government has stopped us from exercising our freedom.

We have plans. What we don't have is the backbone and the willpower  to stand up and deliver.

I say: Do it now.

I say: Stand up and fight for healthcare freedom now.

I am tired of it. I don't want another election. I don't want  another: Don't worry, we will do it next time. I want to do it now  because too many people are suffering at the hands of a bureaucracy and  the tyranny of government-run health management rather than the ability  to get care.

The current situation with respect to healthcare exists entirely by  record of vote and a record of policies because my Democrat colleagues  put forward policies that the American people are having to live under  today.

They broke the healthcare system.

My Democratic colleagues are proposing an insurance company  enrichment scheme. Literally they are printing money in the Treasury  and giving it to insurance companies.

Their solution for healthcare is enriching insurance companies. Our  solution for healthcare is empowering doctors. Our solution for  healthcare is empowering people. Our solution for healthcare is  spreading costs out among people who want to help each other out in the  American way.

It is why I started talking about Christmas.

The question for Republicans is: If not now, then when?

When are we going to stand up and deliver for the American people?

That basic right--I will say it--right to access healthcare of our  choice without government interfering, without government regulating,  and without government stealing our ability to care for our own  families and loved ones in our community.

I know the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Burlison) feels the same way.  He has done incredible work on this subject. We are aligned, I think  almost entirely, on the opportunity for Republicans to lead, the  opportunity for Republicans to stand up and deliver for the American  people on healthcare freedom for every American. Every American should  be able to do that.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I know my friend from Missouri needs to head  home, but before he heads out, I would ask him a couple of quick  questions in colloquy.

For the average viewer out there who can't necessarily follow all  this, if we distill this down simply, no matter what you call it, no  matter how you define it, what we are simply proposing is that  individual families, individuals, be able to get the same tax benefit  as currently corporations get when they are putting their dollars into  a Blue Cross, Aetna, or some other insurance plan, right?

Mr. ROY. I yield to the gentleman from Missouri.

Mr. ROY. Because of a broken system created by wage controls post- World War II, instead of employers only being able to get the tax break  when they give dollars to pay Blue Cross to provide some sort of plans  and then you have to then further subsidize that--so maybe your  employer puts in $1,800 and you put in $900, in total, it is costing  $2,700 a month.

Instead, we are saying: Look, get the same tax break, employer, but  put it into a massively expanded, tax-free account, where you are able  to use it for insurance, real insurance, that you can go get, a  catastrophic coverage and/or direct primary care, all sorts of plans  out there where you have a doctor who says: Look, for $100 a month, you  can call me. I am at your call. I will do this kind of service.

Another option is health sharing, whether it is secular or faith- based, where you have, oh, wait a minute, I don't need catastrophic  insurance for this problem. It is a broken leg, but I don't have $5,000  for the emergency room visit and all the care and whatnot, so you share  and defray that cost across people often in a faith-based organization,  but sometimes secular.

Isn't that the engine of what we are talking about?

Mr. ROY. Then, would it not require us to simply say that you can  leave ObamaCare in place? That can sit there and keep doing what it is  doing, but we are going to give people this option, so employers can  put it in there.

If you are self-employed, you can get the same tax break. It is all  equal tax treatment. Nobody is treated differently. We would have a  product over here that would allow for true catastrophic insurance,  right--not regulated, not all sorts of complications, not telling you  what you can do, not do, but a risk-based product that says: Hi, I am a  healthy 24-year-old. I would like to just know that, if I am in a bad  accident or if I get cancer, that I will be able to have care. I will  pay $100 a month for that risk assessment, and the insurance companies  can figure all that out, or $200 a month, but not $2,000 a month.

Isn't that what we are talking about?

Mr. ROY. Correct.

Mr. ROY. The last point, to that point, when our Republican  colleagues, in particular, and other colleagues talk about all these  things--we need transparency, we need association health plans--I  support that. I support transparency, right? We need to fix some  particular technical thing with our existing plans, right? Whatever  these little solutions are--PBMs, right? There are all these--oh, we  are going to do something on PBMs. Well, sometimes, that works.  Sometimes, it doesn't. Will any of that be transformative?

Mr. ROY. What will be transformative is giving individuals and  patients the power to deploy the dollars in a tax-advantaged way, in a  marketplace where they can go get the options that are best for them.

Mr. ROY. Correct?

Mr. ROY. Right.

Mr. ROY. Right.

Mr. ROY. Right. If you have an F-250 pickup, right, and you have a  crappy, little engine in there that doesn't work, but you add four- wheel drive and leather seats, and you do all this stuff to make it a  nice truck, but it has a lawnmower engine in it, would it work? Would  it be effective?

Mr. ROY. That is what we are talking about. That is what Republicans  do. They have fallen into the trap of saying: Please give me the  leather seats on the F-250, or I really want the four-wheel drive, or I  really want a good bed liner and bed cover, and, oh, give me all the  options and music and speakers and, oh, it looks great, great running  boards, but you have a frigging lawnmower engine. The truck is useless.

We have to actually transform healthcare, and we have the opportunity  to do it with proposals like yours, like mine, like a number of  proposals that our colleagues have. The question is: Will we have the  willpower to do what the President has laid out-- Mr. BURLISON. Yes.

Mr. ROY.--which is to stop subsidizing insurance companies, stop  enriching insurance bureaucrats, and empower the American people?

Mr. ROY. I thank the gentleman for his time.

Mr. ROY. I wish him safe travel back to Missouri, and hopefully, next  week, we can get busy saving the American people from a broken  healthcare system.                       America Under Attack From Within

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I am going to take a few minutes in the time  that I have remaining to talk about another issue that is critical to  the State of Texas and this entire country.

That is the fact that America, Texas, and Western civilization are  under attack from within. The cheap labor lobby, leftwing NGOs, radical  progressive Democrats, Marxists, globalist organizations, and the  United Nations have mobilized a coordinated effort to subvert our  security and immigration system to harm the American people.

Particularly concerning is the threat posed by Islamists who are  spreading sharia law into Texas, who are advancing throughout the  country, and who have a stated goal of undermining American life, not  assimilating into it.

This is a political movement, well funded, targeted at the American  people, Western civilization, our rule of law, and the Constitution.

We should not be allowing more people into this country who are  adherent to sharia law, period. The Muslim Brotherhood's own motto is:  ``Allah is our objective. The Prophet is our leader. Koran is our law.  Jihad is our way. Dying in the way of Allah is our highest hope.''

Meanwhile, Europe has fallen. London and Paris are mere shells of  their former strong selves. You watch veterans who fought to defend the  United Kingdom in World War II. Those still alive tear up and cry,  wondering what it was that they fought for when they watch the radical  extension of Islam into the streets of London and throughout the United  Kingdom.

In France, a majority of young French Muslims put sharia above their  own national laws, and more than a third have sympathy for  Islamification. French officials have warned President Macron that  Islamists are infiltrating France's republican institutions and are a  threat to national cohesion. The authors of the report to Macron  identified the Federation of Muslims in France, FMF, as the main French  emanation of the historic Muslim Brotherhood, which was founded 100  years ago to promote a return to core Islamic values.

They said that the FMF controlled 139 places of worship in France and  a further 68 affiliated--in all, around 7 percent of the total. The  organization ran some 280 associations.

Mr. Speaker, 7 out of 10 French voters would back a ban on the  Islamic veil in public because of what is happening in France.

In the United Kingdom, Muslims are increasingly turning to Britain's  sharia courts, which are not part of the U.K. law and operate as  informal bodies. The number of sharia courts in Britain has grown to 85  since they first began operating in the country in 1982.

Polls have found that 41 percent of the British public believe that  Muslim immigrants have had a negative impact on the United Kingdom.  Nearly half think that Muslim women are pressured into wearing a hijab.  Almost a third think that Islam promotes violence.

Parallel legal systems are not keys to a thriving society. There must  be one rule of law for all the people.

All the way back in 1991--a lot of people won't know this--the Muslim  Brotherhood issued a memorandum about North America, detailing a plan  for the ``enablement of Islam in North America,'' establishing an  effective and stable Islamic movement led by the Muslim Brotherhood,  which adopts Muslims' causes domestically and globally and works to  expand the observant Muslim base. It was a coordinated and specific  effort to advance Islam into the United States.

Our Founders did not envision a Nation that remotely resembled  today's Muslim world and the radical elements of sharia. America was  founded as a nation grounded in a distinctly Judeo-Christian history  and understanding of human nature.

It was Great Britain that led the ending of slavery.

John Adams said: ``One great advantage of the Christian religion is  that it brings the great principle of the law of nature and nations . .  . to the knowledge, belief, and veneration of the whole people.''

Thomas Jefferson and John Adams hinted at the incompatibility of  America's Republican virtues with the values of Muslim nations after  meeting with the Islamic Ambassador about the Barbary States'  inclination to make war upon nations that did them no wrong after they  were informed it was a requirement of the Koran.

In Jefferson's papers in 1786, he wrote: ``We took the liberty to  make some inquiries concerning the ground of their pretensions to make  war upon nations who had done them no injury, and observed that we  considered all mankind as our friends who had done us no wrong, nor  given us any provocation.

``The Ambassador answered us that it was founded on the laws of their  prophet, that it was written in their Koran, that all nations who  should not have acknowledged their authority were sinners, that it was  their right and duty to make war upon them wherever they could be found  and, to make slaves of all they could take as prisoners, and that every  Musselman''--Muslim--``who should be slain in battle was sure to go to  paradise.'' That is Jefferson, 1786.

Our Founders knew that sharia law was not consistent with Western  civilization and our values. Sharia law is a problem that is growing  throughout the United States and certainly growing in Texas. My home  State bore the brunt of a 4-year mass migration invasion under the  previous administration, but there has been a quieter one of Islamists  leveraging our immigration system and corporate interests to extend and  use diversity visas, chain migration, and H-1B visas to flood our  country with people who don't believe in it and have no intention of  assimilating into it.

A new Muslim community in Texas, not even a few days old, with a  150,000-square-foot Muslim community center, was opened in Houston,  called EPIC City. It is in Plano, outside of Dallas-Fort Worth and it  has raised all sorts of questions about their intentions to create an  effectively Muslim-only community where sharia law no doubt would and  will be practiced. Now they have renamed it The Meadow rather than the  East Plano Islamic Center. They continue to develop and grow it even as  there are almost 300 mosques in Texas and more mosques being built in  Texas every day than any other State in the Union.

Meanwhile, let's look at what is going on in the United States  broadly. Our Nation's foreign-born population has reached 51.9 million  people, comprising some 16 percent of our population. We are at the  highest levels of percentage in our history. The last time we had a  similar level of foreign-born population, in roughly 1920, we froze  immigration. Largely for about 40 or 50 years we froze it, and then it  has been exploding over the last 50 years.

I have introduced legislation called the PAUSE Act to pause  immigration and to pause it until we get our hands around all of the  problems that are currently plaguing our immigration system: the abuse  of birthright citizenship, to have profit-centered ways to create  American citizens, by people coming here, coming across the Rio Grande,  having children, making citizens that then can use American resources,  our hospitals, our schools, our legal system, our welfare.

We continue to allow a broken visa system to have extended family  members be brought into the United States expansively and purposefully.  The H-1B program has been exploited and abused now for years and must  be abolished or massively reformed.

We obviously still have a very badly broken border that is only  currently being held in check by a President and by leadership in the  administration who are devoted to doing it, that are empowered to do  it. However, all of the ways in which Biden-Mayorkas and that entire  administration allowed our border to be wide open and have 10 million  people flood our country, all of those things still remain in place  statutorily.

Congress could fix it. We haven't. The House passed legislation 2  years ago--what it was called in that Congress was H.R. 2--to  meaningfully change the law so that it can't be exploited to endanger  the people. We have not brought that back up again this year. We  should. We should codify these changes. Our priorities matter. The  results of this are stark.

Thanksgiving week we saw what happened with the West Virginia  National Guard servicemembers, Specialist Sarah Beckstrom, who was 20  years old, and Staff Sergeant Andrew Wolfe, 24. They were savagely  ambushed and shot blocks away from the White House. Specialist  Beckstrom tragically lost her life. The attacker, Rahmanullah Lakanwal,  an Afghan national who was imported through the Biden-Mayorkas illegal  Operation Allies Welcome parole program, drove from Washington State to  carry out this diabolical act in our Nation's Capital.

According to DHS, over 5,000 Afghans brought to the United States  through Operation Allies Welcome had either national security or public  safety concerns.

We are importing people who want to undermine and destroy our  country, and both sides of the aisle have been guilty of this. This is  not a debatable reality. It is literally occurring.

For us to survive, we have to act. We need to pass the PAUSE Act. We  need to pause immigration. We need to pass legislation like the bill  that I introduced to preserve a sharia-free America that would prohibit  the entry of people that are known to be adherent to sharia law, which  is deeply in conflict with our values and our laws.

We should take away the tax status of CAIR and other radical  organizations with ties to terrorists and a vast network of well-funded  organizations, using American tax dollars, United Nations' funds,  wealthy donors, George Soros funding, foreign funding, nation-states  all pouring into organizations, NGOs driving this agenda, the Marxist- Islamist red-green alliance that wants to destroy America as we know  it. I introduced legislation to take away CAIR's tax status.

Why are we giving them tax breaks to try to destroy America?

That brings me to the final point which I was alluding to before on  H.R. 2, that is legislation designed to codify effectively what  President Trump is doing: to stop the abuse of parole, to stop the  abuse of asylum, to stop the abuse of catch and release, to stop all of  the abusive ways in which an exploited border can undermine our  security and endanger us.

We cannot rely on the administration to do it. Congress needs to act.  Congress needs to codify it. Congress needs to change it. States and  State leaders need to stand up and use the legislation that we did pass  in January to enable suit against the Federal Government when they  failed to secure the border that we included in the Laken Riley Act  because States can no longer be beholden to a Federal Government that  refuses to secure the border.

We have a reprieve under President Trump. That reprieve will no doubt  one day come to an end, and States must be empowered and have leaders  who are willing to stand up and fight.

States need to challenge things like Plyler v. Doe, the Supreme Court  ruling that said that we must have taxpayer funding going to pay for  the education of illegal alien children. If you want to choose to do  it, that is for you to decide. We should not be forced to use taxpayer  dollars to do that. We should challenge that Supreme Court ruling. We  should stand up to defend our country.

The fact is you can't win a war that you are not willing to recognize  exists. It is undeniably true after the election of the mayor in New  York, Mamdani, with what is going on in Dearborn, with what is going on  in Minneapolis, with what we are seeing happen in Texas, in Dallas and  Houston, what we saw unfold in London and Paris, that there is an  attack on the Western way of life. We must stand up and defend it if we  are going to be able to pass down a country to our kids and grandkids.