Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689906/concurrent-resolution-on-the-budget-for-fiscal-year-2025


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Texas for yielding. I  appreciate the able job that he has done in ushering through a  responsible budget on the House side of the Capitol. Unfortunately, we  are here debating an irresponsible budget sent over to us from the  Senate.

First, before my colleagues on the other side of the aisle applaud me  for my opposition to the Senate bill, my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle refuse to acknowledge any program that they don't think  they can just continue to shovel money out from, despite the fact it  has terrible outcomes.

Medicaid is debilitating the vulnerable, not helping them. We are  shoveling money out to the able-bodied on the back of expansion of  ObamaCare. We are crippling the very program they say they want to  uphold while we allow money laundering to California, which they brag  about openly, to give money to those who are here illegally and to  destroy the program with an FMAP rate that is higher than the  vulnerable, giving out more money than we even give to Medicare.

To my friends on this side of the aisle: When are we going to get  serious about spending?

The House budget actually does a job of trying to get to budget  neutrality, balancing tax policy and spending policy. The Senate sent  over a joke, and we are going to capitulate to the Senate, knowing full  well that the Senate instructions carry the day.

We are going to be sitting there in a reconciliation debate where we  are going to end up on the short end of the stick. Worse, the American  people are going to end up on the short end of the stick because it  absolutely increases deficits. No one can deny it.

Anyone who wants to get in a room and come debate me with a  whiteboard, show me the math. At some point, if you are in Congress,  pass a math test because the Senate bill doesn't add up. It will  destroy this country with more deficits and the inflation tax that is  crippling the average American family.

Mr. Speaker, I will not vote for the Senate bill.