Count the Crimes to Cut Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697203/count-the-crimes-to-cut-act


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 2159) to direct the Attorney General of the United States to  submit to the Congress a report on Federal criminal offenses, and for  other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2159

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Count the Crimes to Cut       Act''.       SEC. 2. REPORT ON FEDERAL CRIMINAL OFFENSES.

(a) Definitions.--In this section--

(1) the term ``criminal regulatory offense'' means a       Federal regulation that is enforceable by a criminal penalty;       and

(2) the term ``criminal statutory offense'' means a       criminal offense under a Federal statute.

(b) Report on Criminal Statutory Offenses.--Not later than       1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney       General shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the       Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of       Representatives a report, which shall include--

(1) a list of all criminal statutory offenses, including a       list of the elements for each criminal statutory offense; and

(2) for each criminal statutory offense listed under       paragraph (1)--

(A) the potential criminal penalty for the criminal       statutory offense;

(B) the number of prosecutions for the criminal statutory       offense brought by the Department of Justice each year for       the 15-year period preceding the date of enactment of this       Act; and

(C) the mens rea requirement for the criminal statutory       offense.

(c) Report on Criminal Regulatory Offenses.--

(1) Reports.--Not later than 1 year after the date of       enactment of this Act, the head of each Federal agency       described in paragraph (2) shall submit to the Committee on       the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the       Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report, which       shall include--

(A) a list of all criminal regulatory offenses enforceable       by the agency; and

(B) for each criminal regulatory offense listed under       subparagraph (A)--

(i) the potential criminal penalty for a violation of the       criminal regulatory offense;

(ii) the number of violations of the criminal regulatory       offense referred to the Department of Justice for prosecution       in each of the years during the 15-year period preceding the       date of enactment of this Act; and

(iii) the mens rea requirement for the criminal regulatory       offense.

(2) Agencies described.--The Federal agencies described in       this paragraph are the Department of Agriculture, the       Department of Commerce, the Department of Education, the       Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human       Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department       of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of the       Interior, the Department of Labor, the Department of       Transportation, the Department of the Treasury, the Commodity       Futures Trading Commission, the Consumer Product Safety       Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the       Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Farm Credit       Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Election       Commission, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the       Federal Maritime Commission, the Federal Mine Safety and       Health Review Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the       National Labor Relations Board, the National Transportation       Safety Board, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the       Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, the Office       of Compliance, the Postal Regulatory Commission, the       Securities and Exchange Commission, the Securities Investor       Protection Corporation, the Environmental Protection Agency,       the Small Business Administration, the Federal Housing       Finance Agency, and the Office of Government Ethics.

(d) Index.--Not later than 2 years after the date of       enactment of this Act--

(1) the Attorney General shall establish a publically       accessible index of each criminal statutory offense listed in       the report required under subsection (b) and make the index       available and freely accessible on the website of the       Department of Justice; and

(2) the head of each agency described in subsection (c)(2)       shall establish a publically accessible index of each       criminal regulatory offense listed in the report required       under subsection (c)(1) and make the index available and       freely accessible on the website of the agency.

(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be       construed to require or authorize appropriations.

Mr. Speaker, first of all, I thank the gentlewoman from Georgia for  joining with me in this effort. I thank the minority leader for his  past work on this bill, as well, from his position on the Judiciary  Committee, like the gentlewoman from Georgia.

We may come at these things from slightly different perspectives on  different issues that come before us, but we are bound and joined  together here in wanting some commonsense, good government to make sure  that we know what we are dealing with, with respect to criminal laws.  For decades, the American people, Congress, and corners of the Federal  Government have tried to grasp a reliable estimate of how many criminal  laws exist either in statute or in regulation.

In the 1980s, the Department of Justice tried to count the number of  Federal criminal laws that reside within the code and estimated there  are ``about 3,000 criminal offenses.'' The American Bar Association, in  the 1990s, said it was much higher than 3,000 but couldn't figure out  the number. In 2019, the U.S. Code was estimated to have 5,199 Federal  crimes, but again, that was uncertain.

In other words, the Department of Justice, the American Bar  Association, and organizations within our government are guessing.

Now, to be clear, there are estimated to be thousands of criminal  offenses, many buried in regulatory codes. For context, there are an  estimated 300,000 Federal regulations that carry criminal offenses that  could put an American citizen in prison.

We can debate the merits, and we would debate the merits no doubt  among the Members of this body, of any particular statute that  criminalizes a certain act or any particular regulation that comes with  criminal penalties associated with an action. It might be something  that involves OSHA. It might be something that involves environmental  regulations. It might be something else.

There are thousands upon thousands of regulations and statutes, and  the American people often have no idea that they might be in violation  of something that would come with a penalty that might include jail  time or sufficient fines, and so forth, and they potentially could  become a felon.

This bill is pretty simple. It just directs the Federal Government  and the executive branch to count the crimes, to come up with a list of  the crimes that exist, put those in order, and make sure that we know  what offenses are attached to those so that we can go through this and  make decisions as to whether or not these crimes are duplicative,  whether they might be contradictory, and whether maybe they go too far  or not far enough.

We feel like the people's House, for sure--Congress in its Article I  function--ought to know how many crimes there are and what penalties  are associated with those crimes so that the American people can know  this.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Georgia for her  comments.

Mr. Speaker, I would just add, in agreement with her, that, as I said  before, this simply says that the Attorney General should provide to  us, the people's House and this Congress, a list of all Federal crimes  in statute and regulation, along with pertinent information such as  potential criminal penalty, the mens rea requirement for the offense,  and the DOJ prosecutorial history of the statute.

I think this is the bare minimum that we should have as a body to  ensure that we are protecting due process and the rights of the  American people while ensuring that we have an ordered society.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I don't have a whole lot more to add. I  associate myself with the remarks of all of my colleagues who have  spoken on this matter. I would only add that I think it is important to  note that this legislation is supported by the Due Process Institute, R  Street, Right on Crime, as well as the National District Attorneys  Association and the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers,  which I think tells you what is going on here in that everybody would  like to have some clarity and some transparency so we can have a  commonsense understanding of our criminal laws, the extent to which  they impact--as the gentleman from Maryland, I think, wisely noted--our  civil liberties, and the extent to which we are made aware of what  actions we take might be criminalized.

Mr. Speaker, I note as James Madison said in Federalist No. 62 on the  fundamental principles of representative government and the importance  of accessible and understandable laws: ``It will be of little avail to  the people, that the laws are made by men of their own choice, if the  laws be so voluminous that they cannot be read, or so incoherent that  they cannot be understood; if they be repealed or revised before they  are promulgated, or undergo such incessant changes that no man who  knows what the law is today, can guess what it will be tomorrow.''

That is precisely the situation we find ourselves in, and we should  fix it. We may have again, as I said before, some disagreements as to  what should be criminalized or not. Previous Congresses have decided to  criminalize some action that today we might take a second look at.

I do believe that we need to know and have the debate, and then be  able to allow the subcommittee on which my Judiciary Committee  colleagues serve, be able to review these, have open debate, and then  make some decisions.

Maybe some of these should be sunsetted. Maybe some should be  aligned. Maybe there are penalties that are out of whack. Maybe there  are things that should be done to have greater notice for the American  people.

I come together in good faith with my colleagues across the aisle and  hope that my colleagues in the Chamber will support it.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from Georgia for her comments. I  thank the gentleman from Tennessee for his kind remarks, the gentleman  from Maryland, all of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and  my friend from Arizona. I also thank Judiciary Committee Chairman  Jordan. I thank the ranking member from Maryland who we have already  engaged with, and all of my colleagues who worked on this in the  Judiciary Committee.

This is not a long or major piece of legislation. I tend to think  that speaks well of it. I think the shorter the bill, the better.

I do believe that this is an important step, but I do want to remind  my colleagues it is just a step. I would hope that we would get swift  action out of the executive branch in following this  legislation if we are to get it through the Senate and get it signed so  we can make an understanding of what is happening with respect to our  criminal laws and regulations, and then act on it, as a Congress, in a  bipartisan fashion. Again, we will have reasoned debate over some of  the matters, but let's act on it. Let's do some things.

I agree with the gentleman that we need to revisit Article I. I  introduced that during the first Trump administration the first time,  and then we had it, obviously, during the Biden administration. I want  to revisit that. It is critically important.

I hope that the AUMF repeal for 2002 that was in the NDAA in the  Senate will be allowed to stay in the NDAA as it is coming back over to  the House. We shouldn't have a 23-year-old authorization for the use of  military force continuing to be under use. I hope that we in the House  will reclaim those portions of congressional authority.

I think this is an important step. It is critically important for due  process. I hope my colleagues in the Chamber will support it, and I  urge its swift passage.