Designation of Haiti for Temporary Protected Status


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701861/designation-of-haiti-for-temporary-protected-status


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from California for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I would note the starting place here. In 2010, Haitians  were granted temporary status--temporary--after a severe earthquake  struck their country. Since then, thousands of foreign nationals from  Haiti have remained in the United States due to the renewal of this  flawed program. Over and over again, that which was supposed to be  temporary has become, effectively, permanent.

I have heard a lot of numbers flying around here talking about the  number of Haitians, 350,000, on TPS who will be taken out of  healthcare. It is a fraction of that number that is actually in  healthcare. Let's be honest.

My friend from Texas (Mr. Gill) noted earlier that 65 percent of the  population is on welfare.

Mr. Speaker, 65 percent of the population that came in here under a  temporary status is now living off of the taxpayer dollars of American  taxpayers because we continue this flawed program.

Let's also talk about the reality that we have 91 percent of all  Haiti TPS holders enter the country illegally, deliberately violating  our immigration laws, and are now using TPS status to stay in the  United States. This is not what this program was designed to do.

Now, I heard one of my colleagues a minute ago talk about Haitians  fleeing danger. You know who else was fleeing danger? A mom, an  innocent mom in Florida, just last week, who was brutally bludgeoned to  death with a hammer outside a convenience store when her car was being  beat up by a Haitian here because of Biden and on TPS. That woman, that  mother, she was fleeing danger, the danger of a Haitian migrant here  using this flawed TPS program that we are now going to allow to be made  effectively permanent, undermining what the President is doing to try  to stop the abuse of this program to continue to flood the United  States with people that are living on the back of American taxpayers  and endanger the American people.

How many more Americans do we need to see get murdered? How many more  young girls on a subway in Charlotte? How many moms, like this mom in  Florida, need to get bludgeoned to death because we refuse to do our  job to ensure that the people that are coming to this country are  coming here to become a part of our society, to follow our laws, to be  a part of the melting pot that we so revere, rather than come here,  trying to turn America into something that it is not, and exploit our  goodwill to endanger the American people?

This is a flawed bill. It should not be supported by anyone in either  party.