Fiscal Responsibility


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690594/fiscal-responsibility


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.  Schweikert). We have engaged in a colloquy on his time. I am going to  start my 30 minutes. He, of course, is welcome to stick around a little  bit if he wants.

I am going to just jump off from where he started, or I am going to  start from where he left off, and that is to talk about what we are  debating on the floor right now, which is the reconciliation bills that  we are debating in the House and in the Senate as we speak.

For the average viewer out there, you don't understand what we are  talking about. Let me put it in basic terms. The reconciliation process  is a part of the Budget Control Act, which basically gives us the  ability to reconcile current policies with what we are dealing with,  with respect to our spending, debt, and deficits. We have to make that  all add up, and we are supposed to do that in a way that would yield  deficit neutrality or deficit reduction. That is the general purpose of  why we have reconciliation.

Reconciliation, though, because there is a 60-vote threshold in the  Senate and that means that certain policies that the majority wants to  get in place in the House and the Senate if they control both Chambers,  often hit resistance by the minority party in the Senate, that then  reconciliation is used to end-run what we call the filibuster--even  though it is really just a 60-vote threshold, end-run that in order to  get policy even though we are supposedly not doing policy on  reconciliation.

That is how stupid your Congress is, America. That is how you are  developing policy: through a bunch of arcane procedures, some of which  are great and designed to have cooling effects, and some of which are  really stupid.

Yet, what we are doing is trying to find every which way possible to  avoid accountability and responsibility, and that is, as I have been  putting it around here to reporters and getting reported out, to do  basic math because that is, in fact, our obligation, is to do basic  math.

Unfortunately, a whole bunch of my colleagues on the Democratic side  of the aisle and a whole bunch of my colleagues on the Republican side  of the aisle refuse to do basic math. They want to say that, through  magic fairy dust and through money trees, they can just wish away the  reality that we are going to have a certain amount of inflows and a  certain amount of outflows every year. Do you want to know why we are  $37 trillion in debt, or soon to be? That is why.

Now, we are having a big debate, America, on what we should do in  this so-called reconciliation process. We are going to have tax policy  in there that is going to affect our tax revenues to the government  but, more importantly, affect the tax bill you receive.

Let me stipulate for the record that when I am attacked a lot in the  coming weeks for saying, allegedly, I want to have taxes go up, I am  emphatically for cutting taxes. I would like to zero out the tax code,  eliminate the income tax, and get rid of the IRS. I would like to do  all of those things, and I have legislation to do it.

I will vote for tax cuts, but I refuse to ignore math. If you are  going to do a certain amount of tax cuts, which will create a certain  amount of economic growth, yes, you still have to model how much  revenue will come into the Treasury versus how much you are spending  because my Republican colleagues love to spend.

They campaign on tax cuts. They deliver on most of the tax cuts. They  campaigned on balancing the budget and cutting spending, and never do  it, ever, in the history of ever, with the possible exception of the  late 1990s when the Gingrich Republicans, combined with Clinton and, by  the way, a dot-com economic explosion, to deliver us a balanced budget.  They did it through welfare reform and through some spending  constraint. That is the only time in modern history when we have done  it.

Here is the problem. This chart shows you what we are dealing with. A  whole lot of people are saying: Well, Chip, you and all of these fiscal  hawks, these fiscal conservatives, you guys want to do all of these  massive cuts, and we can't do it. It is crazy what you want to do.

Let me be clear what we are talking about. We are currently running  close to $2 trillion deficits. If we do all of the crazy stuff we are  trying to do, we will be running what? Close to $2 trillion deficits.  That is the truth. That is what the models show. That is what we know.

Look here. These are the projections of the way things will be if we  do nothing.

The blue line, we do nothing this year. We let the tax cuts expire,  taxes go up--let me repeat, I am against that--taxes go up, revenues  are projected to do what they do, and we will have the amount of debt  over the next 10 years we see here growing from almost $30-something  trillion all the way up to $50 trillion.

What do these other lines represent? The orange lines are the House  bill. The red lines are the Senate bill. We just did a thing where we  combined the House and the Senate bill into one budget. We are now  negotiating that, and this is all yet to be determined.

Why am I saying all this? No one wants to read all of this. Nobody is  going to pay attention to a chart. All of my staff and everybody says,  ``Don't use charts on the floor. Just go down and say things that will  get clipped and sent around.'' Let me try to say something that will  get clipped and sent around.

Even if the House Republicans are successful in working with the  President and the Senate to achieve the $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion in  spending restraint over the 10-year budget window, which is a mere $150  billion to $200 billion a year, even if we are successful, we are going  to massively increase the debt in the United States all the way to  pushing well over $50 trillion by the end of this budget window. That  is it. If we fail, then debt will go up a little higher.

We have an obligation to do better. Everything we are fighting for  right now in the House is for crumbs. I haven't decided whether I will  vote for it or not vote for it. Why? Because I am one vote. Out of 220  Republicans, I am one vote, and I have to figure out how we build a  majority and how the Senate builds a majority and then work with the  White House to get a bill signed. I recognize that.

There is a limit that I can accept. I just want the whole world to  tell me, should I vote for a bill if we are successful at fighting for  what we are fighting for on Medicaid reforms, on unwinding the student  loans, on cutting waste, fraud, and abuse, on finding savings and fees  on illegal aliens here so that we can pay for continued enforcement of  the law at the border? If  we are successful for all of those things in terms of revenues and  expenses, I am still going to burden my kids and grandkids with over  $50 trillion in debt.

What does that mean? It means more interest. It means likely higher  inflation because, at some point, we can't afford this. That is the  fundamental question.

Now, I have a bunch of my colleagues, to the point of the gentleman  from Arizona, running around saying that we can't touch Medicaid. Why  can't we? Medicaid was expanded under ObamaCare, which we all opposed,  and the Medicaid expansion was a big reason why we opposed it. Why can  we now not demand reforms to the broken pieces of ObamaCare that  expanded Medicaid such that we are giving 90 percent Federal match to  the able-bodied, the people who are not the most vulnerable, compared  to the vulnerable population who only get 50 to 60 to 70 percent? Why  would we do that? Why would we give more to Medicaid recipients than  Medicare recipients, which we often do?

Why would we continue to allow States like California and other  States to game the system, to get Federal dollars sent back in a money- laundering scheme, as has been reported widely by The Wall Street  Journal and others? They are openly and knowingly doing it. Why  wouldn't we fix that?

Why wouldn't we apply eligibility rules and work requirements,  combined with lowering that abusive Federal match rate subsidizing blue  States to game the system when they are using Federal borrowed money to  prop up their weak State budget? Why wouldn't we fix that?

I don't have a single constituent I know who thinks we ought to  continue doing that. Even more so, my colleagues are running around  giving in to these arguments that we are somehow cutting Medicaid. That  is a lie.

We could have a debate about whether we should actually reduce  Medicaid and give more money in other places or free up the States to  provide better service or empower Americans to go get the doctor of  their choice and be able to afford healthcare without having an  employer- or government-provided, insurance-run bureaucratic system  enriching insurance bureaucrats and pharma and hospitals because that  is what we have.

We don't have free healthcare anywhere in this country. The freest  country in the world, and we do not have the freedom to go to the  doctor of our choice. We don't. The average family in this country is  paying $25,000 a year to go to insurance bureaucrats to tell them what  handful of doctors they can go to, what lousy deductible they get, what  ridiculous copay they have.

I have a constituent who died from cancer last year who couldn't go  to MD Anderson because she was covered under ObamaCare. Think about  that, covered under ObamaCare, sick with cancer, can't go to the best  cancer hospital in the world 2 hours from her house. That is your  healthcare system, and we won't touch Medicaid.

Our budget contemplates Medicaid going up 25 percent. I am not going  to say whether that is good or bad, but can we at least just have the  backbone as the Republican Party to not allow our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle and the media to say that we are cutting  Medicaid when we are increasing Medicaid spending? I mean, it is mind- boggling that we allow that narrative to set in on a program that is  broken, that has a trillion dollars of improper payments, that is rife  with abuse.

What are we here for? I mean, that would be my question for my  Republican colleagues. Why did you run for office? Because I don't  recall Republicans running on a big platform of: The government is the  solution to all your problems. I don't remember growing up as a child  of the eighties listening to Ronald Reagan or, frankly, listening to  President Trump's speeches saying, man, we really love government  bureaucracy and all the great things it does for the people.

Nobody runs on that. Not a single Republican has run on increasing  deficits. Every single Republican has run on balancing the budget. Yet,  every year, we vote for more spending. Every year, we vote for more  debt. Every year, we increase deficits and add to the debt, every  single year.

I want to get right to the chase here because, for the last 2 months,  some of us have been willing to walk out and say that we will not vote  for the tax cut extensions if we don't get spending restrained. I am  getting lots of Republicans around town who like to stir the pot and go  and say, ``You are going to vote for a tax increase, are you, Chip? Oh,  we are going to hit you hard. We will come after you for voting for tax  increases,'' but they won't say a thing about voting for the inflation  tax increase on every American family while they run to the hills on  spending restrained because they won't do it. That is the truth.

I didn't come to this town for more of the same. The men and women  who walked into a wall of bullets at Normandy didn't do it so we could  have $50 trillion of debt and destroy our own country from within. That  is what is happening.

This country is weaker because the very individuals entrusted to  defend her, defend the Constitution, and be responsible stewards of the  Treasury have failed them and continue to fail them.

Let me be very clear about the budget we are talking about right now.  We see what happens to the debt under our budgets. They go way up, but  I am not accounting for the other things. What are those other things?  This budget, the House budget, assumes that we are able to figure out  how to hold what we call discretionary spending flat.

I don't know if the Speaker, who is the only other person in the  Chamber with me, believes that we will hold discretionary spending  flat, but history would say we wouldn't. Our budget assumes that we  hold discretionary spending flat. That is Defense, DOJ, DHS, all the  spending on all the various programs in Commerce, and go down the list.

What else? I read a story yesterday that because of tariff policy--by  the way, I support the President using tariff policy to isolate China,  restructure our worldwide trade that is being abused by friend and foe,  but I just read a story yesterday that they are planning on how to bail  out farmers from tariffs.

Remember, 7 years ago, we had to spend $25 billion to $30 billion,  $35 billion to bail out farmers for tariffs. This last December, we  spent, I don't know, $30 billion or something in a supplemental bailing  out farmers. What happens when we need more money for California  wildfires, or what happens when there is a hurricane that hits Florida  or, apparently, North Carolina or Tennessee? Is that $5 billion, $20  billion, $30 billion, $50 billion? You see, Congress doesn't have the  ability to say no to spending.

Let's bring it all back. Should I vote for a reconciliation package  that will almost certainly guarantee $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion of  deficit spending because I am getting certain crumbs in cuts in certain  committees, and the only reason that I have gotten said crumbs was  because we threatened to stop the extension of the tax cuts in order to  force the question on spending?

Look, I want to absolutely applaud the great work of a whole lot of  committee chairs and my Republican colleagues for the work that they  have done to identify spending restraint and savings. Education, they  found a bunch of savings. I can go through committee by committee. Last  night, we added a lot of fees to pay for border security and stuff in  the Judiciary Committee. There are other things we could do.

The math is still going to have to be math. We are going to spend  about another $300 billion in this bill for defense and border  security. That is another $300 billion. We are going to find savings of  allegedly $1.5 trillion over 10 years, so that is $150 billion a year.  What that means is we are already in the hole.

By 2035, the United States will be spending more on interest per year  than all Federal programs, aside from Social Security. Right now,  Federal debt is so large that 40 percent of all personal income taxes  go to paying interest on the Federal debt. Think about that. We have  over a trillion dollars a year in interest.

Spending drives inflation. In 2024, the typical American family  needed an extra $17,000 a year to maintain the same standard of living  as January 2021.

We have increased spending, our budget, our Federal budget, from  roughly $3.6 trillion or so in 2015 to almost $7 trillion now. That is  an 80 percent increase.

Does anybody alive think that we can sustain this? Do any of my  colleagues, Republican or Democrat, think that we can sustain this?  Does anybody alive right now in the Chamber, if they are in the complex  and haven't hopped on a plane to fly home because we had our final vote  on a Thursday morning and we are going to come back on a Monday night  in our usual way of doing things in the swamp, not doing what we should  do, does anybody believe that this is going to save the fiscal health  of America?

Like I said, I haven't decided if I am going to vote for it or  against it. That depends on a lot of variables--the Inflation Reduction  Act to actually repeal the ridiculous subsidizing, enriching the  Chinese and enriching billion-dollar corporations, and undermining our  energy security.

Do we have the resources necessary to secure the border and the fees  to pay for it? Are we putting in the provisions that we ought to be  putting in there to guarantee that we are going to have the President  be able to carry out his campaign promises to remove aliens?

Are we going to have transformational reform to Medicaid so we  eliminate the ridiculous 90-percent subsidy of the able-bodied while we  are giving a much lower rate of 50 to 70 percent to the vulnerable  population?

Are we going to continue to allow the provider taxes and the gaming  of the system, the money laundering that is allowing money to go to  California to be gamed and to be doled out to illegal aliens and put in  their general budget as they openly brag, or are we going to fix that?

Are we going to fix the debacle that is the higher education system?  Are we going to restrain their ability to abuse Federal grants, student  loan subsidies, or are we going to continue to subsidize Harvard, Yale,  Cal Berkeley, the University of Texas at Austin, and the University of  Virginia, both my alma maters? I don't care. I would cut them off and  take away their money.

Are we going to continue to do as I heard, which is to create  additional taxes on cars, or are we going to fix it?

Literally, in order to pay for the Coast Guard and air traffic  control, I heard that the T&I Committee, they were poised to put a  vehicle tax on every vehicle in America. Limited government,  constitutional Republicans were going to tax your car. We fought and  said that is a bad idea. So they got rid of the tax, the $50 tax or $20  tax, whatever it was, on internal combustion engine cars.

By the way, we are subsidizing EVs and hybrids and so forth in order  to get the internal combustion engine off the street, but now we are  going to tax the EVs that we are subsidizing, unless we repeal the  Inflation Reduction Act.

These are the tangled webs that we weave in a government in which  politicians promise to give away free stuff. As I have said before, we  are not the United States House of free stuff. You can't just print  money and give it to people and say, oh, we will take care of your  problems. Yet, that is what we do.

Our best case scenario if we pass this reconciliation package is  still $50 trillion in debt in 10 years. That is literally the best case  scenario. I think it is much worse, especially if our interest is going  up and we refinance our debt at higher rates, which seems likely, but  here we are just nibbling around the edges begging for crumbs. Please,  oh, please, please give me $150 billion a year in savings on a $7  trillion annual budget, up almost twice in a decade, bloated and  expanded under COVID, bloated and expanded under both Democrat and  Republican regimes.

We have had an extraordinary first 100 days. The President has turned  this ship around. We are securing borders. Apprehensions are down 94  percent. We are resetting our position on the world stage,  diplomatically, economically. We are rebuilding our military, which was  being decimated by the previous administration, unwinding DEI, rooting  out waste, fraud, and abuse in government, firing bureaucrats,  identifying all the things that ought to be cut, and that is a good  thing.

In Congress, my colleagues are doing some good things. We have passed  some good bills that are hitting a wall in the Senate: the SAVE Act,  the injunctions bill, a bunch of CRAs to undo the damage of the Biden  administration. We passed five this week to undo the damage of the EV  mandates.

We have got to stay on offense, and we can and we are doing a lot of  great things, but this reconciliation bill, at a bare minimum, can do  no harm, and literally that is what we are begging for, when we are  trying to fight for $1.5 trillion in spending reductions, not even  cuts. I want to be clear. I will remind everybody about Medicaid.  Medicaid, there it is. It is going up 25 percent in our budget, for  better or worse. I can make arguments, but it is going up.

Can we at least speak the truth that it is going up? We are begging  for crumbs to get $1.5 trillion in reductions over 10 years. We are  going to spend $86 trillion over the next 10 years. We are just trying  to save $1.5 trillion of that massive increase for crumbs to have $50  trillion of debt at the end of that rainbow.

I hope we will come together. I hope we will unite to deliver a  product that is worthy of support. I have not decided whether I will be  able to support it. We will find out whether it has what is needed.                      Honoring the Life of Diana Denman

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I do want to take one second before I yield to  my friend from California to honor a dear friend of mine who passed  away a couple weeks ago, Diana Denman.

Often called the godmother of the Texas Republican Party, she passed  away on April 17 at the age of 91.

I don't do a lot of the floor speeches on individuals because I feel  like if I do them for one or two and I don't do them for everybody that  I represent that gets tough. Obviously, veterans, police officers,  there are things that rise to the occasion.

Diana was a legendary mentor not just to me but to many of my  friends, many of the people that work for me, many of my staff. She  played a major role in the political evolution in Texas where Texas  went from a historic southern Democrat State to a bastion of  conservative Republican politics and a warrior for freedom across the  globe.

I was proud to have her support, but more importantly, I was proud to  have her friendship. She worked closely with some of my dear friends in  politics and former bosses like Senator Ted Cruz and Governor Rick  Perry, both of whom are dear friends of mine.

She led a storied life. She rode her horse into the lobby of The  Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C. She acted in Hollywood where she  would go on to meet future President Reagan when she was in Hollywood  in that Golden Age. She held many positions in the Reagan  administration in the 1980s, and she stood strong against the Soviet  Union and Soviet aggression around the globe. She was truly one of the  last cold warriors, and I mean that in all of the right and good ways.

As a child of the 1980s, I consider myself a proud cold warrior and  believe very much that we need to stand against aggression in the same  way President Reagan stood against that aggression and stood for  freedom and as a beacon of hope around the world. I think we can learn  from that era, as I learned from Diana, about doing things with peace  through strength.

I will miss Diana, and she will be remembered for her fierce  patriotism and her strong convictions. She was feisty. She was  committed. She loved her country. I thank her for her steadfast  commitment to the conservative movement, to the United States, to  defending our country, and in service of the Lord almighty.

I will keep to fighting to live free, and I will remember Diana  through those actions. I will miss her dearly, as will many of my staff  who counted her as a mentor.

When I think of the people who have devoted their life to the cause  and they come and they go and they pass, I am reminded that we are here  for these fleeting moments, what will be our legacy? What will be the  legacy of this generation? Are we going to put this country back on a  sustainable path? Are we going to actually honor our constitutional  commitment to having limited government in which people can live free?  Are we going to constrain the appetite for unchecked spending and the  racking up of debt and the deficits and the interests that are killing  our economy, our country, and, frankly, the futures of our own  children, or are we going to choose the harder path?

As President Reagan said in 1964, it was a time for choosing.  Frankly, we didn't actually heed his call. We chose poorly. We chose  the path of a massive, bureaucratic tyrannical State. We have empowered  government; we haven't reduced it. We have increased spending; we  haven't reduced it. We should actually honor that time for choosing,  and in the memory of my good friend who served with President Reagan  let's reignite that call for a time for choosing, to choose that path,  to choose the path of the Constitution of limited government, of  freedom, of responsible spending, and turning over this country to our  children better than we inherited.