Highlighting Flawed Policies


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695719/highlighting-flawed-policies


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I would note just an observation: One of our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle who is a cancer survivor--and  God bless him for it--was raising issues about government funding and  about what funding should or shouldn't exist and what this  administration may or may not be doing to make sure our bureaucracies  are running efficiently and effectively and not wasting money.

I say this as a cancer survivor, stage III, Hodgkin's lymphoma, 13  years ago: I think research is important. I think we need to make sure  there is solid research. I think it can be driven heavily by the  private-sector businesses who are incentivized to make money for  developing lifesaving drugs, but it could be done in concert with  governments and universities. What we don't need is continued  profligate Federal funding in order to achieve greatness.

The Wright brothers, Henry Ford, the great inventors, the great  industrialists, the great innovators in technology, the entrepreneurs  out there, for the most part, are not doing that based on government  funding and action. They are doing it based on innovation and hard  work. That should be our model and approach.

While I appreciate those who have gone through a terrible disease  like cancer, as I did, as a number of people in this Chamber, and as  millions of Americans across this country have done, it is not always a  rationale for more government spending, more government action, and  more government bureaucracy.

I would note that the other colleague who came down and talked about  high and rising energy prices, I too share some frustration about  foreign-owned energy companies and utility companies.

I would remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that our  energy prices wouldn't be skyrocketing and off the charts had we not  gone down the foolish road of massive subsidies for the so-called Green  New Deal, which is more rightly called the green new scam, in which  foreign companies, Chinese companies, have been enriched because my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle wanted to pursue their  radical agenda.

Do you want to know why the price of energy is going up? It is  because of Democratic policies and mandates, EV mandates, and mandates  about solar panels and wind farms that are far less efficient than  nuclear and clean-burning natural gas. Those things are driving up the  price of energy for the average American and putting that money into  the pockets of a handful of wealthy people and the Chinese. I  congratulate them, but my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  shouldn't come whining to Congress about what they need in order to  deal with high energy prices that my Democratic colleagues caused.

That is the truth.

The fact of the matter is that we need to do a lot better job of  speaking truth here in this Chamber. As a number of my colleagues were  debating a resolution honoring a friend to many of us, Charlie Kirk,  who, as is well known now, lost his life last week, I am reminded of  the importance of truth. Truth matters.

Charlie stood for the proposition that you should go into the public  square and put forward your ideas and put forward what you believe is  truth and then hash it out. He did so eloquently, thoughtfully, and  engagingly with people of all stripes: Black, White, straight, gay,  male, female, whatever it was. He would engage with people on campuses  and around this country to pursue truth.

Mr. Speaker, one of my favorite quotes is from Thomas Jefferson where  he said that for here, we are willing to pursue truth wherever it may  lead. We need to follow truth wherever it may lead, but you also have  to have the courage to speak truth.

Charlie Kirk, when he was engaging with Bill Maher, a skeptic, just  earlier this year, said: ``In China and, of course, in the Soviet  Union, there was an anti-Christian movement. Very hardcore. What book  do you think is best for humanity to live by? I say the Bible. The  entire arc of the Bible is a story of love and a need for humanity's  redemption. The Bible has wisdom in ways you might not ever imagine.  Humanity will seek to find a book. They will seek to find a code to  live by, and I think it is incumbent upon atheists to tell us what that  should be.''

Charlie Kirk earlier this year in April: ``The mechanisms of a  religious society are good for everybody. When somebody walks around  and thinks that you were created and that you are not God, you tend to  have better citizens.'' Charlie was not wrong.

Earlier this year, Charlie Kirk, in a debate with an atheist: ``I  would argue you have a lot more faith than I do. You have a lot more  blind faith to believe that everything around you, love, joy, peace,  sadness, is all just a construct of neurons firing in your brain. We,  as Christians, have hope that we are going to see our loved ones again  and that we will be in Heaven and that we will be in perfect peace and  that this is not it. In fact, there is something even better awaiting  us.''

Also earlier this year with Bill Maher: ``The greatest minds of  history have been mesmerized by the Scriptures: Isaac Newton, Thomas  Aquinas. Isaac Newton wrote more about biblical prophecy than even  physics. And so there is something about the Scriptures that are  intellectual, that does push your limits. And that is what I think is  so beautiful about our faith is it can be accessible to everyone, but  infinitely nourishing in exploration.''

Earlier this year, Charlie said about his goal of conservatism. He  said: ``You have to try to point them toward ultimate purposes and  toward getting back to the church, getting back to faith, getting  married, having children. That is the type of conservatism that I  represent, and I am trying to paint a picture of virtue, of lifting  people up. . . .''

In another exchange with Bill Maher: ``It defies reason to think that  this is just a roll of the dice. When you see a baby come into the  world, when you see how we naturally heal, when you see even  consciousness itself, I think it is a pretty miraculous thing. To think  that it is all just a bunch of happy accidents, I think it is more  rational to think that it is a byproduct of design.''

Four days before Charlie was shot, I think he tweeted out: ``Jesus  defeated death so you can live.''

Earlier this year, Charlie said: ``I want to be remembered for  courage for my faith. That would be the most important thing. The most  important thing is my faith.''

I can go further.

My point of sharing these things is the importance of us standing up  and speaking truth. People say, Well, Chip, how can you say it is  truth? It is just what you believe when you talk about your faith.

Well, I, of course, believe it to be true. It is truth. Jesus did die  so that we may live and Jesus lives.

It is important that we remember our Nation's founding and our  Nation's convictions and the spirit that binds us together as a Nation,  actual spirit, in God we trust. We cannot be bound together as a Nation  if we do not adhere to a commonsense set of principles and values,  rooted in a collective faith, a collective faith in God Almighty.

It does not mean that every individual has to believe anything  specific. It doesn't mean that anybody has to go to church. It doesn't  mean that we have to go around doing something in violation of the  First Amendment, which says you can believe what you want to believe,  but the First Amendment also does not stand for the proposition that we  should walk away from our collective faith. It does not do that.  Nowhere in the First Amendment does it say that.

How does a Nation conquer evil? How does a nation conquer Nazi  Germany, Imperial Japan, the Soviet Union? Was it all because we just  got together and decided to put together a military, or was there  something bigger? Was there something more important? Was there a  collective faith in the Almighty that bound us together and gave us the  courage for those young men to walk into a wall of bullets at Normandy?

People always ask me what is wrong with our country. Why is there so  much division? When the Nation turns its back on God, when the Nation  walks away from that collective faith, then do we really even have a  Nation?

A lot of people keep branding Charlie as a conservative activist.  Sure. He unapologetically advanced his definition of conservatism, but  remember, as I said, when he tried to define that conservatism, he  talked about it in the context of faith. He said, as I said a minute  ago: ``You have to try to point them toward ultimate purposes and  toward getting back to the church, getting back to faith, getting  married, having children. That is the type of conservatism that I  represent.''

I got to be honest, that should be the essence of conservatism and  the essence of who we are. What point is there to living free if you  are not advancing toward the kingdom of God?

Charlie had courage to speak to this, to raise these issues to a lost  generation, consumed into devices that are destroying the minds of our  youth, devices that I would wipe away from the face of the planet  tomorrow if I could. I would, God's honest truth. The Amish are on to  something, but since I can't do that, can we not at least recognize  that these are poisoning our children?

The first thought I had after I had received word that Charlie was  shot was to call my wife and to figure out how to get word to my son,  also named Charlie, who I knew was an enormous fan of Charlie Kirk and  who does not have social media or access to it on his telephone but is  around a lot of friends who do. I wanted to get word to him not to look  at anything because I knew immediately that the horrific images would  be spread around instantly, and no children should be watching that.

That is just one example of millions every day polluting the minds of  our children, coarsening our culture, breaking us down, addicting our  children to devices instead of engagement, conversation, life, family,  and being outside.

We are at each other's throats because we have turned our backs on  God. We are at each other's throats because nonstop there is a deluge  of imagery and horrific thoughts that are flooding into the in-boxes  and into the visibility of our children and, frankly, ourselves.

Charlie Kirk was correct, that we have to focus on getting back to  church, getting our Nation, our families, and our communities back to  church. Would that this Sunday everybody that is going to be at a  National Football League game or parked in front of a TV watching an  NFL game, would that every single American doing that would be in  church with devices off, TVs off, having supper with their families,  which society would be stronger?

The fact of the matter is, when I had to tell my son that,  unfortunately, Charlie had passed, and he asked if that was formally  known in public, and I said: Yes, he is gone. I am sorry, buddy.

He said: I would have loved to have met him one day. Then he sent me  a Bible verse that said: Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters, stand  firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of  the Lord because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain.  First Corinthians 15:58.

Well, thank goodness his mom is doing something right.

A lot of people have asked me why one of my first reactions in light  of all this was to raise the prospect of an organized, radical left  that has been fomenting the targeting of people that I care about,  people like Charlie Kirk, groups like the Family Research Council,  targeting families and communities and our way of life, Chip, why would  you do that? Aren't you just sowing more division in calling for a  select committee to investigate the organized efforts of the radical  left?

Actually, I think it is the opposite of that. I started this talking  about the  need to pursue truth. Our job in Congress, in part, is oversight and  investigation, and pursuing truth and exposing it to the American  people.

It is a problem that organizations like the Southern Poverty Law  Center creates hate maps in which they targeted the Family Research  Council a decade ago resulting in an individual shooting it up and a  security guard getting shot right here in D.C. or Charlie Kirk's  organization, TPUSA, being put on that same map with a target being put  on their backs. Antifa is known to be radicalized and engaging in  terrorist activities, which the President recognized just yesterday, I  believe rightfully.

The extent to which there is an extraordinary network funded not just  by George Soros but a large number of radical billionaires that are  funding organizations dedicated to putting into office DAs and judges  who put criminals on the street, who allow dangerous criminals to walk  among us in our communities, on trains in Charlotte, North Carolina,  where a young woman from Ukraine was butchered by someone who had been  in and out of jail, arrested 14 times.

It is not just an accident. It is not just one random DA or judge or,  oh, George Soros funded one election. It is a coordinated effort to put  DAs and judges and other law enforcement officials into places in  communities--including in the communities I represent in Austin and San  Antonio and throughout Texas--purposely to then have organizations like  the Wren Collective, which is now known through reporting just this  week from the Law Enforcement Legal Defense Fund, putting out the known  networks where they are going in and telling these DAs and prosecutors  precisely what to do, precisely how to get people back on the streets  sooner or not prosecute them at all. The result of this is that  dangerous individuals are walking among us and hurting us and our loved  ones, which is a direct threat to the security of our Nation.

Yes, I think we should investigate that. Yes, I think we should get  to the bottom of that. Yes, I want to know how those dollars are  flowing. Yes, I want to know why the people of San Antonio have to be  turned upside down or the people of Charlotte, North Carolina, have to  be turned upside down because a radical group of billionaires are  funding organizations that are funding these people to be put on our  streets.

How about our borders? Should we not know the flow of the dollars, of  the coordinated network through the United Nations and through  international organizations and through supposedly religious  organizations, or the 250 organizations that our friends at the Center  for Immigration Studies put out, demonstrating the network that was  responsible for dumping millions of people into our communities,  including violent gang members from around the world that resulted in  the death of Americans, Americans like Jocelyn Nungaray, Americans like  Laken Riley, Americans like Rachel Morin? I could go down the list of  people who were killed, abused, assaulted, or harmed because a radical  group of leftists decided that open borders for their political  purposes was more important than your safety and security as Americans.

Yes, I think we should have a select committee or an organized effort  among the Judiciary Committee and the Oversight Committee to expose  this network, to expose the funders, to expose the people who are doing  this purposely to undermine your security as a nation. Yes, we should  know that. The only question is why isn't every single Representative  in this body standing up and saying: Yes, I agree?

I agree with Vice President JD Vance and Deputy Chief of Staff  Stephen Miller. They put forward plans to go after leftist  nongovernmental organizations in the wake of Charlie Kirk's murder. The  Vice President said: We are going to go after the NGO networks that  foment, facilitate, and engage in violence. We are going to channel all  the anger that we have over the organized campaign that led to this  assassination to uproot and dismantle these terrorist networks.

The Vice President is correct. My friend, Stephen Miller, is correct.  The President is correct to be declaring antifa a terrorist  organization. Enough is enough. Enough with the disruption of our  Nation. For those who say this is somehow clamping down on speech:  Wrong. You can say virtually anything you want to say in this country,  but number one, there is consequences to that, including getting fired  and having television shows canceled because there is a limit to what a  society should have to take.

If you are going to say crazy things, then there can be a consequence  to saying those crazy things. That is okay.

No, it is not interfering with your First Amendment rights to say  that you cannot engage in effecting a conspiracy to foment violence-- including, by the way, the riots in 2020--in the false name of  supposedly healing racial division or in the name of certain lives  mattering because we want to divide our country further.

Organizations funded for a specific purpose, to create instability  and to undermine our way of life and our freedoms, should be  investigated. Leftwing groups that are providing material support to  that kind of violence should be investigated.

They say, ``Chip, why just leftwing groups? Why not rightwing  groups?'' Fine. Go look at any groups fomenting said violence.

All I know is, in the wake of Charlie Kirk getting shot, I didn't see  the streets around this country burning. I didn't see people's  businesses and livelihoods getting looted, destroyed, and burned, from  Minneapolis to California to our Nation's Capital. I didn't see statues  getting toppled and tossed into water. I didn't see spray-painting and  destruction of public monuments and statues.

What I saw was prayer. What I saw was people coming together in  defense of their collective belief in God and their belief in this  country, but willing to not just say we need unity for the sake of it.

I am tired of that. I am tired of this nonsense where they say,  ``Come together. We must unite. We need unity.'' Unity for what? Unity  under what? Unity under a Constitution, under a flag, and under God,  yes. In defense of a country with shared values, yes. Not unity for the  sake of it, not turning the other cheek to a lawless bunch of  organizations designed to take down and destroy our way of life and our  country, to undermine our faith, undermine our country, undermine our  freedoms, because that is what we see.

You have to be blind to ignore it, and you have to be willful in that  blindness to ignore the conspiracy and coordination to dismantle so  much of what made this country great, to target institutions of faith;  to target people for their conservative views and beliefs; to  destabilize our society; to put criminals on the streets; to import  people from around the world with criminal backgrounds and gang members  for your own crass political purposes, to try to pack your districts  and try to expand your voter base.

It is not working because this administration and those of us who  have stood up to fight and expose this are seeing to it that we are  removing people from this country who should be removed, securing the  border so that people aren't flowing across it, standing with law  enforcement, securing our communities, backing the blue, restoring  safety and security, not just in our Nation's Capital but around the  country, making this country a place where you can achieve the American  Dream again, but only if we are willing to take on these organizations  that are still causing the lawless to be walking among us.

That resulted directly in the death of a Ukrainian refugee who  thought she could live the American Dream. It was taken away from her  because people were purposely put on the street who are dangerous.  There is no other way to look at that. That is literally what happened.

I know that there is going to be a lot more conversation and speeches  about Charlie coming up, but I will close with this. In a 1981 speech,  which is hard to believe was almost 45 years ago, President Reagan  declared liberal pro-criminal policies rooted in ``utopian presumptions  about human nature.'' ``For all our science and sophistication, for all  our justified pride in intellectual accomplishment, we must never  forget the jungle is always there waiting to take us over.''

He observed that the liberal belief that criminal justice is solely  for rehabilitation instead of incapacitation and deterrence is rooted  in ``a belief that there was nothing permanent or absolute about any  man's nature . . . and that by changing his environment, we could  permanently change man and usher in a great new era.''

President Reagan was right. There is a place appropriately for  forgiveness and rehabilitation, but there is not a place for allowing  the rampant, lawless, and dangerous to be walking among our families  and our communities, and our borders to be wide open to endanger our  societies for this crazy notion of some utopian nonsense or, worse yet,  a purposeful use of this tool for political purposes.

I applaud the President for what he is doing for trying to secure our  country.

I call on my colleagues to band together to expose to the American  people these organized efforts that are undermining our security and  our way of life--targeted specifically at us. It is high time that we  expose it. It is high time that we do something about it.

If we learned anything from what we saw unfold that resulted in the  murder of Charlie, it is that we go find the people that are just as  guilty as the young man that pulled that trigger, the people who are  just as guilty because they created that environment. They fomented the  radicalization and the creation of an environment where that occurred  knowingly, knowingly destabilizing our society in the process.