Mourning the Loss of Life in the State of Texas


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today mourning the loss of life in the  State of Texas that touched profoundly everybody across this great  country and so many people who are visiting this part of Texas.

Obviously, we have been struck by the loss of life, particularly for  those young girls associated with Camp Mystic.

It has been grueling. It was a rough week.

There has been a lot of destruction, and a lot of beautiful parts of  our State have been destroyed, but we will rebuild.

Here is the thing that I want to say. When people talk about  destruction, what will not be destroyed is the spirit of the people of  Texas; the spirit of the people that those camps represent; the spirit  of the little girls who are already talking about wanting to go back;  the spirit of the people associated with Dick Eastland, the camp  director of Camp Mystic who gave his life trying to save those little  girls; the spirit of Jane Ragsdale, who lost her life saving five  little girls--her guitar was found down the Guadalupe River just  yesterday; and the spirit of all the little girls who were riding in  the bus as they left Camp Mystic, singing hymns and expressing their  faith. They were looking at the destruction that they couldn't possibly  comprehend as they left that camp, but they were still putting their  faith in their Lord and their Savior.

If there is anything we can take out of this, it is that sense of  community, that sense of pride that we have in knowing that we will  rebuild and that we will come together, and that sense that we know the  power of the cross that stands on the hills over the city of Kerrville,  the power of the faith of the people of Texas, and the power of the  faith of the people of this Nation who have responded. Millions of  dollars have come into the Community Foundation of the Texas Hill  Country, $30 million last week, and I think that number is rising.

I thank all the members here in this delegation. Most of them have  reached out to me personally.

To my friends and colleagues in this delegation: It is not just Kerr  County. It is the State of Texas. Many of my colleagues have been  affected across the State, but I thank them for their prayers and their  well-wishes.

Just know, Mr. Speaker, that their spirit endures. I cannot tell you  how proud I am of the people of Texas, the people of Kerr County,  Texas, and the first responders who are today back in the floodwaters,  resuming the search for the missing. There are still over 100 missing  in that part of our State.

Mr. Speaker, I ask for a moment of silence.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, if I may, there are some little girls from Camp  Mystic in the gallery, and I thank them for being here.