People Are Sick and Tired


Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity, as always, to  be here in the House Chamber and try to be a voice for the people  across this country.

The people that I represent, of course, as does the Speaker and my  colleagues, we each represent three-quarters of a million people, give  or take, but we also try to be a voice for everybody. We try to be a  voice for the people who don't have a voice.

The people that I represent and the people across this country that I  talk to are sick and tired. They are sick and tired of being put in  danger because radical, progressive Democrats, radical progressive  politicians, radical progressive judges, radical progressive district  attorneys, radical progressive NGOs, George Soros, the people funding  all of these entities are pushing criminals onto the streets of our  country and causing harm to Americans, Americans who have been here for  generations or Americans who came here seeking refugee from, for  example, Ukraine.

How many of my colleagues come to the floor of the House wearing a  blue and yellow ribbon or a blue and yellow pin? They wear it for show,  and they wear it to pat themselves on the back. They wear it to seem  like they are the ones with a heart when other people question whether  we should fund endless war. They wear it to say that they care.

But where were they when Iryna Zartuska was being brutally stabbed in  public transit in North Carolina? Where is the media who were outraged  when Daniel Penny, a marine, stopped a violent offender on a New York  subway and then was the one being charged and prosecuted for a crime?

What if Iryna Zartuska had Daniel Penny sitting next to her so that  she wouldn't have lost her life? As a refugee from Ukraine, she was  coming to supposedly the freest and strongest and greatest country on  Earth. She was brutally murdered because feel-good radical liberals  with their jailbreak, let-all-the-criminals-out, open borders, take  money from George Soros, DAs, and judges put these criminals on the  streets. You have a guy who was a 14-time offender, 14-time offender  sitting behind this beautiful girl, and he just stabs her to death on a  train car.

Where is all the wailing and the gnashing of teeth from my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle? Where are their blue and yellow ribbons  today?

All the sanctimonious preaching sure is silent because they can't  bear to acknowledge that if you don't enforce the law, if you invite  criminals from around the world into our country with open borders, if  you let criminals on our streets with foolish policies by radical  judges and district attorneys, then, as my friend from Louisiana knows  as a former law enforcement officer, our streets are no longer safe and  the American Dream is no longer able to be achieved. The freedom we are  supposed to enjoy is not possible without the security you are supposed  to have under the rule of law.

We used a lot of big words from the Declaration of Independence all  the way through today. We talk about a lot of great words: ``equal  justice under the law,'' ``liberty,'' ``rights,'' ``freedom,'' but if  you don't have the rule of law, none of it matters.

The reason people come to the United States, the reason they flock to  our country from around the world, is because of the rule of law.  Enforcing our constitutional rights, given to us by God, recognized by  our Founders, defended with the blood of patriots, but enforced under  the law.

They come here knowing they can invest their capital, build a  business, and not have it taken away by the State. They know that they  can walk the streets freely, or they think that they can walk the  streets freely, and not be assaulted. They believe that they can raise  a family, grow and develop a community, and live the American Dream  that they have seen play out.

They want to come here, but then when people with their fake ribbons  and their feel-good propaganda let criminals on the streets, ignore the  rule of law, and walk away from the men and women in blue as they did  in the summer of 2020 when our cities were burning and our law  enforcement were being attacked, when they defunded the police in  Austin, Texas, as the radical city council did there, then real people  suffer. Americans get hurt, and the American Dream dies.

The suspect that I talked about with the brutal stabbing in North  Carolina was 34 years old with a history of mental illness and a long  rap sheet: multiple convictions for armed robbery, felony larceny,  breaking and entering; more than 5 years in prison; and 14 criminal  cases.

His own family had warned of his history of schizophrenia. His own  sister said that ``he didn't seem like himself,'' when he was released  from prison. He assaulted his sister, and now that guy is roaming the  public.

His release from this incident was conditioned on a written promise  that he would appear for his next hearing, only for him to be charged  with murdering this young woman.

Why would North Carolina officeholders, politicians, and judges not  confine or institutionalize this young man? Because a radical ideology  has taken root, particularly in my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle, but my colleagues on this side of the aisle are not immune to  the belief that you can put criminals on the street and not undermine  the American Dream.

The so-called progressive prosecutor movement advocates for less  incarceration and less policing: decarceration, procriminal policies  that undermine public safety.

On January 22, 2025, San Antonio Police Department officers responded  to calls at a San Antonio apartment complex reporting a suicidal  individual who was armed and firing his weapon. When officers arrived,  the suspect, Brandon Scott Poulos, fired upon the officers, striking  one of them in the leg. Poulos wound up barricading himself in an  hours-long standoff and shot an additional six officers before San  Antonio PD neutralized the situation. Thankfully, all seven officers  survived.

He was a 46-year-old with a history of erratic behavior. He was  charged with DWI and assault. A few days before the shooting, he had  been arrested for two charges of injury to an elderly person; one  charge of assault, family violence causing bodily injury; and one  charge of driving while intoxicated.

The Bexar County Magistrate's Office--Bexar County is where San  Antonio is--issued a protective order against Poulos with instructions  not to contact the family members. Three days later and less than 24  hours before the January 22 shooting of seven San Antonio cops, Poulos  violated his protective order by visiting a prohibited residence and  threatening to kill himself and to shoot at any officer.

The Bexar County D.A. in San Antonio, led by a progressive  prosecutor, has imposed criminal leniency initiatives that have not  only put law-abiding Americans in danger but also police officers, too.

The fact is, we are letting the inmates not just run the asylum, but  letting the inmates run our communities. Then, under the Biden  administration, we are inviting other countries to dump their prisons  out into our communities. The radical progressives who allowed that to  happen, supported it, and encouraged it are now attacking President  Trump for daring to undo the damage, reverse the open borders and  secure them, and then try to remove the dangerous criminals who are  walking the streets of the United States because of the radical  progressives and their open-border policies.

I know my friend from Louisiana has a lifetime of service, not just  as a Congressman, but also in law enforcement. I wonder if my brother  from Louisiana would like to expand upon my thesis that the rule of law  is the central element of a strong and prosperous United States and  that when our radical progressive friends undermine it by releasing  criminals, leaving our borders open, refusing to enforce the law, and  handing down light sentences, it endangers our people and undermines  the very American Dream that people seek to achieve when they come to  our land.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I would like to see if my friend from Louisiana  can stick around a little bit longer.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my friend from Louisiana because  of his long history of distinguished service, and he knows what he is  talking about.

I know that the gentleman from Louisiana came to my home State of  Texas when the people that I represent were ravaged by the floods that  affected our community in Kerrville, Texas, the gentleman dropped what  he was doing to come up and help when we were in the search and in the  rescue.

I just want to say to the gentleman, as a representative of the  thousands of people who came to our State to try to help at a time when  our people were hurting, but also people around the Nation were  affected because of what happened to the camps--that I am proud to  represent and that we will rebuild and that we will have going forward  to have these wonderful children be able to learn the gospel and spread  the gospel and become lights into the world.

I know that my friend from Louisiana would allow us to indulge a  favor to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter) to have a 1-minute  remark about something that is important to him, but I wanted to take a  moment to share my prayerful solidarity with my brother from Georgia  because he had a family member, a young girl who was unfortunately lost  in that terrible flood, and I bring that up because we were all  affected by it. We had so many loved ones who were impacted, but the  faith of that community and the faith of the people in this Nation and  the faith of the people in Texas who have come together under the cross  that stands up on that hill in Kerrville and the people who have  generously contributed now $150 million and counting that are going in  to help those people, and the first responders who showed up on the  scene and the people like my friend and the former sheriff, my buddy  from Louisiana, who dropped everything to come up represents all that  is good and great about this great Nation, who show up to help each  other when we need to.

Honoring Judith Jurgensen Melroy

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia.

Mr. Speaker, since we are talking about the rule of law, I will not  regale you with stories of my misspent youth on St. Patrick's Day in  his fair city of Savannah.

I will say that earlier my friend from Louisiana was talking about  the importance of the rule of law. We were talking about the context of  criminals being let out prematurely, not giving them the ability to  actually come to a place where they can again interact with society. We  can talk about the mix with mind-altering drugs. We can talk about the  misdiagnoses. We can talk about all of the things that we can and  should do better. I know that my friend from Louisiana, a devout  Catholic, a devout believer in the healing power and the grace of our  Saviour, I know that he, like I, believe in the power of forgiveness  and being able to work to rehabilitate and that we are called to do  that. However, that is not an excuse for irresponsibly,  programmatically, and politically putting individuals on the street who  have no business being there.

In that same vein, I know that my friend from Louisiana is a staunch  believer in a secure border, as most Americans are. I want to make a  couple of points and see what the gentleman thinks. So when you look at  the damage that was being done by the previous administration, not as  most people think, by just ignoring the border and letting people get  in, but rather encouraging and purposefully pulling people into the  United States by virtue of the misapplication, misinterpretation, and  straight-out disregard of the law to abuse our compassionate parole and  asylum policies meant and reserved for those in dire need of protection  from political persecution and other areas defined in the law for  special purposes. For instance, you might be granted parole to care for  a sick loved one legally in the United States. You might be granted  some specific purpose for that one individual because we are a  compassionate Nation.

Our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, led by the previous  President, led by the previous Secretary, led by the previous Vice  President, purposely bastardized the law for political purposes,  endangering children who were  raped on the journey, using this human chattel callously for political  purposes, flooding our communities with criminals from other countries.

Now, the President of the United States who ran on reversing that is  doing so, and President Trump, Steve Miller, Tom Homan, Secretary Noem,  the brave men and women of ICE, the brave men and women of Border  Patrol, all of our law enforcement should be roundly commended for  doing their job. I can tell you the relief of those great men and women  to have a President and a Secretary that has their back and that  believes in them and has allowed them to carry out their mission under  the law, rather than accusing them of whipping someone they fully knew  did not happen.

It is a new day in America where the flow across the border is  statistically zero, as it should be, compared to the millions that  flowed in for 4 years under Joe Biden. The Trump administration has, to  the best of my understanding, arrested some 359,000 individuals for  removal in the first 7 months of this administration, 70 percent of  whom had pending criminal charges or convictions contrary to the  allegations of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

Why are our colleagues on the other side of the aisle protesting the  removal of murderers, sex offenders, drug traffickers, child abusers,  gun criminals, gang members threatening our communities, killing our  citizens like Jocelyn Nungaray or Rachel Moran, Laken Riley?

For the other 30 percent, they are illegal aliens who broke our  immigration laws. They literally broke our laws.

I know that the gentleman from Louisiana feels so strongly that we  should back up our law enforcement community that he raised a  privileged matter on the floor of the House involving one of our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle who has been indicted for  interfering with law enforcement, and not just interfering with law  enforcement, interfering with ICE, the law enforcement personnel which  she is charged with overseeing in her service on the Committee on  Homeland Security.

I know the gentleman rightfully brought that matter before the House.  My colleagues will continue to address that matter in the future.

I wonder if the gentleman could speak to the importance--to this body  and our leaders of this country, the 435 people in this Chamber, the  100 on the other side of the building, the President, and the people  who report to him, the judges in the Supreme Court and throughout our  courts in the country--the importance of enforcing the law, of standing  alongside, not blindly, but standing alongside our law enforcement  community to protect the rule of law that he so artfully described with  respect to our jails and the enforcement of laws in our communities,  but also to enforce our border in concert with local law enforcement  and how important it is that we stand alongside them, that we stand up  and hold ourselves accountable for doing that work and the proper  oversight and the proper leadership to secure our Nation.

I yield to the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. Higgins), my good  friend.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from (Louisiana) Mr. Higgins.

Mr. Speaker, I want to put a name and a face on the environment that  was created by our colleagues and by the previous administration in  endangering people.

We talk about: Say his name. Say the name of Jimmy Friesenhahn. In  San Antonio, a father of a young daughter, a veteran of the Marine  Corps, Jimmy fell victim to the pro-criminal policies and the open  border that my friend from Louisiana just described.

On May 4, 2025, a mere 4 months ago, he was working as a security  guard at a restaurant on the west side of San Antonio. The perpetrator,  Wilmer Vladimir Ruiz-Ortega, attempted to enter the bar. He was stopped  by Jimmy to be searched for contraband.

Jimmy identified a handgun. It led to a struggle, which resulted in  the suspect gaining control of it, firing it, and striking Jimmy at  least once. Jimmy medically died on the scene but was revived. It  struck him in the neck, leaving him with a spinal injury, along with a  ruptured esophagus and vocal cords.

He was in the ICU at San Antonio Military Medical Center with life-  threatening injuries for months. Doctors say he will never fully  recover.

The suspect is a 29-year-old illegal alien who entered the United  States as a got-away. He was arrested in San Antonio and charged with a  DWI in 2020. He was let go on a personal reconnaissance bond but failed  to show up.

The Bexar County DA downgraded the DWI. He pled guilty to obstructing  a passageway, but he violated the probation. He got arrested again. He  was let go after posting a bond of $1,500. He failed to show up.

He was arrested a fourth time in November of 2024. He was sentenced  to time served. He assaulted a girlfriend and fled the scene. After  shooting Jimmy, then the Bexar County DA only pursued aggravated  assault charges and set his bond at $200,000. He is not in jail. He was  granted house arrest.

Jimmy was a father and a veteran. His brother said Jimmy always put  himself before others. Why do the people entrusted with securing our  communities and enforcing the law not put Jimmy before the illegal  alien who shouldn't have been here, should have been removed, and  shouldn't have been let out five times to carry out and perpetrate this  kind of crime?

The American people are asking: What happened? What happened to our  country?

As far as a refugee from Ukraine, do you remember when our colleagues  waved all the Ukrainian flags on the House floor?

Mr. ROY. Where were they today, Mr. Speaker? Were they waving the  Ukrainian flag to honor that young girl who was brutally murdered by a  criminal released by a radical progressive funded by radical  progressives?

They are nowhere to be found. They are MIA.

The legacy media, also run by radical progressives, can't even bring  it up. They can't even put it on the television. They don't dare to  talk about it because it doesn't fit the narrative.

The American people are sick of having their way of life that their  forefathers fought, bled, and died for, and that their brothers,  sisters, moms, and dads worked to build for them and to pass down to  their kids, ripped to shreds by people who don't give a rip about the  rule of law, the Constitution, or our way of life as God-fearing  Americans who say that we put our trust in God right above the flag  that those brave men and women wore into combat so that we could be  here and live supposedly free.

We are unable to live free because we are not secure. We are not  secure because radical politicians, judges, and NGOs are working  furiously for political gain and political purposes to advance a  radical Marxist ideology to undermine our security.

It is a war on our way of life. It is a war on Western civilization  itself. It is a war on the Constitution and the rule of law.

Every day that goes by is another day in which the very things that  built this country are under assault, including, I might add, and in no  doubt controversially, our belief in the Almighty God and His Son  punished for our transgressions on the cross and our collective belief  in Him as a nation that built this country.

This country and too many of its citizens have turned their backs on  that truth.

The fact is, and the last point I will make, is that those radical  progressives with their remaking of America with wide-open borders--and  open borders include unfettered visas from all corners of the world--is  purposely driven for economic, political, and other purposes, but  usually involving the buck and power.

There are people who are advancing sharia law and advancing an  Islamist political worldview directly and purposely in conflict with  our Western values and our Constitution. It is a declaration of war on  our way of life.

In Houston, just this weekend, an imam affiliated with the Nation of  Islam was going around claiming to be patrolling Muslim-owned shops,  telling them to stop selling alcohol and lottery tickets because they  violate Islamic law. As communities in Texas are built upon large  pieces of land, hundreds of acres, they are building up Muslim-only  cities. This is purposeful.

We had Nigel Farage and others testifying in the Judiciary Committee  this past week.

I asked Mr. Farage if the advance of Islam and the importation of  sharia law are consistent with Western civilization, the Western  civilization responsible for providing more peace, more prosperity,  better living conditions, and more freedom for more people than the  world has ever seen. His answer was, of course, no, it is not.

Our friends across the pond can barely find themselves able to defend  what little free speech remains on their island. A comic, a comedian,  came to the United States and made a joke about transgenderism. I don't  even know what the joke was. He flies home to the U.K. and is arrested  for hate speech even as the Parliament is advancing an Islamophobia  bill, to which I ask: Who is going to win that war? Who is going to win  that fight? We either believe and uphold the values of Western  civilization or we don't.

Mr. Speaker, you can believe what you want. You can believe in God or  not. You can go to church or not. What you cannot do is advance a  radical ideology deeply at odds, directly in conflict, and purely  designed to undermine the very values that have built this Nation and  the advance of freedom around the world because, at our core, our  values are built on our faith.

This Nation is more likely to crumble under its own weight, its own  errors, than it is by invasion unless we meet the moment, unless we  stand up, and unless we say never again.

Never again will we allow the power of government to be rained down  upon the American people with mandates of masks and vaccines in the  name of fear and in the name of healthcare.

Never again will we allow open borders to trample our community,  endanger our citizens, and filter dangerous narcotics into our  communities.

Never again will we allow the Chinese Communist Party to buy up our  lands, our meatpacking facilities, and our critical medical production  companies.

Never again will we allow our communities to get overrun with forced  Marxist, DEI, and critical race theory ideology that undermines the  very fabric of our community.

Never again will we allow the lawless and dangerous criminals to be  on the streets because a faraway judge or bureaucrat getting paid off  by an NGO says so.

Never again. Never again.

This moment of reprieve and this moment of common sense in which  President Trump is restoring a modicum of what we need to restore the  rule of law and secure borders and enforcement of the law and removal  of criminals is meeting resistance at every turn. Even this moment of  reprieve in which the President, President Trump, is restoring common  sense by eliminating DEI, CRT, and all this stuff in our agencies and  our Pentagon, even this moment of reprieve is just that, a moment of  reprieve from the march of the Marxist, tyrannical ideology that is  deeply at odds with our founding principles and who we are as a Judeo- Christian nation and as people who believe in something bigger and  better for our kids and grandkids that is rooted in the sacrifice of  the millions who came before us.

This reprieve must be met with the energy and the resolve of those  who died before us: the men of the Alamo, the men who stormed the  beaches of Normandy, the men on the fields of Lexington and Concord,  the men and women who have answered the call to defeat terror, the men  and women in blue who actually stand on that thin blue line even when  they are abandoned.

All of those who have answered the call deserve Members of this body,  Members of the Senate, elected leaders across the country to risk even  an ounce of what those men and women are willing to risk. They must  risk the election certificate upon which they hold like a death grip.

I say to my colleagues: Do something bigger and better. Take this  moment of reprieve and say never again. Never again will we endanger  our citizens; never again with open borders; never again with criminals  on our streets; never again with drugs; never again  with tyrannical mandates, vaccines stuck in the arm; never again with  radical ideology and transgender ideology politically motivated harming  our young women, undermining their advancement; never again.

Never again do we yield to the corporatists who gobble up our small  businesses and undermine our way of life. Never again will we yield to  ideology in the name of political expediency, but rather, stand up and  defend this the greatest country that the world has ever known without  which people will be relegated to a world without the American Dream  backed by the security and safety of the people willing to lay it all  on the line to defend it.