Providing for Consideration of H.R. Improving Law Enforcement Officer Safety and Wellness Through Data Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Leosa Reform Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Federal Law Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691169/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-improving-law-enforcement-officer-safety-and-wellness-through-data-act-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-leosa-reform-act-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-federal-law-enforcement-officer-service-weapon-purchase-act-of-2025


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 405 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 405

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House any bill specified in       section 2 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such bill are waived. The respective       amendments in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on the Judiciary now printed in each such bill       shall be considered as adopted. Each such bill, as amended,       shall be considered as read. All points of order against       provisions       in each such bill, as amended, are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on each such bill, as       amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final       passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of       debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  The bills referred to in the first section of this       resolution are as follows:

(a) The bill (H.R. 2240) to require the Attorney General to       develop reports relating to violent attacks against law       enforcement officers, and for other purposes.

(b) The bill (H.R. 2243) to amend title 18, United States       Code, to improve the Law Enforcement Officer Safety Act and       provisions relating to the carrying of concealed weapons by       law enforcement officers, and for other purposes.

(c) The bill (H.R. 2255) to allow Federal law enforcement       officers to purchase retired service weapons, and for other       purposes.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms. Leger  Fernandez), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule providing for  consideration of three pieces of legislation--H.R. 2240, H.R. 2243, and  H.R. 2255--which will all be considered under a closed rule, each with  1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and  ranking member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective  designees. Additionally, the rule provides each with a motion to  recommit.

Mr. Speaker, Republicans are here in Washington this week to continue  to work on behalf of the American people. This is, in fact, Police  Week, but we have been busy this year, this Congress delivering for the  American people.

In this Congress so far, we have passed legislation to secure our  elections, H.R. 222, the SAVE Act; hold rogue activist judges  accountable, H.R. 1526; bring transparency to institutes of higher  education, H.R. 1048; make changes to our border with the Laken Riley  Act and the HALT Fentanyl Act; and to repeal the Biden-era harmful  environmental regulations by passing what we call Congressional Review  Acts to undo the damage of the Biden administration.

As Republicans continue to work on behalf of the American people and  finalize the reconciliation products we are working on currently, we  are also here to recognize National Police Week and the thousands of  law enforcement officers who wake up every day to step on that thin  blue line to defend and protect us.

In 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed a proclamation which  designated May 15 as Peace Officer Memorial Day, and the week in which  that date falls as Police Week.

Yesterday, my staff and I got the opportunity to welcome police  officers from New Braunfels, Texas, and hear about the challenges they  face every day. I talk to the men and women in blue virtually every day  in the district that I represent, as I know many of my colleagues do.

My grandfather was the chief of police of a small west Texas town  called Sweetwater. I was blessed to work in the United States  Attorney's office and the Office of the Attorney General of the State  of Texas, working every day with law enforcement. What they do matters  for the peace and security of our country. Our Republic depends on  having security on our streets.

There are thousands of stories that I can share about the daily  heroism of law enforcement officers across the country, hundreds I  could share even in the district I represent.

On February 16, 2024, Austin Police Department officers Dalton  Schroeder and Jason Wright responded to 4-year-old William Martinez  Romero, who was choking. The officers quickly jumped into action. Body  cam footage shows Officer Schroeder run to his cruiser to grab an  antichoking device he bought with his own money to be prepared for  situations just like this, while Officer Wright started supporting  William with back blows. They saved his life that day.

We must also remember that Police Week honors fallen peace officers,  including one officer who died in the line of duty, Austin Police  Department Senior Officer Jorge Pastore died in action November 11,  2023, responding to a domestic violence call in South Austin. Hostages  were held inside a home, and when officers attempted to enter, gunfire  started to go off. The SWAT team was called in to help distract the  suspect, one being Officer Pastore, who was trying to rescue the  victims.

I know I speak for many of my colleagues when I say we couldn't be  more excited to welcome tens of thousands of law enforcement officers  from around the country to D.C. this week.

Let's be clear: House Republicans and President Trump are mobilized  to restore order and sanity in the United States, something that had  been lacking for years.

I remember the days, as I know my colleagues do, in 2020 when there  were fires and destruction rampant across the country, as our cities  were being burned to the ground and law enforcement was being targeted.  It was unacceptable.

There are Members of this body, my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle, who were encouraging it. They were undermining our law  enforcement officers, making it more difficult for them to carry out  their jobs, who were challenging them. It was important that we stood  by them, and it is important now that the President and Republicans are  standing by our law enforcement officers.

Americans suffered due to the amplification of that extreme rhetoric  against law enforcement. The homicide rates stayed significantly higher  through 2022 after massively skyrocketing in the wake of 2020.

The rule before us today is another step in helping law enforcement  officers across the Nation which, after 4 years of a Biden-run  Department of Justice targeting police departments, should be a welcome  relief to our men and women in blue.

This week we will consider three pieces of legislation to support our  brothers and sisters in law enforcement. H.R. 2255, the Federal Law  Enforcement Officer Service Weapon Purchase Act of 2025, which would  allow Federal law enforcement officers the opportunity to purchase the  service weapons they used before obtaining a new one; H.R. 2243, the  LEOSA Reform Act, which amends the Gun-Free School Zones Act to provide  an exemption for law enforcement officers certified under the Law  Enforcement Officers Safety Act to carry a concealed firearm in a gun- free school zone; and H.R. 2240, Improving Law Enforcement Officer  Safety and Wellness Through Data Act, which would require the Attorney  General to submit a report to Congress that includes data on attacks on  law enforcement.

These bills are widely supported by law enforcement groups. The  Association of State Criminal Investigative Agencies, Federal Law  Enforcement Officers Association, Major Cities Chiefs Association,  Major County Sheriffs of America, National Association of Police  Organizations, National Narcotics Officers' Associations' Coalition,  and Sergeants Benevolent Association of the NYPD sent a letter on March  25, 2025, to the House Judiciary Committee urging support of these  bills and advancement to the House floor.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, today, as every day, I stand in honor of our police and  our law enforcement. I often say to those who serve that to serve is an  act of love. I recognize the love of those who step up to put their  lives on the line and to put their lives in a place of danger to  protect us. I honor that service and that love.

Today, like last night, I heard an outrageous lie about which party  supports law enforcement. Let's look at  the facts. Republican President Donald Trump's proposed budget will  slash funding for the ATF and Drug Enforcement Administration, fire FBI  employees, wipe out community policing grants, and gut civil rights  enforcement.

Trump's budget doesn't support local law enforcement. It hurts them.

In my rural district, local law enforcement actually needs more  support. I am outraged when Republicans say Federal help is  duplicative, which is what they said last night in the Rules Committee.

I have spoken with the police officers and sheriffs who traverse  thousands of miles of bumpy rural roads in my district. Rio Arriba  County, for example, is bigger than the State of Connecticut, yet it  has fewer than two dozen police officers.

Mr. Speaker, do you know what helps a small, rural police department  like Rio Arriba? Do you know what the sheriffs need? They need support  from the FBI and Federal law enforcement. FBI comes in and helps them  solve crimes.

Tribal law enforcement also relies on the FBI. Tribal leaders  frequently describe the long wait times for police to arrive and the  countless criminal investigations left unsolved because there aren't  enough FBI agents.

Mr. Speaker, when you cut funding for the FBI, as Republican  President Trump proposes in his budget, you are not cutting duplicative  funding. You are cutting essential investigative services. It is a  guarantee that crimes will go unsolved.

The partnership between law enforcement agencies at all levels is  critical to keep our communities safe. From the sheriff in Rio Arriba  to the Capitol Police officers right outside these doors, each plays an  important role. Unfortunately, not everybody respects all of our law  enforcement officers.

In this very building, January 6 insurrectionists brutally attacked  the Capitol Police and law enforcement officers from multiple  jurisdictions. More than 140 police suffered injuries and went to the  hospital. Five officers died. Then, President Trump pardoned the  violent thugs who battered those police officers. It is a shame.

Every day, we walk by our dedicated Capitol Police, yet very few  Republicans have the courage to condemn the pardons of the violent  thugs who beat the police. Last night during Rules, we couldn't even  get a Republican who is a former prosecutor to condemn the pardons-- more shame. If Republicans truly backed the blue, they would all  denounce those pardons.

Mr. Speaker, I wonder if my colleague from Texas condemned those  pardons. Is he willing to do so now?

Mr. Speaker, I want to turn to what Americans are focused on right  now and what the thousands of callers to congressional offices,  Republican and Democratic, are worried about. It is Republican cuts to  Medicaid.

This is a big week for Republicans. As reported in Punchbowl, it is  their once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to cut Medicaid.

This week in the dead of night while America was sleeping, Republican  committees took a sledgehammer to lifesaving programs like Medicaid.  Mr. Speaker, let me tell you what is happening. Democrats fought all  night to save 8.6 million Americans from losing access to Medicaid.  That doesn't include the 4.2 million Americans who will start paying a  whole lot more for their healthcare premiums so big corporations can  get their tax deductions.

Republicans voted down every single amendment that Democrats offered  to protect Medicaid. Let me remind everybody that in more than 25  districts, more than a third of the constituents rely on Medicaid. That  includes Republican Nick Begich's and  Robert Bresnahan's districts.  Not a single Republican had the courage to stand up for their  constituents.

The people are showing up in our offices to demand that Republicans  listen to them. Some are protesting in their wheelchairs.

Yesterday, I spoke to a disabled woman named Julie outside the  committee markup. Thirty-five years ago, Julie crawled up the House  steps to demand that Congress pass the Americans with Disabilities Act.  She is now back to beg for the bare minimum. She told me that she  doesn't trust Republicans to protect her healthcare. Based on their  votes, she is right.

Congress listened to her plea 35 years ago. Now, the wealthy  interests and Trump's pressure are just too much. Republicans won't  listen to a word from Julie or the 80 disabled advocates who came with  her. She and other advocates are asking them to protect Medicaid and to  protect the services they need. Even though they are in wheelchairs,  they are not voiceless and will show up with their power. If that  doesn't break our hearts, I don't know what will.

We have a broken system that prioritizes the wealthy, corruption, and  loyalty to President Trump over the health and well-being of people  like Julie. There are 8.6 million people who will suffer because  Republicans took their once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to cut Medicaid.

Republicans may be gleeful, but Americans will be tearful. Remember,  congressional Republicans will lie over and over and say this is about  rooting out fraud. No, it is not. It is about giving permanent tax cuts  to the oligarchs. In fact, the top 20 percent of income earners will  get 68 percent of the benefits in their bill.

Make no mistake that people will die as a result of these cuts.  Families will suffer. Many will go broke thanks to medical bills, while  millionaires get money for more yachts. Do they really need any more  yachts?

Mr. Speaker, getting back to law enforcement, do you know the other  things that sheriffs in my district need to respond to crime and to  keep people alive? They need rural hospitals. When Republicans strip  $715 billion from Medicaid, no matter how they try to paint that pig,  they will be eliminating rural hospitals and emergency rooms.

When they do that, police officers in rural areas in places like  Chama, New Mexico, in my district will have to drive 1\1/2\ to 2 hours  to the nearest emergency room. Ask any first responder: The quicker  somebody gets to an emergency room, the more likely they are to  survive. When life or death is a matter of minutes, what Republicans  are doing this week is deadly.

Mr. Speaker, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are so  concerned about crime in the country that the parting shot of Joe Biden  on January 19 was to commute the sentences of 2,500 Federal defendants  he claimed were ``convicted of nonviolent drug offenses.''

Let's look at that. We have a situation where he reduced the sentence  of a Buffalo man, Lairon Graham, 67. In 2023, he was convicted of  organizing and heading a drug conspiracy to sell fentanyl, crack  cocaine, and heroin. When police raided his home, they found fentanyl,  crack, and cash. He also possessed a firearm. In addition to heading up  the drug gang, Graham was also convicted of sex trafficking by force or  coercion from 2013 to 2021.

Of course, this is on top of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle wanting to defend a Maryland man for being sent overseas after  the guy was clearly moving people illegally, beating his girlfriend and  wife, violating our laws, and here illegally. That is who they want to  defend.

There are numerous other examples. Jaron Ruth, another Buffalo  native, pleaded guilty in 2019 to selling drugs over a period of 3  years and possessing firearms. He had been charged with shooting a man  in the chest during a burglary of the victim's home.

These are the kind of folks that Joe Biden was commuting as he exited  stage left. We had another situation where he commuted the sentence of  a gentleman who left prison after Biden commuted his sentence in the  killing of two FBI agents. Is that who my colleagues on the other side  of the aisle think they ought to be defending?

Can they answer the question of commuting the sentences of these  violent criminals and putting them out on the streets, just as they  voted against every measure we put forward to defend our borders and to  stop the death and destruction of American citizens like Laken Riley or  like Jocelyn Nungaray or those who have died at the hands of dangerous  criminal cartels and gangs in our country?

What President Trump is doing is restoring the rule of law. What  Republicans are doing is standing up in defense of law enforcement  because we stand up in defense of the rule of law.

What I would notice, Mr. Speaker, is that the gentleman complained  about not having the amendment considered, but he offered the amendment  about 1 hour before the Rules Committee met. So spare me the concern  about whether or not we are considering amendments when we don't have  the time to look at the amendment.

I would also note that when we are talking about these kinds of  people, I went through a list of folks whom President Biden had  commuted.

Here is another one. A Lubbock man, granted clemency by Biden, was  arrested. The sheriff was absolutely angry about the former  administration's decisions. The sheriff said that he felt angry after  he found out a convicted criminal was being released back on the  Lubbock streets early, that a convicted criminal is now back in law  enforcement custody after violating his supervised release.

These are the kinds of folks whom we are putting back out on the  streets, and we are having to arrest again the very people that  President Biden put back out.

Mr. Speaker, I would note that as we are considering this Police Week  and we are talking about the safety and security of our streets, I  would just note that two of our most dangerous States as measured by  violent crime and property crime rates are the States of New Mexico and  Colorado, which also happen to have Democrats controlling all levels of  power.

I would note that last summer, the good people of Aurora, Colorado,  were dealing with Tren de Aragua, who were engaging in violent  activities in apartment complexes and demonstrating the violence that  has led to the death of Americans, and the trafficking of dangerous  narcotics and fentanyl. They literally took over their homes. I met  with and talked to Cindy Romero from Aurora about what happened to her  in her home and that my Democratic colleagues weren't even  acknowledging that it was happening. They were just ignoring it.

Then Tren de Aragua moved to San Antonio and other places across the  country. I want to give a shout-out to the Texas Department of Public  Safety and all the great local law enforcement in Hays County, Texas.  That is because just literally last week they converged together with  the FBI to go identify and stop 47 individuals. Probably 14 of whom  were a part of Tren de Aragua from all over the country. They had come  into Austin to coordinate. They had drugs, narcotics, and children in a  home near where I live in Dripping Springs, Texas.

Thanks to law enforcement we now have removed at least four of those  individuals and are prosecuting others because we now have a law  enforcement community who knows that the President of the United States  is backing them, and a Republican House and a Republican Senate are  backing them.

Local law enforcement are being backed instead of having leftist  judges who are dismissing the crimes and putting dangerous criminals on  the streets. When Joe Biden commutes sentences and puts dangerous  criminals on the streets, the American people know who is actually  standing up for law enforcement.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I find it incredibly ironic when my colleague talks  about President Trump backing law enforcement.

Last night in the Rules Committee, their Republican colleague, Mr.  Knott, noted that Republicans have not increased or passed legislation  for law enforcement in the 119th Congress.

When Republicans back law enforcement, they should actually be  passing the funding to support State law enforcement, to support that  collaboration and coordination. At the same time we are seeing that  Republicans are not saying a peep about the fact that President Trump  is cutting existing resources.

Not only does he plan to cut the budget for law enforcement, he is  cutting resources today. He has terminated $820 million worth of grants  for public safety. He has cut $169 million in funding for community  safety and violence reduction programs. He has cut $71.7 million in  grants to policing and prosecution programs, including longstanding  efforts to address violent crimes and acts of targeted violence.

It doesn't terminate there. The Trump administration terminated  grants for policing and prosecution, for victim services, for juvenile  justice and child protection, for substance abuse and mental health  treatment, for correction, and for protecting and serving the women who  have been raped and the children who have been abused. He has cut that  funding.

I have spoken to the women who are administering those programs and  who have called me in tears because the children they serve will not be  receiving those Federal grants.

Mr. Speaker, I want to get back to this issue of the pardons that my  colleague has referred to.

Once again, let's go back and think about how they have not objected  to the pardons of the January 6, nor have they called for putting up  the plaque to honor the law enforcement who served us that day.

If we talk about standing up in defense of police, how can my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle say with a straight face that  that is what they want to do when we had one Democrat from New York who  said: I am not in favor of more police; I am actually in favor of  defunding the police. We had another Congresswoman from New York who  said: Defunding police means defunding police. I can go back, and the  Record is replete with examples of my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle calling for defunding the police. In fact, one of my  colleagues from Texas was literally serving on the Austin City Council  when they cut $150 million out of the Austin Police Department's  budget, leaving their academy decimated, leaving them unable to field  911 calls, leaving violent crimes skyrocketing in the city of Austin,  because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle were patently  clear about their desire to defund the police and  side with violent mobs in the summer of 2020, when our cities were  burning across the country.

Yes, we are standing up for the men and women in blue. Yes, we will  defend them, but, no, we are not going to blindly support grants that  are being used by NGOs to undermine the very police they are saying  they are trying to support. For example, one grant to an NGO that was  promoting prostitution and open borders, this is the kind of stuff that  the American people sent us here to stop. This is the kind of stuff  that they are proud of the President for using DOGE to identify and  stop.

Yes, we are trying to defund those particularly bad grant programs,  while we try to make sure that our local jurisdictions can fund police  properly and have judges that will actually put bad guys in jail  instead of letting them on the streets and a President that won't  commute the sentences of 2,500 people, dozens or hundreds of whom were  violent criminals and are now back out on the streets.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, my colleague has mentioned all kinds of words and ideas,  and he is putting all kinds of stuff out there, but he has not once  mentioned the plaque.

The previous question is: Will you honor the police who defended us  in this Chamber by doing a simple thing? That is putting up this  plaque.

Mr. Speaker, what counts on the floor of this House is your vote.  Let's look at what those votes have resulted in. Those votes say we  should honor the police who suffered when the insurrectionists beat  them, that we should honor the police who protected our democracy and  indeed protected every single one of us. Whether you are Republican or  Democrat, a House Member or a Senator, you were protected by the  police.

Are you willing to vote for this? If you vote against the previous  question, you are saying we will not do this simple act of respect.

Now, let's get to the idea of what did you actually vote on.

Democrats have the receipts. For fiscal year 2023, the last year that  Democrats wrote the appropriations bill, we increased funding for  grants to State and local law enforcement by $506 billion. All but nine  House Republicans voted against that bill.

Remember, it is not what you say. It is what you do. What did you  vote for? Democrats put forward bills to increase funding, and  Republicans voted against it.

We also increased funding for the FBI by half a billion dollars. I  already went through how important the FBI is for Tribal law  enforcement; how much our rural and local officers rely on them to do  the investigation. They have access to technology that our sheriffs do  not. The FBI supports law enforcement in Indian country.

We need these resources, and I am incredibly insulted when the  gentleman, my good friend from Texas, my neighbor, actually says of  local law enforcement that these programs are a waste. Go and talk to  the people who rely on them. They are not duplicative. They are not a  waste. They are essential.

Let me do just one last little fact check on that. When you look at  who has the most homicides and some of the highest crime rates, it is  indeed Republican States. Yes, it is unfortunate, and it is something  we need to work on. Democrats raise this issue all the time, but the  highest levels of crime and homicides are--let me go through those  States--Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, sadly, New Mexico, Missouri,  Arkansas, South Carolina. See a little trend there? It is actually  Republicans. Don't come and talk to us about that. It is dangerous to  live and work in many Republican-led States.

Let's get back to what we do to honor and respect law enforcement on  this Police Week.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

We have heard a lot of claims today, but here is what remains true.  Democrats support law enforcement, not just with words, but with  action, with our votes. We back them with funding, with resources, and,  importantly, with respect.

That is why, under Democratic leadership, we increased funding for  local and Federal law enforcement, including the very FBI that solves  crimes in our rural and Tribal communities.

We don't just say these things. We show up for law enforcement. We  stand with the Capitol Police who defended our democracy and our lives  on January 6. We honor their courage. We mourn those who died, and we  refuse to excuse the violent criminals who attacked them.

Unfortunately, too many of our Republican colleagues have chosen  loyalty to Donald Trump over loyalty to the truth and over loyalty to  the officers who keep us safe. You cannot say you support and respect  law enforcement and stay silent as Trump pardons the violent criminals  who battered the police on January 6. You can't say you support law  enforcement when you refuse to do something as simple as hanging a  plaque to honor their sacrifices.

While Republicans hold up empty slogans, Democrats fight for the  health and dignity of the American people. We fought all night long to  protect 8.6 million Americans from losing Medicaid, for the mother  caring for a child with disabilities. We fought to protect the senior  in rural New Mexico who has to drive hours just to see a doctor and  will have to drive hours more when their Medicaid cuts destroy our  world healthcare system. Why? So Republicans can hand out tax cuts to  billionaires.

Do the millionaires and billionaires you are protecting really need  more? They already have so much. They will drown and bury the veteran,  the pregnant mother, the disabled worker with paperwork while they will  just give away a bigger tax cut to the wealthiest among us. That just  doesn't seem fair.

Mr. Speaker, I say that this is about values. This is about who do  you value and what will you do when it actually comes down to vote?

Democrats value and choose to protect people like Julie, who crawled  up these Capitol steps 35 years ago to demand dignity and now returns  to beg us not to be forgotten. We are not forgetting her, and Democrats  will not stop fighting for her and for millions more.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud of my Republican colleagues for bringing  forward legislation in support of our law enforcement community.

I am proud of the fact that, in fact, this President is trying to  focus resources where it will best provide security and safety on our  streets and back our law enforcement community to actually target  criminals, not fund ridiculous grants, not fund NGOs that are  undermining our security, the very NGOs that are perpetuating the open  borders; that are putting gangs in our communities, like TDA and MS-13,  that lead directly to the death of Americans, death of Americans like  Jocelyn Nungaray, like Laken Riley, like Rachel Morin, like Kayla  Hamilton; Americans that are no longer with us because of the policies  of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, because of wide-open  borders, and because of tolerance of violent criminals, because of a  Democrat President who has let violent criminals out on the street and  commuted their sentences; because of radical leftist judges promoted by  those that fund my colleagues on the other side of the aisle; like  George Soros who have funded DAs that are letting criminals out on the  streets in cities like San Antonio and Austin that I represent; like my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle that have defunded the police  time and time again and have defended that position.

For example, one of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle said  that the defund the police movement is one of reimagining the current  police system to build an entity that does not violate us, while  relocating funds to invest in community services.

Another colleague said that the defund movement isn't new. Folks are  just finally listening.

Defund the police, said a Democrat colleague.

Defunding the police isn't radical. It is real, said a former  Democrat colleague and, as I said before, a colleague that literally  voted on the Austin City Council to strip $150 million out of the  police budget, leaving the Austin Police stranded, unable to do their  job and the people of Austin unable to get the services that they  deserve and pay taxes for, while their streets are made more violent  and while criminals are allowed to roam free under the very  aforementioned Soros DAs that refused to prosecute the criminals.

Everybody in America knows what is going on. Everybody in America  gets the joke. They saw their cities burning in the summer of 2020.  They saw the reality of what happens when you allow these radical  Democratic policies to take root, and they want it to end.

They want common sense back. They want a President who will enforce  the law and an FBI that will target criminals instead of the American  people. They don't want to have a Federal Government that is weaponized  against them. They don't want them to be targeted.

They want violent criminals off the streets. They want violent gangs  off the streets. They want our borders to be secure. They want TDA out.  They want MS-13 out. They want fentanyl off their streets.

The only way you can do that is to actually back up the people trying  to enforce the law and actually stand with them in the enforcement of  the law, not turn around and let all the criminals back out on the  streets. Yet, that is what my colleagues perpetually want to do.

The fact of the matter is, the American people understand that this  President, this Republican House, this Republican Senate, and  Republican jurisdictions across the country stand for law enforcement.  They stand for order. That is what they want. That is what they sent us  here for.

We put together some bills this week that are focused on wishes of  the people, the men and women in blue, like my grandfather, who served  as chief of police in Sweetwater, Texas, and the many law enforcement I  was proud to serve with and alongside in the Office of the Attorney  General of Texas and in the United States Attorney's Office. We work  with them on a regular basis.

When you talk to them, they cannot do their jobs if the radical  leftist policies of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are  allowed to continue to be perpetuated. You can't combat crime if you  put the criminals back on the streets. You can't combat crime if you  import criminals from dangerous prisons. You can't combat crime if your  law enforcement agencies are targeting American citizens for political  retribution rather than taking dangerous, violent criminals off the  streets.

I rise in support of these bills. I rise in support of the rule. The  legislation that we put forward will provide the value for our men and  women in uniform that they have asked for. They have asked for the  ability to keep the weapons that they had in service.

Why does that matter? I will tell you why it matters. My grandfather  that I mentioned before died in 1949 of cancer. When my dad, a 7-year- old, had polio and my grandmother was a single mom in west Texas  raising him and did all the tough things, didn't ask for any handouts,  took two jobs, helped my dad go on to be the first to go to college--my  dad is 82 years old. He is still alive. He is 82 and still manages to  walk, barely.

My dad talks about his dad as a cop, and he pulls out his old .38,  the .38 revolver that my grandfather had in service. That means  something to the people who serve. It means something for them to be  able to carry that with them and take it with them. It is no small  thing.

Some of my colleagues dismiss it as not being important. I can tell  you it is important to the people who are out there serving because  they devote their lives to this cause.

When I take that .38 out of the safe and show it to my son, he is  holding the .38 that his great-grandfather held and carried with him  when he was policing the streets. I think that is a good thing.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Leger Fernandez is as  follows:     An Amendment to H. Res. 405 Offered by Ms. Leger Fernandez of New                                   Mexico

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec 3. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 33) directing the       Architect of the Capitol to install at a permanent location       on the western front of the United States Capitol an       honorific plaque listing the names of all of the officers of       the United States Capitol Police, the Metropolitan Police       Department of the District of Columbia, and other Federal,       State, and local law enforcement agencies and protective       entities who responded to the violence that occurred at the       United States Capitol on January 6, 2021. All points of order       against consideration of the concurrent resolution are       waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as       read. All points of order against provisions in the       concurrent resolution are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution to       adoption without intervening motion except one hour of debate       equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking       minority member of the Committee on House Administration or       their respective designees.

Sec 4. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H. Con. Res. 33.