Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the National Park Service Relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area: Motor Vehicles''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Relating to ``Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the Longfin Smelt''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy- Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control Standards; the `omnibus' Low NoX Regulation; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690387/providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-national-park-service-relating-to-glen-canyon-national-recreation-area-motor-vehicles-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-for-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-united-states-fish-and-wildlife-service-relating-to-endangered-and-threatened-wildlife-and-plants-endangered-species-status-for-the-san-francisco-bay-delta-distinct-population-segment-of-the-longfin-smelt-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-heavy-duty-vehicle-and-engine-emission-warranty-and-maintenance-provisions-advanced-clean-trucks-zero-emission-airport-shuttle-zero-emission-power-train-certification-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-pollution-control-standards-advanced-clean-cars-ii-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-providing-for-consideration-of-hj-res-providing-congressional-disapproval-of-the-rule-submitted-by-the-environmental-protection-agency-relating-to-california-state-motor-vehicle-and-engine-and-nonroad-engine-pollution-control-standards-the-omnibus-low-noinfxinf-regulation-waiver-of-preemption-notice-of-decision-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I call  up House Resolution 354 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 354

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House any joint resolution       specified in section 2 of this resolution. All points of       order against consideration of each such joint resolution are       waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as       read. All points of order against provisions in each such       joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on each such joint resolution and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees;       and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  The joint resolutions referred to in the first       section of this resolution are as follows:

(a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 60) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Park       Service relating to ``Glen Canyon National Recreation Area:       Motor Vehicles''.

(b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) providing for       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the United States Fish       and Wildlife Service relating to ``Endangered and Threatened       Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Species Status for the San       Francisco Bay-Delta Distinct Population Segment of the       Longfin Smelt''.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House any joint resolution specified       in section 4 of this resolution. All points of order against       consideration of each such joint resolution are waived. Each       such joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are       waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on each such joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to       final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour       of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to       recommit.

Sec. 4.  The joint resolutions referred to in section 3 of       this resolution are as follows:

(a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 87) providing       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental       Protection Agency relating to ``California State Motor       Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Heavy-Duty       Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and Maintenance       Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport       Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of       Preemption; Notice of Decision''.

(b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 88) providing       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental       Protection Agency relating to ``California State Motor       Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced       Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''.

(c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) providing       congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United       States Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental       Protection Agency relating to ``California State Motor       Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad Engine Pollution Control       Standards; The `Omnibus' Low NOX Regulation; Waiver of       Preemption; Notice of Decision''.

Sec. 5.  Each day during the period from April 29, 2025,       through September 30, 2025, shall not constitute a       legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of rule XIII.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms. Leger  Fernandez), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support  of the underlying legislation.

Last night, the Committee on Rules met and produced a rule providing  for consideration of five pieces of legislation.

H.J. Res. 60 and H.J. Res. 78 are both considered under a closed  rule, each with 1 hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their  respective designees and provides each a motion to recommit.

Additionally, H.J. Res. 87, H.J. Res. 88, and H.J. Res. 89 are all  considered under a closed rule, each with 1 hour of debate, equally  divided and controlled by the chair and ranking member of the Committee  on Energy and Commerce or their respective designees and provides each  a motion to recommit.

Finally, the rule tolls the date counts regarding resolution of  inquiry until September 30, 2025.

Mr. Speaker, before I get into the substance of this, I will start by  saying on the Committee on Rules we tend to get to know each other  pretty well in significant late-night engagement in debate. The ranking  member of the Committee on Rules, Mr. McGovern from Massachusetts, has  had an unfortunate loss that words cannot possibly convey as a dad what  he and his wife are going through with the loss of his daughter, Molly.

I say from this side of the aisle, I know speaking for the entire  Committee on Rules irrespective of party affiliation, how much Jim, his  wife, and his son are in our prayers after losing their daughter and  sister, Molly, to cancer.

As a cancer survivor, I have seen firsthand the horrors of the  disease. I told my Committee on Rules colleagues last night in  committee, in my time in treatment at MD Anderson, going through chemo  seemed trivial to me compared to watching the parents at MD Anderson  who were watching their children go through treatment.

Molly went to Heaven last week while visiting a friend in Italy, and  I think I speak for everybody in this body when we offer our deepest  condolences to Jim and to his entire family and to our colleagues who  were so close with and knew Molly, who, by the way, from memory I  believe worked for Jamie Raskin as an intern, and had her own  engagements in public service.

When I heard of her passing, I did a little googling about her life,  her love for sports and Boston sports, her love of her dad, and how  proud she was of her dad.

While, just on occasion, Jim and I might have disagreed here on the  House floor--it has been known to happen--we are all united in offering  our condolences and prayers for Jim's family, and God bless Molly and  his entire family.

Mr. Speaker, on the legislation that is before us, I know that my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle are, no doubt, about to  launch into how we have had an ineffective first 100 days and Congress  is not doing anything.

Let me put in perspective for the American people what we are  focusing on.

We are focusing on undoing the damage of the last 4 years of the  Biden administration. The President is doing that on a daily basis in  the White House today, and then we in Congress are using the powers  that we have before us in an obvious narrow majority and in a narrow  majority in the Senate, where you have to get things through the Senate  with 60 votes. We  are using the tools in front of us to try to limit and minimize the  damage caused by the previous administration and, frankly, our  colleagues on the other side of the aisle today.

Notably, we are talking about in this situation what we have done so  far. We have passed legislation to secure our elections through H.R.  22, the SAVE Act, to guarantee that only American citizens vote in  American elections; to hold rogue judges accountable for issuing  nationwide injunctions and trying to change the process.

Mr. Speaker, that is not partisan. Justice Elena Kagan talked about  the need for injunction relief. The Democratic Solicitor General under  the previous administration talked about the need for injunction  reform. We offered legislation that would change and reform  injunctions. We passed that before Easter so that a single judge won't  be legislating and making national policy by granting temporary  restraining orders and injunctions.

We made changes on border policy with the Laken Riley Act, which is  extremely important; and legislation to combat the flow of fentanyl.

Importantly, what we have been trying to do is undo the damage on the  border.

Mr. Speaker, keep in mind what has happened now under the first 100  days. In just 100 days, southwest border apprehensions have decreased  by 94 percent year over year.

Mr. Speaker, consider that for a second. They decreased by 94  percent. What changed? Have we passed a massive law? Have we enacted  the law that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle said last  year was necessary, this bipartisan bill which, by the way, would have  codified all the bad policies under the Biden administration?

No. The only thing that changed was a White House willing to enforce  the law. That is literally it, and now there is a 94 percent reduction  in apprehensions at the border.

Keep in mind that we are now at apprehension levels of somewhere  around 100 to 200 a day, 3,000 to 6,000 a month. We had 6,000, 8,000,  10,000 apprehensions per day under the Biden administration.

The President has restored common sense by ending DEI in the military  and working to keep men from competing in women's sports, affirming  that there are two genders. These are common sense. I wouldn't think we  would have to spend time on the floor of the House of Representatives  doing those things or having the President do it by executive order,  but here we are.

The President has unlocked America's energy potential, or at least  taken a giant step to doing so, by reopening 625 million acres for  drilling, withdrawing from the disastrous Paris climate agreement, and  approving new LNG projects.

Mr. Speaker, here before us today, we have what we call CRAs, under  the Congressional Review Act. The purpose of these is to undo  burdensome Biden regulations. This is our ability and our prerogative  to hold the Biden administration accountable, and that doesn't stop  just because the Democrats lost an election and we have a Republican in  the White House. We have a duty to undo some of that damage.

Under these bills, we would repeal California's advanced clean trucks  waiver, which currently would allow the State to mandate the sale of  zero-emission trucks. It would allow the State to mandate the sale of  zero-emission trucks.

These bills would repeal the California advanced clean cars waiver  allowing the State to ban the sale of gas-powered vehicles by 2035; put  an end to California's implementation of its most recent nitrogen oxide  engine emission standards, which create burdensome and unworkable  standards for heavy-duty, on-road engines; nullify a rule by the  National Park Service that would infringe on the employment of a  recreational area, contravening the agency's own mandate when it was  created; and, finally, one that would end an Endangered Species Act  designation by the Fish and Wildlife Service that would threaten water  resources and other conservation efforts.

Mr. Speaker, these things matter to the average American. My  colleagues are going to say that this is small ball, and it doesn't  matter.

Every one of these regulations add up to interference with the  enjoyment of life by the American people, drive up the price of the  goods and services for the average hardworking American family, make  vehicles more expensive, make our lives more costly. Then people wonder  why they are suffering from inflation and suffering from the inability  to afford to live in the modern world.

This Congress is taking steps to undo that damage, working with the  White House to restore the ability of the average American family to  live and afford the basic necessities of life, including vehicles and  the right to be able to choose the vehicle of their choice in an open  market.

Mr. Speaker, I know my colleagues are going to say that we are  infringing on California. Let's remember that California gets treated  specially and uniquely and that that then has a domino effect through  the rest of the country. That is unique to California based on past  precedent involving Los Angeles smog and other things where that is  causing a direct impact on other States across the country.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.  I thank Representative Roy for acknowledging the tremendous  loss that  Jim McGovern and his wife, Lisa, suffered this weekend when  their daughter, Molly, was taken by cancer, a disease both of us have  battled, as well.

With the Speaker's indulgence, I will read a few sentences from the  McGoverns' own statement because I think this captured a lot of who  Molly was:

``Molly radiated pure joy. She lit up every room with her beaming  smile--full of laughter, endless warmth, and a sharp wit that could  disarm you in an instant. She was unbelievably funny, fiercely loyal,  and wise beyond her years. Molly had a rare gift: She made everyone  feel special because she genuinely believed everyone was special. She  treated people with compassion and kindness--always standing up for the  underdog, and making fast friends wherever she went.''

Molly was deeply loved by Jim and Lisa, and because of that love,  Molly was also loved by many of her colleagues in this House. She grew  up here in Capitol Hill with other children of colleagues on both sides  of the aisle. We have been exchanging and I have been watching these  beautiful pictures of Molly growing up with those kids from when she  was young to just last August at the convention.

Lisa McGovern dedicated herself to helping families deal with cancer  at Prevent Cancer Foundation. Lisa knows directly what it is like to  see that terrible disease impact a young and promising life and how it,  therefore, impacts the entire family.

Jim has one of the biggest hearts I know. He stands up on this floor  every week to ask us to end hunger now because he deeply feels the  pains of hunger that too many young children in America suffer from.

Given that huge heart, my colleagues can only imagine the love he  poured into Molly. We don't even have to imagine it. We all saw the  love he poured into Molly. He worried about her as she sought to live a  normal life, studying in Australia and traveling, but he always said  ``yes'' and never missed being by her side for key appointments and  scans.

We cry for the things we love, and love always comes with pain. With  a love as profound and deep as what Molly had, we know the McGoverns'  pain will be immeasurable.

To Lisa, Jim, and their son, Patrick, please know that your  colleagues on this House floor on both sides of the aisle are in pain  with you. Our tears are flowing with yours, and your congressional  family stands with you in prayer and support.

Now, standing in Jim's place, I will turn to the business before us.

Representative Roy and I agree on how we opened this, but not on much  more this morning because we see a different view on this 100th day  that is marking Trump's service in office, 100 days of chaos,  corruption, and economic sabotage. After these 100 days, House  Republicans are wasting time on cynical Congressional Review Act  resolutions instead of addressing the economic and constitutional  crisis facing American families.

One hundred days of economic pain, as Trump's on-again, off-again  temper tantrum of tariffs tank the dollar, drive up prices, destroy the  markets, and threaten a recession.

One hundred days of chaos in the White House, where Secretary Hegseth  texts war plans to journalists, and the administration belittles allies  while embracing dictators like Putin.

One hundred days of corruption, as billionaires like Musk and DOGE  take Americans' personal Social Security data and fired the employees  we need to process those Social Security checks. They fired the  auditors and inspectors so no one is there to sound the alarm when Musk  steers contracts to his own companies. Talk about self-dealing.

One hundred days of courtroom drama, with courts--district,  appellate, and even the Supreme Court--saying Trump's actions are  likely illegal, unconstitutional, and must be paused to avoid  irreparable harm to the American people.

While Trump defies the law and damages our economy, what are House  Republicans doing? This week and into the next couple, Republicans are  plotting to rip healthcare away from millions of Americans to fund tax  cuts for 759 billionaires. Republicans will sacrifice healthcare for 72  million children, pregnant women, seniors, and people with disabilities  who rely on Medicaid to give tax cuts to the 759 richest people in  America.

When they destroy Medicaid, they destroy rural hospitals, and they  destroy healthcare centers that everyone in the community uses, not  just those on Medicaid.

Trump and Republicans want to give tax cuts to the biggest  corporations, as well, so they have to cut funding from low-income  college students trying to get ahead and steal food from the mouths of  hungry children, and that hurts our farmers and ranchers, too. These  are the hungry children that Ranking Member McGovern fights for every  day.

Millions of Americans will suffer so the billionaires and the biggest  corporations can get more--more power, more money, more control, and  more influence in Washington, D.C.

Americans are tired of how the system is rigged against working- and  middle-class families. They know the rich are winning and regular  Americans don't seem to have a chance.

The Republican budget ends their reconciliation bill. Their tax cuts  are going to make sure the rich always win.

Now, Trump's approval ratings are the lowest of any President in the  last 80 years. In the latest poll released today, Americans give him  F's. He is getting F's on the economy. He is getting F's all over the  place.

Americans disapprove of Trump because he is destroying our economy,  and he is betraying his promise to lower costs from day one.

Americans are demanding we put an end to Trump's tyranny. Republican  voters are showing up at the few townhalls that Republicans are brave  enough to have, and they are yelling at their Representatives. They are  saying: Do something.

While Americans want us to have the courage to stand up to Trump,  House Republicans are doing the opposite.

Hidden in the rule we are debating today is a provision that will  cover up Secretary Hegseth's texting of classified war plans.  Republicans won't even let Democrats ask for information about what is  happening at the Department of Defense--no courage, just capitulation.

Today, instead of helping lower costs for working families,  Republicans are pushing partisan bills to overturn environmental laws  that protect our air and water. It is ridiculous.

Costs are going up, markets are tanked, court orders are being  ignored, and we are talking about a rule that we will hear about later  today that we are going to spend all of this time on the floor of this  House, but it is not going anywhere in the Senate. We are wasting the  precious time that we have on this House floor to do something.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I miss getting that admonition. It was a pretty  regular occurrence in my various floor speeches.

With respect to the resolutions of inquiry, let me put out there that  it is my strong preference, as I have said multiple times on the floor  of the House, that we come up with a system that allows the body to  work its will and that we allow individuals to be able to move forward  in good faith to get information and ask questions of the executive  branch, no matter who is in power.

I introduced the ARTICLE ONE Act to try to restrict Presidential  power under the Trump administration the first time and had trouble  getting it moved during the Biden administration. I am not really even  pointing fingers. I am acknowledging the politics. I had some  Democratic colleagues and friends of mine that would say: I like that  idea, but I don't know if right now is the time. Okay, but let's have  the conversation.

Let's take ROIs, what we call resolutions of inquiry, a tool in which  we can specifically go ask for specific information. We have engaged in  that effort. I certainly have. For over 600 days in the 116th and 117th  Congresses, ROIs, these resolutions of inquiry, were blocked from  coming to the floor by the Democratic majority. That is, of course, the  ``you did it, so we will do it'' argument--not particularly satisfying  if you want to have an open body.

I think the question would be: What do my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle want to have? What should the rule be? If we want  resolutions of inquiry to just be allowed in perpetuity, then maybe we  need to come up with a way to try to guarantee that and do that, but  that is not what happens. We have turned them off. Both sides have  turned them off.

I would also add, for example, for the filibuster rule in the Senate,  are we going to abide by the 60-vote threshold in the Senate as a  Congress? My colleagues on the other side of the aisle tried to change  the filibuster rule for judges and succeeded, and now, we have a 51- vote threshold for judges.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle tried to change the rule  for legislation, and but for Kyrsten Sinema and but for Joe Manchin,  they would have done so. Then, the Senate would have been operating by  a 51-vote threshold for legislation.

Maybe that is good or bad, but maybe we should decide the rules we  want to operate under and then apply them to both sides. Right now, we  are operating under a 60-vote threshold in the Senate.

I think that is something maybe we ought to put to a vote right here  in this body, in the House, and say: Do we believe that the United  States Senate should operate under a 60-vote threshold? Because if you  go watch the Twitter feed of Kyrsten Sinema, she is pretty explicit  about what she is watching and the hypocrisy of my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle in the Senate who now suddenly have newfound  love and respect for the 60-vote threshold.

My point being, if we are going to change the body institutionally,  then let's have a real conversation about changing the body  institutionally.

Closed rules, I get it. In the majority, we are sitting here, and we  have more closed rules. Do we want open rules? Then what will happen  when the Democrats are in charge? Do you want resolutions of inquiry?  What do we do to bind the hands of a future House on those points if  not us agreeing to respect each other's ability to do that?

Mr. Speaker, a couple quick points on the resolutions of inquiry. I  won't waste a whole lot more time on it.

The fact is, one, we have extended this through September 30 only at  our request to limit it because we want to be able to get through  reconciliation.

Two, my colleagues want to blame COVID. Committees were still in full  operation. The fact of the matter is my colleagues didn't want to  answer questions that we were asking about the border because they were  unanswerable. The border was wide open. Americans were getting killed.  Americans like Jocelyn Nungaray, Americans like Laken Riley, Americans  like Rachel Morin, and Americans like Kayla Hamilton. I can keep going  down the list of dead Americans at the hands of the foolish,  incompetent, and dangerous policies of the Biden administration that my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle did not want to answer. That  is the simple truth. When we wanted to get data about the border, they  didn't want to answer it. It wasn't because of COVID.

Mr. Speaker, I note with respect to California that California's  mandates effectively take away America's ability to buy new gas cars.  As I mentioned earlier, California gets some special treatment. It is  the only State allowed to seek waivers for its own vehicle policies due  to a provision in the Clean Air Act crafted to allow California to  address Los Angeles area smog, and so they have an outside impact on  our ability to get affordable vehicles, including, by the way, hybrid  vehicles which would be unnecessarily impacted by where California  wants to go and which we want to try to solve.

Mr. Speaker, I also note that California, as KTLA reported in a  January 30 article, continues to lose more people than come into other  States because of the tragic and unfortunate policies of the State of  California.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman has mentioned the  fact about a vehicle's expense. Now, let's recognize that used car  prices have gone up for the first time in 30 months not because of what  California has done but because of Trump's tariffs.

Here's why and what it could mean for consumers in 2025.''

Mr. Speaker, I will note that neither the GAO nor the Senate  Parliamentarian get a vote. It is sort of a shocking news revelation I  recognize, but they don't get a vote. We do. The Senate does. We can  decide what we think ought to apply.

Number two, if my colleagues want to talk about the high price of  vehicles, how about the extent to which the average EV costs $14,000  more than the average nonluxury vehicle.

According to the latest data from Kelley Blue Book, the average  transaction price for electric vehicles is $55,273, 3.7 percent higher  than last year. For context, the median household income for the  gentlewoman's district is $62,000.

The fact of the matter is, EVs are expensive. EVs are driving up the  price of vehicles. The mandate is taking the power out of the hands of  the American people to decide, including, by the way, hybrid vehicles  which allow individuals to have more efficient vehicles while being  able to travel long distances, as I know the gentlewoman has  constituents who need to do so in New Mexico as we need to do in west  Texas and throughout the State of Texas.

Additionally, the trucks that are required under California's  unrealistic mandates cost two to three times more than a new, safer,  and more reliable diesel truck. The fact is, we are driving up the  price of goods and services. We are making it more expensive for the  American people to live. We are making it almost impossible for people  to fix their vehicles and be able to afford their vehicles with every  new thing we add to it to make it more complex in the name of safety or  the environment.

The fact is, we can't be blind to those realities. That is exactly  what is happening. That is why the American people are suffering from  the inability to afford to live in this country.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, it is true in New Mexico, we have all that beautiful  land. We have our ranchers. We have our farms. We have those mountains.  We love our trucks, but the problem is, Trump's tariffs are making all  of that more expensive.

He is raising the cost of trucks. Remember, there was like a $20,000  hike after one of his first attempts at tariffs before he started flip- flopping. We never know where he is at, right?

His tariffs are raising the costs of housing. In New Mexico, the  firing of Federal employees and the domino effects of the economic  uncertainty because of his tariffs are making jobs harder to find.

Mr. Speaker, Trump promised to lower prices on day one. Instead, his  tariffs are crashing our economy, making those trucks more expensive  and houses more expensive. People are out of work. Retirement accounts  are destroyed.

Under the Constitution, Congress has the power to regulate commerce  with foreign nations and impose tariffs. It is Congress' duty to review  whether what he is doing is accurate or not. Even though it is our  review, this is another area where Republicans don't want to have the  debate on this floor. They are hiding behind these things they stick in  these rules.

They actually thought they stopped time. Republicans passed a rule  that stops time for the purposes of voting  on whether or not we should have these tariffs. They actually passed a  rule that said this: ``Each day for the remainder of the first session  of the 119th Congress shall not constitute a calendar day for the  purposes of section 202 of the National Emergencies Act.''

Mr. Speaker, I offered an amendment last night. I offered an  amendment last time we met in rules. We will keep offering amendments  to say you can't stop time. If you believe in these tariffs, be willing  to debate them, to stand up on this floor and say we think the tariffs  are good, we think the tariffs are bad. Make Trump defend those  tariffs.

Why is he doing this to us? Why is he creating this disaster? This is  a disaster of Trump's own creation. We are seeking four Republicans to  join us to stop this. They already have some Republicans over on the  Senate side. We have some that might be moving here. Let's stop this  craziness of the tariffs.

Pelosi), the Speaker emerita.

I am always amazed when my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  ignore the fact that these EVs require power. Somehow they get charged  from the magic fairy dust of the magic energy tree? I mean, what are we  talking about here?

How do you power up an electric vehicle? It is done by burning coal,  burning gas, or the nuclear plants that we are not actually permitting  or building in the United States, while China builds two coal-fired  plants virtually every week. We are building none. Well, good for us.

The vast majority of the world is producing power with coal and  natural gas, and it is growing exponentially. Meanwhile, we are  crushing our grid, the reliability of American power, making it more  expensive for the average American and doing really nothing about  worldwide CO2 production. That is the truth. China and India  are pumping it out.

Meanwhile, my colleagues love to ignore the slave labor in China to  produce the batteries that they drive around in their EVs while they  pat themselves on the back and go to cocktail parties talking about how  fantastic it is that they drive their EVs and how enlightened they are.

says Chinese  lithium-ion batteries are made with child labour as trade war spills  into EVs.''

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, the fact of the matter is, my colleagues on the  other side of the aisle want to parade around EV mandates like they are  somehow going to magically create power out of thin air, ignoring the  fact we are empowering China, ignoring the fact we are empowering  Chinese child laborers while we destroy the cost of living for the  average American family, take away choice, take away the ability of an  American citizen to be able to go out into the market and buy a hybrid  vehicle or another vehicle that they can use to travel long distances,  do their job, whether they are a plumber, an electrician, or carrying  goods and services in a truck, and then they wonder why the cost of  goods and services go up. Then they want to blame tariffs when we are  90 days in, and we had massive and rampant inflation under the Biden  administration as a direct consequence of the regulatory policies and  the failed policies of the previous administration.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time is  remaining.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, I wanted to address this issue of the Clean Air Act and  the fact that Republicans often say they believe in States' rights, but  when a State like California actually chooses a policy they don't like,  they throw that principle out the window.

When Congress passed the Clean Air Act, it gave States that had  standards before 1966 the right to apply for a waiver. Congress decided  that. For 50 years, California has used that waiver to clean up its  air. It is not just California. Other States have chosen to adopt these  standards, too.

Across America, we can breathe cleaner air. That is why our children  can go out and play in the park and can run around. They don't have to  stay indoors like they have to in Beijing or New Delhi or other  countries that are polluted from the cars that clog their cities.

Clean air isn't just about the environment. We heard the Speaker  Emerita talking about the cost, the cost to the children, but it is  also about economic prosperity. When people breathe clean air, they  miss fewer work and school days, companies are more productive, kids  learn more, families save on healthcare costs because fewer people go  to the hospital for asthma and heart disease.

It doesn't stop there. To meet California's emission standards,  carmakers have built more fuel-efficient vehicles. That means we are  saving money at the pump. Republicans love to talk about energy  dominance, but for them, as I noted, it is just ``drill, baby, drill.''  Improving fuel efficiency is cheaper, smarter, and better for the  environment and economy.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to stop this political theater and  focus on the real issues that matter to the American people. I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I would note that with respect to wind energy, yes,  Texas is one of the leaders in wind energy. I worked for Governor Perry  when the Governor was embracing wind power, and the fact of the matter  is, as it has become a larger percentage of the grid, the reliability  of Texas' grid has suffered, and now the consequences of having  embraced wind as a significant portion of the grid are now coming to  roost.

We are now having to deal with what happens when these need to be  shelved. Where do they go? They fill landfills. How much oil and gas  goes into the production of said windmills? How do you get the power  from the wind farms in west Texas to the various facilities where we  are making power? How reliable is it during ice storms or during the  heat of the summer? When you have a cloudy, windless day, how are you  getting power? Who is making the parts for the solar panels? What  happens to the solar panels in the environment when you are finished  with the solar farm?

All of these questions get brushed aside in a quest to say that we  can have magical ``green, clean energy,'' when we have clean-burning  natural gas in Texas and throughout this country that is producing a  significant amount of economic benefit and power for our country and  has done more to drive down CO2 production and for clean air  than virtually any other innovation we have had over the last century.

Yet, we are impeding the ability to have more reliable power by  virtue of mandates. That is the whole point of the problem with the  Inflation Reduction Act. That is the whole point of the problem with  the rules and the rulemaking done by the Biden administration that we  are trying to reverse under these CRAs, so that we can make things more  affordable for the American people. That is it. We are trying to help  the average Texan, the average New Mexican, the average American be  able to afford to live, trying to be able to figure out how to get  power, get a vehicle that they can afford to be able to carry out their  job. That is it.

On the issue of healthcare, the issue was raised, as is often the  case by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, to try to scare  the American people that somehow raising questions about the  inefficiency, the ineffectiveness, the waste, the fraud of a government  healthcare solution, that somehow that is taking away benefits.

When you have a trillion dollars of improper payments, when you have  the State of California openly and publicly stating that they are  gaming the Medicaid system and the provider tax and the Federal match  rate to provide funds to illegal aliens and for their general budget to  game the system at what best can be called money laundering, as was  editorialized in The Wall Street Journal last week. When that is what  is happening, when you have people on Medicaid who are getting a higher  subsidy than people on Medicare, who have paid into it their entire  lives, into the tax on Medicare; when you have people who are able- bodied who are getting a higher subsidy than the vulnerable population  for whom Medicaid was originally created, then someone explain to me  why we don't have a duty to fix that.

That is what we are putting forward, to try to deliver healthcare  that would actually have a doctor and a patient relationship rather  than a corporate overlord or government bureaucrat telling you what  your healthcare is. That is the system that has been created. That is  the system that we are living with now under expanded ObamaCare. That  is what that is, expanded ObamaCare. My colleagues on the other side of  the aisle don't want to talk about that. They want to talk about the  expansion of that population into the able-bodied who could be and  should be working at a higher rate of return by the Federal Government  than is going to the vulnerable population, while California games the  system to give money to illegal aliens. That is expressly and openly  being acknowledged by California leadership.

They don't want to have those conversations. They don't want to talk  about how you manage that problem, how you get more people to be able  to have affordable care instead of what they currently have, which is a  broken system that insurance companies run, forcing individuals onto an  exchange so they can get like my constituent who passed away last year  from cancer, who wanted to go to M.D. Anderson and could not go because  she was on an  ObamaCare plan and couldn't go to the best cancer hospital in the world  because she was covered under ObamaCare.

The failure of our healthcare system cannot be overstated. Both  parties need to step to the table to get government out of the way and  to allow doctors and patients to be able to go get healthcare from a  provider of their choice--not some insurance bureaucrat or government  bureaucrat--in order to deliver outcomes that the American people want  us to deliver.

Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ.

Mr. Speaker, the reality is, after 100 days of Trump, the verdict is  clear: We are living through a campaign of economic chaos,  constitutional contempt, and corporate greed. The American people see  what is happening, and they are not fooled by the chaos. They are not  happy with the chaos. They are watching this body to see who will fight  for them and who will fold to Trump.

Mr. Speaker, let's be honest. This administration isn't governing. It  is looting. Trump's cronies are lighting the house on fire so their  billionaire friends can sell the ashes for profit.

With this issue of cutting Medicaid and addressing healthcare, yes,  our healthcare system is not working. We need to address some issues in  Medicaid. Let's be honest. The CMS itself said that there is less than  1 percent of fraud in the system. It is an incredibly lean system. It  pays out less than any other system.

Still, even with it as it is, 40 percent of pregnant women in the  country rely on Medicaid so they can give birth to healthy babies. They  would strip that away from those women. It is even higher in rural  areas, and those hospitals in the rural areas rely on that.

With regards to prices, Trump's tariffs are raising prices. At the  same time that prices are going up, they are slashing food assistance.  At a food bank I went to last week, they have more people showing up  and less food because Trump literally stopped the trucks from  delivering the food that was in the trucks. How cruel is that?

They are wrecking our national parks, not out of necessity but to  fund tax cuts for 759 of the richest people in America. They are  bleeding rural hospitals, stripping students of opportunity, and  polluting our air, all to line the pockets of the ultrarich.

This isn't policy. It is plunder. House Republicans won't stop it. I  say we stop it by voting against this rule. Let's defeat this rule  today.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the rule, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, number one, Congress has an important role to play in  repealing the Biden-Harris administration's EV mandates and other rules  that are damaging the lives of the American people.

When the administration transmits an action to the House and the  Senate for review under the CRA, then it is Members of Congress, not  the GAO and not the Parliamentarian, who decide whether and how we  proceed under the CRA.

The fact here is California mandates, which is what we are dealing  with here in several of these Congressional Review Act actions,  effectively take away Americans' ability to buy new gas cars, a hybrid  vehicle, or the vehicle of their choice. It raises their vehicle and  transportation costs.

The gentlewoman from California (Ms. Pelosi), the former Speaker of  the House, came down and described that somehow we are not factoring in  the price of clean air. With the vehicles that we are producing today,  the fact is we have the cleanest air we have ever had.

There is no problem with having EVs. It is the mandates that are the  problem. It is mandating the American people must convert that is the  problem. In fact, worldwide, the extent to which coal-fired plants in  China, coal-fired plants in India, and other countries around the world  are producing CO2 and other particulate matter that is bad  for the air is rising.

Why would we undermine our own economic well-being to pursue a  negligible impact on the overall global emissions, while driving up the  price of goods and services for the average American family? They have  to live for today. They have to pay their bills today.

All the subsidies in the world aren't making those things  economically viable for them. Whether you are talking about wind farms  or EVs without the mandates, what is clear is the American people  aren't buying these things because they are still not able to function  and carry out their livelihoods effectively under the mandates.

Higher costs and fewer choices for consumers hit low-income and  disadvantaged communities the hardest. There is a reason why, when I  drive around Austin, Texas, I see it is the rich folk driving around in  their Teslas. It is the rich folk who are getting their EV tax credits.  I see it. They are not in east Austin. They are out in the rich parts  of Austin.

Mr. Speaker, do you think that is an accident? Do you think the  hardworking plumber I represent in San Marcos, Texas, in New Braunfels,  Texas, or any other part of Texas is going to go out and get a battery- powered truck to drive across 10 counties to carry out his job or his  livelihood? As I said before, the average EV costs $14,000 more than  the average nonluxury vehicle.

Mandates disrupt the free market. We have talked about the impact  these mandates can have on the reliability of our power grid.

Is the Nation's grid even up to the mandates we talk about? No, it is  not because then there will be more mandates on what the grid has to  look like. Suddenly, we are Spain. Suddenly, we are wondering why the  grids are failing.

Importantly, California's move empowers China, which dominates the EV  market and uses slave labor and coal-powered plants to produce EV  batteries. That is just the truth.

Mr. Speaker, 77 percent of the world's electric vehicle batteries are  manufactured in China. China owns 80 percent of the industrial cobalt  mines in the Congo and controls 15 of 19 of the primary cobalt mines in  the Congo. These mines are operated by trafficked child slaves. Since  when do we not care about that?

The idea that California can do this unilaterally is preposterous.  They are the only State allowed to seek waivers under a unique policy.  They should not be able to determine policy for the State of Texas or  any other place.

Mr. Speaker, I support this rule, and I urge my colleagues to support  this rule.

The material previously referred to by Ms. Leger Fernandez is as  follows:  An Amendmentto H. Res. 354 Offered by Ms. Leger Fernandez of New Mexico

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 6. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 2753) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of       1974 to provide for a point of order against reconciliation       measures that cut benefits for Medicaid or the Supplemental       Nutrition Assistance Program, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Rules or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 7. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 2753.