Providing for Consideration of H.R. Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act; Providing for Consideration of H. Res. Expressing Support for Rural Communities Across the United States As Stewards of the Environment, Major Suppliers of United States Energy Resources, Critical Providers of Food Production and Manufacturing Capacity, and Drivers of National Economic Stability, and Recognizing the Work of the House of Representatives in the 119th Congress in Support of Those Vital Communities; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Esa Amendments Act of and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701980/providing-for-consideration-of-hr-reliable-federal-infrastructure-act-providing-for-consideration-of-h-res-expressing-support-for-rural-communities-across-the-united-states-as-stewards-of-the-environment-major-suppliers-of-united-states-energy-resources-critical-providers-of-food-production-and-manufacturing-capacity-and-drivers-of-national-economic-stability-and-recognizing-the-work-of-the-house-of-representatives-in-the-119th-congress-in-support-of-those-vital-communities-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-esa-amendments-act-of-and-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-harnessing-energy-at-thermal-sources-act-of-2026


Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 1189 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                     H. Res. 1189

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4690) to       amend the Energy Conservation and Production Act to repeal       certain Federal building energy efficiency performance       standards, and for other purposes. All points of order       against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment       in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on       Energy and Commerce now printed in the bill shall be       considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be       considered as read. All points of order against provisions in       the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall       be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order without intervention of any point of order to consider       in the House the resolution (H. Res. 1182) expressing support       for rural communities across the United States as stewards of       the environment, major suppliers of United States energy       resources, critical providers of food production and       manufacturing capacity, and drivers of national economic       stability, and recognizing the work of the House of       Representatives in the 119th Congress in support of those       vital communities. The resolution shall be considered as       read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on       the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening       motion or demand for division of the question except one hour       of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and       Commerce or their respective designees.

Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1897) to amend       the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to optimize conservation       through resource prioritization, incentivize wildlife       conservation on private lands, provide for greater incentives       to recover listed species, create greater transparency and       accountability in recovering listed species, streamline the       permitting process, eliminate barriers to conservation, and       restore congressional intent. All points of order against       consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the       amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the       Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill, an       amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the       text of Rules Committee Print 119-23 shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5587) to amend       the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 to waive the requirement for       a Federal drilling permit for certain activities, to exempt       certain activities from the requirements of the National       Environmental Policy Act of 1969, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by       the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill       shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall       be considered as read. All points of order against provisions       in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question       shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and       on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their       respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield the  customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Colorado (Mr. Neguse),  pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume. During  consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the purpose  of debate only.                                General Leave

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a  rule providing for consideration of four pieces of legislation.

The rule provides for consideration of H. Res. 1182, expressing  support for rural communities across the United States, under a closed  rule, with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair  and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or  their respective designees.

The rule further provides for consideration of H.R. 4690, the  Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act, under a closed rule, with 1 hour  of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking  minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their  respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 5587, the HEATS Act,  under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and  controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on  Natural Resources or their respective designees and provides for one  motion to recommit.

The rule also provides for consideration of H.R. 1897, the ESA  Amendments Act, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally  divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the  Committee on Natural Resources or their respective designees and  provides for one motion to recommit.

Now, Madam Speaker, as the House of Representatives works to deliver  on critical issues for the American people, we urge our colleagues to  pass this suite of bills that I just described.

As I already talked about, we have a resolution to support our  Nation's rural communities. We have legislation to unlock geothermal  energy. We have legislation to repeal burdensome energy mandates on  Federal buildings, and we have a fix to the Endangered Species Act.

Now, I anticipate some of the arguments my colleagues on the other  side of the aisle will make, and I would just note something that is  critically important, this is going to raise issues about why we are  bringing up a resolution, for example, with regard to support for our  rural communities.

The fact is, if you look at what has been happening over the last 16  months, you will see that the Republican House of Representatives has  led on numerous issues, issue after issue, month after month.

We started this Congress by passing legislation, the Laken Riley Act,  to ensure that we can have adequate and full enforcement by ICE and by  our Border Patrol men and women who are securing our country, by  improving that law to ensure that people can be adequately removed.

Importantly, it included the sue act which will allow States, such as  my home State of Texas, to be able to defend our homes by suing the  Federal Government when it fails to secure the border, as occurred  under the previous President and the previous Secretary of Homeland  Security.

Fast-forward to the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, a piece of  legislation that made permanent tax rates so that we can have growth  and economic opportunity for the American people, lower taxes for  millions of Americans to ensure that we can actually grow this economy  and compete worldwide.

We had legislation in that bill that removed some of the onerous  subsidies that were undermining reliable energy in Texas and around the  country with the green new scam subsidies that were making energy more  expensive for the American people.

We had reforms to our programs, whether it was Medicaid or whether we  are talking about food stamps. By the way, those reforms are probably  going to make it easier for us to move a farm bill in the coming weeks.

We had significant resources that were put aside for our defense, to  modernize our military after it languished under the previous  administration, and we had language that is enabling us to fund ICE and  Border Patrol right now, which brings me to my final point.

What we have been able to pass has been hitting a wall, a wall in the  Senate, of Democrats who refuse to do the job the American people sent  us here to do. We had over 40 days of shutdown in the fall, 40 days  where we had to deal with the lack of pay and resources for the people  who defend our country, including TSA at airports. We are currently in  over 60 days of shutdown of  our Homeland Security operations, which we are using funds that we had  the foresight to put forward to be able to use to backfill in order to  keep operations going to fund Border Patrol and ICE, to fund TSA, to  fund the Coast Guard, and to fund FEMA when our colleagues on the other  side of the aisle refused to do it. This is what we are dealing with  every single day in the United States Congress.

Consequently, yes, we are going to be able to tell the American  people and have a resolution for the people in rural communities, that  we are passing legislation that benefits them, that enables them to  have more affordable energy, that enables them to be able to have lower  taxes, and to be able to provide better homes for their families.

What we aren't going to do is allow Democrats to be able to get past  or allow them to get away with shutting down our ability to do our job  in this country, and that is precisely what they have been doing.

We are going to move legislation this week that is going to provide  greater energy resources by harnessing energy and thermal sources. We  are eliminating permitting restrictions and making it easier to do  that.

We are going to put forward the Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act,  where we have got barriers to our ability to have reliable energy to  provide energy for our Federal buildings, and the ESA Amendments Act,  which makes dramatically needed and necessary improvements to the  Endangered Species Act, which has been standing in the way of our  ability to provide energy and to provide greater freedom for the  American people.

Madam Speaker, the Republican leadership and the Republican  Conference in this House of Representatives have been fighting to  deliver for the American people, and we have been obstructed by two  things: our colleagues on the other side of the aisle and Democrats in  the Senate who are using an artificial 60-vote threshold to deny the  American people the ability for us to have the changes that they sent  us here to Washington to do.

We are going to continue to go down this road. This week is another  step in going down this road, and that is why I am going to be urging  my colleagues to support this rule and to support the legislation that  we put forward under the rule.

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I note my colleague invoked that we could be down here  debating, for example, immigration. Well, this Republican House has  stood up to defend our borders and defend this President and defend  this administration's active enforcement of our laws at the border of  the United States in the face of willful resistance by Democrats who  refuse to fund it.

That is the actual truth. We know this because we are now in day 63  or something to that effect or higher than 60 days of a shutdown of the  Department of Homeland Security after enduring over 40 days shutdown in  the fall.

Republicans are having to move money around in order to pay our men  and women in Border Patrol and ICE so that they can do their job and be  able to fund TSA, FEMA, and the Coast Guard.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle say we keep offering  amendments and bills to fund it. No. They have rejected our bills to  fund the entirety of the Department of Homeland Security because they  are trying to keep it hostage for political purposes.

This Republican Congress, as I said, passed the Laken Riley Act. This  Republican Congress, as I said, passed funds in the big, beautiful bill  last summer to ensure that we can secure the border of the United  States. This Republican Congress has been backing up the President and  Department of Homeland Security in doing the job that Joe Biden and  Alejandro Mayorkas would not do.

Now, we see the ramifications of this in continuation as we see  Americans losing their lives while people are in our country who should  not be. There was a woman in Florida, a mother, who walked out of the  convenience store because her car was being destroyed by a Haitian who  had come here and was operating under a temporary program. This  individual bludgeoned this American to death, this mother, with a  hammer in front of the convenience store, and I am met with utter  silence from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. I am met  with utter silence while we tried to ensure that we fund the men and  women responsible for securing us against these individuals.

Now we are having to figure out how to backdoor find a way to fund  these important, core constitutional responsibilities in defending the  United States of America because our Democratic colleagues refuse to do  it. They refuse and are willing to create chaos for the American people  and endanger the American people for crass political purposes.

The American people observe this. They know this. They see what we  are doing and, yes, we are going to move important legislation this  week, critical legislation this week to do what our Democratic  colleagues also do not want to do: free up the American entrepreneur to  produce energy for the American people. We are getting barriers and  regulations out of the way. We are getting barriers and regulations,  obstacles that stand in the way of people who actually know how to  produce energy.

As a Texan, I know what that looks like. I have had to fight and deal  with the abuse of the Endangered Species Act to prevent the ability of  us to be able to have frac sand and to be able to go out and produce  the energy and the oil and gas that we need, that right now is  providing the independence that gives us the freedom to not be reliant  on people around the world.

That is what we are doing this week. That is what we have been doing  for the last 16 months. There is one obstacle for the American people's  prosperity, and that is the Democratic Party.

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I note that there are three pieces of legislation that  are coming to the floor that will make meaningful differences for the  American people.

The Harnessing Energy At Thermal Sources Act is adding to a laundry  list of things that we have done over the last 15 or 16 months to try  to free up energy production in the United States. It amends the  Geothermal Steam Act to streamline the permitting processes. A constant  theme is the barriers to the American people being able to go out  through their entrepreneurial spirit and produce energy that is  affordable. In many instances, it makes dramatic improvements in terms  of its cleanliness.

Currently, geothermal operators on non-Federal land that produces any  quantity of Federal resources, like federally owned mineral estates,  must comply with permitting, even if the Federal share of the mineral  estate is trivial.

This would alleviate that burden and others by clarifying that the  geothermal exploration or production on non-Federal lands is not  subject to NEPA, the ESA, or the National Historic Preservation Act  permitting processes. It doesn't change anything specific to our  ability to produce them and the royalty structures, and it keeps in  place important safeguards while allowing geothermal to be built out.

Madam Speaker, these are important, important changes for the people  out there trying to produce them. We act like this is trivial. We act  like this isn't a big deal for the ability of the American people to  have affordable energy and for our business leaders to be able to go  out and produce alternative energy sources.

The Reliable Federal Infrastructure Act repeals a 2007 mandate that  Federal buildings reduce their use of fossil fuels by 2030 by, I think,  90 percent. These mandates came at a time when we thought that the  United States would run out of oil.

Obviously, we had the shale revolution. We have the ability to be  able to produce significant cleaner energy in the production of natural  gas. We need reliable energy to be able to keep our buildings  operating.

An overreliance on subsidized, unreliable wind and solar, including  in my home State of Texas, has created difficulties with having  reliability on the grid and, in many instances, has not produced any of  the so-called improvements in terms of green energy that were promised.

We want to reduce those barriers, reduce the burdens, and be able to  ensure that we are able to proceed.

Madam Speaker, the final point is the ESA Amendments Act of 2025. The  ESA Amendments Act of 2025 makes the first major reform to the broken  Endangered Species Act.

Again, as I mentioned before, working with businesses in Texas, we  have had numerous issues where that has been a major barrier to our  ability to be able to get energy in production.

In the 50 years since the ESA was signed, only 3 percent of the  listed species have ever recovered. It doesn't mean that we shouldn't  be working and finding ways to make sure that we can protect certain  species, but we often are listing certain species that aren't going to  have a chance of recovery and that are actually used as a weapon and a  tool of the left to stop the ability of us to be able to produce  affordable energy for the American people.

The American people sit at home wondering why they can't afford goods  and services, can't afford cars, can't afford energy, can't afford to  be able to pay for their families. It is almost always tied back to the  regulatory state and the burdens placed upon them by this body and by  bureaucrats in this town.

What we have been trying to do for the last 16 months is unwind even  just a fraction of those burdens. Yet we are met with constant  resistance by our colleagues on the other side of the aisle.

I know that we talk about gas prices and how they are at a point  right now where we all want them to go down as we are dealing with the  conflict with Iran, but they were $6 a gallon nationally under the  previous administration. Now they are somewhere around $4 a gallon, and  we want them to go down. We certainly can do that.

The best way to do that is to have massive production of oil and gas  in the United States. We have tankers that are coming to the United  States to get oil and gas. We have the ability to produce oil and gas  if we get the regulatory climate such that they can do it, and that is  what we are trying to do with this legislation.

Mr. ROY. May I inquire as to how much time each side has remaining.

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I would note to my colleague from Colorado that the  previous administration racked up a rather undistinguished list of  antireliable energy policies and results. President Biden closed the  Keystone XL pipeline on day one and rejoined the Paris Climate Accords,  handicapping our industry.

In the final days of the administration, he used the stroke of a pen  to grow a national monument by 85 percent and closed off thousands of  acres to reliable energy production.

He closed off the Gulf of America to new oil and gas leasing. It is a  decision thankfully reversed in the Big Beautiful Bill Act last summer.  He singlehandedly paused the exportation of liquefied natural gas,  recognizing that LNG has the ability to free up the rest of the world  from reliance on numerous of our enemies around the globe, and to  create wealth and jobs and opportunities in the United States.

Biden's Department of Commerce sought to limit how fast boats could  go in certain waters because of the Endangered Species Act. NOAA also  abused the Endangered Species Act to deny oil leases.

Meanwhile, we have bills on the floor this week to try to reverse  those issues. We have been dedicated to passing energy reform for the  last 16 months. Just last week, we sent a number of bills to reform the  Clean Air Act. There is issue after issue, some of which are recounted  in the resolution the gentleman seems so hung up on spending time  worrying about, when we have bill after bill that we are passing, some  of which have become law and passed through the Senate and gotten to  the President, but many of which are hung up by a Democratic Senate  obstructionist that has the inability to actually move anything because  of an artificial 60-vote threshold.

That is the simple reality. We are being hamstrung by resistance to  our ability to deliver on the things that the American people sent us  here to deliver upon.

The gentleman brought up the issue with respect to, I suppose, the  motion to recommit that would be offered and that was offered as an  amendment last night in committee. I wholly recognize that, yes, I  opposed that amendment and have opposed it before because I do not  believe that we should fund a Department of Homeland Security  specifically isolating and pulling out Border Patrol and ICE. I just  don't believe we should do that. I think it is wrong. I think we are  setting a bad precedent. I think we are setting up a structure in which  we are going to start saying we are going to have X pieces of these  important--by the way, these are core functions that defend our way of  life, defend our community, and defend our country. We can have debates  about their policies. I understand that my colleagues want to add  riders and want to add changes and impact policies attached to the  funding, but we are setting a terrible precedent by going down the road  of saying we are going to carve out and say that we are not going to  fund Border Patrol and ICE, which is the resistance. The American  people understand that, because we have an obligation to fund all of  the Department of Homeland Security. I believe that, and I think that  is something that we should do. Whether we do that this way or whether  we have to backdoor it through reconciliation, I am not sure I care. I  think we should do it through appropriations, but I don't believe we  ought to isolate it. We will see what the Senate does. We will see what  the House does.

I am going to continue to stand up on the principle that Border  Patrol and ICE should be funded fully through the appropriations  process as the entire Department of Homeland Security should, whether  it is FEMA, TSA, and every other function like Coast Guard, but that we  should do it together: debate the policy, offer amendments on it, and  move on.

Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I would note that the reason that the former President's name comes  up is because the lingering impacts of the previous administration  continue. I mean, I already mentioned you have got the mother in  Florida, but I can mention dozens and hundreds of examples of American  citizens that have died as a result of people who were let in under the  previous administration's policies, people who have died here today in  America, policies we are trying to reverse and that we are trying to  enforce against.

The lingering effects are fairly profound. I can assure you that the  American citizens getting killed at the hands of criminals allowed into  our country by the previous administration do not take solace in the  fact that we now have a new administration, yet that administration is  being hamstrung by virtue of my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle's unwillingness to fund the very entities that try to stop the  danger and the attacks on the American people.

That is what this is all about. That is what this all boils down to.

Again, I can assure you that the people I represent, the people I  talk to across the State of Texas, are thrilled with tax cuts. They are  thrilled with regulatory relief. They are thrilled with our actions in  Venezuela. They are thrilled that we are reestablishing our strength in  the Western Hemisphere and around the globe. They are thrilled that we  are standing up to the cartels. They are thrilled that we designated  the cartels as terrorists. They are thrilled that we stopped the flow  at the border. They are thrilled that we have been enforcing the law  and removing dangerous aliens. They are thrilled that our military has  the highest recruitment and the highest enlistment in a generation  because people actually believe in our country again. They are thrilled  in the direction that this administration and this Congress wants to  go, and they recognize that my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle are throwing up barrier after barrier  after barrier to be able to carry out the fundamental function of  government, which is to defend the United States, defend our border,  and do our job.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I would note that we are talking about rural America.  Last summer, when we passed the largest tax savings for the American  people in history, it included significant savings with respect to the  death tax that cripples American farmers, and not a single one of my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle supported that.

We advanced that legislation. We advanced that tax reduction so that  American farmers can pass down their farms to the next generation  without having to give it up because of the burden of Federal  Government.

My colleague invoked the Founders, that they couldn't imagine we  would be here having this discussion. I, in fact, think that the  Founders would be quite pleased to see us on the floor reversing the  regulatory state and reversing the burdens being placed on the American  people that are limiting their ability to do what God gave them the  ability to do.

That is what we are doing with respect to getting these barriers in  the Endangered Species Act: the energy mandates on the Federal  buildings, putting us into unreliable power rather than reliable power,  and allowing ourselves to have geothermal production without barriers  that stand in the way of the American people doing what they do best.

That is absolutely what the Founders would have envisioned us doing  on the floor of the House of Representatives. I am proud to be doing  that. I am proud of what we have been doing the last 16 months.

As I said before, the people whom I talk to when I go home to Texas  are thrilled that our border is secure. They are thrilled our  enlistments are up with our military. They are thrilled we are standing  up to cartels. They are thrilled we are removing bad actors in this  country.

They are thrilled we are removing the bureaucratic state. They are  thrilled we are firing Federal bureaucrats. They are thrilled we held  flat spending for discretionary spending for the last 3 years. They are  thrilled that we have tried to make sure that we have money aside to be  able to do what our Democratic colleagues refuse to do.

Today, I urge adoption of this rule, a rule to put forth legislation  that will help the American people in the face of opposition from my  colleagues here.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

The material previously referred to by Mr. Neguse is as follows:       An Amendment To H. Res. 1189 Offered By Mr. Neguse of Colorado

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R.       7147) making further consolidated appropriations for the       fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other       purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and consider in       the House, without intervention of any point of order, a       motion that the House recede from its amendment and concur in       the Senate amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion       shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable       for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and       ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or       their respective designees. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without       intervening motion.

Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX and clause 8 of rule XX       shall not apply to the consideration of the motion.

Sec. 7. The Speaker is directed to sign the enrolled bill       no later than one calendar day after adoption, and the Clerk       is directed to present the bill to the President immediately       upon signature by the Senate President.