Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Overdraft Lending: Very Large Financial Institutions''; Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''; Providing for Consideration of H.R. No Rogue Rulings Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act; and for Other Purposes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689708/providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-overdraft-lending-very-large-financial-institutions-providing-for-consideration-of-sj-res-disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-no-rogue-rulings-act-of-providing-for-consideration-of-hr-safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act-and-for-other-purposes


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North Carolina for  yielding.

My friend was talking about rigging the rules. My colleagues on the  other side of the aisle are all too happy to have district judges rig  the rules to stop the President of the United States from being able to  defend our country.

Just last week, within close proximity to my house in Dripping  Springs, Texas, 47 individuals who are affiliated with the gang Tren de  Aragua were found by ICE. Right down the road in suburban Austin,  Texas, 47 people, including 9 children, were found in what was a stash  house, moving narcotics through it.

This is the same gang that killed Jocelyn Nungaray last summer. This  is the same gang that was torturing and driving fear into the hearts of  the people in Aurora, Colorado, in the apartment complexes that my  colleagues on the other side of the aisle refuse to acknowledge. These  are all the same people who are being allowed to vote, the same people  that we were elected in November to remove from the country.

The President of the United States as Commander in Chief in defending  the United States and as the Chief Executive is carrying out the laws  to remove dangerous individuals from the United States of America.  Then, an activist district judge in the District of Columbia decided  that, in his view, he had to step in. He had to step in to try to  assert his jurisdiction where it did not belong to try to stop the  President of the United States from removing dangerous gang members who  are killing Americans.

Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the United States Supreme Court said: Stop.  You don't get to do that, Mr. District Judge in D.C. If you are going  to do this, you have to do this in Texas.

Mr. Speaker, that was the whole point.

Just today, we had another ruling out of the Supreme Court slapping  down yet another activist judge.

What are we doing, the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern)  asks. What are we doing as Republicans? We are putting forward language  today that would stop rogue district judges from carrying out  nationwide injunctions and temporary restraining orders and who are  trying to effectively legislate from the bench.

Mr. Speaker, we are not alone in that position. The Biden  administration's solicitor general in 2024 told the Supreme Court: ``A  court of equity may grant relief only to the parties before it.''

In 2022, that same solicitor general asked the Supreme Court to  address nationwide injunctions.

In 2022, Justice Elena Kagan spoke out against the ability of a  single judge to stop implementation of a policy across the country.

Lo and behold, we are advancing bipartisan work to address a  bipartisan problem that Democrats have very clearly identified. The  only difference now is that Donald Trump is in the White House instead  of Joe Biden.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from North Carolina  (Ms. Foxx) for yielding additional time.

Mr. Speaker, again, Republicans have brought forward a rule  containing a bill that addresses a problem that Democrats have  identified as a problem, to say that the parties before the court are  the only ones to whom it should apply and allows for a mechanism to  achieve nationwide injunctions through a three-judge panel.

Mr. Speaker, we are also bringing to the floor a bill that will say  that only American citizens should vote in American elections. The  controversy--oh, my gosh--the bloodletting, that we might say in the  United States House of Representatives that only American citizens  should be able to vote in American elections. Yet, that is what we are  doing.

Republicans are responding to an American people who are tired of the  previous administration that was allowing illegals to come into our  country, kill our citizens, vote in our elections, and undermine our  country. We are addressing their concerns, and our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle don't want to address it.

Mr. Speaker, I stand in support of the rule, and I thank the  gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for yielding me time.