Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693712/relating-to-consideration-of-the-senate-amendment-to-hr-rescissions-act-of-2025


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman for yielding.

So here we are. Democrats couldn't seem to find a single thing to say  about Epstein when President Biden was in office, but now they want to  make this the centerpiece of their entire conversation.

The fact of the matter is right now they know it is true, and right  now what they don't want to do is have the American people focusing on  the Republicans in Congress who are doing the thing they sent us here  to do, which is end wasteful spending, to stop the ridiculous spending  of a bureaucratic government that has been weaponized against the  people. These are dollars that are being used and wasted and sent  around the world for $32,000 for transgender comic books in Peru. That  is how they want to use taxpayer money.

We are over here trying to make sure we are saving that money instead  of having $6 million to fund tourism in Egypt or $2 million for sex  changes and LGBT activism in Guatemala.

Why should the people of Texas be paying for that instead of paying  to clean up the flood in Texas?

The fact of the matter is the people of Texas want their money to be  used for the things they care about.

We have listened to the minority leader come to the floor and lecture  us about the virtues of public radio and public broadcasting.

Yet, nevertheless, the truth is it took NPR through Texas public  radio 19 hours to post anything about the flooding on its social media  pages after the floods hit in Texas.

What was NPR and Texas public radio doing that morning?

They weren't breaking to talk about what was happening in Texas. They  were running ads saying people should call Congress to fund them, but  the private stations in Texas were breaking to release reports and tell  people what to do because that is what private stations can do. They  can respond to the people because they are locally owned, they are  locally run, and they are not run by bureaucrats from this town.

The fact is, we are going to save money for the American people and  end the absurdity of this leftist propaganda being put under public  radio.