Repeal of Senate Notification Requirements Relating to Legal Process on Disclosures of Senate Data


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696928/repeal-of-senate-notification-requirements-relating-to-legal-process-on-disclosures-of-senate-data


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin for his  leadership here and managing this bill on the floor on behalf of my  friend from Georgia, who rightfully raised this issue in the Rules  Committee on which he and I both serve. We both immediately raised this  issue in front of the Rules Committee and for the entire body.

There is nobody, to the best of my knowledge, in this body who  supports this language that was inserted in the end of the funding bill  that we passed last week. I don't know anybody. I have yet to meet one  person who supports it.

Mr. Speaker, rather than my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  coming together in a bipartisan agreement that we are going to, as the  House, hip-check the Senate for having put a provision in there that we  disagree with, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to try  to make this a partisan issue when, in fact, Senate Democrats were  equally involved in making sure that this provision got inserted. In  fact, they were very specific about only wanting a provision if it was  only focused on the Senate.

They didn't want it to be used, for example, to help J6ers or FACE  Act individuals who were abused by the Department of Justice under  President Biden. They didn't want it to be a more expansive private  right of action. Instead, they wanted it to be narrow and narrow for  the Senate.

Rather than the House being in a bipartisan agreement, my colleagues  on the other side of the aisle want to make it partisan. If we are  going to make it partisan, let's be very clear: The reason we were in  the position that we were in last week was that we had been shut down  for 43 days. Why? Because my colleagues on the other side of the aisle  have literally nothing to run on.

The only thing my colleagues on the other side of the aisle can run  on is  shutting down the government, making up nonsense about health in which  they are going to enrich insurance companies in the process, and have  nothing to take to the American people other than trying to create  division.

The fact of the matter is, we are going to pass this legislation  within days. We are going to send it to the Senate. We are going to  make clear to the Senate that they need to correct this issue because  the American people rightly are with us. The House of Representatives,  Republican and Democrats, are rightly checking the Senate.

There is one last really important piece to this which is the Arctic  Frost investigation itself, which specifically targeted United States  Senators in an egregious abuse of power. It was targeting those  Senators for their information and their records. That is something  that is an absolute affront to separation of powers and to our  constitutional order to have the Department of Justice targeting those  Senators.

Those Senators were rightly wanting to find ways to stop Jack Smith  and the abuses of the Department of Justice. We in this Chamber just  simply believe that if you are going to do something like that, it  should apply to all Americans and not be something specific to the  United States Senate.

We are correcting this now. We should pass it immediately. The Senate  should take it up and pass it. Also, a little personal message to the  Senate: Take this up and pass it, or you are not getting any support  from this Member for any of your measures that come over to this body.