Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his strong work and  commitment to election integrity and to working with us on this bill,  in particular, the SAVE Act. He has done an extraordinary job, and I am  proud to work with him and work with the rest of my colleagues on it.

I am also proud to work with my friend, Cleta Mitchell, who had a  significant hand in what we are doing here. I am quite certain that she  is pretty well aware of protecting the right of females to be able to  vote, along with my friends Stephanie Bice, Mary Miller, Laurel Lee,  Lauren Boebert, and Kat Cammack, all of whom came down to the floor in  full support of this legislation because they know the truth.

They know the truth that the American people know, which is that, as  much as my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to bring up  the DMV, the American people know that the DMV is very good at giving  driver's licenses to illegal aliens because we know it to be true. We  know that there are people who have been indicted for voting illegally.  We know that there are voter rolls with massive numbers of people who  are illegally present in the United States. We know that the previous  administration let in millions of people into the United States,  wrongfully and illegally under parole and asylum, blatantly abusing the  law to put people in the United States that have no basis for being  here, many of whom carried out dangerous acts against American people,  killed American citizens, but importantly, have been registering to  vote. That is what has been happening.

What we understand is, the American people have spoken very clearly  that they believe only American citizens should vote in American  elections. There is nothing controversial about that. There is nothing  controversial about saying that you should be able to ensure that only  citizens vote.

Let's be very clear: Federal law has currently been interpreted to  prohibit States from being able to check citizenship. That is the  truth. That is why the State of Arizona, for example, has two systems-- one for State and local, one for Federal.

Mr. ROY. The good people of Arizona have two systems in place: They  check for citizenship for State and local elections, and they are  unable to check for citizenship in Federal elections. The point of this  bill is to ensure that we guarantee only citizens vote by allowing  those States to be able to check, by having systems, Federal systems be  open to the States to be able to check, and to require proof of  citizenship when you register.

There is nothing complex about that. There is nothing more sacred  under the Constitution than ensuring that the people are able to have  the voice in the election of the people that represent them in  Washington and throughout the country.

Mr. Speaker, once that is undermined, then people lose faith in the  very institutions upon which this is built. This legislation is  designed to restore that faith, to save our elections, and to save  election integrity.

I am proud to have worked on this bill with my friend, the chairman,  and with my colleagues on this side of the aisle. I would note that  five of my Democratic colleagues joined us last summer to vote for this  bill, hardly a partisan exercise to say that we should protect the  elections of the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, to restore  confidence and faith in our elections, and to take a step forward in  ensuring the people know that citizens will be in control of this  Republic as the Founders intended.