Sharia-Free America


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701403/sharia-free-america


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my friend from Texas, and I don't  want to take up too much time. It has been a great hour. We have had a  lot of good conversation. I appreciate the remarks from the gentleman  from Florida (Mr. Fine.) He and my friend from Arizona outlined very  well a lot of the concerns in addition to what my friend from Texas has  done.

The fact is you cannot win a war that you do not acknowledge exists.  Let's be very clear: There is a war being waged against Western  civilization, against the United States of America, and against the  State of Texas where I live. It is happening in real time, and it has  been going on now for decades. In fact, go all the way back to the 1991  memorandum that was put forward by the Muslim Brotherhood with a number  of provisions in it. The one I want to highlight is this: ``In order  for Islam and its movement to become `a part of the homeland' in which  it lives, `stable' in its land, `rooted' in the spirits and minds of  its people, `enabled' in the lives of its society and has firmly- established `organizations' . . . its movement must plan and struggle  to obtain `the keys' and the tools of this process to carry out the  grand mission as a `Civilization Jihadist' responsibility which lies on  the shoulders of Muslims and--on top of them--the Muslim Brotherhood in  this country.

``The process of settlement is a `Civilization-Jihadist Process' with  all the word means.''

I can keep going. This is organized. There are 600 organizations  operating in this country and in Texas trying to drive the  Islamification of the United States of America in direct conflict with  our laws, our Constitution, and the Declaration of Independence.

This has been brought onto this country by our own actions as a  government. Since 9/11, some 5-million people have been granted the  ability to come into our country from majority Muslim countries, in a  post 9/11 world after we were attacked.

In real time in Texas, we have more mosques being built in Texas than  any other State in the Union. The problem here is that people are going  to hide behind the First Amendment to say this is something that is  protected by carrying out your exercise of free expression of your  religion and carrying out your rights under the First Amendment.

What I am here to tell you is that this, by what I just read and by  every action that I have seen in concert with this memorandum, is a  political ideology that is designed to attack and take over our  civilization and to carry out the civilization Jihad that I just  described.

Mr. Speaker, it is for this reason that we have this Sharia-Free  America Caucus. It is for this reason that we are gathering to  highlight for the American people what is happening right now in real  time such that if you look at Paris and London and you think that is  somehow acceptable, then you are misguided because they are losing  their way. So much so that I have said repeatedly that we should be as  concerned about a nuclearized United Kingdom and as concerned about  nuclearized France as we are a nuclearized Iran. It is coming to the  shores of the United States, and it is here.