Shooting in Austin, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700568/shooting-in-austin-texas


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, this past weekend in Austin, Texas, near where  I live, we had a tragedy where an individual shot a bunch of  Austonians, including several University of Texas students, at a bar on  what we call West Sixth Street, in an area that I frequented often when  I was in law school, a little less often these days. But it is an area  that is a fairly normal place for people to go, not generally perceived  as dangerous.

This past Saturday night, early Sunday morning, even as I believe I  was returning home from the San Antonio Rodeo, or I had been there, I  wake up in the morning to find out that there were three people who had  been killed, one of whom was the shooter, and then later a fourth  person would die, a third victim.

It was an unnecessary, senseless act. It is compounded by not just  normal violence, but why this individual was here in the first place.

I think we have got to wrestle with some serious questions about who  we allow into this country and why. The individual who killed these  students--by the way, there were multiple others who were shot having  surgeries. One young woman, a young student, was shot multiple times in  her abdomen, and another young man who was shot in his head. It was not  just the three dead victims. Other people were hurt. Other people were  traumatized by it.

The individual who did it was wearing a ``Property of Allah''  sweatshirt, had a Koran in the back seat of the car that he had  traveled in, was wearing an Iranian flag T-shirt under the ``Property  of Allah'' sweatshirt.

What we know about him is that he came here from Senegal in 2000,  overstayed his visa.

In 2006, he obtains LPR, or legal permanent residency status, under  the Bush administration--I am going to be an equal opportunity basher  of administrations who have failed to secure our border properly--and  did so on the back of supposedly a marriage to an American citizen.

Fast forward to 2012, under Obama, he gets full citizenship, which  Obama was handing out like candy, and then tries to get LPR status for  two additional women, allegedly women he was marrying. I don't know  whether in succession or at the same time. All I know is he was trying  to do that.

Fast forward, he was arrested for a hit-and-run alleged in 2022.

My fundamental question is: Why are we importing people who are  deeply at odds with the values of our country and Western civilization?  Why are we doing that? Why have we done that exponentially in the wake  of the attacks of 9/11/2001?

It doesn't make any sense. This is avoidable. This man didn't need to  be in the United States who does not share our values and clearly was  interested in serving his convictions for Iran and radical Islamism  more than his commitment to this country, peace, and our rule of law.

I am going to have more to say about that, but related to this topic,  I am proud to be the cofounder, alongside my friend and fellow Texan,  Keith Self, a veteran, a great public servant, longtime public servant,  a great friend, who shares my conviction--I won't speak for him, but  shares my conviction for ensuring we defend our values, our Western  civilization, the rule of law in our country; that we stand up against  the Islamist movement, putting sharia law forward in direct conflict  with our laws.

I know my friend has a limited time, so I would like to yield some  time to him to speak on this subject that concerns us both so greatly.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend who has very well laid out  the extraordinary problem we have as a country if we allow sharia law  to take root. People say, well, yeah, just dismiss it. It is not a big  deal. This is just a problem in Europe. You hear that all the time. Is  that right?

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, the fact is that it is a real problem here. It  is not just Dearborn, Michigan, where some people get some headlines.  It is not just New York City, where you now have Mayor Mamdani and  prayer calls in the middle of Manhattan. We have--and I will let the  gentleman expand upon it--300-plus mosques, and more mosques being  built every year in the State of Texas than any other State in the  Union.

We have EPIC City, which you can comment about, in your own backyard.  We have a massive Islamic center in Houston, a massive Islamic center  north of Austin, and an Islamic center in West Campus.

You say: Chip, why is that a problem?

People can believe what they want to believe. They can build these  things.

These entities are expressly putting out and advancing Islamism  consistent with the plan laid out by the Muslim Brotherhood in  accordance with some 600 organizations designed to do it, to put a  footprint here that is ideological and political and designed to take  over our country.

Would the gentleman agree?

Mr. ROY. Is the gentleman familiar with areas in and around the  Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, even nearby his own district in places  like Richardson, in places like Arlington, and a little farther away in  other areas, that some of our Texas women in particular, and generally,  believe to be no-go zones? There are areas where they are increasingly  feeling uncomfortable as if they are somehow immersed in the Middle  East, in areas that do not share our values of equality, of treating  people respectfully the same as peers, and where some of our women feel  uncomfortable?

Is the gentleman familiar that that is the case, in fact, in the  Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, from what we understand?

Mr. ROY. One last point, because I get it thrown in my face quite  frequently that our Founders would be appalled that we are raising  these issues and questioning people's ability to carry out and practice  their faith.

I know that the gentleman is a student of our history and the  Constitution, and he is a student of military history. I am confident  that he is well apprised of the engagement that Thomas Jefferson had  with respect to the Barbary pirates and the Barbary wars.

When posed with the question that Jefferson posed: Well, why do you  make war with us?

The response was, as the gentleman knows: Well, we are commanded to  in the Koran.

To which Jefferson was fairly appalled, as you would expect him to  be, Mr. Speaker. We had to carry out wars to make sure our shipping  lanes were open and so forth.

I know the gentleman, who is a student of history, understands that  that conflict was very clear and present even among our leaders as they  were founding this Nation and the enlightenment that led to the First  Amendment which we cherish, but the recognition of the direct conflict  that the Islamic faith had, especially with respect to sharia law being  carried out against our values and Western civilization?

Does the gentleman agree?

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I know the gentleman has to go to another  engagement. I thank him for his leadership in working with me and  cofounding the Sharia-Free America Caucus.

Do we now have 46?

Mr. ROY. We have 46 strong and growing.

I would invite colleagues on either side of the aisle to join. We  should all be united in having a sharia-free America. It is  inconsistent with our values.

I appreciate his leadership, I appreciate his public service, I  appreciate his friendship, and I wish him well this evening.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I would just note that in addition to what we  just talked about, there is this view that Europe is unique. Right now  there are some 50 million Muslims who have now moved into Europe.

We now have got France approaching 10 percent of its population. We  have the United Kingdom at 7 percent-plus of its population. In the  United Kingdom we have 85 courts carrying out sharia law alongside the  civilian courts. In Germany they have 7 to 8 percent of the population.  Spain and Italy, and a good chunk of Western Europe, is now approaching  10 percent-plus Muslim.

The question now is: As we are having a battle with Iran to take out  their nuclear capability, at what point are we going to be concerned  about a nuclear France or a nuclear United Kingdom?

People say: Well, Chip, that is awfully controversial.

Is it? Is it really that controversial?

We have majority Muslim countries that are refusing to send their  kids to schools in the United Kingdom because they believe that the  schools there are teaching a radicalized Islam that is more radical  than they have at home.

This is purposeful. This is being driven by the Muslim Brotherhood.  This is not just happening in Europe. It is happening here, and but for  an ocean, we would be Europe now. However, after the massively open  borders under the Biden-Mayorkas regime, with the increasing shrinking  of the globe, and with totally irresponsible wide-open borders and  totally irresponsible ``legal'' immigration policies by this country,  we are importing people who hate us and hate our values.

Why would we do that?

Someone explain to me why we would do that.

In the 25 years since 9/11 we have imported millions of people from  countries that are diametrically opposed to our values.

Why? Why would we do that, and why would we continue?

I don't care what it is. I don't care if it is H-1B, and I don't care  if it is tourist visas that people tend to overstay and we never  enforce. We have massive and rampant abuse of our so-called legal  immigration system, and I am sick and tired of hearing colleagues and,  frankly, the administration, Republicans, generally Governors, who say:  Oh, we love legal immigration. You just have to stop the illegal  immigration.

Of course, we should stop the illegal immigration. It is the basic  duty of government.

However, why would you continue massive, widespread legal immigration  from countries that very heavily and largely oppose our way of life and  want to transform it?

They do not wish to melt into the pot. They wish to take over the  country and change it.

Stop doing that. This is common sense. But common sense was thrown  out the window years ago.

Everybody lives in this touchy-feely nonsense bull that they were  taught in school to say: Well, you know, you just have to open your  doors to everybody. Have your porch open and have everybody come in.

Hold on.

Why would you let people in who want to undo what you have?

We have to have people who wish to come here to achieve the American  Dream, who want to learn our language, conform with our laws and our  society, conform with our customs, conform with our heritage, celebrate  and venerate our heritage, support In God We Trust, and accept our  values.

We have Moses sitting right here overlooking the House Chamber. I am  guessing that ``Mr. Property of Allah'' here, who shot up people in my  town and killed students from the University of Texas and the Texas  Tech student, would not be too excited about Moses overseeing our  Chamber.

Look, we have to make choices. We have 53 million-ish people foreign  born in the United States, almost 16 percent. It is the highest  percentage of our population in history. In the 1920s--in 1924  specifically--Congress restricted immigration after a massive explosion  of immigration in the late 1800s, early 1900s.

Now, let's also consider at the time that while there were  differences in cultures--German, Czech, Italian, whatever-- predominantly, these were people who shared Western civilization  values. They believed in our country, were going to schools that taught  that our country was great, were going to schools that taught the  Constitution, were going to schools that taught kids English.

At the time, we were trying to build a melting pot. Yet, even with  that, we all recognized, whoa, whoa, whoa, maybe we need to pause  immigration because we have had so many people come here, we need a  little resettling to ensure that everybody here knows what being an  American means.

For the better part of 40 years, we pretty much flatlined  immigration, constrained it to negligible numbers. By the way, during  that period, we ultimately were able to win a world war, ultimately  have the baby boom post-World War II, and grew the economy.

Then sometime in the mid-1960s, we opened up the spigot, and we set  forward now a 60-year march that has been a massive curve that has now  exploded into the 21st century in which we have brought masses of  population into our country, but now increasingly people who flatout do  not share our values, and, worse, wish to eradicate our values and kill  us.

Again, to my colleagues who like to yap on the House floor or on news  media about how great legal immigration is, is this great? Is it?

Now, I want to say that I am not just making these numbers up. Since  2002, which astute observers of history will recognize was the year  after 9/11, where 3,000 Americans were murdered by people who  overstayed their visas, I would remind, all the friendly, oh, come join  us melting pot folks who came over here on tourist visas that  overstayed their visas and then flew airplanes into buildings.

Since then, the United States has issued 4.6 million green cards or  lawful permanent status to nationals from Muslim-majority nations,  allowing them to remain here indefinitely.

Now, I am sure there are some of my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle that will come down and say: Well, Chip, that is a good thing.  Isn't that great, having people come here, diversity?

Well, is it?

There has been a 48 percent increase in green cards to these  countries from 2002 to 2023 since 9/11: Afghanistan, Bangladesh,  Cameroon, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya,  Malaysia, Mauritania, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,  Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Yemen.

I am doing that for the benefit of the stenographer.

Meanwhile, sharia is exploding. They say no, it is not. Yes, it is.  We have story after story of how that is being meted out in communities  around our country, not always formally, but certainly in the  communities in direct contradiction to our Western values and our law.

We have actually had courts being propped up. For example, Governor  Abbott in Texas had to go quash two courts that were being set up in  the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex, which is why I am saying we should  pause immigration.

I introduced legislation in November to do that. Let's just pause all  immigration. We can allow tourist visas so long as we enforce visa  overstays, but we shouldn't reopen the spigots on immigration until we  have revamped our badly broken H-1B system, until we have revamped the  entire visa system, until we vet people for sharia law or adherence to  values inconsistent with ours, until we fix Plyler v. Doe, a  wrongheaded Supreme Court opinion saying that we have to allow illegal  aliens to be able to get educated here, until we fix our broken  immigration system, which the next Democratic regime will exploit, as  Secretary Noem testified to yesterday in the House committee, that that  would assuredly occur if we do not codify changes to asylum, codify  changes to parole, codify changes to catch and release, that it will  happen, and we haven't done it.

By the way, the House hasn't even passed it this Congress. Why? Why  haven't we passed it and sent it over to the Senate? Well, the Senate  won't pass it. Well, we are hearing that about the SAVE America Act,  too, right now, but why don't we just put more pressure on the Senate  to do its job? Show up to work. Debate in the supposedly greatest  deliberative body in the world in which they never actually deliberate.

When was the last time somebody saw a great speech on the floor of  the Senate between two Senators, engaging in debate? The greatest  deliberative body in the world? There is more deliberation in an  average high school debate than the United States Senate.

I have offended a few Senators apparently by virtue of what a couple  people said when I called it the nursing home and the Jell-O  dispensary.

Well, forgive me. Not. Because you don't do anything. The Senate is  nothing more in today's operation than the personnel office for the  White House. That is it. By the way, it is not even doing that fully  effectively.

Why haven't we passed the SAVE America Act in the Senate? Well, Chip,  we don't have 60 votes. Does anybody know how the filibuster and the  rules of the Senate actually work? Sixty votes is one mechanism for  shutting off debate, but you actually have to have debate to turn off.  Have the debate. Put it on the floor.

Oh, but they might offer amendments, and those amendments might be  really tough votes for our Members. Well, hell's bells, you might have  to vote on something in the United States Senate? Who could imagine the  horror of running for office to become a vaunted United States Senator,  and yet, oh, no, I might be forced to vote on something?

Heaven forbid that the United States Senate Republicans lock  together, lock arms, have a strategy, and say, hey, why don't we just  table all the amendments.

I serve on the Rules Committee here in the House. We get amendments  every week, gamesmanship by my colleagues on the other side of the  aisle. They offer amendments to put us in a bad position, to run ads  against us that we are somehow the Devil because we voted against  puppies and children and whatever it is. Boo-hoo. Vote no, move on, put  a message out, but the Senate won't do it because they are hiding.

The United States Senate is hiding behind a fake filibuster, a fake  60-vote threshold that is not real.

Put a bill on the floor of the Senate, allow it to be amended. Table  the amendments, allow the speeches to go, make them sit there and  speak, make them burn the clock, make them sit there for weeks on end,  telling the American people how they oppose that only American citizens  should vote in American elections, and that we should have voter ID to  demonstrate you are who you are when you vote. Go sell that at home.

However, the Senate continues to hide, say we can't do that. We don't  have 51 Senators. We don't want to upset the filibuster.

Chip, you are going to risk the filibuster. False. Fake news. We are  saying use the real filibuster. Speak. Invite Mr. Smith to come back to  Washington. Allow Mr. Smith to come into the Chamber and show you what  a real filibuster is because it isn't keeping the Senate in a quorum  call while you go to fundraisers and State dinners or go parade in  front of the screens on the committees, come down to the Senate floor,  have a few votes, and then fly back out after 2\1/2\ days of work in a  week.

The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was on the floor of the Senate for 3  months, 3  months. They were 25 votes shy of the then-cloture vote to shut off  debate.

Right now, we are--I don't know--10 votes shy. Put it on the floor  and see what happens. Let's see how many phone calls come into  Senators' offices. After a week, after 2 weeks, after 3 weeks, you  could pull it off the floor if you have got to move something important  like DHS funding if Democrats stop blocking the funding of Coast Guard,  FEMA, TSA. This is not rocket science stuff, y'all, but the Senate  refuses to fight.

The American people demand that we actually preserve the integrity of  our elections. The American people believe that only American citizens  should vote in American elections. They believe you should have voter  ID. The Senate should act. The House should codify President Trump's  executive orders, send them to the Senate, and then the Senate can do  another talking filibuster.

Mr. Speaker, they might have to show up on the Senate floor and force  work. All of these things are related: wide-open borders, crime rates,  organizations that are funding it, the advance of sharia law and the  Islamist movement in the United States. All of it is tied to large  networks of Marxists and Islamists that are trying to remake the United  States of America and undermine everything about our history, heritage,  our rule of law, the Constitution, the Declaration.

The question is: Are we going to continue to remain asleep, kowtowing  to corporate America, telling everybody what to do for labor, earnings  per share, and the bottom line so they can get better reports from Wall  Street? Because that is what is happening.

You turn the management of affairs over to corporations, corporations  that continue to buy up land, buy up ranches, buy up farms, often  international corporations, almost often foreigners buying up American  assets. Are we that slave to corporate America that we are willing to  leave our doors wide open to the most dangerous individuals around that  do not share our values?

A lot of people think that the sharia crisis is only in Europe and in  foreign countries, and that it has not yet arrived here. That is false.  It is alive, well, and growing. People are going to use the First  Amendments incorrectly to hang us with it. They are going to pile  weight upon the bow that is our system and it will crumble under its  own weight while we fiddle while America burns because we don't want to  say uncomfortable things that we can all see with our own eyes.

Why do you have to wait in line at the airport? Why can't you take a  pocketknife in your pocket on the plane like we did for years? Why do  you have to take your freaking shoes off? Was it because of some nice,  Christian choir boys and girls from the local church in your community,  or was it because of the rise of the Islamist movement around the  world? Was it from the Pan Am bombings and all the various terrorist  attacks of the 1980s and 1990s culminating in 2001 on 9/11?

Open your eyes and see what the world is. Recognize the enemy before  you and stop inviting the enemy into your home, and then allowing your  own rules to be used to promulgate your own destruction.

It is a radical, political ideology that is at odds with the  Constitution, the Declaration, and the rule of law. We should act like  it. We should tighten down our immigration laws. We should pause  immigration. We should vet people for adherence to sharia law. We  should ensure that our communities stay safe and recognize the war that  is being waged against us and take action.

Mr. Speaker, I recognize that my good friend from Arizona is in the  Chamber and is no doubt going to regale us with a tutorial on our debt  crisis, the extent to which interest payments on the debt, the  skyrocketing mountain of debt that is piling up as a result of  mandatory spending, in particular, demographic changes, our lack of use  of great medical technology, and other things that will allow us to  save money and have a much better healthcare system and save our  children from the scourge of debt and interest payments that I talked  about.

Mr. Speaker, I suspect he will say something to those effects, and I  think I have filibustered long enough.

Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, can I say something and then I will turn it  over to him because I have to go, but the gentleman and I poke each  other and have a little fun. I am certainly prone to giving some  speeches on immigration, board of security, and other things to come  down to the floor. I think the floor should be used. I wish we had  actual, real debate. I wish we had something other than Special Orders  where you come down here and talk to an empty Chamber.

I think we should have 10, 20, or 30 of us down here for hours at a  time debating serious issues. I think the American people would expect  that. That is why I think the Senate ought to actually advance to  debate. Don't be afraid of a real filibuster, but I will say as a  compliment that the gentleman has done this for now over a decade. I  can't remember how long he has been in Congress where he has been down  to the floor and he gives those speeches. I don't mean that as a  criticism because that message has been consistent.

By the way, the big, beautiful bill last year was nothing like I know  what he wanted or I wanted. I wanted to go much further, but what we  did get in terms of Medicaid reforms, what we did get in terms of  spending reductions, $1.6 trillion in reductions and so forth, again,  not what we wanted, would never have happened but for the groundwork  being laid by people like my friend from Arizona, the speeches he gives  on the floor regularly making the case for how debt, interest, and so  forth is killing our country.

Mr. ROY. I am on Judiciary, Budget, and Rules.

Mr. ROY. I see it all.

Mr. ROY. Well, you do a great job of it. Keep pounding on the math.  We have made slight progress with flat discretionary spending for 2 or  3 years and a little bit of work last year in the big, beautiful bill,  but we barely dented the problem.

Mr. Speaker, the iceberg sits in front of us. We are on the Titanic.  A few of us are pulling the wheel, but, hell, people on both sides of  the aisle are pulling the wheel the other direction. Our kids and  grandkids depend on us actually avoiding the frigging iceberg.