Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691214/stock-trading-ban-for-members-of-congress


Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Magaziner has been an excellent partner in this effort, and it is  now long overdue.

I am glad he mentioned my friend, Abigail Spanberger. Both of us went  to the University of Virginia. That is part of the reason why we  conspired together on this bill, when we were talking about how  ridiculous it was that, on both sides of the aisle, there were blatant  abuses of this trust that the American people put in the people who  represent them not to violate that trust by trading securities for- profit on the very issues they are supposed to be voting on objectively  to benefit the United States of America. Yet, that is precisely what  has happened.

Mr. Speaker, this is now the fourth Congress in a row that I have  introduced the TRUST in Congress Act, now with Mr. Magaziner, and I  think it is long overdue.

In the 119th Congress, we have 12 Republican cosponsors and 60  Democratic cosponsors. I say to my Republican colleagues: Get with the  program because 12 is not enough. We need to get everybody on board  here.

I am glad the Speaker has said that he would support it. I am glad  the President of the United States, President Trump, has said that he  would sign it. Yet, we have to be realistic about what we are talking  about.

We vote every day on massive issues. We vote about healthcare  policies involving pharmaceutical companies that make billions of  dollars, massive insurance companies, and massive hospital  corporations. We vote on intellectual property issues in the Committee  on the Judiciary. We vote on antitrust issues. We vote on all manners  of issues, including Defense Department policies, that involve hundreds  of billions of dollars in the capital markets. Yet, Members are voting  on that while trading stocks on a daily basis.

Capitol Trades reports that 113 Members of Congress made 9,261 trades  in 2024 involving 706 million shares or other assets. We had a Democrat  who made 4,000 trades for a 20 percent return. We had a Republican who  made almost 2,000 trades for a 23 percent return; a Democrat, 575  trades, a 22 percent return.

I could keep going down the list.

We had Members of Congress in 2024: a Republican with a 149 percent  return; a Democrat with a 142 percent return; a Democrat with a 124  percent return; a Republican with a 111 percent return; a Democrat with  a 105 percent return.

I could keep going down. There is a lot of Americans who would like  to have returns along those lines. In fact, there are now funds out  there that follow and trade along with the congressional Members of  Congress to see what they are trading. That is ridiculous.

You should come to Congress. You should take your assets and move  them into widely held index funds. It should be able to be done on a  tax basis. Come in here. Clean the decks. Go represent your  constituents. It is long past due. Let's move the bill. Let's get it to  the floor. Mr. Speaker, bring it to a vote, and let's put trust back in  Congress.