Expedited Appeals Review Act


Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Hageman for drawing attention to  the issues with the Interior Board of Land Appeals.

The IBLA resolves disputes related to public lands and natural  resources under the Department of the Interior. However, the IBLA can  take too long to decide these cases, leaving people waiting for years  for a decision.

For example, at the end of fiscal year 2023, the IBLA had cases on  their docket from fiscal year 2017. The Expedited Appeals Review Act  would attempt to address this problem by creating an optional process  for appellants to get expedited review from the IBLA.

Under this bill, if the IBLA does not make a decision by the  expedited review deadline, the appellant can take the case directly to  district court. The court would start the case de novo, compiling the  facts of the case without deference to the original agency's  decisionmaking.

While I agree with Representative Hageman that the IBLA timelines are  a problem, I do have some concerns that the proposed solution doesn't  get to the root of the problem. The underlying cause behind the IBLA's  delays is a lack of capacity and resources.

The Board has stated it does not have the resources needed to resolve  every appeal filed every fiscal year. Instead  of setting more deadlines that we know the IBLA can't meet, we should  be appropriately staffing our agencies and review boards across the  Federal Government.

Additionally, I am concerned this bill will create a fast-tracked  review procedure that advantages wealthier appellants. Taking the case  to district court is time-and resource-intensive, so only the  wealthiest appellants are likely to use the expedited review process.

By making the IBLA focus its limited resources on expedited appeals,  anyone without the money to take their case to district court may have  to wait even longer.

I hope my Republican colleagues will work with us on providing the  IBLA with the resources that would address the underlying problem here  while also having an expedited review process.

Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the  legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.