Expiration of New Start


Ms. HOYLE of Oregon. Mr. Speaker, at a time when global tensions are  rising, the last thing we need is more weapons. That is why it is so  important that the New START treaty, set to expire in 21 days, is  renewed by the administration quickly and in good faith.

The New START treaty reduced the number of nuclear warheads in the  United States and Russia to the lowest level since 1950. This is not  the time to start going in the other direction.

Nuclear risks continue to rise, and when we see countries like Russia  testing their nuclear delivery systems, the danger grows for everyone,  including many Oregonians.

In southern Oregon, the Federal Government rushed to mine uranium in  the 1950s to fuel the Cold War. Two open-pit mines outside Lakeview in  the Fremont National Forest supplied the material that went to the  Hanford site to produce plutonium for nuclear weapons.

When that rush ended, we were stuck with that contamination. It took  decades for the EPA to declare the mines as Superfund sites, leaving  the land poisoned.

At the Albany Research Center, construction workers built,  maintained, and later tried to clean up the nuclear weapons complex,  often without being told what they were exposed to. Decades later,  workers are still fighting to get screened for cancers and other life- threatening illnesses caused by their exposure to radiation. Taxpayers  are still paying the price from the arms race.

The Federal Government has paid out more than $27 million to more  than 430 Oregonians who were uranium workers exposed to fallout or  downwind of testing. This is what happens when we forget what nuclear  proliferation cost us.

Yet, the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy plan to  spend more than $900 billion over the next decade to modernize our  nuclear arsenal.

The cost of the Sentinel ICBM missile program alone has exploded,  pushing the cost per missile to $161 million, an 81 percent increase  from its original projections. The cost of nuclear acquisition programs  will be 11.8 percent of the Department of Defense's planned acquisition  costs over the next 10 years. Remember, this is an agency that cannot  pass an audit. This is out of control.

We will always find the money for war, but not to take care of our  workers or Tribal partners or to compensate the communities who paid  the price for that last generation of weapons, so we must act in good  faith to ensure an open-ended arms race does not happen.

Nuclear nonproliferation has not been and should not be a partisan  issue. We don't need more weapons. We need more affordable healthcare,  upgrades to our transportation infrastructure, expansion of U.S.  manufacturing capacity, and to focus our taxpayer dollars on things  that benefit the American people and that make our communities safer.

Mr. Speaker, I am happy to work with any of my colleagues to develop  a commonsense approach to limiting our nuclear stockpiles and to keep  this administration from taking us down a costly and destabilizing  path, which is why I am proud to have cosponsored H.R. 100, which,  again, just reiterates my position on nuclear proliferation. I thank  Dr. Foster for all his work.