Airspace Location and Enhanced Risk Transparency Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701674/airspace-location-and-enhanced-risk-transparency-act-of-2026


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker, I thank the chairman for  yielding.

Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of the ALERT Act. This is  critically needed legislation that will go a long way to improve  aviation safety.

Last year's midair collision between an Army helicopter and a  passenger jet on approach to Reagan National should have never  happened.

The NTSB completed their investigation earlier this year, and their  report included 13 recommendations to the Army and the Pentagon to  ensure another tragedy like this doesn't happen again. Title II of the  ALERT Act carries out all 13 of those recommendations.

In fact, the NTSB states that this bill not only meets their  recommendations but in most cases exceeds them. For instance, the NTSB  made several recommendations to the Army to improve its training and  safety management system. The ALERT Act requires all military services  to make these safety modifications, not just the Army.

The ALERT Act also addresses concerns raised by the Department of War  with the bill as it passed the Senate. The bill before us ensures our  bombers, fighters, and other classified aircraft can continue to  execute their critical national security missions without revealing  their location to our enemies.

We ultimately got a product that improves aviation safety without  undermining our national security. This is a strong bipartisan bill  that passed the Armed Services Committee by a vote of 53-0.

I thank the NTSB and the Pentagon for working with us throughout this  process. I also thank Chairman Graves and Ranking Members Larsen and  Smith, as well as our staff on both committees for their hard work.

Finally, I express my deepest condolences to the families, friends,  and loved ones of those who lost their lives in this terrible accident.  I thank the PAT 25 and the Flight 5342 families for their tireless  efforts to ensure a tragedy like this never occurs again.