Disinterment of Remains of Fernando V. Cota From Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery, Texas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697810/disinterment-of-remains-of-fernando-v-cota-from-fort-sam-houston-national-cemetery-texas


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 936,  I call up the bill (S. 1071) to require the Secretary of Veterans  Affairs to disinter the remains of Fernando V. Cota from Fort Sam  Houston National Cemetery, Texas, and for other purposes, and ask for  its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.  1071.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to present the final National Defense  Authorization Act for fiscal year 2026.

This is a good product that was worked in a bipartisan, bicameral  fashion.

This year, we focused a lot of our efforts on fixing the Pentagon's  broken acquisition process, which is failing our warfighters. The  fiscal year 2026 NDAA includes a series of reforms to put commercial  solutions first, eliminate regulatory burdens, and end bureaucratic  inertia. It also puts in place a system that will deliver capability to  the warfighter at the speed and scale that we need.

Fixing acquisitions will go a long way toward ensuring our  warfighters are the most capable fighting force on the planet.

Properly equipping our warfighters is critical, but so is ensuring we  recruit and retain the best and brightest.

Toward that end, the FY 2026 NDAA continues to make improvements in  the quality of life of all of our servicemembers.

This bill supports the Trump administration's 3.8 percent pay raise  for all servicemembers that authorizes nearly $3 billion for  construction of barracks, family housing, dining facilities, medical  facilities, childcare centers, and schools. It also improves  servicemember access to mental health services.

Our committee will continue to make improving the quality of life of  our servicemembers a top priority every year.

We need a ready, capable, and lethal fighting force because the  threats to our Nation, especially those from China, are more complex  and challenging than at any point in the last 40 years.

The FY 2026 NDAA counters the threat from China and ensures mission  success in the Indo-Pacific. The bill includes a number of provisions  to rid adversaries from our defense supply chain. It extends the  Pacific Deterrence Initiative to enhance U.S. posture in the region and  improves our ability to conduct military operations in the Pacific. It  also bolsters Taiwan's defenses and helps build the capacity of our  allies in the region.

Furthermore, this bill increases the lethality of our forces to  prepare for and deter global threats. The bill authorizes over $26  billion in shipbuilding for additional submarines and surface vessels;  $38 billion to ensure air dominance with new generation fighter jets;  $25 billion to restore America's arsenal of munitions; and $145 billion  to research and develop innovative new technologies our warfighters  will need to win on future battlefields.

This is a strong bipartisan bill that delivers for our warfighters  and deters our adversaries. It will fundamentally reform the defense  acquisition enterprise. It will continue historic improvements in the  quality of life of our servicemembers and their families. It will build  the ready, capable, and lethal fighting force we need to deter China  and our adversaries. It will deliver on President Trump's peace through  strength agenda.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support the bill, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Rogers  for yielding.

I am grateful to support the National Defense Authorization Act. I  appreciate House Armed Services Committee Chairman   Mike Rogers for  his success on peace through strength, working together with Ranking  Member Adam Smith.

I am grateful that the language that I proposed to support missions  at the Savannah River Site and nuclear modernization was included. The  two-site solution shows American commitment to peace through strength.

Support for defense programs at universities like the University of  South Carolina has provided for the promotion of academia and national  security together.

With President Trump's envoy, Tom Barrack, history is being made  today for the repeal of the Caesar Act, giving Syrians a chance after  54 years of Ba'athist socialist dictatorship, a message to the  dictators in Tehran.

Finally, enhancing security ties with European allies to defeat war  criminal Putin keeps American families safe at home.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support the bill.

First, I want to take a minute to thank the ranking member. As  anybody who has listened to this debate can just tell, he is a very  bright, very thoughtful, articulate fellow, and I am very fortunate  that he is my partner in running the Armed Services Committee.

I also thank Chairman Roger Wicker of the Senate Armed Services  Committee, and Ranking Member Jack Reed. They also are very passionate,  thoughtful bipartisan Members of Congress. This product that we bring  before the House today is a result of this bipartisan, bicameral  effort.

For those of us who have been around here a long time, we used to see  more of this. We don't now. It is refreshing to see this kind of  effort, this kind of product come to the floor in these more recent  years of toxicity in this town and in this Chamber. That toxicity is  not reflected in this product.

I also thank our staff for their outstanding work. This is literally  a cumulative product of 11 months of a lot of hard staff work. The  House Legislative Counsel, the CBO, and the Parliamentarian staff here,  leadership staff, as we saw just before this came to the floor, there  have been a lot of people pulling hard to get this done, but it has  resulted in this product.

A lot of folks don't think about this, but this authorization bill is  a massive piece of legislation, not just including what is riding along  with it today from other committees, but in and of itself it authorizes  over half of all discretionary spending. This is a big deal.

It also has been done for 64 consecutive years. No matter which party  has control of the White House, and no matter which party has control  of this Chamber, we find a way to make sure our servicemembers have  what they need to be successful and safe.

I am very proud of this committee. I am very proud of this product. I  am proud of the partnership that we have had with the other party. It  is an important bill.