Recognizing the Contributions of Charles ``charlie'' Webb


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694773/recognizing-the-contributions-of-charles-charlie-webb


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the  contributions of Mr. Charles ``Charlie'' Webb. Charlie graduated high  school in Colorado in May 1970 and in August 1970 reported to Fort  Knox, Kentucky. for Basic Training and Advanced Individual Training at  the Armor School. He was assigned to the 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment  in January 1971 in Bind Lach serving as border patrol between Germany  and Czechoslovakia. He and his company referred to themselves as The  Speed Bump because ``that's what it would have looked like if the  WARSAW Pact had decided to come across.'' This was his favorite  assignment.

He was then assigned to Fort Carson, Colorado, with the 10th Cavalry  (part of the 4th Infantry Division). It was while he was there that he  met his wife, Mary. His next assignment was back to Germany with the  1st Battalion 64th Armor Regiment for three years. During this time, he  transitioned to the M1 series tanks.

Later he was assigned to the 3rd Cavalry Regiment at Fort Bliss,  Texas. He was there for a year and transferred to Fort Hood, Texas,  because they already had M1 tanks. At Fort Hood, he was assigned to the  1st Battalion 8th Cavalry Regiment, part of the 1st Cavalry Division.  He served as a Platoon Sergeant, and eventually, as the First Sergeant  for D Company. While serving as the 1st Sergeant, he was notified he'd  be attending the U.S. Army Sergeants Major Academy. It was there, in  January of 1990, he went back to Fort Bliss for six months of school.

After graduation, he expected to be assigned to Korea since he had  never done a tour there, but instead, he was retained as faculty at  Fort Bliss for the next three years as a lesson writer and instructor.

In December 1992, Armor Branch contacted him concerning his next  assignment. The Assignments person gave him a choice; he could be the  First Sergeant of a tank company with the 2nd Infantry Division in  Korea, or a tank company supporting the Armor School at Fort Knox,  Kentucky. Neither choice was a desirable option, so he chose to retire  and in 1993. he moved to Anniston, Alabama, to work at Fort McClellan.  However, he had no intentions of ending his service to the United  States. Here, he was responsible for running the Battle Simulation  Center for the Chemical School. When Fort McClellan was closed, the  Anniston Chemical Demil Facility (ANCDF) was being built, and Charlie  was hired there in July 1999. While working at ANCDF, he had an  interest in making a scale model of the plant. Because cameras weren't  allowed on site, he observed and documented, from memory, the layout of  the facilities. He worked on a model at home for over four years. The  model is one of a kind, and the only one in existence. He donated the  large-scale model to the Army and it's on display at the Museum Support  Center in Anniston Alabama (MSCA).

Charlie worked from July 1999 until the completion of the ANCDF  mission and left in August 2013, He started in April 2014, as a  volunteer at MSCA and is still volunteering today. Charlie's vast  knowledge and dedication to detail has enhanced the effectiveness of  the museum. Mr. Speaker, please join me in recognizing Charlie and  thanking him for his service to our country and his dedication to the  MSCA.