Resolution, to Remove United States Armed Forces From Hostilities with Presidentially Designated Terrorist Organizations in the Western Hemisphere


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698238/resolution-to-remove-united-states-armed-forces-from-hostilities-with-presidentially-designated-terrorist-organizations-in-the-western-hemisphere


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to  this resolution.

For decades, violent drug cartels have ravaged American communities.  They have flooded our streets with deadly narcotics. They have  destabilized our hemisphere, creating openings for malign influence  from China, Russia, and Iran. Year after year, they have killed  thousands of Americans.

We decided long ago that we would not tolerate threats to the  American people from terrorists like al-Qaida and ISIS. We shouldn't  tolerate them from narcoterrorists either.

Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives received a detailed  briefing from the administration on Operation Southern Spear. We heard  directly from Secretary Rubio, Secretary Hegseth, and General Caine.  Their message was clear: Narcoterrorists are the single greatest threat  in the Western Hemisphere.

President Trump is acting decisively, lawfully, and within his  authority as Commander in Chief. Our military is targeting known drug  smuggling boats loaded with drugs and moving along well-established  trafficking routes. Every strike is based on rigorous intelligence  linking these boats with well-known narcoterrorists.

Every strike undergoes a comprehensive legal review and complies with  defined rules of engagement to ensure innocent civilians are not  harmed. The Armed Services Committee is notified of every strike and  has been briefed on this operation several times. These strikes are  lawful under U.S. law and international law, and all actions are in  compliance with the law of armed conflict.

Most importantly, these strikes have dramatically reduced drug  smuggling operations.

The bottom line is that Americans are safer today because of  President Trump's actions. Let's not return to the old, failed playbook  of treating our counterterrorist administrations solely as a law  enforcement matter. We tried that for decades, and it didn't work. It  cost hundreds of thousands of American lives.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in protecting Americans  by opposing this resolution.