Rotorcraft Operations Transparency and Oversight Reform Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700107/rotorcraft-operations-transparency-and-oversight-reform-act


Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding and for his leadership on this important issue.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill.

The bill before us today is a flawed response to last year's tragic  midair collision at Reagan National. First and foremost, this bill will  undermine our national security.

The Department of War just released the following statement regarding  the bill: ``As currently drafted, enactment [of this bil] would create  significant unresolved budgetary burdens and operational security risks  affecting national defense activities.''

Let's talk about those operational security risks. The ROTOR Act  requires ADS-B, which is a beacon signal, In and Out to be transmitted  on all aircraft in the national airspace, including Department of War  aircraft performing sensitive missions.

ADS-B systems transmit information on the location, speed, and  direction of aircraft over unencrypted, open channels. Websites like  FlightAware then post that information for all the world to see.

Since 2018, certain military aircraft have been exempt from  broadcasting that information pursuant to a memorandum of agreement  between the FAA and the Pentagon. The ROTOR Act overrides that MOA with  the FAA rulemaking. The FAA, not the Pentagon or our military  commanders, will have the final say on which military aircraft must be  equipped with ADS-B and when it must be turned on. That is  unacceptable.

Requiring our fighters, bombers, and highly classified assets to  regularly broadcast their location puts our men and women in uniform at  risk by exposing operational planning, aircraft details, and patterns  of life to our adversaries.

Now, we can all agree that certain military aircraft should be  equipped with and transmit the ADS-B signal, especially in congested  civilian airspace. Fortunately, the current MOU already provides for  that. At this time, nearly all Army helicopters flying in congested  airspace are equipped with ADS-B Out and have been instructed to  transmit.

The problem is the ROTOR Act goes much further than these aircraft,  undermining the operational security of our fighters, bombers, and  aircraft on classified missions. For obvious reasons, we do not want  our enemies to know where our bombers or fighters are or where they are  headed.

Beyond the serious national security impacts of the ROTOR Act, the  bill fails to address nearly 90 percent of the recommendations made by  the NTSB.

Over 40 critical air safety recommendations are left out of this  bill. This includes important recommendations for the Department of  War, such as increased coordination between the military and the FAA on  aircraft safety matters, better safety management systems and reporting  for military aircraft, and enhanced training for military pilots  operating in congested airspace.

All of these flaws can be easily fixed if the committees of  jurisdiction in the House are afforded the opportunity to follow  regular order and consider an alternative bill.

I have joined Chairman Graves and Ranking Members Larsen and Smith to  introduce the bipartisan ALERT Act that will fix the flaws of the ROTOR  Act, but our legislation goes much farther than the ROTOR Act to  improve aviation safety by addressing all 50 of the NTSB  recommendations. It will also ensure our military can continue to carry  out sensitive operations that are crucial to our defense and to our  Nation.

The Department of War is requesting these changes be made before the  ROTOR Act is signed into law. If we defeat this bill, we can have the  ALERT Act on the floor the very next day. We can reconcile the  differences with the Senate and get the bill to the President the next  week.

The House of Representatives should not send a bill to the President  that has no input from the House, especially a bill this impactful to  our national security.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to oppose the bill.