Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693734/anti-cbdc-surveillance-state-act


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.  Hill) for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Anti-CBDC Surveillance  Act. I thank Whip Emmer for his leadership on this issue. He was  actually one of the first in Congress to raise the alarm. Since then,  the case has only grown stronger about the risks posed by U.S. CBDC.

Mr. Speaker, the global economy is at a crossroads when it comes to  digital payments. Jurisdictions around the world are upgrading their  payment systems to be faster, to be cheaper, and cross-border. The  private sector is leading the way, including payment stablecoins to  enhance the payment rails.

As the United States grapples with modernizing our own payment  systems, we are confronted with a choice. Do we empower free-market  solutions that protect privacy and protect individual liberty, or do we  centralize control over payments in the hands of the Federal  Government?

Mr. Speaker, the choice is clear to me. Federal Reserve Governor  Christopher Waller has repeatedly warned that a CBDC is ``a solution in  search of a problem.'' Nonetheless, Mr. Speaker, in 2022, in his  executive order on Responsible Development of Digital Assets, President  Biden sought to explore a U.S. central bank digital currency placing  ``the highest urgency on research and development efforts into the  potential design and development options of a United States CBDC.''

President Trump understands a CBDC's threat to our American freedoms.

In his January 2025 executive order, President Trump explicitly  prohibited any Federal agency from issuing or advancing a CBDC without  direct congressional authorization.

In a free society, Mr. Speaker, financial privacy and private  property rights must be protected. The American economy thrives on  choice, competition, and liberty, not on coercion and control.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to support this bill, preserving  liberty, protecting privacy, and ensuring the United States of America  is a global leader in financial innovation.