Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693840/guiding-and-establishing-national-innovation-for-us-stablecoins-act


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the GENIUS Act. The  legislation brings clarity, consumer protections, and American  leadership to the evolving world of payment stablecoins.

Stablecoin legislation has been in the works for over 4 years and has  been called for by Democratic and Republican administrations. The  status quo fails to protect consumers from fraud. That is an untenable  situation in a market growing by the billions.

For too long, the United States has operated without a clear Federal  framework for dollar-backed payment stablecoins, leaving consumers  vulnerable to fraud, innovators in limbo, and our global  competitiveness at risk.

That is why I am proud to have introduced stablecoin legislation in  the House and worked alongside my colleagues in the Senate to make the  legislation reaching the President's desk as strong as possible. That  is why I am urging a ``yes'' vote on the GENIUS Act.

The bipartisan, bicameral legislation creates a robust framework for  payment stablecoin issuance in the United States. It encourages the  innovation and development of Web3 businesses here in the United  States. It establishes clear rules to ensure that consumers are  protected and businesses have clear regulations to responsibly  participate in the digital asset ecosystem.

By requiring issuers to maintain a one-to-one reserve in cash and  high-quality liquid assets like U.S. Treasuries, consumers know what  they are getting and are protected.

GENIUS has strong anti-money laundering, operational risk, and  governance standards in place to prevent abuse, reinforce market  integrity, and create an even playing field with other financial  institutions.

By passing the GENIUS Act in the House and sending it to the  President's desk, Congress will be sending a clear message: The United  States will dominate the future of financial innovation. We will  protect consumers, support innovation, and defend the central role of  the U.S. dollar in global commerce.

With this bill, we are not just responding to a moment. We are  building a foundation for the future of finance in the Web3 world.

Payment stablecoin legislation is critical to this foundation. If we  want to become the digital asset hub of the world, we must enact a  comprehensive  framework for the digital asset ecosystem.

I urge my colleagues to support both the GENIUS Act and the CLARITY  Act and send a message that America leads in financial innovation and  does so with integrity, strength, and a firm commitment to protecting  the people we serve.