Mandatory Completion of Program of Training in Workplace Rights and Responsibilities


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692190/mandatory-completion-of-program-of-training-in-workplace-rights-and-responsibilities


Mr. STEIL.   Res. 480, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the resolution.

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Taylor.) Is there objection to the  request of the gentleman from Wisconsin?

The text of the resolution is as follows:                                H. Res. 480

Resolved,       SECTION 1. MANDATORY COMPLETION OF PROGRAM OF TRAINING IN                     WORKPLACE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

(a) Requiring Training for All Members, Officers, and       Employees.--

(1) Requirement.--Not later than 30 days after the date of       the adoption of this resolution, the Committee on House       Administration shall issue regulations to provide that,       during each session of each Congress, each Member (including       each Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress),       officer, and employee of the House of Representatives shall       complete a program of training in the workplace rights and       responsibilities applicable to offices and employees of the       House under part A of title II of the Congressional       Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.), including       anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training.

(2) Inclusion of interns, fellows, and detailees.--For       purposes of this resolution, an individual serving in an       office of the House of Representatives as an intern       (including an unpaid intern), a participant in a fellowship       program, or a detailee from another office of the Federal       Government shall be considered an employee of the House.

(3) Exception for participants in new member orientation       programs.--If an individual completed a program of training       required under paragraph (1) during the new       Member orientation program administered by the Committee on       House Administration prior to the beginning of a Congress,       the individual is not required to complete the program during       the first session of the Congress.

(b) Deadline.--

(1) In general.--Under the regulations issued by the       Committee on House Administration under subsection (a), an       individual shall complete the program of training required       under subsection (a) and file a certificate of completion of       such training not later than--

(A) in the case of an individual who is serving as a       Member, officer, or employee of the House as of the date on       which the Committee first certifies that the program is in       operation for the session, not later than 90 days after such       date; or

(B) in the case of any other individual, not later than 90       days after the individual first becomes a Member, officer, or       employee of the House.

(2) Alternative deadlines.--The Committee on House       Administration may include in the regulations issued under       subsection (a)--

(A) an alternative deadline for individuals serving as       interns and participants in fellowship programs to take into       account the duration of their service; and

(B) an alternative deadline for individuals who first       become Members, officers, or employees of the House towards       the end of a session of Congress to take into account the       amount of time remaining in the session.

(3) Special rule for first session of one hundred       nineteenth congress.--In the case of the first session of the       One Hundred Nineteenth Congress, an individual described in       subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) shall complete the program       required under subsection (a) not later than 90 days after       the date of the adoption of this resolution.

(c) Additional Mechanisms.--The Committee on House       Administration shall consider additional mechanisms to ensure       compliance with the training requirement under subsection       (a).

The resolution was agreed to.

A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.