Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692319/prohibiting-voting-by-noncitizens-in-district-of-columbia-elections


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his good work, and I  thank my colleague, August Pfluger, for bringing forward today's  legislation.

U.S. elections should be for U.S. citizens only. It is a simple  premise. When I began my work on trying to stop noncitizens from voting  in the United States, I was often told by people that they didn't  believe that this was actually the case. That is how radical of a  provision that exists in Washington, D.C., law.

Let's set the stage for folks listening today. Let's set the stage to  understand how radical this provision is in Washington, D.C.

To be eligible to vote in municipal elections in our Nation's  Capital, an individual only has to reside in Washington, D.C., for 30  days. Let's walk through that.

An individual who works at the Russian Embassy holding a Russian  passport in their pocket, residing in the United States Capital of  Washington, D.C., for simply 30 days, could walk out of the embassy,  walk to a polling location and, because Washington, D.C., does not even  have photo ID, would not need to pull their Russian passport out of  their pocket and would be eligible to vote for Mayor in our Nation's  Capital.

What the Democrats want to do, Mr. Speaker, is use Washington, D.C.,  as a petri dish for liberalizing voting laws across the country. What  my Democratic friends want to do, Mr. Speaker, is allow noncitizens to  vote across the country.

The arguments that are being made fail on the merits when you  recognize that, in fact, the law, Mr. Speaker, today, allows  noncitizens who simply resided in the Nation's Capital for 30 days to  be eligible to vote. Again, individuals working at embassies across  this city are eligible to vote for positions like Mayor and alderman.  That is the height of hypocrisy. We need to make sure that U.S.  elections are for U.S. citizens only.

In our Nation's Capital, we should be looking at a whole host of  election law reforms. In fact, I am of the belief that we should make  Washington, D.C., the gold standard of election laws to actually show  the American people what happens when we put in place provisions with  strong election integrity.

My colleague across the aisle referenced legislation that Republicans  are working for. Let's take an example, and let's dig into that for a  moment.

Let's look at the election integrity law that was passed in the State  of Georgia. This, if we recall, in 2021 was a law that then-President  Joe Biden called Jim Crow 2.0. In fact, the stories that were told  about that legislation earned him, I think, four Pinocchios, or  whatever they call that in The Washington Post. This is how ridiculous  it was.

Corporate America bought into the misstatements and the falsities of  President Biden. If we recall, Major League Baseball removed the All- Star Game out of Atlanta, Georgia, following Georgia passing this piece  of legislation.

Of course, two elections have passed since that legislation went into  effect. So we should look at the empirical data, not at the statements  that were made, the hyperbolic statements that were made by my  colleagues on the left. We should look at the empirical data of what  took place when those reforms were implemented.

What we saw was people increasing their confidence in our elections.  That  is a good thing. That is a good thing. In the University of Georgia,  Georgia State put forward a robust survey of how elections were  conducted in the State of Georgia. What I saw was high voter  participation and people actually having a positive view of how  election results were conducted.

If I recall correctly, it was zero percent statistically of Blacks  who had a poor or negative voting experience. We should champion that.  We should work to instill election integrity provisions across the  board. When people increase their confidence in our elections, then  they are more likely to participate. Mr. Speaker, that is a good thing.  What we want is U.S. citizens participating in our elections.

However, what we see from my colleagues on the left is a whole host  of policies that actually weaken election integrity. We have held  debates as it relates to photo identification, again, another provision  that should be in Washington, D.C., law.

Photo identification is almost the touchstone of what election  integrity is. It is making sure people are who they say they are. It is  a simple provision.

I am often reminded of a time when I was driving back home in  Wisconsin. I was heading back home, and I walked in to buy a six-pack  of beer. The clerk recognized me and said: Hey, Bryan, how are you  doing?

I said: Good. It is good to see you.

I set my six-pack of beer on the counter, and she said: Bryan, I need  to see your ID.

So just like every American, what did I do?

I reached in, I grabbed my wallet, I pulled out my ID, and I handed  it over to the clerk.

In my opinion, I think it is absolutely nuts that we protect our beer  more than we protect our ballots in our Nation's Capital. We should be  looking at ways to strengthen election integrity here in our Nation's  Capital, the front door for many folks to the greatest country in the  world.

Instead of fighting back and saying: Yes, in our Nation's Capital, as  the Democrats will say, we should allow noncitizens to be voting in our  Nation's elections. We should actually be saying: No. Let's use  Washington, D.C., as the gold standard of election integrity.

What I believe we will see is exactly what we saw in Georgia. Despite  the hyperbolic statements being made by past-President Joe Biden and by  my colleagues on the left, what we will actually see is an increase in  confidence in our elections. We will see growing participation. We will  see a strengthening of our democracy.

It is why this legislation is such an important step forward in the  process of strengthening the integrity of our elections, increasing  Americans' confidence, and garnering additional voter participation  across the country.

I think it is relevant to also note that last Congress this bill came  before us, and 52 of our Democratic colleagues voted with every  Republican in the House. It will be interesting today, Mr. Speaker, to  see how many of my colleagues across the aisle have the courage to  stand up and to say that U.S. elections should be for U.S. citizens  only.

The big difference here is now we have an opportunity to see this  legislation move forward in the United States Senate. This is a bill  that could actually be signed into law. We have an opportunity for the  first time in a number of years to not only pass election integrity  legislation here in the United States House of Representatives, we have  an opportunity to pass election integrity legislation into law.

Let me tell you, Mr. Speaker, I am excited about the opportunity to  stand there when President Trump signs this bill into law. This is an  opportunity for a major step forward in election integrity here in our  Nation's Capital. It is also a statement across the country because I  believe the radical Democrats want to use Washington, D.C., voting laws  as a petri dish to roll out their plan across the country.

My colleagues on the radical left would like to see noncitizens  voting in my home State of Wisconsin; in small communities and big  communities all across this country to drive forward and assist them in  advancing a radical agenda.

It is why making sure that we pass this law today is so important: to  make sure that we are standing up for common sense; to make sure that  we are standing up for election integrity; to make sure that only U.S.  citizens have a voice in U.S. elections.

This legislation should be straightforward. To my colleagues on the  left, I am afraid it won't be.

I am proud to know that I believe every Republican who votes today  will vote ``yes'' on this important measure. That is because it is the  Republican Party, my colleagues with common sense who believe that we  need election integrity in our Nation's Capital. More importantly, we  need election integrity across the country.

As we begin this effort, I think we have an opportunity as Americans  to see increased confidence in our elections. Once again, when we  increase confidence, we increase participation.

Our principles should be U.S. elections are for U.S. citizens only.  This legislation does that.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote ``yes.''

Mr. STEIL. Will the gentleman yield?

Mr. STEIL. It was signed into law. It was signed into law in the  State of Georgia by the Governor of the State of Georgia.

Mr. STEIL. Will the gentleman yield?

Mr. STEIL. I assume the assembly and senate of the State of Georgia  prior to signature by the Governor of the State.