Recognizing Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives Who Have Reached 25 Years of Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698362/recognizing-employees-of-the-us-house-of-representatives-who-have-reached-25-years-of-service


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, Ranking Member Joseph D. Morelle and I wish  to recognize a special group of dedicated and exceptional employees of  the Office of the Clerk, Office of the Sergeant at Arms, Office of  Inspector General, and the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer  of the U.S. House of Representatives who have reached the milestone of  25 years of service.

The House's most important asset is its remarkable and steadfast  employees, whose work is essential to keeping its operations running  efficiently and effectively. The employees we acknowledge today are  distinguished by their hard work, dedication, and professionalism in  support of House Members, their staff, and constituents, as well as for  their daily contributions to the overall operations of the House. These  employees, whose work is often performed behind the scenes, have a  diverse range of responsibilities and skills. They support the  legislative process, ensure the security of this great institution,  maintain our technology and service infrastructure, and contribute to a  more efficient and productive House. The outstanding contributions and  accomplishments of these devoted employees during their years of  service, have benefited the U.S. House of Representatives, its Members,  staff, and the American public.

We recognize and honor the individuals named below for 25 years of  loyal service to the House. Collectively, the employees listed below  represent 675 years of service and include their names in the Record:

Office of the Clerk: Carla Benson, Ora Branch, Philisha       Lane, Bennetta McDuffie, Jenelle Pulis Kenneth Rosen

Office of the Sergeant at Arms: Wendy Benson, Christopher       Brown, LaKeisha Commodore, Christopher Fischer, Lynn Hershey,       John Looney, Robin Pegues, Diana Rodriguez

Office of Inspector General: Julie Poole

Office of the CAO: Marcus Suydam, Shawn Sessoms, Steve       Hunter, Brandon Braxton, Andreal Little, Myrtle Norma, Carol       Swan, Richardo Underwood, Lisa Butler, George Vallandingham,       Alfonzo Wallace, Jamie Harvey

On behalf of the entire House community, I want to once again  congratulate, acknowledge, and thank these employees for their  professionalism and commitment to the U.S. House of Representatives as  a whole, and to the Clerk, the Sergeant at Arms, the Chief  Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General. Their long hours,  hard work, diverse skills, and team spirit are invaluable, and their  years of unwavering service and dedication set an example for their  colleagues and raise the bar for those who will follow in their  footsteps. I applaud all our honorees, and I am proud to stand before  you and our great Nation on their behalf to recognize the importance of  their public service.