Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 294, I call up  the bill (H.R. 22) to amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993  to require proof of United States citizenship to register an individual  to vote in elections for Federal office, and for other purposes, and  ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Safeguard American Voter  Eligibility Act, known as the SAVE Act, introduced by my colleague,  Chip Roy of Texas.

As chairman of the Committee on House Administration, I have been  focused on improving election integrity and increasing confidence in  our elections.

Let me be clear: Noncitizen voting reduces confidence in our  elections. American elections are for American citizens, and we intend  to keep it that way.

The SAVE Act will strengthen our elections administration and restore  Americans' confidence in our elections. The SAVE Act contains critical  reforms to update the National Voter Registration Act which currently  requires States to give registration forms to everyone who receives a  driver's license, regardless of citizenship.

The bill before us will help States prevent noncitizens from voting  in Federal elections by requiring States to obtain documentary proof of  U.S. citizenship in person when registering an individual to vote in  Federal elections.

Mr. Speaker, you are sure to hear from my colleagues on the other  side that noncitizen voting doesn't exist or that it rarely happens so  we don't need to do anything about it. It couldn't be further from the  truth.

However, let's look back 2 months ago. The secretaries of state that  I had conversations with shared with me their difficulties that they  are experiencing in administering the most recent election. Two of  their top concerns were about integrity of voter rolls and noncitizen  voting.

In a most recent election, we just saw 13 individuals referred by the  Michigan Secretary of State to the attorney general for noncitizen  voting in the State of Michigan. In the House of Representatives where  we often see close elections, we have one Member here who won her  election by simply six votes.

It is clear we must pass the SAVE Act and prevent noncitizen voting.

There have also been many other examples of noncitizens voting or  being  on States' voter rolls. Just a few years ago, Illinois removed almost  600 noncitizens from its voter rolls. In Pennsylvania almost 10,000  noncitizens were removed from their voter rolls. In Georgia an audit  recently determined that more than 1,600 noncitizens had attempted to  register to vote.

Every State also needs access to the tools necessary to remove  noncitizens from their voter rolls. Right now States don't have free  access to the Federal data that tracks citizenship status.

Another crucial element of the SAVE Act will provide States with  cost-free access to existing Federal and State databases so they can  perform this important voter list maintenance.

In recent years we have seen an increasing number of jurisdictions  across the country allowing noncitizens to vote in municipal elections.  Right here in our Nation's Capital, noncitizens are eligible to vote in  these municipal elections. In Washington, D.C., a noncitizen only has  to reside in the District for 30 days in order to register to vote.

Mr. Speaker, 388 noncitizens cast ballots here in our Nation's  Capital in Washington, D.C., in the most recent election.

By passing the SAVE Act we can ensure that only eligible Americans  are registering to vote.

Additionally, the SAVE Act is aligned with President Trump's recent  executive order, Preserving and Protecting the Integrity of Elections,  which will help restore trust in American elections, enhance our  election administration, and make our elections secure.

This legislation is just one step that we can take to ensure  President Trump's executive order could not be undone. Americans  deserve to have confidence in our elections. We must pass the SAVE Act  to prevent noncitizen voting and secure our elections.

Mr. STEIL.  Lee), the chair of the Subcommittee on Elections and the  former Florida secretary of state.

Mr. STEIL.  Boebert).

Mr. Speaker, I am hearing from the other side that it is already  illegal for noncitizens to vote. That is true. It is also illegal to  evade Border Patrol and cross the border illegally into the United  States of America, but enforcement matters.

We can look at what happens when you don't enforce the law under the  Biden administration and what happens when you do enforce the law under  the Trump administration.

I think back to when I went home to my hometown in Janesville,  Wisconsin, the other day and I went to buy a six-pack of beer. I walked  in and the gentlewoman at the desk said: Bryan, good to see you. I went  back, grabbed a six-pack of beer, came up, and she said: Bryan, I need  to see your ID. I pulled out my ID and handed it to her. She reviewed  it. She allowed me to purchase a six-pack of beer.

Am I the only one here that thinks it is absolutely absurd that we  protect our beer more than we protect our ballots? This law allows us  to make sure that only U.S. citizens are voting in U.S. elections. Mr.  Speaker, it is about enforcement of the law. I ask my colleagues across  the aisle: How many noncitizen votes should be okay?

The answer to me and my colleagues on this side of the aisle is zero  because every noncitizen that votes in a Federal election in the United  States of America cancels out the vote of a U.S. citizen. As we know in  this Chamber, very often House races are close. One of our  Representatives in this Chamber was elected by simply six votes. One  noncitizen voting in a Federal election in the United States is too  many, and the arguments I am hearing from my colleagues on the left is  that they are okay with noncitizens voting.

It is essential that not only do we have the law but that we enforce  the law, and the SAVE Act does just that.

This is my good friend, Chip Roy, from the State of Texas, the author  of the bill, who I have been working with to do just that.

Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is  remaining.

The SAVE Act is clear. Only U.S. citizens should vote in U.S.  elections.

Let's summarize the arguments here. My colleagues on this side of the  aisle believe that only U.S. citizens should vote in U.S. elections,  and we should keep it that way.

My colleagues on the other side of the aisle just moments ago said  that there is no appreciable illegal voting. Well, how much illegal  voting should be allowed in the United States of America? In my  opinion, no noncitizens should vote in U.S. elections.

We can go down and look at the data. Illinois had to remove 600  noncitizens from their voter rolls. Pennsylvania had to remove 10,000  noncitizens from their voter rolls. In Georgia, 1,600 noncitizens  attempted to register. In our Nation's Capital, where they allow  noncitizens to vote in municipal elections, this past November, 388  noncitizens voted here in our Nation's Capital in municipal elections.

You will hear the argument from my colleagues across the aisle that  it is already illegal to vote if you are a noncitizen in a Federal  election. I tell them, as I said earlier, it is already illegal to  evade Border Patrol and to come into this country, but Joe Biden was  happy not to enforce the law. Millions of illegal immigrants have come  into the United States of America.

The National Voter Registration Act, as drafted by this body, if you  broke it, you have to fix it. We have to fix the voting laws.

The National Voter Registration Act requires States to give voter  registration materials when an individual comes to get a driver's  license. In States that give driver's licenses to illegal aliens, like  the State of Illinois, just to the south of my home State of Wisconsin,  they are handed voter registration materials.

Mr. Speaker, I view that as insane. We should be making sure that  only U.S. citizens are voting in U.S. elections. You will hear  arguments about it is burdensome.

Mr. Speaker, I think it is absurd that we are protecting beer more  than we are protecting ballots. You have to show a photo ID when you go  in to buy a six-pack of beer. You should have to go in and show that  you are a U.S. citizen when you register to vote. It is just that  simple.

I remind my colleagues that we had this debate in this Chamber last  Congress. Five Democrats joined us in voting for this bill. In a few  moments, we will be voting, Mr. Speaker. It will be darn interesting to  see how many Democrats have the courage to come across the line and say  ``yes'' to only U.S. citizens should vote in U.S. elections. My  colleagues should support this bill.