Semiquincentennial Congressional Time Capsule Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688200/semiquincentennial-congressional-time-capsule-act


Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 469) to provide for the creation of a Congressional time  capsule in commemoration of the semiquincentennial of the United  States, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 469

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Semiquincentennial       Congressional Time Capsule Act''.       SEC. 2. SEMIQUINCENTENNIAL CONGRESSIONAL TIME CAPSULE.

(a) Creation by Architect of the Capitol.--The Architect of       the Capitol shall create a Congressional time capsule, to be       known as the ``Semiquincentennial Congressional Time       Capsule'' (in this Act referred to as the ``Time Capsule'').

(b) Contents.--

(1) Determination by congressional leadership.--The Office       of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Office of the       Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Office of       the Majority Leader of the Senate, and Office of the Minority       Leader of the Senate shall jointly determine the contents of       the Time Capsule, taking into account the requirements of       paragraph (2).

(2) Specifications.--The contents of the Time Capsule shall       include--

(A) a representative portion of all books, manuscripts,       miscellaneous printed matter,       memorabilia, relics, and other materials relating to the       United States Semiquincentennial;

(B) copies or representations of important legislative and       institutional milestones of Congress during the time before       the Time Capsule is buried;

(C) a message from Congress to the future Congress when the       Time Capsule will be opened; and

(D) such other content as the offices described in       paragraph (1) consider appropriate.

(3) Consultation.--In carrying out this subsection, the       offices described in paragraph (1) may consult with the       Architect of the Capitol, the Secretary of the Smithsonian       Institution, and such other entities of the Federal       Government as the offices consider appropriate.

(c) Duties of Architect.--The Architect of the Capitol       shall--

(1) prepare the Time Capsule to be sealed and buried on the       West Lawn of the Capitol, at a location specified by the       Architect, on or before July 4th, 2026, at a time which would       permit individuals attending this event to also attend the       burial of a time capsule in Independence Mall in       Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, under section 7(f)(1) of the       United States Semiquincentennial Commission Act of 2016 (36       U.S.C. 101 note prec.); and

(2) install a plaque to provide such information about the       Time Capsule as the Architect considers appropriate.

(d) Unsealing.--The Time Capsule shall be sealed until July       4th, 2276, on which date the Speaker of the House of       Representatives shall present the Time Capsule to the 244th       Congress, and such Congress shall determine how the contents       within should be preserved or used.

Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, today, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 469, the  Semiquincentennial Congressional Time Capsule Act.

This nonpartisan legislation would authorize a time capsule to be  buried on the Capitol Grounds to mark the Nation's semiquincentennial.  America is turning 250 on July 4, 2026. This time capsule represents  one way that Congress will participate in the Nation's yearlong  celebration of democracy and freedom.

Amongst our toughest challenges of the day, this legislation reminds  us that we can all work together. The contents of the capsule will be  selected by the Speaker of the House, House minority leader, and the  majority and minority leaders in the United States Senate. Maybe we can  even ask Speaker Johnson to include a pair of his glasses.

The capsule will remain sealed until July 2, 2276, the Nation's 500th  anniversary.

The gentlewoman from New Jersey (Mrs. Watson Coleman) introduced H.R.  469 as a Member of the United States Semiquincentennial Commission with  an additional 54 cosponsors.

The Architect of the Capitol provided technical input to the  Commission and will work with the congressional leadership to implement  the capsule.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to have worked with Ranking Member Morelle  on these efforts. I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of H.R.

Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York (Mr. Morelle), the  ranking member on the Committee on House Administration, for his work.

The gentleman correctly noted that we are in challenging times as we  face difficult national issues. As we reflect back in 2 years, we will  have a celebration of 250 years of the greatest country in the world.

This time capsule, when viewed 250 years from now in 2276, may it be  a reflection that, at the midpoint then, which will be today, we  navigated these challenges that we faced with great courage and great  vigor.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate my colleague's work and support on both  pieces of legislation today, and I encourage my colleagues to vote in  favor of H.R. 469.