Thanking Derek Harley for His Service to the House


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I kindly ask my colleagues to join me in  recognizing Derek N. Harley for his 25 years of service in the U.S.  House of Representatives.

Derek began his career on Capitol Hill as a Legislative Assistant  with Representative Walley Herger of California, later serving as his  Legislative Director and then his Chief of Staff. Following Congressman  Herger's retirement, Derek served as Chief of Staff to Representative  Brad Wenstrup of Ohio. As Chief, Derek was known for prioritizing  first-in-class constituent services, a focus he has maintained  throughout his career in the House.

After a short time off the Hill, Derek returned to the House as the  Republican Staff Director of the Select Committee on the Modernization  of Congress. In this position, he saw an opportunity to strengthen  Congress's Article I obligations and create positive and lasting  institutional change. The Select Committee had what Derek called  ``squeaky wheel authority'' to call attention to longstanding problems  and challenges for the House, and he used that authority to  relentlessly pursue solutions. His insistence on working with House  partners and colleagues across-the-aisle to forge change and strengthen  this institution for the better will benefit generations of Members and  staff to come. We can all learn a lot from his example.

At the start of the 118th Congress, the Committee on House  Administration turned to Derek to Lead the newly constituted  Subcommittee on Modernization. Quite frankly, there was no one better  suited for this position than Derek. His institutional expertise, his  proven leadership skills, and his unwavering dedication to the House  and the people it serves made him the obvious--and only--choice to  serve as the Subcommittee's inaugural Staff Director. Under the  leadership of Subcommittee Chairwoman Stephanie Bice of Oklahoma, Derek  worked to create new, and much-needed, collaborative workspaces for  staff across the House Office Buildings, improve ADA access to the  House and the Capitol, streamline the transfer of constituent casework  to incoming members of Congress, provide House committees with access  to industry-standard e-Discovery software, institute positive change at  the Congressional Research Service, and provide more opportunities for  Members to engage with their constituents. These are just a few  examples of the many contributions Derek has made to this institution.

At the start of the 119th Congress, Derek joined Speaker Mike  Johnson's team as Director of House Operations, where he's worked hand- in-glove with my team on House Administration to meet critical campus  needs, formalize longstanding policies for House offices, and think  strategically about the House's future physical space needs. Derek has  always remained open to ideas and solutions and is committed to finding  the best path forward for the institution in service to its Members,  staff, and the taxpayer.

I am fortunate to have worked with Derek and know he will be missed  by many House Members and staff. Derek has been a consummate steward of  the institution and a willing partner to everyone who wants the House  to work well for the American people. He has already had a lasting and  positive impact on the institution and, through his example, has  inspired others to continue this work.

On behalf of my colleagues and staff on the Committee on House  Administration, I wish Derek Harley all the best as he begins his new  role as the Chief Executive Officer of the Congressional Institute. I  thank him for his service to the United States House of  Representatives.