Thanking Noah Wofsy for His Service to the U.S. House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696434/thanking-noah-wofsy-for-his-service-to-the-us-house-of-representatives


Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Ranking Member Morelle and  myself, I kindly ask my colleagues to join me in recognizing Noah Wofsy  on his retirement as Deputy Legislative Counsel after 39 years of  service to the House of Representatives. Noah joined the House Office  of Legislative Counsel in 1986 after  earning his J.D. from the University of Southern California. I have had  the good fortune of working with Noah in his capacity supporting the  Committee on House Administration and the Subcommittee on Modernization  and Innovation.

Noah has served as the Deputy House Legislative Counsel since 2018,  helping lead the office and manage a committed team of experts to  provide the House with impartial and confidential drafting and  counseling services for bills, amendments, resolutions, and laws.

Throughout his career in the House of Representatives, Noah has lent  his unmatched expertise to countless Members, committees, and staff  working on a broad array of policy issues. The Select Committee on the  Modernization of Congress relied heavily on Noah's institutional  knowledge and ideas when making recommendations to modernize the  House's outdated processes and technologies for legislative drafting.  He was also instrumental in leading the effort last Congress to  modernize leadership roles and succession planning in the Office of the  Legislative Counsel. While Noah's service over the years has benefited  the House in many ways, his dedication to teaching staff the art of  legislative drafting has left an indelible and lasting mark on this  institution. Teaching is a talent that Noah exemplifies as thousands of  current and former House staffers will attest.

While Noah has been recognized by friends and colleagues for his  steadfast commitment to public service and his expertise in the  legislative drafting process, it is his unparalleled sense of humor  that truly sets him apart. Over the course of his nearly four decades  of service, the House saw a lot of change. Noah's ability to constantly  adapt and consistently excel--all while maintaining his sense of  humor--is a bold testament to his dedication to the House of  Representatives and the people it serves. I wish Noah the best for his  well-earned retirement.

On behalf of my colleagues and the entire House community, I thank  him for his leadership and longstanding commitment to serving the  People's House.