National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I recently returned from an official  trip to the Indo-Pacific, where I visited U.S. military installations  in Hawaii and Guam and met with leaders in Palau, the Philippines, and  Taiwan. That trip underscored a simple reality: We are living in a time  of global unrest, and maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific is vital  to the security of both the United States and our partners.

On the final leg of the trip, I met with Taiwanese officials and saw  firsthand how we can strengthen U.S. posture and deepen collaboration  in the region. I was also struck by the warmth, hospitality, and the  resilience of the Taiwanese people.

For decades, our partnership with Taiwan has been anchored in  democracy, in freedom, and in economic opportunity. Today, it is  equally defined by innovation and resilience. A stronger Taiwan means a  stronger United States and vice versa. That is why both our Nations  must continue working deliberately and decisively to deepen  cooperation. The payoff is clear: greater prosperity for our people and  greater stability for the world.

Taiwan has made remarkable progress in bolstering its self-defense in  recent years. We should seize every opportunity to build on that  momentum. At the same time, we must recognize the challenge before us.

The Chinese Communist Party continues to threaten, pressure, and  attempt to isolate Taiwan. These actions are unacceptable. The people  of Taiwan have earned their place as a respected and indispensable part  of the global economy.

Here in the Senate, we understand the gravity of the challenge. The  world is more dangerous today than at any point since World War II, and  this moment--this moment--demands seriousness and resolve. Taiwan is  the test case for U.S. credibility in upholding a free and open rules- based order. If Taiwan were to fall under coercion, the consequences  would reverberate far beyond the Taiwan Strait, shaking the  confidence of our allies and emboldening adversaries worldwide.

That is why integrated deterrence is essential. The world is safer  when America leads. And it is not just Taiwan that feels pressure from  China; the Philippines, one of America's treaty allies, is locked in a  contentious territorial dispute with China. Beijing wrongly claims  islands and shoals that have been internationally recognized as  belonging to the Philippines. Yet Manila is standing its ground with  remarkable courage despite relentless Chinese pressure, and that  deserves our deepest commendation.

Our alliance with the Philippines is rooted in shared sacrifice.  During World War II, U.S. and Filipino prisoners of war endured the  horrors of the Bataan Death March, and, together, we fought to liberate  the islands from Japanese occupation.

General MacArthur's famous return symbolized the unbreakable bond  between our peoples. That history of fighting shoulder to shoulder  lives on today in our mutual defense treaty, in Exercise Balikatan, the  largest annual exercise that we conduct together. ``Balikatan'' means  shoulder to shoulder, and that is exactly how we continue to stand.

Just as the Philippines is a vital ally, so, too, is Palau, a  uniquely valued partner. As a Compact of Free Association state, our  relationship with Palau goes beyond a traditional alliance. It is both  economic and military. Palauan citizens can live, work, and study in  the United States, while U.S. forces have access to Palauan territory  under the ironclad guarantee of American defense. That partnership, it  is strengthened by the fact that Palau has continued to maintain  diplomatic ties with Taiwan, even under enormous pressure from Beijing.

Palau is a small nation by land mass and by population, but its  exclusive economic zone is vast, and its courage to stand up to one of  the world's largest bullies should not be underestimated.

And Palau is breathtakingly beautiful, truly one of the most stunning  places on Earth. When President Whipps visited Washington, he gave me a  book filled with page after page of Palau's incredible landscapes. But  beneath that beauty, lies real strategic importance. Palau reminds us  that size is not what determines strength; conviction is.

Guam, home to over 150,000 U.S. citizens, is central to our Indo- Pacific posture. Together, with partners like the Philippines, Palau,  and Taiwan, we are building a network of deterrence--deterrence that  keeps the peace and safeguards freedoms.

It is clear that Taiwan's defense is not Taiwan's problem alone. Any  conflict in the region would have devastating, worldwide consequences.  It would likely halt Taiwan's advanced semiconductor production, which  our electronics, automotive, and healthcare industries rely on.  Economically, a conflict would disrupt global trade routes, potentially  triggering a global financial crisis. And it would escalate regional  military tensions, risk broader conflict, and cyber attacks.

A strong American presence in the region lowers the odds of conflict  and reassures our allies that they will never face these threats in  isolation.

All of this is why we need wise investment from both Washington and  Taipei. It requires strengthening our deterrence networks and ensuring  that our forces are ready for the threats of tomorrow.

I am proud that the Senate Armed Services Committee has made this a  top priority and that the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal  Year 2026 reflects that commitment.

I look forward to voting for this must-pass legislation on the Senate  floor and to vote on it very soon.

That partnership between the United States and Taiwan is built on  shared values and common purpose. It advances the security, prosperity,  and freedom of our peoples. If we continue to invest in deterrence, I  am confident that partnership will endure for generations.