Constitutional Crisis


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I keep hearing the term  ``constitutional crisis'' over and over again. Candidly, the only  constitutional crisis that has taken place over the last 4 years was  the last administration abandoning their responsibility to defend our  border and allowing over 10 million people to enter this country  illegally, cutting in line over people who want to come here legally  and add to the American Dream.

We don't know who these 10 million people are, where they came from,  or if they could be a danger to our community and country. On top of  that, they put a strain on our social welfare system, schools,  hospitals, and law enforcement, taking away resources from the tax- paying citizens in areas not just on the border but around the country.

When food, gas, and rent prices were going up by 20 and 30 percent,  if not more, over that time period, the very people who were breaking  the law were actually getting free things, whether it be rent, phones,  cash cards, and other things that Americans were struggling to pay for  every single day.

Cleaning up this mess has become our responsibility, the new  majority, the new administration that has committed itself to actually  keeping the promises from the campaign trail in 2024. Instead of  bending over backward to help people who are breaking the law, they  want to look at it and say: How about those folks that were left  behind?

They were facing a constitutional crisis in the sense that their own  government was not enforcing the laws of this land.

As the new administration is moving forward to deport gang members,  wife-beaters, and others, the real constitutional crisis is finally  being defined, that America should finally stand up for the citizens  who make this country great and allow people to enter this country in a  legal way so they can contribute to the American Dream.

I am so proud of this administration for keeping those campaign  promises and working swiftly and in a smart way to deport those folks  who broke the law, not just coming to this country but once here in  this country.

For a change, I think a lot of people are finally saying that the  government is working for them instead of against them. Let's send a  clear message that law and order mean something, the Constitution means  something, and we can finally end this constitutional crisis.

I applaud the President for moving forward and allowing the American  people to stand up. Let's just look at it candidly: When you are  standing up exclusively for judges, you are not having a checks-and- balances system. You are putting one single judge above the American  public's popular vote, let alone the electoral college.

I am so glad that this House said that we are going to move forward  in a thoughtful way and not allow, again, one single judge, who is not  elected by the people, to decide the policies of this government.

I thank the President for his leadership. We stand with him in making  sure that the rule of law is finally followed, ending the  constitutional crisis that existed for the last 4 years.