President Trump's Delivery on His Promises


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to be here with you this  morning to talk about the good news. Every day, I hear in so many  newscasts that somehow the sky is falling. Let's get to the facts about  what is actually happening in our economy and, most importantly, how  America is moving in the right direction.

Gas prices are down. Inflation, despite all the worry of the last  month, was held in check. Food prices are down. The border is secure.  Enlistments are up. Respect is back around the world.

Look at the scenes we are seeing overseas and the respect the United  States enjoys once again. Peace is on the horizon, both in Ukraine and,  of course, now that we have negotiated a deal with India and Pakistan.

This is about promises kept and about leadership met. That is why I  am so excited to see America back again.

When we look at a lot of these things, one of the things that is so  refreshing, that so many people tell me about back at home, is that the  President of the United States is finally talking directly to the  American public. He actually talks to the press. He takes questions. He  illuminates what he is working on and why he is pushing different  policies.

This is what is called open government. For the last 4 years, we have  seen behind-the-scenes maneuvering. Now, we see open government and not  just in talk but in action.

I know there has been some criticism of DOGE, and nothing is ever  perfect. Let's be candid here. Mr. Speaker, it is your money. You  deserve to know where every single dollar is spent. That is all DOGE is  doing, in addition to making recommendations on how we can actually  save money.

In case everyone hasn't noticed, we are running a deficit of $1  trillion, let alone over $36 trillion in overall debt. When I hear the  other side talk about these different adjustments that might be made,  what solutions have they offered other than higher taxes, that we need  more money? There is plenty of money here in Washington, D.C. Let's  figure out how to spend it in a smarter way.

That is all DOGE is trying to say. One of the smartest people in the  world is literally saying there are some alternatives we might want to  take into consideration on how the real business world works, as  opposed to what happens in Washington, D.C.

That is why a lot of us new folks ran for office. Back at home, we  actually balanced budgets. We are forced to work with a balanced budget  amendment. Here, money just flows. If we dare cut spending in any  possible way, somehow we are seen as heartless. I don't buy that.

For years, they talked about prescription drug changes. Guess what?  The President did it. He didn't talk about it. He acted, and it is such  a refreshing change. Again, he kept promises made on the campaign trail  as opposed to the bait and switch.

Mr. Speaker, this is what American Government should be all about and  why I am proud to work with the President every single day, trying to  figure out how we actually reduce the size  and scope of the government and how we reduce costs so you have more of  your own money in your own pockets. You earned it, after all.

Here is the other refreshing thing. He talked about reducing Social  Security taxes during the campaign. Guess what? If you make under  $75,000, you are going to have a nice tax cut if you are on Social  Security. Let's remember that is on a tax you have already paid.

Second, he talked about the idea of no tax on tips. Again, this is in  the proposal we are putting forth. That is not Elon Musk getting  breaks. That is not some rich billionaire getting a break. These are  everyday, working Americans who make this country operate every single  day.

It is a welcome change to what we saw over the last 4 years, when  they just kind of told people what they were doing behind the scenes  but never actually addressed the public directly on it.

I want to say one last thing. I was here last night. Mr. Speaker, I  had the honor of serving in the chair where you are. For a long time, I  heard a Member from the other side talk about tax cuts for the rich.  Guess what? The tax rate for the rich is staying the same. It is 37  percent now. It is going to be 37 percent when we pass this bill.

That is not a tax cut. Get it straight. They are on the same level.  They are in a situation where they are paying high taxes. Mr. Speaker,  think about 37 percent. Thirty-seven percent of every hour and 37  percent of every dollar you earn goes to the government in that regard.

There is no tax cut for the rich. It is simply keeping the current  tax rate. I wish the other side would recognize that. This is not a tax  cut.

Finally, I will end with this, Mr. Speaker. The issue of China is  very important. As we know, once they joined the WTO many years ago,  they were supposed to play by the rules. We were all supposed to be on  a level playing field. Instead, what they have done is abuse the  privilege of being in the WTO, the World Trade Organization. They steal  our technology. They pollute the world. They still have slave labor  today. It is an unlevel playing field.

What does President Trump do? He put the pressure on them, and they  capitulated right away. We brought down the rates, and we have a more  logical agreement. I think that, with the good work of our Secretary of  the Treasury, we will actually put it in order.

Mr. Speaker, I thank you for the opportunity to address the American  public about what is really going on in our economy.