Providing for Consideration of H.R. Saving Homeowners From Overregulation with Exceptional Rinsing Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Affordable Housing Over Mandating Efficiency Standards Act; and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. HARIDOPOLOS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding  time.

Mr. Speaker, the Affordable HOMES Act is commonsense legislation that  cuts red tape and lowers housing costs for hardworking American  families.

We all recognize between 2021 and 2024 that interest rates went from  3 percent to 7 percent. In my home community, that meant we spent  $1,200 more a month for the average home in my community. We spent  $1,200. We need to think of commonsense ways to turn this around and  make housing more affordable.

President Reagan once said: ``If it moves, tax it. If it keeps  moving, regulate it. If it stops moving, subsidize it.''

Today, Washington has regulated the same thing twice. Manufactured  homes are being hit with overlapping energy mandates from HUD and the  Department of Energy. The Affordable HOMES Act fixes this by repealing  DOE's separate energy rules, restoring clear authority to HUD, which  already oversees construction and safety standards.

Lower costs mean more homes built and greater supply. More families  will be able to build equity and secure their future. This is  conservative policy at its best. It is less government, more  opportunity, and more relief for American families.

Let us also remember that home prices also went up because 10 million  people came into this country in a 4-year time period. The simple law  of supply and demand tells me that causes prices to rise radically,  much like radical policies from 2021 through 2024.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support the Affordable HOMES Act to cut  red tape and help more Americans achieve the dream of homeownership. I  very much thank the chairwoman for leading this charge.