Housing for the 21st Century Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700446/housing-for-the-21st-century-act


Mr. McCORMICK. Mr. President, I thank the distinguished Senator from  Louisiana.

Mr. President, I rise today in support of the ROAD to Housing Act. I  grew up in northeast Pennsylvania, in a town called Bloomsburg,  believing in a simple deal: You work hard, you play by the rules, and  you can build a life in your own home. But that promise--the American  dream--has become increasingly out of reach to families across our  great Commonwealth. There are too few homes to buy and too many aging  homes that families can't afford to maintain.

The numbers tell a clear and disturbing story. Pennsylvania is short  about 100,000 homes today. That is the same number of seats as we see  here in Penn State's Beaver Stadium. Median home prices have hit an  alltime high of $325,000, rent has surged, and more than half our  housing stock in Pennsylvania is over 50 years old, which means greater  repair costs for homeowners already struggling with tight, tight  budgets.

The absence of good, new, affordable housing has locked out young  families. When I was a teenager, the median age of a first-time  homeowner was 29--29 years old. Today, it is 40--40 years old. That is  an entire decade of home ownership and wealth building that has been  lost by a generation.

Now, American families didn't create this problem; Washington did.  Major Federal housing programs had been funded for decades without  serious reform. Some hadn't been updated since the 1960s. The Biden  administration had 4 years to address this crisis, and instead, we got  more bureaucracies, more mandates, and reckless spending that drove  this problem off the cliff.

From the row houses of Philadelphia to the small towns of the  Monongahela Valley, home prices across Pennsylvania have risen more  than 75 percent--75 percent--since 2020. Nationally, the average  monthly mortgage payment is over $1,000 higher than when President  Biden took office.

Just last year, I visited Bedford Dwellings in Pittsburgh's historic  Hill District with HUD Secretary Turner, and we spoke with great  Pennsylvanians who feel that the American dream is increasingly out of  reach. I hear this feedback everywhere I travel across the Commonwealth  of Pennsylvania. This is a big problem, it is an unacceptable problem,  and it is time for a new direction.

President Trump's leadership is lowering housing costs for American  families. He cut redtape in permitting and construction, and he  directed key Agencies to keep Wall Street out of the starter home  market. And he delivered the most significant Federal investment in  affordable housing in decades via the Working Families Tax Cut Act. But  today--today--the Senate has an opportunity to build on this progress,  with serious bipartisan support, by passing the ROAD to Housing Act.

This important bill advances three goals: First, build more. The act  cuts the redtape, lowers costs, and speeds up zoning and permitting.  Second, fix what we have. Grants and forgivable loans are provided to  low-income homeowners for repairs, for helping to  preserve home values, and to help stabilize neighborhoods. Third,  empower communities, not the bureaucrats. Local leaders are empowered  to make decisions that fit their towns. The Federal Government should  be a partner, not a gatekeeper.

Guided by these three principles, the ROAD to Housing Act represents  the most consequential Federal action on housing in a generation. Let  me repeat that: the most consequential Federal action on housing in a  generation. Passing through the Banking Committee with a unanimous 24- to-0 vote--Republicans and Democrats alike--is also proof that the  Senate can address important issues in a bipartisan way.

I am particularly proud of the amendments my friend and colleague  Senator Fetterman and I champion together. They protect Pennsylvania  workers, Pennsylvania veterans, and Pennsylvania homeowners. For  example, I was the lead or colead on six provisions that will help  ensure Pennsylvanians, including our 800,000 veterans, can afford good  homes without the risk of falling through the cracks.

The bill in my provisions also empower Pennsylvania's community  lenders. There is a scene in the iconic movie ``It's a Wonderful Life''  where George Bailey, played by Jimmy Stewart--Jimmy Stewart, by the  way, was a native of my dad's hometown Indiana, PA. In that movie, he  fights to save the Bailey Building & Loan. This was a community lender  in the fictional town of Bedford Falls that knew every borrower by name  and made the mortgages that helped ordinary people own homes. That  model once helped build a wonderful life for generations of Americans,  but we have regulated so heavily that community lenders who want to  serve their neighbors can't make the math work.

My friends, home ownership for most young families should not exist  only in the movies. It should exist in Bloomsburg and Bedford and  Braddock and in every Pennsylvania community where a local lender knows  the borrower and wants to say yes. This bill--this bill--makes  important steps in that direction.

And one more thing: The ROAD to Housing Act builds on President  Trump's efforts and takes on Wall Street landlords competing directly  with first-time home buyers for single-family homes. The housing market  should work for Main Street, not for Wall Street.

So for all of these reasons, I am proud to stand in support of the  ROAD to Housing Act. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  vote yes. Vote yes and make the American dream of home ownership  possible again for the next generation of Pennsylvanians.