July 24Th, Utah's State Holiday


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, on February 25, 1846, beleaguered  residents of Nauvoo, Illinois, began leaving their homes and farms  behind, crossing the frozen Mississippi River by ferry and wagon to  escape persecution. Only the sickest and poorest remained behind, and  even they were finally forced out by mob action. All crossed Iowa to  Nebraska, just north of Omaha, their winter quarters on the Missouri  River.

Why do I bring up these sad memories from long ago?

Utah still celebrates the day when they finally arrived at a place of  safety, the valley of the Great Salt Lake, on July 24, 1847. July 24 is  a State holiday for Utahns. Those hardy, resilient pioneers, carrying  with them the sick and desperately poor from burning Nauvoo, found  temporary refuge among the kind members of the Omaha Tribe.

They made an agreement with the Omaha through their Chief, Big Elk,  who welcomed the pioneers, understanding the trouble they had recently  escaped. The pioneers would stay in residence, building houses,  planting gardens and fields, and then move on after 2 years to ensure  all of their number had enough time and resources to make the trip  West. Afterwards, the improvements would belong to the Omaha.

This vanguard party of 148 pioneers, who had been on the road for 111  days, followed Brigham Young down Emigration Canyon into the Salt Lake  Valley.

They immediately began organizing a community, diverting water for  irrigation, plowing fields, and planning their first city, Salt Lake  City, our State's capital. Salt Lake was founded that very day. Denver  wasn't founded until 1858 and so was Carson City. Phoenix was founded  in 1867, Boise in 1863, and Helena in 1864. Of all Western States'  capital cities, only New Mexico's, Albuquerque, is older than Salt  Lake.

From that small beginning of 148 souls, a city and metro-area  population of over 1.2 million and a State population of over 3.5  million have grown. From that small beginning, a mighty State has grown  with an annual GDP of over $234 billion. Utah has three research  universities, four regional universities, and other great institutions  of higher education. Utahns value education, and we are good at it.

The Salt Lake City metro area has professional sports teams competing  at the highest level, with basketball, the Utah Jazz; soccer, Real Salt  Lake; and hockey, the Utah Mammoth. They have already hosted the Winter  Olympic Games and are set to host another in 2034.

If you travel across the State, Mr. Speaker, you will find  communities with baseball fields, football fields, soccer fields,  pickleball courts, tennis courts, swimming pools, ski resorts, and golf  courses. Utahns value sports, and we are good at them.

Utah is an international center for technology, including space tech.  Just south of Salt Lake City is a business park called Silicon Slopes.  About 100 miles north of Salt Lake City is the Space Dynamics  Laboratory. Utahns value technology and research, and we are good at  them.

Utahns may leave Utah, but they take Utah with them wherever they go.  The football coach who takes the job in the Big Ten, the medical school  graduate who interns at Brigham and Women's, the ROTC grad who learns  to fly in Enid, Oklahoma, and the mother of five who gets that  promotion and follows her work to Seattle, all of them take a piece of  Utah with them.

On July 24, you may just see every one of them pulling kids in a  wagon in a neighborhood parade or hear them singing a pioneer song or  making the trek downtown to the shelter to drop off bedding and  clothing. Each in his own way honors July 24, and I ask you today to  honor those long-dead pioneers as well as those whose hearts hold Utah  close.

This place west of the Great Divide and east of Salt Flats, north of  the Grand Canyon and south of the lava flows and potato fields of Idaho  is my home. I wasn't born in Utah. In fact, my father wasn't even born  in this country. I am a pioneer like my brother and sister Utahns. Just  like those 148 brave and desperate souls, I have made this place my  home.

I, like Brigham Young and those other 3.5 million souls, came to this  place, saw that it was good and said: ``This is the right place. Drive  on.''