Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


Mr. KENNEDY of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentleman  from Georgia, for this opportunity to speak.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule for H.R. 3633, the  Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025 and H.R. 1919, the Anti-CBDC  Surveillance State Act. Together, these bills provide much needed  clarity on digital asset regulation and ensure critical consumer  protections so Americans retain their financial freedom.

Before basketball became the great sport that we know and love, it  needed rules. Without structure, the game could not grow and thrive.  The same is true for digital assets.

Innovation depends on clear, reliable guardrails. For too long, this  space has been clouded by legal uncertainty and regulation by  enforcement, leaving the industry without direction and consumers  without protection.

The CLARITY Act addresses that gap. It defines the role of the SEC  and CFTC, establishes clear rules of the road for responsible  innovation, and protects the rights of Americans to hold and use their  own digital property.

At the same time, the Anti-CBDC Surveillance State Act, which I  cosponsor, defends the foundational principles of financial freedom. A  government-run central bank digital currency would allow unelected  bureaucrats to surveil, program, and ultimately control how Americans  spend their money. This legislation protects Americans by ensuring the  Fed cannot issue CBDCs to individuals.

Last year, Representative Tyler Clancy and I, in the State of Utah,  passed a law banning CBDC, but we all recognize that State laws cannot  pertain or prevail throughout the country. This bill allows us to  establish security and protections for the American people all over our  country.

When the Chinese Communist Party thinks CBDC is a good idea, I think  that tells us exactly how we should vote, against CBDC.

These bills promote free market innovation, protect privacy, and  ensure the next generation of finance is built on American values, not  Federal overreach.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.