2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702044/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, the gentleman from  Illinois (Mr. Garcia) for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, a budget for our country is a moral document. It shows  our  priorities. It shows what kind of future we are laying the groundwork  for.

A budget should reflect investments in Americans by funding education  and housing while also lowering costs. But Donald Trump's budget  request sends a clear message about the kind of country Republicans  want; one that invests in war, not Americans.

What happened to the so-called America First project by this  President? What happened to the so-called America First project?

The President's budget slashes $8.5 billion from K-12 programs, cuts  52 percent of the budget for the agency charged with protecting our air  and water, and reduces housing programs by $11 billion--all of that to  pay for the largest percentage increase to the Department of Defense  since World War II. Let me say that again. All of that is to pay for  the largest percentage increase to the Department of Defense since  World War II.

The American people are tired of seeing their tax dollars fund more  endless wars in the Middle East. They are tired of seeing a President  who sends our sons and daughters to war while apparently being  increasingly unstable both mentally and emotionally. They are tired of  seeing his top aide say nothing, nothing, and do nothing to intervene  when the President clearly needs help.

How much longer does this have to go on before this Republican  majority steps in? How many more AI-generated Jesus images does the  President have to post before you, my Republican colleagues, are  alarmed like the majority of Americans?

History will remember this Republican-controlled Congress as  complicit in this President's behavior and his ill-informed proposals.

Mr. Speaker, it is not too late for Republicans to join Democrats in  fighting for a budget that actually puts Americans first, one that  seeks to fund and build schools at home and not fund bombs abroad, a  budget that reflects the values of a government and its President, and  that fact rings true here.

The President is asking Congress to steal from our children's future  to prop up a war that no one wants. I urge my Republican colleagues to  stand opposed to this cruel budget.