Clear Communication for Veterans Claims Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 1039, the Clear  Communication for Veterans Claims Act.

When a veteran applies for benefits at VA, the agency corresponds  with that veteran at multiple points in the process regarding their  claim. This communication is often through letters that can be densely  laden with legal jargon and confusing information, which makes it hard  for the veteran to understand what is required of them or the benefits  decision VA has arrived at. This can lead the veteran to miss important  deadlines or fail to submit  proper documentation, which can ultimately lead to the rejection of  their claims.

Under the Biden administration, VA already launched an internal  review of these notice letters and had already redrafted many of them  to be more direct and easier to understand, but VA could also use some  outside help in reviewing the literally thousands of different possible  letters they might send to a veteran.

H.R. 1039 seeks to provide that assistance. Specifically, it mandates  that VA make its notice letters--documents that explain decisions on  benefits--shorter, clearer, and easier for veterans and their families  to understand. This bill requires the VA to contract with a third party  to assess and recommend improvements to these letters, which often  contain complex legal language that confuses veterans.

The bill also sets deadlines for action: The VA must contract with a  Federally Funded Research and Development Center, or FFRDC, to evaluate  these communications within 30 days of the bill's enactment and submit  its recommendations within 90 days. This effort aims to streamline the  claims process and reduce the stress and confusion many veterans face  when dealing with their benefits.

Mr. Speaker, in spite of my support for the substance of this  measure, I want to raise concern with the majority's choice to offset  the cost of this bill by continuing to divert pension payments from the  oldest and most sick veterans in VA's system. I understand that this  offset has been used in the past and has existed in some form since the  1960s. However, given that this administration, with the enabling of a  feckless Republican-led Congress, has been working overtime to hollow  out VA, we must rethink whether or not it is appropriate to continue  its use.

Aside from the moral failing of cutting one veterans' benefit to pay  for another, VA's pension programs are designed specifically to support  the poorest and sickest veterans and their survivors. Therefore, this  continued reduction in pension payments poses real risks when the other  services these veterans might need to fall back on are also being cut.

Mr. Speaker, again, I support the substance of this bill, but I think  we should have a very serious conversation about the majority's choice  to perpetuate cutting veterans' pensions, and I believe that we should  include this item in any negotiations with the Senate before this bill  becomes law.

Mr. Speaker, with those concerns in mind, I support this legislation  and ask my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. TAKANO.  Budzinski), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on  Technology Modernization.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to support this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.