Dismantling the Department of Education


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698129/dismantling-the-department-of-education


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend and Representative,  the gentlewoman from Connecticut, Representative Hayes, for yielding  time. I also thank her for putting together this Special Order hour.

The two of us came to Congress from the classroom. We came from the  classroom to the Halls of Congress. The two of us were also locked out  of the Department of Education earlier this year when we were demanding  answers on when President Trump would illegally try to close the  Department.

Since then, we have seen Secretary McMahon fire staff from the  building who investigate and protect the civil rights of students. We  have seen her slash funding for minority-serving institutions. We have  seen her move parts of our education infrastructure to unrelated  agencies, creating more hoops for administrators and staff to jump  through to get the funding they need.

Last week, the Department of Education announced they are moving to  end the SAVE program which some 7 million student loan borrowers rely  on to have affordable repayment plans on their student loans.

Grocery prices are up. Utilities are up. Healthcare is about to jump  for millions of people, and now some student loan borrowers will have  to find money to pay their student loans. The math simply won't work  for millions of Americans and for these students who need to pay off  their loans.

Secretary McMahon has usurped Congress' role by firing staff, holding  up grants that Congress has approved, and running a multimillion-dollar  experiment by shuttering the Department and making six different  Federal agencies do the work of one.

Democrats have worked to conduct oversight for our Nation's students,  but Republicans couldn't care less if title I schools get the funding  they need; if students have their civil rights violated; or if the  promise of a free, quality education is for all students.

Their agenda is one that seeks to privatize and voucherize the public  school system and to make getting degrees and credentials as hard as  possible for those who are not well-off or well-connected.

Students, no matter how complex their needs, how much money they come  from, how much wealth they come from, or the ZIP Code they grew up in,  are entitled to a free, quality education.

Mr. Speaker, if we want to save public education, a free and quality  education for all children, we can't have half of this body ready to  give up their power and conduct no oversight while permanent changes  are being made at the Department of Education.

Secretary McMahon has only appeared before the Education and the  Workforce Committee once this year and has since taken the most extreme  actions and attacks on public education this country has ever seen.

Republicans must join me and my colleagues in conducting oversight  for the students in this country. We are living in a time when more and  more Americans don't feel like the American Dream is in reach. I am  pleading--pleading--with Republicans to join me--to join us--in giving  hope to Americans that the promise of a quality education is still  alive for every child.

We cannot delay or wait until harm is brought to any school district  or teacher or student. This must end. The mission of the Department  must continue. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Democratic  Caucus is concerned, the mission of this Department will continue.