Edith Nourse Rogers Stem Scholarship Opportunity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695428/edith-nourse-rogers-stem-scholarship-opportunity-act


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 2034, the Edith  Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship Opportunity Act, as amended.

Edith Nourse Rogers was a trailblazer for veteran benefits, and the  program we are amending today that bears her name was created to  support the next generation of veteran trailblazers. She was  instrumental in the creation of the original GI Bill and advocated for  a greater role for women in the Armed Forces.

Congress created the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship in 2017 as  part of the Forever GI Bill. However, since creation, we have learned  of cases where improvements to the program would encourage more  veterans to pursue dual degrees, degrees in STEM education, and degrees  in healthcare.

Representative Budzinski's legislation would improve the program to  better fit student veteran needs by making two fundamental changes to  the program to increase access.

First, the legislation allows veterans to apply for the scholarship  while they are still finishing their undergraduate degrees. That means  students won't have to delay their education for no reason or hit an  arbitrary completed credit hour requirement if they are accepted into  the program. Veterans can seamlessly progress to their next degree.

Second, the legislation removes the requirement that a student  exhaust all credit hours on their GI Bill benefits, which makes  enrollment easier for STEM-seeking students.

The scholarship is a wonderful tool, but these requirements,  originally well-intended, have made the scholarship onerous to use and  limited enrollment far below projections.

H.R. 2034 fixes those issues and clears the way for more trailblazers  like Congresswoman Edith Nourse. I thank Representative Budzinski for  introducing this important bill, and I urge my colleagues in the House  and the Senate, as well, to support this bill.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from  Illinois (Ms. Budzinski), my good friend and the author of the bill,  the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Technology Modernization.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me in  passing H.R. 2034, the Edith Nourse Rogers STEM Scholarship Opportunity  Act, as amended, and I yield back the balance of my time.