Empowering Employer Child and Elder Care Solutions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699004/empowering-employer-child-and-elder-care-solutions-act


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is yet another effort to chip away at the  protections guaranteed at the Federal level and take money out of the  American worker's pocket.

The concept of overtime is very simple. If you work more than your  traditional 40 hours a week, then you make more money, and you get to  take home what you earn.

Now, instead of protecting that very basic principle, my Republican  colleagues are trying to make it easier for employers to pay their  workers less for working more. They want to pay workers less for  working more. This bill would exclude child and dependent care from the  rate of pay used to calculate a worker's overtime pay. In other words,  this bill makes it permissible to pay workers less than their regular  rate if they picked up an extra shift.

Taking on extra work doesn't mean you don't need someone to watch  your kids, and it shouldn't cost you a benefit that you are entitled  to.

Despite the misleading title, this bill cheapens the value of an  employee's overtime labor. The overtime salary threshold is already far  too low. When the first Trump administration set the current threshold,  8.2 million Americans saw their overtime protections just vanish, and  even those eligible employees earning $36,000 a year were making too  much money to qualify for overtime pay.

Mr. Speaker, imagine making $36,000 a year and that would disqualify  you from being able to get overtime pay. You have no right to it.

Childcare and dependent care assistance should be more accessible and  far more affordable for working families, but this Republican proposal  merely incentivizing employers to provide assistance will not solve  that issue and cutting down already low levels of overtime pay will not  do that either.

Right now, working families are watching their access to basic  support services shrink before their eyes. Head Start has seen five of  their regional offices across the country abruptly closed. Medicaid  could face over $800 billion in cuts over the next 10 years. These  lifelines that working families depend on for affordable support  services are rapidly diminishing, largely due to this administration  and this majority's attack on these lifelines as ``waste.''

The resources that working families need are not waste. The tools for  economic survival are not waste. Americans deserve better.

Mr. Speaker, I oppose this bill, and I urge my colleagues to oppose  it as well.