Ernest Peltz Accrued Veterans Benefits Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699468/ernest-peltz-accrued-veterans-benefits-act


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 3123, the Ernest  Peltz Accrued Veterans Benefits Act, as amended.

It is no secret that our offices get a lot of calls about casework on  veterans' benefits. Sometimes these calls are a simple matter of  getting people the right point of contact in the right office.  Sometimes it is an ask to wake a sleepy bureaucracy to move faster on  behalf of a constituent. Sometimes these calls highlight a loophole or  a blind spot in the law that has been discovered because deserving  beneficiaries have been wronged or overlooked.

It is imperative in those instances that we as Members of Congress  work to fix those problems on behalf of those who elected us to this  body.

That is the case with the Peltz family. Upon the death of Mr. Ernest  Peltz, VA failed to pay the benefits he earned when his death occurred  shortly after the benefits were awarded. This resulted in his family  having to navigate grief, the cost of his care, and additional  challenges posed by the bureaucracy simply because of the timing of his  passing.

We have already asked so much of our veterans and their families. It  is entirely unconscionable that while in the fog of grief, we ask them  to navigate paperwork and uncertainty regarding benefits that were  rightly earned just because the day their loved one died doesn't align  well with VA's direct deposit schedule.

The Ernest Peltz Accrued Veterans Benefits Act will relieve families  of that unnecessary burden during a complicated time. This bill states  that if a veteran dies before they are awarded their pension benefit  and they pass away before the benefit has been paid out, that the  pension benefit is awarded to the veteran's living spouse, living  children, dependent parents, or the estate of that veteran.

H.R. 3123 closes an opening that families have unfortunately been  slipping through.

We know of one family that this has affected, but we don't know how  many other families have been touched by a bureaucratic system that  felt cold and uncaring.

I thank Representative Stefanik for her work in addressing this  oversight. Much of the work we do on the Committee on Veterans' Affairs  is centered on the promises that we make to veterans and their loved  ones. This bill is just that, honoring not only a promise to our  veterans, but also their families.

This pension benefit is not, nor was it ever, a handout. It was an  earned benefit that Mr. Peltz secured through his service in World War  II. I will continue to fight until every beneficiary gets the benefits  that they earned, no matter how long that takes. We must continue to  expand veterans' benefits for all those who have worn the uniform of  this Nation.

Madam Speaker, I support this legislation and urge all my colleagues  to do the same.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time for  closing.

I encourage my fellow colleagues to vote ``yes'' on H.R. 3123, the  Ernest Peltz Accrued Veterans Benefits Act, as amended, and I yield  back the balance of my time.