Expiration of New Start


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699031/expiration-of-new-start


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my esteemed colleague, Dr. Foster,  for yielding, for organizing and hosting this Special Order hour, and  for his leadership on nuclear nonproliferation issues.

In my many years as a Member of Congress, I have watched many a fiery  floor speech filled with overstatement and hyperbole, grandiose  pronouncements laced with exaggeration and puffery, but it is entirely  right and proper to say that the expiration of the New START treaty  will make the world and every inhabitant blessed to live on it less  safe.

Formally, the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, otherwise known as  New START, caps U.S. and Russian strategic nuclear arsenals and  underpins onsite inspections.

It is the latest in a series of treaties that have reduced the global  nuclear warhead stockpile from a high of 70,000 in the mid-1980s to  roughly 12,000 today.

Now that is meaningful, serious progress, but instead of building on  that progress, we are weeks away from reversing those hard-earned  gains.

On February 5, New START is slated to expire. That expiration will  mean the end to limits or verification of the still-formidable nuclear  arsenals of the United States and Russia.

New START is by no means perfect, but removing these safeguards will  create a vacuum, and we all know nature abhors a vacuum. Without these  limitations, there are fewer constraints, fewer eyes, and fewer brakes  on how Vladimir Putin expands and modernizes Russia's nuclear forces.  In this wilderness, we would see a broader breakdown of norms on  nuclear weapons.

Both the United States and Russia have openly mused about potentially  restarting nuclear weapons testing. After we have worked so hard to  bring some clarity to nuclear weapons regimes, we risk the steady  erosion of the few safeguards against these terrible and awesome  weapons, but the U.S. is not without options or agency.

If this expiration comes to pass, it is because we have allowed it to  happen. Russia has offered to voluntarily maintain the New START limits  for 1 year. We should take that deal not because we trust Vladimir  Putin but because inspections and limits protect us, not him.

Arms control is neither an act of faith nor of naivety. It is an act  of cold logic and discipline, a process that reduces the risk of  miscalculation, escalation, and catastrophic error. The year will not  only keep America and the world safer, but it will also give time to  hammer out a new accord.

As the U.S. sits across the negotiation table, there should be no  illusion. We know that Putin and his cronies in the Kremlin are  adversaries of the United States. They would like nothing more for our  Nation to falter, but they are also self-interested.

Both the United States and Russia benefit from a stable, controlled  nuclear regime. That mutual self-interest lies at the heart of why New  START was signed in the first place. To throw it all away would be a  mistake of immense proportions.

While time is short, we can step away from the edge. I add my voice  to a host of others calling on, pleading for, demanding action from the  Trump administration.

I know the threat of nuclear weapons can often seem so large and  abstract, so unimaginable that it becomes easier just to ignore it all,  but to say nothing is not an option, especially for someone like me.

Many of my family, my distant family, were in Hiroshima on the day  the atom bomb fell. That memory is not just historical. It is personal  for me and my family.

Mr. Speaker, the atomic bombs of 1945 caused unimaginable horror.  Some died instantly, many over subsequent days and months. Others  suffered for the rest of their lives, afflicted with burns, radiation,  and cancer.

The modern nuclear weapons of today are orders of magnitude more  horrifying. It is incumbent on all of us to ensure that these weapons  are never used again.

New START is a concrete step toward ensuring that future. It is one  where no person--no man, woman, or child--lives under constant threat  from nuclear annihilation.