Focused Assistance and Skills Training for Veterans' Employment and Transition Success Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695411/focused-assistance-and-skills-training-for-veterans-employment-and-transition-success-act


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 4446, the  Focused Assistance and Skills Training for Veterans' Employment and  Transition Success, or FAST VETS Act. Introduced by Veterans' Affairs  Committee member Representative Dexter, the VA Veterans Readiness and  Employment, or VR&E program, is perhaps the greatest resource disabled  veterans have to seek a new career path, but veterans are dealing with  historic wait times due to program popularity and expanded eligibility  under the PACT Act.

I respectfully disagree with how the chairman has framed the VR&E  program and its shortcomings, but let me just proceed to the virtues of  this bill.

The program is incredibly important for disabled veterans because it  provides a comprehensive, individualized pathway to overcome employment  barriers caused by service-connected disabilities, but with wait times  weeks, or even months in some areas of the country, veterans risk  missing out on the program's benefits.

Representative Dexter's bill would make it easier for veterans to  find employment while in the program and to graduate faster from the  program, freeing up counselors at VA to assist the next class of  disabled veterans seeking a new career.

One of the primary goals of the PACT Act was to recognize the  sacrifice of so many more veterans who were injured during their time  serving our Nation and to make them eligible for many of the programs  offered to help them find meaningful employment such as VR&E. Now the  VR&E program must keep pace with this new influx of veterans and ensure  that it is meeting their needs.

I thank Representative Dexter for her work on this bill, and I know  she is already at work on additional solutions for the program, such as  measures to maintain and support the staff at VA tasked with carrying  out the program.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate as well  to support this bill.

Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.  Dexter), who is the author of H.R. 4446 and who serves on our Health  Subcommittee and our Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs  Subcommittee.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I want to congratulate my good friend from  the State of Oregon on what will become the passage of her first bill.

Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers. In closing, I ask my  colleagues to join me in passing H.R. 4446, the FAST VETS Act, and I  yield back the balance of my time.