Health Professionals Scholarship Program Improvement Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695433/health-professionals-scholarship-program-improvement-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 3767, the Health  Professionals Scholarship Program Improvement Act of 2025, as amended.

For many years, the Health Professionals Scholarship Program has  allowed VA to provide financial assistance to future medical  professionals in return for a promise of service at VA facilities to  ensure VA can meet its staffing needs. The program has had longstanding  success in both ensuring prospective providers can complete their  training and bolstering VA's workforce, especially in difficult-to-hire  areas and for difficult-to-recruit professions.

However, some participants have expressed concerns that hiring delays  at VA have prevented them from receiving their employment contracts in  a timely manner. While there are many steps to onboarding new  clinicians at VA, including necessary processes such as credentialing  and privileging, we must make sure that VA does everything in its power  to bring new staff on quickly, especially in the case of prospective  providers who have proven themselves willing to serve the veteran  community.

This legislation will ensure that VA provides employment contracts to  graduates of the Health Professionals Scholarship Program within 90  days of completion of their programs or within 90 days of completing  all necessary licensing and credentialing processes, whichever is  later.

Participants in the Health Professionals Scholarship Program are  dedicated to service to the veteran community and are vital to ensuring  VA has sufficient staffing across the Nation.

We should continue to seek additional ways to improve the hiring and  onboarding process at VA, including through additional workforce  investments and improving the use of expedited hiring authorities.

However, in the meantime, there is an important step in ensuring this  program fulfills its purpose, both for participants and for VA's  workforce needs.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, once again, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on H.R. 3767, the Health Professionals Scholarship Act of 2025,  as amended.