Holding Power Accountable


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692930/holding-power-accountable


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for organizing this  critical Special Order hour to shed light on the horrors inflicted on  immigrant communities by the Trump administration.

I am proud to represent the Inland Empire of southern California just  east of Los Angeles. My district is home to a thriving immigrant  community. It has been enriched by immigrants just like so many other  communities across the country.

In recent weeks, this community has been plagued by fear. Images of  masked agents dragging people out of cars, using excessive force, and  disappearing individuals in unmarked cars are sowing fear. We cannot  allow this to continue. Make no mistake, this is all on President  Trump.

The President has instructed ICE to meet arbitrary deportation  quotas. Their aggressive and baseless target number of 3,000 daily  arrests does not require them to focus on violent offenders and  criminals.

Instead, mothers and fathers who have been in this country for years  with no criminal record and who have raised their children in the  United States are being targeted.

This administration's claim that it aims to deport violent criminals  is a falsehood.

What we are witnessing is the erosion of due process.

I have been especially troubled by the image of a landscaper, a man  whose sons have served in the Marines, being punched repeatedly in the  head by ICE agents this past Sunday.

Is this something my Republican colleagues are proud of? That we  repay veterans of the United States Marine Corps by assaulting,  detaining, and deporting their father who was simply trying to provide  for his family?

Last week, I joined several of my colleagues to tour the Adelanto ICE  detention center. Thanks to the work of my colleague, Representative  Judy Chu, our delegation was able to enter the facility to conduct an  oversight visit and speak with some of those being detained.

What I saw was people held in deplorable conditions, many of them  being denied access to clean clothes for 10 days. Immigrant detention  is a multimillion-dollar industry with some private prison groups now  aiming to cash in on the funding included in the Republican spending  bill.

The GEO Group that owns Adelanto boasted about a $31 million windfall  if they keep full capacity.

Republicans want to boost the funding of ICE to hire more masked  agents and pay out more contracts like that at Adelanto.

According to my Republican colleagues, our budget is too tight to  provide healthcare or groceries for those in need, it is too tight to  keep hospitals in rural areas open, but it is flush with enough cash to  pay for more masked agents and more inhumane detention facilities for  those who are beaten and dragged off the street.

This is not who we are. This is not the character of our country. I  don't think my Republican colleagues understand the gravity of their  silence. It seems they have been silenced from speaking out against  this brutality due to their fear of this President.

They are even too afraid to hold townhalls to face their own  constituents directly. It is sad that many Members of Congress have  rolled over and enabled this cruelty that is now happening in our  country.

There are Members on this side of the aisle who have not been silent,  who have actively opposed this President and will continue to speak  out. Democrats will continue to be a check against this President. We  will continue to fight for the due process rights of every American. We  will continue to show up in our communities so that the American people  can see that there are some Members of Congress who will actually  listen to and fight for them.