Leonard G. ``bud'' Lomell Va Clinic


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693924/leonard-g-bud-lomell-va-clinic


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2170 to name the Department of  Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Toms River, New  Jersey, after Leonard G. ``Bud'' Lomell.

Mr. Lomell was born in Brooklyn, New York, but soon relocated with  his family to Point Pleasant, where he went on to attend Wesleyan  College on a full scholarship and quickly volunteered as an Army Ranger  after World War II broke out.

Mr. Lomell and his platoon received a pivotal assignment on D-day  that would change the course of the war forever. He and his fellow  Rangers would scale 100-foot cliffs on ropes and find and destroy  German artillery that posed a huge danger to the Allied troops landing  on the beach below.

Undaunted by the impossibility of this task, Mr. Lomell and his  platoon undertook their task. Despite being shot in the side and nearly  drowning the moment he stepped off his landing craft, Mr. Lomell  continued onward and successfully scaled the wall.

However, upon reaching the top, he and his fellow Rangers realized  the weapons were decoys designed to be a deterrent to the troops below.  Even this was not reason enough for Mr. Lomell to give up. He and his  team quickly found the real weapons unguarded nearby and destroyed  them.

For his heroism and for saving countless lives, Mr. Lomell received  the Distinguished Service Cross. Following the fighting at D-day, Mr.  Lomell continued to serve his country in other battles, earning a  Silver Star. After receiving another injury, he was honorably  discharged in December of 1945.

After the war, Mr. Lomell returned to New Jersey, where he settled in  Toms River. He graduated from Rutgers University Law School, married  and had three daughters, and opened a successful law practice. He died  in 2011 at age 91, and his grateful hometown honored him with the  creation of Lomell Lane.

I can think of no better way to honor Mr. Lomell and demonstrate our  Nation's continued gratitude for his service than to name this VA  clinic in his honor.

I urge all Members to support this legislation, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2170 to honor this very  deserving veteran, and I yield back the balance of my time.