Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692950/military-construction-veterans-affairs-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  time.

Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 3944, the fiscal year  2026 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies  Appropriations Act. Unfortunately, I must ask my colleagues to oppose  this fundamentally flawed legislation as well. This is not a position I  take lightly, and I lament that we have gotten to this point.

As ranking member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, I have  a sacred duty to care for our Nation's veterans, regardless of their  race, religion, creed, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, or  politics. To fulfill this solemn promise, I am committed to doing all  we can to ensure that we have a well-functioning Department of Veterans  Affairs.

We must also ensure the VA has adequate funding to do the job we ask  it to do. As such, any time veterans legislation is on the floor, I ask  two main questions. One is: Does this bill improve access and delivery  of care and benefits for veterans, their dependents, and their  survivors? Two is: Does it provide appropriate resources to VA to get  the job done?

Unfortunately, despite its price tag, this bill fails on both  accounts.

Mr. Chair, at best, I could say this bill is premature. VA has not  yet seen fit to provide Congress with full and complete justification  for its budget request. We have no clear idea how VA intends to spend  the money we would be appropriating through the Department.

At worst, I would say the Republican majority has rushed forward with  a bill that is completely divorced from our current reality, one in  which VA Secretary Collins is planning to callously fire 80,000 VA  employees without regard to the impact on delivery of healthcare and  other services.

My Republican colleagues have thoughtlessly rubberstamped a budget  proposal that accelerates privatization of veterans' healthcare;  threatens progress on ending veteran homelessness; erodes access to  disability benefits; guts VA IT modernization, unless someone happens  to be one of the President's tech friends; and needlessly drags VA into  MAGA Republicans' culture war.

This bill contains numerous dangerous policy riders that hinder VA's  ability to serve all veterans. Especially harmful are provisions that  deny women veterans the full range of necessary medical care, including  necessary reproductive healthcare which includes abortion care and  counseling.

On top of that, this bill abandons the premise that all veterans  deserve the same level of care they have earned, by cruelly and  heartlessly subjecting LGBTQ+ veterans to the bigotry that  characterizes this administration. The unpatriotic attack against  transgender servicemembers continues in this bill as an unsparing  attack against transgender veterans.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, if that wasn't bad enough, this bill continues  the harmful Kennedy amendment rider. This shortsighted, dangerous  provision prevents VA from protecting beneficiaries and those around  them from potential harm, beneficiaries with debilitating mental  illnesses such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's, dementia, and bipolar  disorder.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote against this appropriations  bill.