Modernizing All Veterans and Survivors Claims Processing Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695486/modernizing-all-veterans-and-survivors-claims-processing-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3854, the Modernizing All  Veterans and Survivors Claims Processing Act, as amended.

We are living in an era of remarkable technological advancement. It  seems every day that there is a new story about how artificial  intelligence is shaping data visualization or modeling. In fact, there  are AI models that are helping to detect diseases before traditional  detection periods.

As the world around us continues to advance in this way, we cannot  handcuff the Department of Veterans Affairs and bar them from utilizing  this remarkable technology, but neither can we let them proceed  unfettered without considering all the implications of its use.

H.R. 3854 directs the VA to plan for the use of automation tools to  aid in retrieving service records, medical evidence, and claims  decision support, and to generate correspondence to the veteran. It  requires the VA to share this report with Congress so that we may  provide the proper oversight of this burgeoning technology.

This bill also provides an analytical structure to assess the  feasibility and extent of collaboration required between offices  utilizing artificial intelligence.

Lastly, it seeks to modernize and expedite the processing of benefits  for certain children of veterans, a uniquely vulnerable community.

Beyond just addressing the use of emerging AI technology at the VA,  H.R. 3854, as amended, also seeks to bolster the VA's data collection.  Currently, the VA does not collect cause-of-death data on veterans.  This is problematic, and it creates a challenge when assessing trends  in veteran deaths.

The collection of cause-of-death data would allow the VA to begin to  build datasets that can be tracked and assessed, a promising thing in  this era of rapid technological advancement.

It is not a stretch to say that this data can one day be used to  anticipate and prevent potentially catastrophic diagnoses in veteran  populations with similar markers. I, for one, look forward to a day  when we are preventing deaths from occupational exposures instead of  merely tracking them. This bill begins to tackle that.

This isn't a magic wand to fix and modernize all of VA, but it is a  start. I am confident that with modernization efforts like this  legislation, as well as my colleagues' efforts in other areas, we can  make a concerted effort to give our veterans the best care and  experience they deserve.

There is one very large caveat in this effort to modernize the VA and  its systems that I would be remiss not to mention, which is any push to  increase the use of automation, artificial intelligence, and big data  at the VA must not simultaneously remove the humanity from the system.  AI is no substitute for a well-trained workforce, especially one that  is as mission-driven and dedicated as the one we have at the VA.

Even as chaos unfolds around them, I know that VA employees are  trying hard to continue to deliver for veterans. We should not lose  sight of that. Even with the promise of evolving technologies, we know  that the human element is still the most important when delivering  world-class care and service to veterans. It is what veterans want, and  it is what serves them best.

Mr. TAKANO.  Morrison), my good friend who serves on our Health  Subcommittee and our Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs  Subcommittee.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues, once again, to vote ``yes'' on  H.R. 3854, Modernizing All Veterans and Survivors Claims Processing  Act, as amended.