No Wrong Door for Veterans Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691508/no-wrong-door-for-veterans-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in hesitant support of H.R. 1969, the No  Wrong Door Act, as amended.

This bill would reauthorize the Staff Sergeant Parker Gordon Fox  Suicide Prevention Grant Program, or Fox grants, for fiscal year 2026.

As the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, one of my  top priorities has been and will continue to be veteran suicide  prevention. The Fox grant program is an important tool in our arsenal  for this work.

Community-based programs are a crucial part of a public health  approach to suicide prevention. However, I do have significant concerns  with this legislation's approach to reauthorizing this program.

We must ensure that we reauthorize this program in a way that ensures  it is as effective and robust as possible. I would like to take this  time to highlight some of those concerns.

First, based on congressionally mandated reports that the committee  has received, VA has not established enough metrics to allow Congress  to monitor the success of the program. Additionally, in our view,  grantees are not collecting or reporting complete data for all  participants, which further limits Congress' ability to determine  whether the program is meeting its intended purposes. It is clear that  this bill, as drafted and amended, will not do enough to improve data  collection and make clear what data grantees are responsible for  collecting.

This bill would also compound this issue by requiring grantees to use  the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale to screen participants for  their baseline mental health when entering the program. While this  scale is a widely accepted, clinically validated behavioral health  screening instrument, its primary use is to measure a patient's  suicidal ideation and the severity of suicidal risk at a given point in  time.

VA already requires Fox grantees to screen their participants using a  number of other validated screening tools, both at baseline and after  connecting veterans to additional support. Each of these tools measures  other upstream factors of mental health that contribute to veterans'  suicide risks, such as levels of emotion, optimism, work satisfaction,  and social support.

Limiting grantees to the use of a single screening instrument that  measures suicide risk at a point in time will further limit our ability  to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the Fox grant program on  improving veterans' mental health.

Perhaps more importantly, Congress is not and should not be in the  business of mandating the use of a particular clinical tool. Not only  does it micromanage providers or grantees in terms of determining the  most clinically appropriate tool, but it also arbitrarily limits  providers and grantees from using a different tool in the future if it  is determined to be more effective.

Finally, I remain concerned about language that would dramatically  alter the entities that would be eligible to receive grants.  Specifically, we oppose language that would add ``healthcare  providers'' as eligible grantees. The Fox grant program was designed to  allow community-based organizations to help address upstream suicide  risk factors and provide services to support veterans' needs. It was  never intended to directly provide clinical care, particularly mental  health care.

Combined with my existing concerns about the bill's lack of  requirements to strengthen data collection and demonstration of  effective outcomes, I remain extremely concerned that opening  eligibility up to new types of grantees without establishing additional  definitions, guardrails, or oversight will weaken the quality of care  provided to veterans.

In its current form, H.R. 1969, as amended, does not reauthorize this  grant program in a way that will meet the needs of our veterans.

Just 2 weeks ago, we held a markup where my Republican colleagues  rejected several amendments to improve this version of the bill,  including an amendment I offered that would have at least partially  addressed my concerns. Thus, the bill that we are considering today is  not one that considers any of the areas of improvement that I had hoped  could be incorporated into the legislation at the community level.

Mr. Speaker, I believe that Senator Warner's bill to reauthorize this  program, S. 793, is a better starting place that will help ensure that  we reauthorize the strongest possible version of this grant program.

I hope we will have an opportunity to engage in robust renegotiation  and discussion with my Republican colleagues and our Senate  counterparts to ensure we advance the strongest possible bill to  prevent veteran suicide.

That said, while I have serious concerns about how this bill would  reauthorize the program, I want to make clear that I understand that  this grant program is a critical piece of VA's efforts in ensuring  veterans receive the outreach, support, and services they need and  deserve when it comes to their mental health.

Therefore, I hope that, moving forward, we can work together, along  with our Senate counterparts, to reauthorize the Fox Grant Program in a  responsible way and ensure it is as effective and robust as our  Nation's veterans deserve.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to share my position on  H.R. 1969, the No Wrong Door for Veterans Act, as amended. I will  always be supportive of efforts to prevent veteran suicide, but I  remain concerned that this bill does not do enough to ensure the Fox  Grant Program is working as intended.

Veterans deserve our best legislative efforts, not legislation that  creates more problems than it solves and that does not take steps to  improve suicide prevention efforts.

That being said, I will not stand in the way of forward progress on  veteran suicide prevention efforts, but I strongly urge my House and  Senate colleagues to work with us to ensure that final reauthorization  of this program is as robust as possible.