Prioritizing Veterans' Survivors Act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 1228, the  Prioritizing Veterans' Survivors Act.

The bill requires the VA to move the Office of Survivors Assistance,  or OSA, to a position directly reporting to the Office of the VA  Secretary.

The Office of Survivors Assistance was established by statute in 2008  to serve as a resource regarding all benefits and services furnished by  the Department to survivors and dependents of deceased veterans and  members of the Armed Forces.

OSA also serves as a principal adviser to the Secretary and promotes  the use of VA benefits, programs, and services to survivors. VA moved  the supervision of OSA from the Office of Outreach, Transition and  Economic Development to VBA's Pension and Fiduciary Service.

The VA made this move with the idea that it would increase emphasis  on the office and oversight of OSA as VBA has more capacity to properly  oversee the function.

However, the survivors' community has been critical of this move,  characterizing it as a downgrade of the function and a diminishing of  the importance of survivors in the VA's mission. H.R. 1228 is  responsive to those concerns.

Now, historically, there has been a lack of resources dedicated to  the mission of serving survivors. For example, there are only four  employees in the Office of Survivors Assistance to serve over 450,000  potentially eligible beneficiaries. By the way, Secretary Collins  actually fired one of those four people.

We also see a lack of awareness of who is part of the survivors'  community, where the community is, and a lack of direct and targeted  outreach. That is why I am deeply concerned by all of the DOGE cuts to  the VA's outreach efforts.

Overall, we have seen an underutilization of survivors' benefits, so  we must do whatever we can to remedy that situation. This bill is a  small but important step in that process.

I would be remiss, however, if I didn't also point to other  legislation that we can and should be taking up to improve benefits for  survivors. I have introduced H.R. 2278, the Survivor Benefits Delivery  Improvement Act, a bill that puts new tools in the VA's hands to aid in  reaching survivors where they are and better inform them of the  benefits they have earned.

We have Members, like Representative Julia Brownley, who have  introduced legislation to extend CHAMPVA eligibility. Representative  Jahana Hayes has introduced legislation to raise the levels of  Dependency and Indemnity Compensation benefits to be on par with other  Federal survivors' programs.

We have Republican Members like Richard Hudson, who has introduced  the Love Lives On Act, with Veterans' Affairs Committee member  Representative Kelly Morrison, that would repeal the ridiculous  penalties survivors face when they choose to remarry.

My hope is that we can consider those bills soon.

In the meantime, however, I do support this bill, and I encourage my  colleagues to support it, as well.

I extend a special thanks to the survivors who may be listening today  and those who are with us only in spirit. Your stories demonstrate  bravery and courage, and you deserve every ounce of our effort in  creating a VA that is welcoming and accessible, and every dollar of  benefits we can muster on your behalf.

Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation, and I ask my colleagues to  do the same.

Mr. Speaker, I will return back to the issue of VASP and read aloud a  letter that I am circulating to my colleagues for a signature to the  Secretary, and it begins with:

``Dear Secretary Collins: On April 3, 2025, you abruptly announced  the closure of the Veterans Affairs Servicing Purchase program (VASP),  leaving tens of thousands of veterans at risk of foreclosure. These  actions were taken unilaterally, leaving veterans, veterans service  organizations, and mortgage services unsure how the closure would be  administered, and what would happen to veterans that are already  reeling from this administration's assault on veterans and our economy.  We write today to urge you to immediately reverse this decision, and  avoid foreclosing on veterans who simply wish to keep paying their  mortgage and keep their home.

``Since the inception of the Veterans Affairs Servicing Purchase  program (VASP) in May 2024, over 17,000 veterans have been able to  avoid foreclosure and remain in their homes.''

This represents 0.46 percent of the 3.7 million total loans under the  VA home loan program.

``VASP was established as a last resort option within VA's Home  Retention Waterfall to help veterans impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  During this emergency, Congress and the VA rightfully allowed borrowers  to request forbearance and allowed missed payments to be added to the  end of the loan term.

``Upon expiration of this pandemic program, VA used this authority to  end borrowers' ability to push missed payments to the end of the loan  term and created VASP to help up to 80,000 veterans at risk of  foreclosure. Now VA is taking a misstep that will push thousands of  veterans into foreclosure. This is cruel, wrong, and runs counter to  the benefits earned by the veterans as led by the VA Loan Guaranty  Office, which always seeks to use foreclosures as an absolute last  resort.

``Furthermore, with the rising costs of housing and overall  inflation, VA must ask itself: Is it more cost effective to allow  veterans to lose their homes or help them? VA leaders, veterans service  organizations, and housing organizations have all recently shared with  Congress their concerns about ending VASP too soon. All have testified  that VASP is the only program of its kind that currently exists as the  last resort for veterans facing foreclosure.

``Critics of VASP, who believe the program will incentivize veterans  to purposely default on their loans to get a lower mortgage rate,  grossly misunderstand and mischaracterize the sacrifices veterans and  their loved ones have made in service to our Nation. The VA  should learn from its past, when in the 1990s, GAO found that VA- insured homes foreclosed upon was the most expensive option, costing VA  an average of $25,387, which is the equivalent of $65,038 today. While  past policies have assumed that veterans have been financially  irresponsible for assuming mortgages they can't afford, today's  financial and housing market puts veterans at risk of losing their  homes in a much more vulnerable situation.

``Even a straightforward solution, such as forcing veterans to sell  their homes to cover their arrears, would not leave the veteran better  off precisely because the cost of housing has increased dramatically in  the past 5 years. Until better policy solutions are in place that  provide for stronger underwriting, ending the VASP program abruptly  will only harm veterans and their families.

``Congress, VA, and other stakeholders must work together to offer  practical, cost-effective solutions that better serve veterans. Our  veterans earned their home loan guarantee benefit, and they deserve a  viable option to get back on track with payments and keep their homes.

``Secretary Collins, you have repeatedly stated that the mission of  VA is to serve veterans and that no benefits would be cut. We call on  you now to follow your words.''

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in  passing H.R. 1228, the Prioritizing Veterans' Survivors Act, and I  yield back the balance of my time.