Protect Children's Innocence Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698352/protect-childrens-innocence-act


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this bill.  There are not words strong enough to express my disgust.

I will respond to the gentlewoman from Georgia. Gender-affirming  surgery is never performed on young children. It is extremely rare for  older transgender adolescents. This bill would have little impact on  surgeries for transgender young people because surgery is already  extremely rare for transgender adolescents.

Republicans keep bringing up surgeries to shift attention away from  how extreme this bill is. This bill hypocritically bans safe and  effective medications for an entire group of people just because of who  they are, while still allowing them for everyone else.

This bill will not lower the cost of your healthcare. It will not  protect children. It will not ease the strain on doctors and other  healthcare providers.

What it will do is interfere with parental choice and open private  medical data up to Federal investigation. It threatens to jail doctors  who follow evidence-based practice supported by every medical  association in the United States. It deprives children of proven  lifesaving medical care.

My Republican colleagues should be ashamed. I am ashamed of what they  are doing. I am ashamed that trans children out there may see this  debate in the people's House and watch elected officials lie about  them. I am ashamed that the world sees this democracy spending its time  wielding the law as a weapon to attack a few rather than use the law as  a shield to protect the vulnerable.

I am furious that, while millions of families struggle to afford  groceries, healthcare, rent, and basic necessities, this is the  vindictive, petty garbage that Republicans are using the people's House  to put to a vote.

Banning healthcare for trans people cannot be justified by science.  Using the Federal Government to strip parents of their right to make  decisions for their children is a massive violation.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, jailing doctors and, in some cases,  parents for following best medical practices is backward, ignorant, and  dangerous.

My colleagues who support this bill are not vested with the power to  say that someone does not deserve medically necessary care. This body  has a duty to protect the vulnerable. This bill is a radical perversion  of that duty and a disgusting abuse of power.