Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688505/raising-a-question-of-the-privileges-of-the-house


Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member McGovern for yielding  to me.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this resolution. I am here as  the ranking member of the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs to  represent the interests of our Nation's veterans when they are  callously being targeted.

While our colleagues across the aisle are determined to shift the  public narrative away from the harm being done to veterans, we choose  to focus on what our President failed to address last night. He spent  an hour and 40 minutes touting his so-called accomplishments while  veterans watching at home were waiting for answers, answers and  explanations they never received.

While President Trump was addressing us last night on this very House  floor, movements were being made by the Chief of Staff for Veterans  Affairs, Christopher Syrek, to execute a detrimental reduction in force  at VA. With the support of this administration, VA plans to move  forward with firing an additional 83,000 VA employees.

Sitting in the audience of President Trump's address were 20 veterans  who had been indiscriminately fired from Federal agencies, veterans he  failed to address. Not once during his speech was he able to look them  in the eyes and speak to the merciless effects his administration's  decisions have made on their community. He didn't attempt to justify  them because he knows there is no justification.

Our veterans served our Nation. They put their lives on the line for  us and this country's values, and now look at what they are facing.  They are facing attacks on their benefits. They are facing attacks on  their healthcare, education, and housing. When we reduce  an agency established to work for them, we fail them.

I stand behind Congressman Green as he stood up for the rights of all  veterans and all Americans.