Servicemember Residence Protection Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695470/servicemember-residence-protection-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 2334, the  Servicemember Residence Protection Act, as amended. However, I still  have many concerns that the bill, while well-intentioned, does not live  up to the promises made by some supporters.

I appreciate the work of the majority to improve this bill during our  markup. All of us want to ensure that servicemembers do not return home  from serving their country to find trespassers or squatters living in  their homes. We also want to ensure that servicemembers who are  confronted with this situation have the tools and resources to seek  legal relief.

However, I want to be clear that neither the original bill nor the  amended text that we are considering today will eliminate the  possibility that a servicemember will need to seek judicial or other  legal relief to evict a trespasser.

The ability of Congress to legislate a solution to that particular  issue is legally difficult. The text of H.R. 2334, based on my  amendment in committee, was drafted so as to avoid creating confusion  where courts have already ruled in Servicemembers Civil Relief Act  cases involving adverse possession by codifying existing legal  interpretations of SCRA tolling provisions.

What that means is that many State courts across the country have  already found that the SCRA applied to adverse possession and that the  period of time while the servicemember was away from their property did  not count toward adverse possession. The amended bill simply makes this  existing legal interpretation law.

Since acquiring title to property through adverse possession is a  long and involved process, in practice, this legislation would likely  apply to servicemembers in rare circumstances, such as when an adverse  possessor was able to satisfy all the elements of adverse possession,  including possession for the lengthy statutory period, which is likely  longer than the time that most servicemembers are stationed away from  home.

Mr. Speaker, the other type of trespassing case that a servicemember  may encounter is a holdover tenant, such as may happen if a  servicemember rents out their property while they are away from home.

Now, many of the stories presented to the committee to support this  bill were of that type of trespass. A servicemember invited someone to  stay at their property while they were gone and then the tenant did not  want to leave.

It is important to follow good practices when becoming a landlord,  such as using a written legal lease agreement, and this legislation  does provide instruction for the Department of Veterans Affairs to work  with the Department of Justice to provide resources on  landlord-tenant practices and securing vacant property.

However, nothing in this bill removes the requirement that someone  seeking an eviction will need to follow a legal process to do so, which  may include seeking assistance from law enforcement or going to local  courts. Evicting someone from property requires due process. In  addition, the SCRA is not self-enforcing. A servicemember must seek to  enforce all of its protections through a legal process.

Ultimately, servicemembers will need to seek legal assistance to deal  with trespassing cases. We owe it to servicemembers to provide them  with the information and resources to navigate that process.

This legislation, unfortunately, does not bolster access to legal  assistance, but I hope the sponsors of this legislation will join us on  those efforts in the future.

I will be supporting this legislation today, as it does make some  improvements for those servicemembers who find themselves in the rare  occurrence of adverse possession. I hope we can do more in the future,  but I don't want to give the servicemembers the false impression that  this bill will immediately solve the trespassing issues presented to  the committee.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to join me in passing H.R. 2334,  the Servicemember Residence Protection Act, as amended, and I yield  back the balance of my time.