Territorial Response and Access to Veterans' Essential Lifecare Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695430/territorial-response-and-access-to-veterans-essential-lifecare-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in support of H.R. 3400, the TRAVEL Act  of 2025, as amended.

The VA estimates that as of June 2023, there were at least 100,000  veterans living in U.S. territories, but it is likely that this number  is even higher. However, only Puerto Rico has a VA Medical Center, and  only American Samoa and Guam have outpatient clinics or CBOCs.  Therefore, veterans living in the territories have limited access to VA  medical care.

While eligible veterans can receive care through the VA's community  care program, access to specialty care, even in the community, is  extremely limited, given the lack of such services in the territories.

This legislation authorizes the VA to appoint traveling physicians to  provide care to veterans residing in American Samoa, Guam, the  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of  Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and any other territory or  possession of the United States. It will also allow the traveling VA  physician to coordinate with nondepartment medical providers as  necessary to provide care. I thank Representative King-Hinds for  introducing this bill.

Individuals from the territories generally enlist in the military at  higher  per capita rates than residents of most U.S. States. However, veterans  in the territories have long struggled to access the VA healthcare they  have earned. This legislation could help reduce the rate at which these  veterans must be referred to community providers or endure lengthy  travel to access services at VA medical facilities thousands and  thousands of miles away from home.

Veterans deserve access to the care and benefits they have earned,  regardless of where they live. I urge my colleagues to support H.R.  3400, the TRAVEL Act.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, once again, I urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on H.R. 3400, the TRAVEL Act.