Veterans Employment Readiness Yield Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693934/veterans-employment-readiness-yield-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2625, the Veterans Employment  Readiness Yield Act of 2025 introduced by my good friend Representative  Don Davis.

The Veteran Readiness and Employment program, or VR&E, offers vital  services to help veterans and servicemembers with service-connected  disabilities and those determined to have  an employment handicap prepare for, find, and maintain suitable  employment or live more independently.

This bill would replace the terms ``employment handicap'' and  ``serious employment handicap'' with ``employment barrier'' and  ``serious employment barrier.''

Historically, the term ``handicap'' has been associated with  disadvantage or burden, which does not accurately reflect our veteran  population.

By making this change, we acknowledge the challenges that veterans  with service-connected disabilities often face in the job market.  Eliminating the stigma associated with these disabilities will  encourage more veterans to participate in the VR&E program, ultimately  assisting them in preparing for and securing meaningful employment.

The Department of Veterans Affairs requested this change, which has  bipartisan support and incurs no cost. I thank Mr. Davis for his work  on veterans' issues during his time in Congress. I am proud of his work  to open doors at the VA for more veterans so they may access the  benefits they have earned through their service.

Mr. TAKANO.  2625.

Mr. DAVIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Bost and  Representative Takano for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2625, the Veterans Employment  Readiness Yield Act of 2025.

On behalf of the more than 56,000 veterans in North Carolina's First  Congressional District, which I am proud to represent, and so many  across our country, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this  commonsense legislation.

I thank the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Ciscomani), who co-led the  bill. I also thank the House Committee on Veterans' Affair for marking  it up and moving it forward. Lastly, I thank the Disabled American  Veterans and Paralyzed Veterans of America for endorsing this  legislation.

H.R. 2625 amends terminology in the Veteran Readiness and Employment  program to replace the term ``employment handicap'' with ``employment  barrier'' and the term ``serious employment handicap'' with ``serious  employment barrier,'' while, most importantly, leaving the definitions  unchanged.

The Veteran Readiness and Employment program helps former  servicemembers find jobs and ensure their mental and financial well- being are intact. Updating the terminology will improve efficiency and  encourage veterans to use the Veteran Readiness and Employment program.

No veteran should have any discomfort advocating for themselves and  seeking help for their service-connected disabilities. We will continue  to stay in this fight until every disabled veteran has what they need  to get the assistance they have earned.

On behalf of a grateful nation, we can honor those who have given  life and limb to serve by passing the VERY Act.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to do exactly that, and I thank the  chair and the ranking member for yielding time.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, we passed this bill in the House last  Congress, only for the Senate to run out of time. I am hopeful that  this year the Senate acts quickly to send this bill directly to the  President's desk.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 2625, the Veterans Employment Readiness  Yield Act of 2025, and I urge all my colleagues to support it, as well.