Veterans' Compensation Cost-Of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that we are considering S. 2392, the  Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025 today. I  rise in strong support of the measure, and I thank Senator Moran for  introducing the bill and appreciate Representatives Morgan Luttrell and  Morgan McGarvey for leading the House version.

We have a uniquely solemn charge on the Veterans' Affairs Committee:  to serve those who have served. It is a task I take very seriously as  do my colleagues.

We continually strive to deliver on the promise to America's  servicewomen and -men as they become veterans; that we will take care  of you just as you have taken care of us.

Because of this, I find it disheartening when I hear conversation  gaining speed about veterans not deserving the benefits provided to  them or of defrauding the compensation and pension system en masse:  Project 2025, The Economist, The Wall Street Journal, and The  Washington Post.

We have even heard this from some veterans themselves at recent  congressional hearings that somehow veterans' benefits make them lazy  and reward exaggeration, but I know, as does America, that this is a  ridiculous notion.

I think Senator Duckworth put it perfectly when she said:  ``Portraying disabled veterans as a group of takers who will happily  never work again for $3,100 a month is incredibly condescending and  disrespectful to these heroic Americans.''

Our veterans have sworn an oath to risk life and limb to protect our  Nation. They are honorable and forthright, and they deserve whatever  assistance they need post-service to live happy, healthy, productive  lives. The sacrifices they make and wounds they take occur not just on  the battlefield but in training and on the home front, as well.

These veterans don't just serve alone. Military families sacrifice  right alongside their servicemember. Many are exposed to the same  hazardous environments as those in uniform. They are left to care for  that servicemember when their time is done, and they do so willingly  and with courage.

Mr. Speaker, to denigrate them by suggesting the system of veterans'  benefits is overgenerous is grossly insulting to me, and I am sure to  Americans, as well. If anything, we know there are still a great deal  of toxic exposures, locations, injuries, and illnesses that VA doesn't  recognize or cover.

Too many veterans and their families are left waiting for help. If  anything, we must be more generous, and that is why I am in strong  support of this legislation. Raising the compensation owed to our  veterans to adjust to the cost of living is a small-in-dollar amount  but large-in-significance gesture to demonstrate to veterans and their  families that we see them, we understand their plight, and we can and  will do what we must to help them.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support our veterans and their  families by supporting this legislation. On the heels of Veterans Day,  when we honor those who have served and sacrificed for us, I urge every  American to rededicate themselves to uplifting the veterans in all  communities across this country.

Mr. KENNEDY of New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S. 2392,  the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025.

Last Tuesday, we marked Veterans Day. Like many of our colleagues, I  joined the western New York community to honor those who selflessly  served our country and their family members who have carried the weight  of that service with unwavering strength. I was reminded of their  commitment to this country and how the liberties we enjoy today were  paid for in duty, courage, sacrifice, and blood.

Yet, honoring their service demands more than just a simple thank- you. It requires us to live up to our moral obligation to support their  health, homes, education, families, and futures.

These principles continue to guide me as a member of the House  Committee on Veterans' Affairs because our veterans deserve only the  best for their service. It pains me to hear stories of veterans who  have to choose between having a roof over their head and putting food  on the table because of the affordability crisis in this country.

The reason that is happening is clear. Current veterans' benefits are  not keeping pace with the increased cost of living. That should cause  alarm to every single Member of this body.

The benefits our veterans received after they served our country are  not gifts or handouts. They are part of a sacred obligation to ensure  that those who have defended our freedoms can live with dignity,  security, and opportunity.

When veterans struggle to meet their basic needs, it is not just a  personal burden. It is a national moral failure.

Ensuring that benefits keep up with the cost of living isn't just the  right thing to do. It is the smart thing to do economically.

It promotes stability, reduces uncertainty, and allows veterans to  remain active, contributing members of the community they helped to  protect.

That is exactly why we need the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living  Adjustment Act. It will immediately make critical changes to veterans'  benefits just in time for the holidays.

By adjusting the rate of these benefits to keep pace with inflation  and align with annual increases from the Social Security  Administration, our veterans will not have to choose between  medication, housing, groceries, or utility bills.

Honoring and supporting our veterans should never be a partisan  issue. It is a matter of national character. It makes good on the  promise made to our military heroes when they answer the call to duty.

I will proudly be voting to support this legislation, and I urge all  of my colleagues to do the same.

Let us honor veterans not only with ceremonies and speeches but with  policies that uphold their well-being year-round.

Mr. TAKANO.  Morrison), my good friend who serves on our Subcommittee  on Health and our Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial  Affairs.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am  prepared to close.

Mr. Speaker, once again, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on S.  2392, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2025.