Veterans Education Transparency and Training Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689601/veterans-education-transparency-and-training-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 981, the Veterans  Education Transparency and Training Act, or VETT Act, introduced by  Representative Van Orden.

The bill makes improvements to the Shopping Sheet that is offered to  student veterans when they are applying to institutions of higher  learning.

These Shopping Sheets give student veterans more information about  the schools they are considering before they take the major step of  enrollment.

This legislation improves student Shopping Sheets for enrollments at  colleges and universities. The Johnny Isakson and David P. Roe, M.D.  Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act, authored by  Representative Mike Levin, created these Shopping Sheets, benefiting  student veterans around the country who now know more about what a  school offers and charges.

This legislation further refines the sheets so that they can be  better tailored for specific school programs and student needs. This is  a welcome improvement that ensures we won't waste time on paperwork  that doesn't benefit student veterans.

Mr. Speaker, Democrats in the House have continued to advocate for  increased transparency and quality of education for student veterans.  Transparency and accountability in education are under assault with the  dismantling of the Department of Education, which leaves student  veterans and their hard-earned benefits at risk of exploitation and  fraud.

We must do everything possible to ensure that student veterans are  able to access their educational benefits and that they can get the  quality education they deserve so that they can have a better chance of  success after they transition from military service.

Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 981 and urge my colleagues to do the  same.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in  passing H.R. 981, the VETT Act, and I yield back the balance of my  time.