Veterans Law Judge Experience Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699208/veterans-law-judge-experience-act-of-2025


Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 659, the  Veterans Law Judge Experience Act of 2025.

Madam Speaker, contrary to what the American public often thinks,  sometimes in this body we actually do things that make sense.

That is very much the case with H.R. 659, the Veterans Law Judge  Experience Act introduced by my friend and colleague, Representative  Julia Brownley.

This bill is simple and straightforward.

It states that when recommending individuals to serve on the Board of  Veterans' Appeals, priority should be given to those who have 3 or more  years of experience in practicing veterans law.

The Veterans' Affairs Committee hears often about the complex nature  of the disability compensation system at the Department of Veterans  Affairs. That complexity, unfortunately, leads to mistakes and errors  that cause our veterans' disability claims to be denied prematurely.  Especially now at a time when we have seen that Secretary Collins has  shifted the Department's focus from getting claims right to simply  getting them fast, we are seeing higher rates of processing errors,  higher denial rates, and consequently higher rates of appeals to the  Board of Veterans' Appeals, the BVA.

In that context, it is imperative that the BVA has the staffing  levels and experience levels to get things right for our veterans. I,  along with everyone else, support efforts to ensure that veterans and  beneficiaries are being served at every point of contact in VA by the  best talent we can muster.

One way we can do that is by ensuring we have the right folks in the  right roles. This legislation seeks to help that at BVA by focusing on  hiring those with sufficient experience to best serve our veterans.

We can and should look to staff the Board of Veterans' Appeals with  attorneys that have demonstrated expertise in this area, attorneys who  are experienced and who can see beyond quotas and metrics to apply the  law to the maximum benefit of veterans at the heart of the process.

So, Madam Speaker, I strongly support H.R. 659 and urge my colleagues  to do the same.

I also want to mention another bill that the House should take up  which would further improve the BVA. H.R. 2303, introduced by  Representative Morgan McGarvey, increases the promotion potential for  attorneys at the Board of Veterans' Appeals.

I know that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle balk at  anything that might result in civil servants receiving more  compensation, but if we agree that we need to hire board attorneys with  greater experience, and we are asking them to do more work and more  complex work at that, we ought to see fit to pay them what they are  worth. I hope that my colleagues see fit to advance that bill very  soon, as well.

Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, before I actually yield to the gentlewoman  from California (Ms. Brownley), I want to--in recognition of her  announced retirement, though she is going to be with us for the rest of  the year, but I don't know if I will ever have this chance of a moment  on the floor with her again--point out that she was the leader of the  very first Women Veterans Task Force that resulted in the Deborah  Sampson Act, which unfortunately, is really substantively the bill that  she put forward and is really the real author of, but it carries  somebody else's name. It is the same with the Elizabeth Dole 21st  Century Veterans Healthcare and Benefits Improvement Act. It is an  amazing piece of legislation and amazingly substantive. The Elizabeth  Dole 21st Century Veterans Healthcare and Benefits Improvement Act has  laid the groundwork for our senior veterans who want to age in place at  home. Congresswoman Brownley has worked on that and many other pieces  of legislation as the chair and then ranking member of the Subcommittee  on Health.

It is with a heavy heart that I yield such time as she may consume to  the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Brownley), my good friend and  colleague, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Health, and the  author of this legislation.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I encourage my colleagues to  vote ``yes'' on H.R. 659, the Veterans Law Judge Experience Act of  2025. It is clear to me from the words on the floor from the ranking  member of the House subcommittee, Julia Brownley, that this bill is  wise, it is warranted, and it is well-thought-out.

The arguments for it are about helping our veterans receive their  claims and get their claims approved in a timely manner. Again, I  repeat my sentiment that we appreciate her service to this body. She  has left an indelible mark on veterans' policy, on veterans' affairs,  and I look forward to serving the balance of this year with my  colleague and congratulate her on a brilliant career in the House of  Representatives.