Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689624/vietnam-veterans-liver-fluke-cancer-study-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my support for H.R. 586, the Vietnam  Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act, as amended.

Liver fluke is a serious parasitic infection that is a well- recognized risk factor for the development of bile duct cancer.

H.R. 586, as amended, would require VA, in consultation with the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to commence an  epidemiological study on the prevalence of bile duct cancer in veterans  who served in the Vietnam war versus their nonveteran U.S. resident  counterparts.

This legislation requires VA to submit a report with the results of  the study broken out by age, gender, race, ethnicity, and geographic  location.

I certainly understand why Vietnam war veterans would be concerned  about their exposure to this disease and believe we should do  everything possible to ensure veterans have access to care and  treatment for diseases they may have been exposed to as a part of their  service. However, I must note that the context in which we are  considering this legislation is vastly different than the last time the  bill was considered by the House just under 7 months ago.

In fact, under Secretary Kennedy's leadership in the past week, the  CDC, or Centers for Disease Control, has cut 18 percent of its  workforce. Many of these roles have been in global and environmental  health roles, which means the individuals in offices best suited to  assist with the requirements of this bill may no longer even exist at  the CDC.

Vietnam war veterans deserve answers about their health and access to  the best treatments. Under this administration's chaotic and damaging  workforce cuts across all sectors of government, it will be harder than  ever to get these answers.

I will support this bill today, but I urge my colleagues to consider  that implementation of this bill will be harder than it needs to be in  the new CDC workforce realities that we are now in. These workforce  cuts have real and lasting consequences, including for our veterans.

In addition, while I support the underlying goals of this measure, I  must express concern over the majority's decision to offset its cost by  diverting pension payments from some of the VA's oldest and sickest  veterans.

The VA pension programs exist specifically to assist our most  vulnerable veterans and their survivors. Slashing these benefits,  particularly when other support systems are also under threat, poses a  significant risk for those who rely on them most.

I recognize that this offset has been employed historically and in  some form since the 1960s. However, in light of this administration's  ongoing efforts, enabled by a complacent Republican-led Congress, to  systematically weaken VA, we must reevaluate whether it remains  appropriate to rely on this offset. I believe it would be prudent to  discuss with the Senate whether a more appropriate offset can be  identified before this bill becomes law.

Mr. Speaker, with those caveats I have identified, I support this  legislation, and I ask my colleagues to do the same.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no additional speakers, and I yield  myself the balance of my time to close.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.  586, the Vietnam Veterans Liver Fluke Cancer Study Act, as amended, and  I yield back the balance of my time.