Women Veterans Cancer Care Coordination Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695419/women-veterans-cancer-care-coordination-act


Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1860, the Women Veterans  Cancer Care Coordination Act, as amended, introduced by my colleague  from Texas, Representative Sylvia Garcia.

Through VA's Breast and Gynecological Oncology System of Excellence,  the VA oncology, surgical, and nursing specialists are already  providing world-class care for these types of cancers directly through  VA. The System of Excellence also helps connect veterans with care in  the community when necessary.

A cancer diagnosis is always a difficult and complicated journey,  and, unfortunately, all too common for veterans, in particular.

The VA's Breast and Gynecological Oncology System of Excellence is  well positioned to handle the clinical aspects of coordinating  veterans' cancer treatment, both at VA and its specialists in the  community.

However, regardless of where individuals are receiving care, cancer  treatment is often very complex and requires veterans to regularly see  many different providers for various treatments, as well as different  specialized labs and imaging centers.

Veterans may need assistance covering the expenses associated with  traveling to receive care at another VA facility or in the community,  obtaining medical records from community providers, ensuring that  community providers' claims are paid on time, and accessing mental  health services to help cope with the emotional aspects of their  diagnoses.

This can be very difficult for patients to navigate, and our veterans  deserve the highest levels of support throughout this time.

Representative Garcia's bill will strengthen the System of Excellence  by requiring VA to appoint regional breast and gynecologic cancer care  coordinators to assist veterans in navigating all of these aspects of  their treatment. These trained professionals help ensure that patients  can access resources available to them and that their providers are  always updated on the patients' latest health updates.

Veterans deserve compassionate, well-coordinated care when dealing  with their cancer journey, and I am glad to support this legislation to  do just that.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 1860,  the Women Veterans Cancer Care Coordination Act of 2025, as amended.

Mr. TAKANO.  Garcia), my good friend and author of H.R. 1860. She serves  on the House Financial Services Committee.

Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I once again urge my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on H.R. 1860, the Women Veterans Cancer Care Coordination Act  of 2025, as amended. I yield back the balance of my time.