Recognizing Deputy Jeff Larkin


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689236/recognizing-deputy-jeff-larkin


Mrs. SPARTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Hamilton County  Sheriff Deputy Jeff Larkin, who is retiring after 16 years of service  with the Hamilton County, Indiana Sheriff's Department.

Prior to his time with the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office, Deputy  Larkin served as a police officer with the Memphis, Tennessee Police  Department. In 1982, he served as lead negotiator for a hostage  situation at St. Jude Children's Hospital. After his heroic actions  during this event, Deputy Larkin formed a new negotiation unit with the  Memphis Police Department. Deputy Larkin's actions during the hostage  situation also had a profound impact on the 1985 Tennessee vs. Garner  court case, which stated ``Under the Fourth Amendment of the U.S.  Constitution, a police officer may use deadly force to prevent the  escape of a fleeing suspect only if the officer has a good-faith belief  that the suspect poses a significant threat of death or serious  physical injury to the officer or others.''

During his time with the Sheriff's Department, Deputy Larkin received  a number of awards, including being named ``Reserve Deputy of the  Year.'' Deputy Larkin has also been honored for his work with senior  citizens in the community providing them with information on Senior  Crime Prevention and Elder Fraud & Abuse.

Outside of work, Deputy Larkin has been a steadfast Boy Scout Leader  for Troop 132, for over 35 years. An avid sports lover, Deputy Larkin  is also a referee for many local high school sports leagues. Deputy  Larkin is a graduate of Ole Miss University. He has given back to his  alma mater by teaching a criminal justice course as a guest lecturer.  Deputy Larkin also serves on a criminal justice committee at the  school.

Deputy Larkin's professional contributions have had a lasting impact  wherever he has worked. Deputy Larkin plans to continue working with  the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office in a civilian capacity after his  retirement. My fellow Hoosiers and I appreciate his commitment and  dedication to our community.