Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


Ms. MACE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Mr. McGovern and Mr.  Khanna, today for the time, for the 5 minutes on the floor to speak  about an issue that is not political for me. Helping the survivors of  Jeffrey Epstein and his horrific, gruesome, brutal sex trafficking ring  is deeply personal. While we often have many disagreements about a lot  of issues, maybe most issues, today, they are allowing us to speak on  the floor. My colleagues, Congressman Massie, Marjorie Taylor Greene,  and Lauren Boebert, the four of us, we are making history today over  the discharge petition and delivering justice for those who have  desperately fought for it for, in some cases, almost 30 years.

I wore white today because I wanted to reflect on the innocence of  the young women who had their innocence stolen by a demon named Jeffrey  Epstein, from demons, friends of his, rich and powerful people who  stole their innocence at as young as 14 years old. It was taken from  them, and they have never gotten it back.

I am also wearing white today to recognize the courage that it takes  for women to come forward, the sacrifices of them personally,  professionally, and financially. There is embarrassment, humiliation,  and shame that we still deliver on the backs of women who have been  brutalized, who have been raped, and who have been assaulted. There is  shame that the media pours over their heads. Their colleagues, their  friends, their neighbors, their loved ones--because you come forward  and because you talk about sexual assault, you are not a slut. It is  not because of what you wore. You are not a whore. That is how women  are treated. You are not lying.

I want every woman to know, every Epstein survivor to know, every  woman across the country who is a survivor, who is a victim of assault,  that today, we see you. This fight and this vote tonight, I see it is  about the Epstein victims, but it is about much more than the Epstein  victims. This is about the powerless taking power away from the very  powerful. This is about giving women who never had a voice a voice,  giving a voice to the voiceless.

This is about their sacrifice. This is about having and recognizing  their courage. This is about justice for the Epstein victims, but it is  also about hope.

Earlier this year, I gave a speech right here on the floor of the  U.S. House of Representatives detailing trauma that I experienced,  endured, and am a survivor of that I accidentally uncovered 2 years  ago, almost to the day. Today, I still don't have justice, like  millions of women across the country.

When I spoke out, I got attacked. When I spoke out, I was shamed.  When I spoke out, I was defamed and smeared. That goes on today, right  now, in the present.

God sure has a funny way of working through us. Like many of the  Epstein survivors and many other survivors across the country, I don't  think I will ever heal from the destruction that abuser did to me. I  can heal by being a vessel and being a voice for all those who need it,  and that is why we are here today. That is why I will never abandon a  single survivor ever, and I will never waver.

I spent my morning talking to law enforcement and others about  another  potential Jane Doe, Jane Doe No. 5, who may be another sexual assault  victim in the case that I uncovered 2 years ago. It is very difficult  for us to come forward, but I thank the women who have, the Epstein  victims, and the victims in the case that I have uncovered. I thank all  of them for being a voice, for giving me hope that maybe one day I,  too, can get justice.