American Music Tourism Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690269/american-music-tourism-act-of-2025


Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague, Chairman Gus  Bilirakis, who I affectionately call Gus, and Ranking Member Pallone  for supporting this act.

We have the opportunity today to vote on legislation centered around  something that brings us all together, and that is music. Today, we  will take the American Music Tourism Act under consideration. It is a  bipartisan piece of legislation that I am proud to have led through the  House alongside my co-lead, Representative Nanette Barragan.

It will require the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Travel and  Tourism to develop a plan to boost music tourism, welcoming both  domestic and international visitors to experience the rich musical  heritage we have across America.

It also ensures that Congress stays informed, with regular reports on  our progress, our success, and any challenges that we face.

Importantly, let me emphasize this bill will not require any  additional taxpayer dollars. It is a smart, efficient, and unique way  to support our economy without increasing spending.

Whether it is New Orleans, the birthplace of jazz; Seattle, where  they rock out to grunge; the cradles of hip hop, which are L.A. and New  York; or Austin, which proudly calls itself the Live Music Capital of  the World, our Nation is overflowing with the rich history of music.

For those of us in Tennessee's First District, which I represent,  this bill is especially personal. We are home to  treasures like Dollywood in Pigeon Forge, the home of Dolly Parton, and  the Birthplace of Country Music, which is in Bristol, Tennessee--places  that just don't celebrate our culture but also drive tourism, create  jobs, and strengthen our communities. I can't forget a little town in  my district called Sneedville, Tennessee, and that is the home of  Morgan Wallen. My favorite song is ``The Way I Talk.'' I thought for a  long time, Mr. Speaker, that he wrote that about me, but I have come to  find out that he didn't.

As a tribute to Dolly Parton, all I have to say is that we have been  working longer than ``9 to 5'' to get this bill across the finish line.  I am so thankful for the strong bipartisan partnership that made it  possible today.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation.