Extension of Time to Commence Construction of Certain Hydropower Projects


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702016/extension-of-time-to-commence-construction-of-certain-hydropower-projects


Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (S. 1020) to require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to extend the time period during which licensees are required to  commence construction of certain hydropower projects.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  S. 1020

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF TIME TO COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION OF                     CERTAIN HYDROPOWER PROJECTS.

(a) Definition of Covered Project.--In this section, the       term ``covered project'' means a hydropower project with       respect to which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission       issued a license before March 13, 2020.

(b) Authorization of Extension.--Notwithstanding section 13       of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806), on the request of a       licensee of a covered project, the Federal Energy Regulatory       Commission may, after reasonable notice and for good cause       shown, extend in accordance with subsection (c) the period       during which the licensee is required to commence       construction of the covered project for not more than an       additional 6 years beyond the 8 years authorized by that       section.

(c) Period of Extension.--An extension of time to commence       construction of a covered project under subsection (b)       shall--

(1) consist of not more than 3 consecutive 2-year periods;

(2) begin on the date on which the final extension of the       period for commencement of construction granted to the       licensee under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C.       806) expires; and

(3) end on the date that is not more than 6 years after the       latest date to which the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission       is authorized to extend the period for commencement of       construction under that section.

(d) Reinstatement of Expired License.--If the time period       required under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C.       806) to commence construction of a covered project expires       after December 31, 2023, and before the date of enactment of       this Act--

(1) the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may reinstate       the license for the applicable project effective as of the       date of expiration of the license; and

(2) the extension authorized under subsection (b) shall       take effect on the date of that expiration.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER.  1020.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of S. 1020, led by Senator Daines  and, in the House of Representatives, by Representative Newhouse.

Hydropower is a critical part of our Nation's energy mix, supplying  baseload power to approximately 30 million homes and businesses and  accounting for 40 percent of our black start capacity.

S. 1020 authorizes the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC,  to extend construction deadlines for critical hydropower projects  licensed before March 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted global  supply chains and halted many projects.

Current law requires hydropower projects to commence construction  within 10 years of receiving a license. This legislation allows FERC to  authorize an additional 6 years for certain projects to ensure fully  licensed infrastructure is not permanently halted, depriving Americans  of reliable energy.

There are currently 37 projects, across 15 States, that are at risk  of losing licenses without the passage of this bill providing  additional construction time.

These projects in limbo would provide energy that is imperative to  power our communities, win the artificial intelligence race, and lower  electricity prices for consumers.

I urge my colleagues to support S. 1020, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume  to the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Newhouse).

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to vote  ``yes'' on S. 1020, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.