Improving Care in Rural America Reauthorization Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702029/improving-care-in-rural-america-reauthorization-act-of-2025


Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2493) to reauthorize certain programs regarding rural  health care.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2493

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Care in Rural       America Reauthorization Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. RURAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES OUTREACH, RURAL HEALTH                     NETWORK DEVELOPMENT, AND SMALL HEALTH CARE                     PROVIDER QUALITY IMPROVEMENT GRANT PROGRAMS.

(a) Rural Health Care Services Outreach Grants.--Section       330A(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(e))       is amended by adding at the end the following:

``(4) Use of funds for rural underserved populations.--In       awarding a grant under this subsection, the Director shall       ensure that the funds made available through the grant will       be used, as appropriate--

``(A) to meet the health care needs of rural underserved       populations in the local community or region to be served;       and

``(B) for other activities to ensure the rural underserved       populations in the local community or region to be served       will be involved in the development and ongoing operations of       the project.''.

(b) Rural Health Network Development Grants.--Section       330A(f) of the Public       Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(f)) is amended by adding       at the end the following:

``(4) Use of funds for rural underserved populations.--In       awarding a grant under this subsection, the Director shall       ensure that the funds made available through the grant will       be used, as appropriate--

``(A) to increase access to quality health care services       through integrated health care networks for the rural       underserved populations in the local community or region to       be served; and

``(B) for other activities to ensure the rural underserved       populations in the local community or region to be served       will benefit from and be involved in the planning,       development, and ongoing implementation of the network.''.

(c) Reauthorization.--Section 330A(j) of the Public Health       Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(j)) is amended by striking ``2021       through 2025'' and inserting ``2026 through 2030''.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2493, the  Improving Care in Rural America Reauthorization Act of 2025, led by my  friend from Georgia, Congressman Carter.

Too often where a patient lives determines whether they are able to  access adequate healthcare services, and patients who live in rural  areas, in particular, often face barriers like a shortage of local  providers and transportation challenges of traveling longer distances  to reach points of care.

To overcome these challenges and build toward a healthier future, we  must continue leveraging tools like telehealth to ensure that rural and  underserved communities have access to quality healthcare.

H.R. 2493 reauthorizes grant programs that utilize integrated  healthcare networks to help connect patients to high quality care. More  specifically, the programs we are reauthorizing will help address  critical healthcare gaps in rural communities such as access to  preventive screenings and chronic disease management while improving  services in primary care settings.

We must continue to invest in these community-driven policies to  promote better health outcomes for rural and underserved populations.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume  to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter).

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I encourage a ``yes'' vote on this  bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.