Women and Lung Cancer Research and Preventive Services Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702021/women-and-lung-cancer-research-and-preventive-services-act-of-2025


Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2319) to direct the Secretary of Health and Human  Services to conduct a review to evaluate the status of research on lung  cancer in women and underserved populations, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2319

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Women and Lung Cancer       Research and Preventive Services Act of 2025''.       SEC. 2. INTERAGENCY REVIEW TO EVALUATE AND IDENTIFY                     OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ACCELERATION OF RESEARCH                     ON LUNG CANCER IN WOMEN AND UNDERSERVED                     POPULATIONS, GREATER ACCESS TO PREVENTIVE                     SERVICES, AND STRATEGIC PUBLIC AWARENESS AND                     EDUCATION CAMPAIGNS.

(a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human       Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and       the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall conduct an       interagency review to evaluate the status of, and identify       opportunities for the acceleration of research related to--

(1) research on lung cancer in women;

(2) research on lung cancer in underserved populations that       meet the eligibility criteria for lung cancer screening as       recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task       Force;

(3) access to lung cancer preventive services; and

(4) strategic public awareness and education campaigns on       lung cancer.

(b) Content.--The review and recommendations under       subsection (a) shall include--

(1) a review and comprehensive report on the outcomes of       previous research, the status of existing research       activities, and knowledge gaps related to lung cancer in       women and underserved populations in all agencies of the       Federal Government;

(2) opportunities for collaborative, interagency,       multidisciplinary, and innovative research, that would--

(A) encourage innovative approaches to eliminate knowledge       gaps in research on lung cancer in women;

(B) evaluate environmental and genomic factors that may be       related to the etiology of lung cancer in women; and

(C) foster advances in imaging technology and techniques to       improve risk assessment, diagnosis, treatment, and the       simultaneous utilization of other preventive services and       activities;

(3) opportunities regarding the development of a national       lung cancer screening strategy to expand access to such       screenings, particularly among women and underserved       populations; and

(4) opportunities regarding the development of a national       public education and awareness campaign on--

(A) lung cancer in women and underserved populations; and

(B) the importance of early detection of lung cancer.

(c) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the       enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human       Services shall submit to Congress a report on the review       conducted under subsection (a).

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2319, the Women and Lung  Cancer Research and Preventive Services Act of 2025 led by my colleague  Representative Brendan F. Boyle.

Lung cancer is the third most common cancer in the United States, and  it claims the lives of more Americans than any other type of cancer.

Globally, over 600,000 women die every year from lung cancer, and we  know that nearly 20 percent of lung cancers occur in individuals who  have either never smoked or smoked less than 100 cigarettes over their  lifetime.

These findings demonstrate that we need to be doing more to  understand the risk factors beyond just smoking cigarettes and improve  both our strategies and tools for screening, diagnosis, treatment, and  prevention, especially among women who face unique risk factors.

H.R. 2319 would allow us to strengthen and advance emerging research  opportunities that we rely on to reduce the burden of lung cancer  mortality.

Further, this bipartisan bill requires an interagency review between  the Department of Health and Human Services and the Departments of War  and Veterans Affairs to determine the current research landscape in  identifying new areas of research to explore.

H.R. 2319 is an opportunity to take another critical step in our  fight against cancer in the United States.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume  to the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzpatrick).

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close.

Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.