Combatting International Drug Trafficking and Human Smuggling Partnership Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696951/combatting-international-drug-trafficking-and-human-smuggling-partnership-act-of-2025


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 4071) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to enhance the  operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in foreign countries,  and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4071

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Combatting International       Drug Trafficking and Human Smuggling Partnership Act of       2025''.       SEC. 2. ENHANCING THE OPERATIONS OF U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER                     PROTECTION IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

Section 411(f) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6       U.S.C. 211(f)) is amended--

(1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and

(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new       paragraph:

``(4) Permissible activities.--

``(A) In general.--Employees of U.S. Customs and Border       Protection designated with the authorities granted to       officers and agents of Air and Marine Operations may provide       the support described in subparagraph (B) to the government       of a foreign country, including by conducting joint       operations with appropriate government officials within the       territory of such country, if an arrangement has been entered       into between the Government of the United States and the       government of such country that permits such support.

``(B) Support described.--

``(i) In general.--The support described in this       subparagraph is support for the following:

``(I) The monitoring, locating, tracking, and deterrence of       the following:

``(aa) Illegal drugs to the United States.

``(bb) The illicit smuggling of persons and goods into the       United States.

``(cc) Terrorist threats to the United States.

``(dd) Other threats to the security or economy of the       United States.

``(II) Emergency humanitarian efforts.

``(III) Law enforcement capacity-building efforts.

``(ii) Definition.--In this subparagraph, the term       `emergency humanitarian efforts' means activities carried out       by U.S. Customs and Border Protection pertaining to search       and rescue activities, medical assistance, air traffic       control assistance, and transport necessary to accomplish       such purposes.

``(C) Payment of claims.--

``(i) In general.--Subject to clauses (ii) and (iv), the       Secretary may expend funds that have been appropriated or       otherwise made available for the operating expenses of the       Department to pay claims for money damages against the United       States, in accordance with the first paragraph of section       2672 of title 28, United States Code, which arise in a       foreign country in connection with U.S. Customs and Border       Protection operations in such country.

``(ii) Submission deadline.--A claim may be allowed under       clause (i) only if such claim is presented not later than two       years after the date of the incident that gives rise to such       claim.

``(iii) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on       which the expenditure authority under clause (i) expires       pursuant to clause (iv), the Secretary shall submit to the       Committee on Homeland Security of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and       Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report that describes,       for each of the payments made pursuant to such clause (i),       the following:

``(I) The person or entity that received such payment.

``(II) The amount paid to such person or entity.

``(III) The country in which such person or entity resides       or has its principal place of business.

``(IV) A detailed account of the circumstances to justify       such payment.

``(iv) Sunset.--The expenditure authority under clause (i)       shall expire on the date that is five years after the date of       the enactment of this subparagraph.''.

Mr. GUEST.  4071.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in favor of H.R. 4071, the  Combatting International Drug Trafficking and Human Smuggling  Partnership Act of 2025.

Mr. Speaker, United States Customs and Border Protection's Air and  Marine Operations agents play a critical role in the homeland security  mission. Every day AMO agents conduct border operations to detect and  disrupt human trafficking, narcotics trafficking, and to stop other  dangerous and illicit contraband before it reaches our shore.

The impact of the incredible work of the men and women of CBP's Air  and Marine Operations is undeniable.

In fiscal year 2025 alone, AMO enforcement actions resulted in the  seizure of more than 500,000 pounds of illegal narcotics. I will say  that again: One-half million pounds of potential deadly contraband were  interdicted. That contraband will never make it into our communities or  into the hands of our children.

However, as transnational criminal organizations continue to become  more aggressive, they continue to try to extend their reach into the  United States, and we must be prepared to meet this evolving threat.  Strengthening international cooperation with our partners, such as  those in the Western Hemisphere, is an essential first step to  combating drug trafficking and human smuggling in addition to  supporting other law enforcement missions.

This legislation authorizes AMO and other designated CBP personnel to  continue and to expand these successful bilateral agreements by  providing training, sharing information, and conducting joint  operations that will increase interdictions and enhance regional  security as it saves lives and it strengthens our defense and makes  America safer.

By bolstering AMO's ability to work with our foreign partners, my  bill will help stem the flow of illegal narcotics and ensure that  criminals are intercepted before they reach our shores, and we will  protect our homeland from those who seek to cause us harm.

I would like to thank Representative Pou for joining me on this  legislation.

Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge all my colleagues to support this  legislation which will enhance CBP's Air and Marine Operations  capability as they work to keep our Nation secure and the American  people safe.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, every day, Customs and Border Protection's Air and  Marine Operations uses its highly trained pilots, mariners, and  surveillance operators to detect, interdict, and stop the smuggling of  people and illicit drugs.

Air and Marine Operations, known as AMO, also conducts critical  humanitarian missions and search and rescue operations out at sea,  including after hurricanes and other natural disasters.

They work with partner countries, specifically in the Americas and  the Caribbean, to save lives, train foreign law enforcement, and  address threats through joint operations before they reach our borders.

Right now, AMO's authority to enter into these foreign partnerships  relies on the yearly appropriations process, hindering their ability to  do any long-term planning. This bill formalizes their ability to  conduct operations with foreign partners and do such long-term  planning. Any such agreements will still have to go through the State  Department, but this change will improve AMO's ability to operate  strategically and assist foreign partners quickly when needed. This can  and will save lives.

Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I have no more speakers. I am prepared to  close after the gentleman from New York, and I reserve the balance of  my time.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bill as it helps Air and Marine  Operations work quickly, effectively, and strategically with our  foreign partners to keep our homeland safe and rescue those in need.  This can be the difference between life-and-death in some cases.

I, therefore, support this bipartisan piece of legislation, Mr.  Speaker, and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, in addition to the great work that we saw the men and  women of AMO perform this year, I would like to give this body some of  the statistics from FY24.

In fiscal year '24, we see that AMO's actions resulted in the arrest  of 1,009 individuals; that there were 48,609 apprehensions of illegal  aliens, as well as the seizure or disruption of 244,781 pounds of  cocaine, 2,235 pounds of fentanyl, 3,061 pounds of methamphetamine, the  seizure of 1,499 weapons, and also the seizure of $12.5 million in  United States currency.

Mr. Speaker, the previous legislation that we just debated and passed  the House talked about violent gangs, FTOs as they are often called.  The last legislation introduced by Mr. Knott talked about Tren de  Aragua, and we see that Tren de Aragua has become embedded in our  communities. They are involved in violent crimes like robbery, assault,  and murder. They are involved in human trafficking, and they are  involved in narcotics trafficking.

So, Mr. Speaker, I believe that this legislation goes hand in hand  with the previous legislation that this body just took up and passed.  It is an important step as we continue to remain vigilant and as we  continue to do what the American people elected us to do.

They elected us to keep them safe. They elected us to make sure that  the communities in which they live are great places to live, worship,  and to raise a family.

Mr. Speaker, I ask all Members on both sides of the aisle to support  H.R. 4071, and I yield back the balance of my time.