Enhancing Stakeholder Support and Outreach for Preparedness Grants Act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 4058) to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to enhance  outreach for the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State Homeland  Security Grant Program of the Department of Homeland Security, and for  other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 4058

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Enhancing Stakeholder       Support and Outreach for Preparedness Grants Act''.       SEC. 2. DHS GRANT OUTREACH.

(a) Urban Area Security Initiative.--Section 2003 of the       Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 604) is amended by       adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(f) Outreach and Technical Assistance.--The Administrator       shall, on an ongoing basis, provide stakeholder outreach,       engagement, education, technical assistance, and support,       prior to, during, and after the awarding of grants under this       section, including relating to the following:

``(1) Conducting annual surveys to collect feedback from       State, local, Tribal, and territorial stakeholders on the       awarding of such grants and the effectiveness of the       Administrator's outreach efforts.

``(2) Summaries of the surveys conducted pursuant to       paragraph (1) and other State, local, Tribal, and territorial       feedback and how such feedback was incorporated into       subsequent grant notices of funding opportunities.

``(3) Other feedback mechanisms that the Administrator       determines appropriate.''.

(b) State Homeland Security Grant Program.--Section 2004 of       the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 605) is amended       by adding at the end the following new subsection:

``(g) Outreach and Technical Assistance.--The Administrator       shall, on an ongoing basis, provide stakeholder outreach,       engagement, education, technical assistance, and support,       prior to, during, and after the awarding of grants under this       section, including relating to the following:

``(1) Conducting annual surveys to collect feedback from       State, local, Tribal, and territorial stakeholders on the       awarding of such grants and the effectiveness of the       Administrator's outreach efforts.

``(2) Summaries of the surveys conducted pursuant to       paragraph (1) and other State, local, Tribal, and territorial       feedback and how such feedback was incorporated into       subsequent grant notices of funding opportunities.

``(3) Other feedback mechanisms that the Administrator       determines appropriate.''.

(c) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than two years       after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller       General of the United States shall submit to the       Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and       the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of       Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and       Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the       effectiveness of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's       stakeholder outreach, engagement, education, technical       assistance, and support, prior to, during, and after the       awarding of grants under the Urban Area Security Initiative       and State Homeland Security Grant Program, in accordance with       subsection (f) of section 2003 and subsection (g) of section       2004, respectively, of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as       added by subsections (a) and (b), respectively.

(d) Report.--Not later than three years after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal       Emergency Management Agency shall submit to the Committee on       Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the       Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of       the Senate a report regarding the actions taken pursuant to       subsection (f) of section 2003 and subsection (g) of section       2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by       subsections (a) and (b), respectively, including with respect       to the surveys and summaries required under paragraphs (1)       and (2) of each of such subsections (f) and (g).

Mr. GUEST.  4058.

Mr. GUEST.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 4058, the Enhancing  Stakeholder Support and Outreach for Preparedness Grants Act, with the  understanding that FEMA's preparedness grants for States, localities,  urban areas, and Tribal and territorial governments are vital to  strengthening the security of this great Nation.

This legislation will require FEMA to engage with and to support  relevant stakeholders prior to, during, and after the awarding of such  grants.

I support this effort to increase outreach, and Mr. Speaker, I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that we are here today to consider my bill,  H.R. 4058, the Enhancing Stakeholder Support and Outreach for  Preparedness Grants Act.

This bill mandates that the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or  FEMA, provide ongoing outreach, engagement, education, technical  assistance, and support to stakeholders before, during, and after  awards for the State Homeland Security Program and the Urban Area  Security Initiative, two of the Department's leading grant programs  that address preventing, mitigating, and responding to acts of  terrorism.

Throughout this Congress, the Committee on Homeland Security has  heard a clear bipartisan message: Preparedness grants work. Time and  again, first responders and homeland security professionals alike have  warned us that without steady, reliable Federal investment, our  Nation's readiness will suffer, and our communities will be left more  vulnerable to the threats that we face. They have told us in no  uncertain terms that now is not the time to pull back and now is the  time to lean in.

Now is the time to strengthen these programs and ensure grantees have  a meaningful voice in shaping the policies that guide their work on the  ground.

My district, like so many others, relies on the Urban Area Security  Initiative and the State Homeland Security Program to strengthen  emergency preparedness and enhance counterterrorism coordination. These  priorities remain critical in New York City, where the memory of 9/11  serves as a constant reminder of the ongoing threat of terrorism.  Established in the aftermath of 9/11 to protect our communities, these  grants continue to play a vital role in safeguarding our city.

That is why my bill, H.R. 4058, works to ensure stronger oversight in  how these homeland security grants are managed. My bill requires FEMA  to conduct annual surveys and other feedback mechanisms to gather input  from stakeholders and incorporate this feedback into future grant  opportunities.

Additionally, H.R. 4058 directs the Government Accountability Office  to report on the effectiveness of FEMA's efforts within 2 years and  mandates that FEMA submit a detailed report to Congress on stakeholder  outreach and engagement.

My bill ensures that the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State  Homeland Security Program grants are responsive to local needs and  truly effective in protecting our communities.

The coordination between local, State, and Federal Government is all  the more important as we face increasing threats to our homeland, and  this bill would help to facilitate that.

I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 4058 and to act quickly so that  these critical funds reach the communities that need them most.

Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close after the gentleman from New York closes.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, my legislation would play a crucial role in  strengthening FEMA's engagement with State and local partners, ensuring  that homeland security grants are responsive, transparent, and actually  driven by the needs of the communities they are meant to protect.

Passage of this legislation is essential to preserving our national  readiness and strengthening our security against emerging threats.

H.R. 4058 restores fairness, accountability, and effectiveness to  FEMA's grant process so that every community, regardless of politics,  regardless of blue or red, can count on the support it needs to prevent  and respond to acts of terrorism.

Lastly, I thank Ranking Member Thompson, Resident Commissioner  Hernandez, and former Congressman and Chairman Mark Green for  cosponsoring this bill. I also extend my gratitude to the Major Cities  Chiefs Association and the International Association of Fire Chiefs for  endorsing the bill.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly encourage my colleagues to support H.R. 4058,  and I yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from New York (Mr. Goldman) for  his work on this piece of legislation, and I also want to recognize the  support of a former colleague and the former chairman of the Committee  on Homeland Security, Mark Green.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 4058, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.

The yeas and nays were ordered.