Producing Advanced Technologies for Homeland Security Act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 1692, the  Producing Advanced Technologies for Homeland Security Act, which I am  proud to have introduced along with Congressman Shri Thanedar.

The Department of Homeland Security has a constantly evolving  mission. To meet those threats, the Department was previously granted  the authority to enter into other transactional agreements, commonly  known as OTAs.

These legally binding agreements allowed the Department to engage  with nontraditional contractors that would not normally do business  with the Federal Government. This includes small business innovators,  public universities, and other cutting-edge technological incubators  that help meet the research and development needs of the Department of  Homeland Security.

These entities have produced technology that serves as a force  multiplier to our Border Patrol agents and include technology that  assists agents in cargo and vehicle screening that can detect illegal  substances attempting to be smuggled into the United States.

The applicability and usefulness of this authority has been  demonstrated recently in my home State of Mississippi, as the  University of Southern Mississippi played a leading role in developing  sensors for unmanned vehicles for use by both DHS and the United States  Coast Guard. Unfortunately, this was allowed to expire on September 30,  2024.

My bill would reauthorize and extend the program's OTA authority by 3  years, to 2028, while also providing additional safeguards for the  American taxpayer.

The bill would also require advanced notification to Congress should  the authority be used in advancement of artificial intelligence  technology. Given the rapid advancement in AI, it is critical that  Congress remain informed and aware of how Federal agencies are  utilizing AI to advance their mission.

To ensure greater transparency, the safeguards in this bill would  require DHS to report on its website any contract in excess of $1  million, reducing the amount that was previously required to be  reported from $4 million to $1 million.

As we look to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse, this legislation has  increased transparency requirements to ensure maximum accountability to  the American people.

Again, I thank Mr. Thanedar for his work on this important  legislation, and I appreciate Chairman Green and the committee staff  for their work on this issue. I urge all Members to support H.R. 1692.