Providing Emotional Assistance with Relief and Love Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696972/providing-emotional-assistance-with-relief-and-love-act


Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 3965) to establish in U.S. Customs and Border Protection a pilot  program to adopt dogs from local animal shelters to be trained as  support dogs, and for other purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 3965

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Providing Emotional       Assistance with Relief and Love Act'' or the ``PEARL Act''.       SEC. 2. CBP SUPPORT DOG PILOT PROGRAM.

(a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland       Security, acting through the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and       Border Protection (CBP), shall establish in CBP a pilot       program to adopt dogs from local animal shelters to be       trained as support dogs for CBP's Support Canine Program.

(b) Duration.--The pilot program under subsection (a) shall       terminate three years after the date of its establishment.

Mr. GUEST.  3965.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3965, the Providing Emotional  Assistance with Relief and Love Act, or the PEARL Act.

As the men and women of the United States Customs and Border  Protection work under incredibly stressful conditions to protect our  borders, providing a mechanism to boost their well-being will improve  the mental health of our frontline officers and agents.

This legislation would enhance CBP's Support Canine Program by  creating a pilot program to adopt dogs from local animal shelters to  serve as therapy dogs for CBP officers and agents.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, in my time serving on the Committee on Homeland  Security, I have seen the importance of effective mental health  services for the Department's workforce, and I thank Representative  Gonzales for introducing this bill.

Individuals within the U.S. Customs and Border Protection work in  high-stress environments, protecting our air, land, and sea borders.  One way to help address the stressors that they face and support their  mental health needs is by using therapy dogs.

That is why I do support this piece of legislation, which will create  a pilot program to adopt dogs from local animal shelters to be trained  as therapy dogs for the CBP workforce.

Not only will this bill provide additional mental health services to  CBP personnel, but it will help the dogs in need of homes in our  communities, certainly something everyone can support.

I know my colleagues and I are committed to improving the mental  health services offered to the men and women who work on our front  lines every day. I support this legislation, and I ask my colleagues to  do the same.

Mr. TONY GONZALES of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of  my bill, the PEARL Act.

With over 800 miles of the Texas-Mexico border, I represent the  largest border district in the country. From Eagle Pass to Del Rio to  the Big Bend region to El Paso, many of America's hardworking Border  Patrol agents call Texas 23 home.

Protecting our Nation's border is no easy feat. It is long hours,  late nights, and time away from home. The PEARL Act, named after a  special canine that helped our Border Patrol agents through some tough  times, gives our law enforcement one more tool to improve mental health  outcomes at CBP.

In 2023, CBP launched the Support Canine Program, which aims to  improve mental health resources for CBP personnel.

Here in Washington we have a saying: If you want a friend, get a dog.  That is exactly what this bill is doing. My bill builds upon this goal  by establishing a pilot program through the Department of Homeland  Security to adopt dogs from local animal shelters to enhance the  Support Canine Program.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to seeing this legislation to support the  men and women who defend our borders every day in the United States  pass.

Mr. GOLDMAN of New York.

Mr. Speaker, we should do all that we can to provide the men and  women of U.S. Customs and Border Protection with effective mental  health services, and this bill is a significant step in the right  direction. I speak from personal experience.

Mr. Speaker, I got my children a dog a couple of years ago after they  were struggling from the aftereffects and trauma of being in Tel Aviv  on October 7. It has done wonders for their mental health. I know  personally how important therapy dogs can be.

The fact that this bill also helps dogs in need by getting them out  of shelters and finding them good homes is something that we can and  should all get behind.

Mr. Speaker, I support this bipartisan piece of legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.

Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3965,  the PEARL Act.