-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694454/9999


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, on Friday, we may be facing the next  escalation in the President's trade war. The tariffs that the President  announced in April on virtually every country in the world are set to  go into full effect tomorrow night at 12:01 a.m. Those tariffs are  expected to add about $2,400 in costs for the average household per  year.

That is why I introduced the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes on  Imported Goods Act. This bill states clearly that the International  Emergency Economic Powers Act cannot be used to place taxes on imports.  If the President needs to block a dangerous product, he still can under  my legislation. But if there is a real threat, I think we would want to  stop it, not just tax it. That is what my bill does. It makes clear  what the Federal court has already found: that IEEPA, the International  Emergency Economic Powers Act, does not authorize tariffs.

Passing my bill would give businesses and families more certainty to  plan for the future and to keep more of their hard-earned dollars in  their pockets.

Virtually every business in New Hampshire that I visited since the  President announced his proposed tariffs has said that, in addition to  the tariffs, the uncertainty is as difficult for them as the tariffs.

So I am disappointed that Senator Crapo decided to block this  commonsense legislation. Sadly, I am not surprised. But this bill would  do so much to help families and businesses in all of our States. It  would shield them from higher costs.

We have been hearing about some of these deals that Senator Crapo  referred to that have been reached with the EU and Japan, but let's be  clear about what those deals mean because even after those deals--those  agreements, trade agreements--Americans are going to be left paying  dramatically higher tariffs.

A new analysis this week found that we will be paying the highest  tariffs since the Great Depression, and we saw what those tariffs  before the Great Depression contributed to.

Now, we just saw a deal announced with the EU by the President and  Ursula von der Leyen, the head of the European Commission, forcing 15  percent taxes on imports. Now, compare that to what we were paying in  2024 at this same time. That was about 1.5 percent. So under this great  deal that the President negotiated with the EU, Americans are going to  be paying 10 times what we paid last year. And with Japan, President  Trump agreed to a 15-percent tax. That is also 10 times what we were  paying last year.

So let's don't pretend that these are some big wins. The President  can announce that, but they are only a slight improvement on a crisis  that the President created himself.

At a time when people are rightly worried about the rising costs of  living, Trump's tariffs amount to a tax to make everything from  clothes, to housing, to food even more expensive. For example, last  month, home prices hit a record high, and these tariffs could add more  than $10,000 to the cost of a home. Coffee prices hit a record high  earlier this year, and now President Trump wants to put a 50-percent  tariff on Brazil--our largest source of coffee. As families do their  back-to-school shopping, they are going to see higher prices for  clothing and shoes. Those prices could go up by 35 percent by the end  of the year. For new parents, just for example, the price of one  stroller at Walmart went up 50 percent in 2 months. And there are  countless more products that are facing higher prices.

So let's be clear: These tariffs do nothing to bring down costs, and,  in fact, they could add, as I said earlier in this statement, about  $2,400 to the average household's yearly expenses. That is money that  most families don't have just lying around.

We have all of those costs from these tariffs, and yet, at this  moment, 30 hours from when the tariffs will go into effect, we still  have seen no official notice implementing any of these deals.

That includes, by the way, no clarity on whether prescription drugs  coming from Europe will face a 15-percent tariff starting in 2 days. I  had a chance to meet with a pharmaceutical company this week, and they  were lamenting what the impact was going to be on prescription drug  prices because of the tariffs from the EU.

Last Friday, I visited the Brueckner Group in New Hampshire. They  supply equipment to domestic manufacturers and import some of their  specialized machines, which they make, from Europe. The machines they  bring in are sold to manufacturers here in the United States to make  everything from IV bags to toothpaste containers. They have 80  employees in the United States, and far more work on their machines at  other companies across the country.

They saw orders put on hold in April, and further investments in the  United States are delayed because they can't be certain what the  tariffs are going to be that they might face.

They told me that even worse than the tariffs in some way is the  uncertainty that has been created, the chaos that has been created by  President Trump's announcements because people don't know how to plan,  businesses don't know what to invest in.

I believe in supporting domestic manufacturing. It is New Hampshire's  third largest industry. But half of all imports are raw materials and  intermediate goods--the very things that domestic manufacturers rely  on.

Instead of supporting domestic manufacturing, these trade policies  are making future American manufacturing more expensive. Furthermore,  they are threatening jobs.

My husband and I started out our married life owning and operating a  small business. I know the hardest part of small businesses is growing  and sustaining those businesses when you are uncertain about what is  going to happen, and that is what these tariffs create, as I heard at  Brueckner Group USA and as I have heard at every business I visited.

When I visited Brueckner 4 days ago, we had a 10-percent tax on  everything imported from the EU, and at the time, that was set to jump  to 30 percent this Friday. Then, Sunday, we saw an agreement to set the  tax at 15 percent but with unclear exceptions to that tax, like, as I  heard from the pharmaceutical company, with prescription drugs.

I also heard from Flight Coffee roasters in Bedford, NH. They are  worried about the President's threat to place new tariffs on Brazil  because they have already been paying a 10-percent markup on coffee  because of these tariffs. Now they are facing a 50-percent tax on  Brazilian coffee starting on Friday, and they have no choice but to  charge consumers more. Their most popular product comes from Brazil. So  this is a big hit to their business, and they can't be sure how this is  going to impact their sales.

We should be clear: The United States has a trade surplus with  Brazil. This threat is just because the President wants Brazil's  independent judiciary to stop the prosecution of Brazil's former  President.

How is any business supposed to plan for that kind of rationale and  for those kinds of swings? They need to secure financing. They need to  place orders. They need to invest in order to grow in the months and  years ahead, but building a new plant and moving production takes time.  In some cases, it takes years. So how can companies plan when they  don't even know whether the Trump tax--this tariff--is going to be 10  percent, 30 percent, or something in between or something higher?

New Hampshire is in a housing crisis. How can builders plan their  costs when no one can tell them if there is going to be a new 30- or  even 50-percent tax on their materials come Friday?

How can a family already struggling with high costs continue to pay  the rent and put food on the table if their household expenses are  going up $2,400 this year? And now, on Friday, the administration is  planning to make the goods businesses and families need 10 or 30 or 40  or 50 percent more expensive overnight.

This President promised to lower the price of everything--groceries,  rent, energy. What these tariffs do is just the opposite.

We are hearing a lot of positive spin from the administration about  the deals they are striking. But let me end by making two points.

First, we heard a lot of talk about 90 deals in 90 days. Well, we are  way past that deadline, and we have seen six--count them: six-- announcements. And it is not even clear that Vietnam has actually  agreed to what the President announced.

Second, I want to remind all of us that these deals all force  Americans and American businesses to pay a tax rate that is far higher  than what we saw before the President engaged in this trade war.

I talked earlier about how, for both Europe and Japan, Americans will  face a tax that is 10 times higher than we paid last year. That same  trend holds across every deal he has announced. With Indonesia, he  agreed to a 19-percent tax--four times what we paid last year.

With the Philippines, a 20-percent tax, up from 1.3 percent. So 15  times what we paid last year. And for the UK, where we have a trade  surplus--again, a trade surplus--he agreed to a 10-percent tariff,  again 10 times what we paid in 2024.

So we should be very clear. All of these rates are an increase from  what Americans have been paying since April. This President has raised  average tariffs from 2.5 percent to more than 17 percent, the highest  level since the Great Depression.

Again and again, he is adding costs to American families and  businesses, and what are these costs for? They are to finance tax cuts  for the wealthiest Americans, for the biggest corporations. The end  result of the President's ``Art of the Deal'' on trade is higher costs  for families, uncertainty for businesses, and alienated allies who no  longer view America as a reliable partner to do business with.