-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700856/9999


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I came to the floor this afternoon in  opposition to the SAVE Act. And I must admit, listening to some of the  proponents of the act talk, it doesn't sound to me like they are  talking about the same piece of legislation that I understand we are  going to be voting on. But I will get to that in a minute.

The fact is that I don't understand the timing on voting on this bill  because, right now, what the families in New Hampshire are worried  about is paying their grocery bills, being able to afford their rent or  their mortgage, being able to heat their homes, being able to pay for  childcare. They are worried about the rising costs of healthcare  premiums. And we are here debating a bill that is going to have the  Federal Government intervening in how States operate elections in ways  that make it harder for people to vote.

I don't have any objection to my colleagues here who were talking  about that they support the SAVE Act because they believe only American  citizens should vote. That is the law. Only American citizens can vote  in American elections. We are not--nobody is trying to change that.

What this law is trying to do is make it harder for American citizens  to vote. And I know from personal experience because New Hampshire  passed a similar law, house bill 1569, in 2024, and then-Governor  Sununu signed that law making some of the most sweeping changes in  generations in how people in the Granite State vote.

We have seen the results now. We have had two municipal elections. We  had the elections in 2025 where our cities voted, and we have seen the  town meeting elections in 2026. That law was in effect, and what we saw  is that voters showed up with driver's licenses as an ID, and they were  told that wasn't enough; that didn't match the requirements of the law,  just like the SAVE Act says it is not enough.

Women showed up with birth certificates, and they were told it didn't  match their legal names, so that wasn't enough. They couldn't vote.  First-time voters showed up expecting to register, and they were told  they needed a passport.

Each of these voters came prepared with an ID. In New Hampshire, we  require photo IDs. Each of them had photo IDs, and each of them was  told they didn't have what they needed.

That is what this debate is about. It is about whether people who  have photo IDs who are registered to vote can actually vote.

At our polling places in New Hampshire, in townhalls and high school  cafeterias and public libraries and churches and fire stations, when an  eligible voter is told they don't have what they need, in many cases,  they are not told anything more--not what documents are missing, not  how to fix it, not whether they can still vote that day. They are just  told, no, they can't vote. If they can't come back because they have  work or childcare or transportation, then they don't get to vote even  though they are eligible.

That is what should concern all of us, Democrats and Republicans,  unaffiliated voters.

As I said, only American citizens should vote in American elections.  Nobody is trying to change that. That is the law. It should be  enforced. The question before us is straightforward: Does this SAVE Act  make it easier for eligible Americans to vote or harder? Does it  disenfranchise voters or ensure that people who are legitimate voters  who want to vote are able to go to the polls and do that?

So to answer that question, I think we need to look at the problem  this bill is meant to solve. When you look at the data, noncitizen  voting is exceedingly rare--I mean, like so rare, it is less than one- hundredth of 1 percent. Even organizations that have gone looking for  noncitizen voters have found fewer than 100 cases over more than two  decades--over more than 20 years.

Now, what the SAVE Act says you have to do in order to register to  vote is that you have to have proof of citizenship that is a passport  or a birth certificate. We know that 146 million Americans--almost half  of all Americans--lack a valid passport.

Some of my colleagues said this was not going to affect women. Well,  I am sorry, but it is going to affect women because if women are  married, like me, and took their husband's name, like I did--my birth  certificate doesn't have my married name on my birth certificate. Not  only that, I didn't have easy access--when I applied for a passport,  and I was an adult by the time I got a passport, I had to send away to  Missouri because that is where I was born. It took me weeks to get my  birth certificate.

We know that about 69 million married women have taken their  husband's  name, and they don't have birth certificates that match their current  legal name.

So in New Hampshire, our secretary of state, who has refused to  comply when this administration--this Justice Department said: Send us  your voter rolls.

He said and the State of New Hampshire said: We are not going to do  that because the State conducts our elections. We are doing this  appropriately, and you don't need the voter rolls.

But he said that instances of voter fraud are ``minuscule''--and he  is a Republican.

I think if this were a widespread problem, we would expect a  bipartisan effort to address it, but what we are considering is a very  partisan bill that blocks eligible voters.

More than 21 million Americans don't have easy access to documents  that prove citizenship. Many don't have documents that reflect their  current legal name. As I said, my birth certificate doesn't have my  current legal name on it. In some cases, that means that voters have to  leave and return multiple times because their documents don't match.

After we passed this voter ID law in New Hampshire, I went to vote in  Madbury, where I had been registered since I moved to Madbury in 1979  when we built our home there. I have run for office--about 10 times my  name has been on the ballot. Everybody in the town of Madbury who is  part of the voting process knows exactly who I am.

I got into the polling place, and they said: Nope. You can't vote. We  know who you are, but you have to go get your voter ID.

Well, fortunately, I left it in the car, so I went out and got it and  brought it back. But for a lot of people, if they have to go home and  get the documents they need, often they are not able to get back  because the polling hours in some polling places like Madbury don't go  all day long. They start at 11 in the morning and they are over at 7 at  night in Madbury.

As I said, in the municipal elections, what nonpartisan observers  found was that at least 244 voters were turned away. In some  communities, it was as many as 1 in 10 same-day registrants who  couldn't complete the process. Women were turned away because their  documents didn't match their current legal name. In March of 2025, New  Hampshire Public Radio reported that Brooke Yonge of Derry had to make  multiple trips to the polls because her documents didn't match her  married name.

This wasn't limited just to new voters or the people unfamiliar with  the system; it included people who had participated in our elections  for years--people like me.

This bill prevents Americans from voting, and that is not acceptable.

I think we can enforce the law. We can ensure that eligible Americans  are able to vote.

Today, voters already confirm they are eligible under penalty of  perjury. Election officials already have tools to verify that  information.

In States like New Hampshire, before house bill 1569, we had a system  that allowed voters to register and yet still required documentation to  be provided.

For years, voters who didn't have documentation could sign a sworn  affidavit and provide it after the fact. That gives local officials  clear, workable standards.

Right now, under the SAVE America Act, the affidavit that is required  doesn't provide guidelines for voter registration officials to  understand what is required for proof of citizenship. It creates this  new bureaucratic process, but then it doesn't give State officials the  details on what they need to do.

This bill moves us in the direction of replacing a system that has  worked in practice with one that risks turning eligible Americans away.

One of my favorite examples--because it is so outrageous--of what  happened in the municipal elections in New Hampshire is that we had a  former Republican executive councilor--in New Hampshire, we have this  position called the executive council that is a carryover from colonial  days. It is a five-member elective body that approves all State  contracts and all of the Governor's nominees.

We had a very prominent former executive councilor--Republican--who  was turned away at the polls because he didn't have the required  documentation, not because he was ineligible. He had changed wards from  one ward to another, and because he had changed wards, he had been  purged from the voter rolls.

So he went back and got the proof of where he was living, and they  said: Oh, no, because you have been purged, we need proof of  citizenship.

Again, this is somebody who had run for elected office multiple times  in New Hampshire, who was well known to election officials in the  Republican Party--was well known. He was asked to go back and get proof  of his citizenship. Unfortunately, he couldn't produce that proof of  citizenship in the time required before the polls closed, and so  because he didn't have it, he wasn't allowed to vote.

That is what happens under this law. That is the consequence of this  approach. And it doesn't just affect new voters, voters unfamiliar with  the process; it affects people who know the process well. It doesn't  strengthen our election system; it weakens it.

At a time when my constituents in New Hampshire are paying more to  heat their homes, when fuel prices are spiking, when gasoline prices  are spiking, the fact that we are here debating this instead of  debating how to help people address the rising costs of living, how to  make their lives more affordable--instead, we are debating how to make  it harder for them to vote. That makes no sense.

I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill, and let's get on to  addressing what our constituents are really concerned about, which is  how to make their lives better, how to ensure they can afford to feed  their families, make sure they can afford to pay their rent, buy their  gasoline, and pay their bills.