-9999


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, 100 days ago, our Nation was safe and  our economy was considered the envy of the world. We had disease  surveillance programs that were in place to stop the spread of deadly  viruses like Ebola, no matter where they broke out in the world, and  the security contracts at detention camps that have been filled with  ISIS fighters were still being paid.

And if our Nation was attacked by a foreign enemy or if we were  thrown into a global pandemic or even a global economic crisis, our  allies had our backs. They had our backs because they knew that in  their darkest hour, the United States would stand with them.

Then, unfortunately, the Trump administration took over, and in 100  days, this administration has undone six decades of investments that  have made the United States more respected and influential than any  other nation.

The administration and the President have raised and lowered and  raised and lowered tariffs against some of our closest allies and  neighbors, spiking costs for Americans and hurting our manufacturers  and the defense industry.

Instead of the promised golden age of America or golden age of  prosperity and lower prices, of safety and security, of our enemies  bowing to our demands, the resulting chaos has left us weaker and more  vulnerable. From global financial markets to New Hampshire  supermarkets, consumers and businesses aren't sure what to expect.

They are looking at higher prices, at layoffs, at longer wait times,  and at uncertainty, which many businessowners I have talked to tell me  it is just as bad as higher tariffs because they don't know what to  expect, and they can't plan.

I recently met with a New Hampshire company called New Hampshire Ball  Bearings. It is a company that makes bearings for the aerospace  industry, and they do a lot of business with our Department of Defense.

They are concerned because once the tariffs were announced, their  only domestic steel manufacturer has increased its cost to be  equivalent to what out-of-state companies--out-of-country companies are  charging.

But worse than that, they said that their lead time for steel that  they use for the aerospace industry and for our Department of Defense  has gone from 20 weeks to 2\1/2\ years. I mean, think about that. The  lead time to get the steel they need to make the ball bearings has gone  from 20 weeks--which is a long time in and of itself--but now it is  2\1/2\ years because of the tariffs.

And the administration's attacks against U.S. research and academic  institutions, against our international students, have also caused  serious damage to our reputation as a global hub for STEM talent, not  to mention those students who are graduating from our colleges and  universities who we want to attract to stay in the United States  because they are the next generation of talent.

The policies of this administration have left us more vulnerable to  the spread of deadly diseases like Marburg and Ebola. They have  crippled our response to disasters like hurricanes in the Caribbean, as  we enter what is expected to be an active hurricane season.

And just today, the Secretary of Defense said he would end the Women,  Peace, and Security program at the Department of Defense. Now, he  mistakenly said this was a program that was put in place by the Biden  administration. That is not true. He didn't even--he wasn't even  concerned enough to go back and look at the history.

This is legislation, and it is a law--it is not a rule--it is a law  that we passed in 2017 during the first Trump administration. I know  because I sponsored it. The House sponsor was our current Secretary of  Homeland Security Kristi Noem. It had support from our current National  Security Adviser, former Congressman Waltz, and it was bipartisan  legislation.

It is not some DEI program--some program that is designed to provide  women an advantage in the Department of Defense. What it is is a  program that gives us a security advantage.

Every combatant commander who has come through my office has  highlighted the strategic advantage that this program gives to our U.S.  forward deployed forces, and it gives us that advantage because our  adversaries don't have this kind of program.

One of the reasons we passed it in the first place is because what we  know from the data is that when women are at the table in a negotiation  to end conflict, that the negotiations that are agreed to have a better  than 30-percent chance of lasting 15 years or longer because women are  at the table.

It is an advantage that it gives us because China and Iran and North  Korea and Russia don't have that role for women in their military. What  Secretary Hegseth's action has done is not only showed his ignorance,  but is now putting our military at a disadvantage because of that  ignorance.

Now what these kind of actions do is to create opportunities for our  adversaries to gain influence. It is not just giving Vladimir Putin the  chance to keep stringing along American negotiators, to continue to  play President Trump as he is trying to secure a Ukraine peace deal,  but across the globe, China is stepping in everywhere the United States  is retreating.

After the earthquake in Myanmar, the Chinese Embassy flooded social  media with images of Chinese rescue workers responding to crises,  instead of the United States because we weren't there at all because  the three people we sent to assess the damage to see what we needed to  do to help were fired while they were in Myanmar trying to figure out  what we can do to help that situation.

So China's image is being bolstered at our expense.

Across Africa and Latin America, Chinese Ambassadors are giving  interviews focused on the unreliability of the United States as a  partner. They are inviting local officials to all-expense-paid trips to  Beijing to discuss further cooperation.

China is now replacing a canceled American program for child  nutrition in Cambodia, and Beijing just announced an early childhood  project in Rwanda, where the United States recently cut our program.

They are even moving in, picking up the PEPFAR Program that we have  walked away from in Africa, after saving millions of lives. These cuts  represent a serious strategic error on behalf of the United States  because for less than 1 percent, about 1 percent of our annual budget,  America has been able to build partnerships around the globe that have  reduced the threat of illness and the spread of disease, including here  at home, because thanks to these programs around the world, we have  nearly eradicated polio, we have cut malaria deaths by half, and we  have saved 25 million lives from HIV/AIDS. And these successes  strengthen America's reputation on the global stage, they help counter  our adversary's influence, and they help us here at home, because it  means that diseases like bird flu don't reach America's shores, where  they are now. It means that we can track those diseases.

So whether it is through its mismanaged trade war or deliberate  weakening of U.S. standing overseas, the administration is facilitating  China's global rise. That is why, as the ranking member of the Senate  Foreign Relations Committee, I am committed to working with my  colleagues on both sides of the aisle to preserve the vital programs  that we need to keep our country safe.

I am committed to speaking up for American families and small  businesses that have been shouldering the burden of higher costs  because of President Trump's trade wars.

So I know he is not listening, but I call on President Trump to  reverse course, to spend the next 100 days fulfilling the promises that  he made during his campaign--promises to make our Nation safer, to make  it more secure, to make it more prosperous.