20th Anniversary of New Hampshire's First Martin Luther King Jr. Day Celebration


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise today in observance of the 20th  anniversary of New Hampshire's first Martin Luther King Jr. Day. After  legislation was enacted the previous summer, Martin Luther King Jr. Day  in the year 2000 was the culmination of a years-long struggle to add  Dr. King's name to the State's official Civil Rights Day holiday. I ask  my colleagues and all Americans to join me in celebrating this  recognition of such an influential figure and saluting the men and  women who prompted this important and permanent change. 

  This anniversary is personal for me. I fought alongside so many when  I served in the New Hampshire State Senate for an appropriate way to  honor Dr. King, the preeminent leader of the civil rights movement.  Years later, as Governor, I was proud to sign the bill into law that  ended New Hampshire's status as the only State not to recognize his  birthday as an official holiday. There were setbacks leading up to that  triumphant June day, including many failed votes in the State  legislature; yet with a sense of resilience typical of the movement  that Dr. King inspired, we persevered and kicked off the new millennium  in the Granite State by celebrating our first Martin Luther King Jr.  Day on January 17, 2000. 

  It was an exciting time that reflected the positive change that many  of us had seen in our lifetimes. As a child growing up in southern  Missouri and attending segregated schools, I saw the daily injustices  of life under Jim Crow segregation. We have made great strides since  then in the march toward full equality, and these advancements are the  product of Dr. King's leadership and the peaceful, nonviolent protest  movements that he championed. 

  Whether writing from inside a jail cell or speaking from the steps of  the Lincoln Memorial, Dr. King delivered a stirring message with hope  that Americans could come together and fully realize one of our  country's founding principles, that all are created equal. He pledged  himself and inspired others to work toward a more perfect union and  embrace a belief in freedom and opportunity for all. He held a faith  that engaged citizens--from the thousands who stood with him on the  National Mall in 1963 to the many who worked tirelessly years later to  establish a holiday in his name--are the most powerful promoters of  positive social and economic change. 

  One of those engaged citizens was Rev. Dr. Arthur Hilson of New Hope  Baptist Church in Portsmouth, NH. A beacon of wisdom and grace,  Reverend Hilson was instrumental in garnering the public support to  establish Martin Luther King Jr. Day. He understood that the people we  choose to revere can send a powerful message to future generations and  that the lifework and message of Dr. King must be a part of the  heritage we leave to our children. We lost Reverend Hilson last year,  but we still hold on to cherished memories of a man who, when asked how  he was doing, would always answer, ``Too blessed to complain.'' We are  all blessed to have known such a loving neighbor, determined activist  and living embodiment of Dr. King's teachings. 

  On behalf of the people of New Hampshire, I ask my colleagues and all  Americans to join in celebrating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day and in  recognizing Reverend Hilson who was so dedicated to building Dr. King's  ``Beloved Community'' of justice, equality and love for all.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT