Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


  In the past 3 years, we have seen the global impact of this policy.  Health clinics have closed, access to care has decreased, and lives are  needlessly put at risk. When women in developing countries and other  parts of the world don't have access to family planning and information  they need for women's reproductive health, abortions actually increase  rather than decrease. Research shows that by decreasing access to  information about modern contraceptive options, abortion rates  increase. This policy doesn't stop abortions; it only limits the  resources that are available that prevent women from having unwanted  pregnancies. 

  My Republican colleagues can call it whatever they want--the  Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance policy, the Mexico City  Policy--I call it dangerous and deadly. In fact, instead of protecting  life, the global gag rule erects new barriers to critical health  services, including reproductive health services, for people and  communities who already have limited access to affordable, high quality  healthcare. 

  Across U.S. global health assistance, we are seeing a breakdown in  systems of health care provisions which disproportionately impacts the  most vulnerable, hard-to-reach populations. In Uganda, mobile health  teams that go into communities and provide sometimes the only health  care available are being cut. 

  ABBEF, the International Planned Parenthood Federation member in  Burkina Faso, was forced in 2017 to prematurely end its U.S.-supported  pilot initiative to distribute contraceptives in secondary schools  where there is a huge family planning need. 

  Marie Stopes International, MSI, received 17% of its donor income  from USAID at the time the global gag rule was reinstated. These funds  were exclusively used for voluntary contraception services and the loss  of funding has impacted work with poor and marginalized communities  most in need of accessing services. 

  Marie Stopes Ethiopia, with expertise in reaching remote communities,  ended its U.S.-funded program providing vasectomies and tubal ligations  to rural populations. No other organization has the technical skills  and expertise to provide the same quality of service and choice. 

  Clearly this policy decreases care, increases abortions, and risks  the lives of women around the world. And this is not about abortion,  this is about controlling a woman's body and limiting her choices. 

  If we are actually going to get serious about improving women's  health, we should be working to end the global gag rule. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT