Authorizing Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of Desmond Bellard V. Ronald Wyden, U.S. Senator


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, it wasn't that long ago that Sudan was  on a path to recovery after decades of violence and civil war.

Back in 2018, Sudanese citizens took to the streets to protest the  conditions in their country. This movement pushed Omar al-Bashir, who  was indicted by the ICC for a campaign of mass killing and rape, out of  power, and this set the country on a course for a better future. Sadly,  that future was disrupted when the military overthrew the civilian-led  Government of Sudan.

Then, 2 years ago, the Sudanese Armed Forces, led by General al- Burhan, and the Rapid Support Forces, led by General Hemedti, plunged  Sudan into war. In the 2 years since, over 150,000 people have died and  12 million more have been displaced.

You can see this poster reflects the results of what is happening in  Sudan. In just 2 years, 12 million more people have been displaced and  are in camps. This is actually one of the nicer camps.

With acute famine levels at historic highs, 30 million people are in  desperate need of humanitarian aid. You can see some of the Sudanese  people with their dishes lined up to get some assistance.

As so often happens during war, the impact has been especially  devastating to women and girls. During raids by the armed factions,  women and girls have been abducted and forced into sexual and domestic  slavery. One U.N. report found that gender-based violence skyrocketed  by 288 percent last year. Again, you can see the impact. According to  UNICEF, 221 children have been raped, including a case involving a 1- year-old baby.

If this is true, we just can't ignore it as another horrific detail  of a distant conflict. The world is watching, and we must hold the  people who are perpetrating these acts accountable for their crimes.

The U.S. Government has determined that both the Sudanese Armed  Forces and the Rapid Support Forces have committed war crimes and  crimes against humanity during fighting in Sudan. And the Rapid Support  Forces have led a campaign of ethnic cleansing in Darfur.

In January of 2025, the U.S. Treasury Department took a positive  step. It sanctioned the leader of the Rapid Support Forces and the  leader of the Sudanese Armed Forces for their armies' lethal attack on  civilians in Sudan. But more needs to be done.

Cease-fire after cease-fire has failed. Peace negotiations have  stalled, and outside countries--the UAE, Turkey, Iran, as well as  Russia and China--continue to send weapons to the factions. Why? Well,  because Russia doesn't want to give up its port access to the Red Sea,  China doesn't want to abandon the nearly $6 billion of investments it  has made in Sudan since 2005, and the UAE doesn't want to abandon  Sudan's wartime gold trade. According to mining industry sources and  research by Swissaid, nearly all of Sudan's gold trade flows through  the UAE.

The United States needs to stand up and say enough is enough.

For people who say ``Well, what difference does it make? That is  Africa. That is a long way away from the United States. Why does it  matter?'' well, because, sadly, what happens in Africa, what happens in  Sudan doesn't stay in Sudan. If you can't be outraged because of the  moral horror of what is happening there, you should be outraged because  the terrorism and the potential disease that can cross the borders of  Sudan can come to the United States, and we have seen that too often in  the past.

As ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, I am  committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle here  in Congress as well as folks in the Trump administration because we  must hold these groups accountable for their war crimes. We must  support them in ending the violence.

Right now, both sides in the war continue to bomb, to raid, to siege  schools, markets, and hospitals. The Sudanese Armed Forces are  intentionally denying humanitarian aid. They are blocking medicine and  other relief items. The Rapid Support Forces continue to lead an  ethnically charged campaign of violence in Darfur.

Sadly, so many of the foreign assistance programs that we had in  place have been ended or are under review.

The United States, the Trump administration, and Congress must create  a clear policy to address this conflict. We must resume foreign  assistance to the region and Sudan to limit further humanitarian  suffering. We must set aside our differences, bring an end to the  violence, and renew our commitment to setting Sudan back on the path to  a civilian-led democracy.