Bill Introduced by Shaheen, Crapo to Bring Home Missing Servicemembers Introduced in House, Gains Veterans Organizations' Support


A companion bill to S. 2794, the Bring Our Heroes Home Act (BOHHA), introduced by U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) Mike Crapo (R-ID), was introduced today in the U.S. House of Representatives by Representatives Chris Pappas (D-NH) and Russ Fulcher (R-ID).  Shaheen and Crapo today also announced that S. 2794 has received endorsements by three Veterans Service Organizations, including Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), American Veterans (AMVETS) and the Coalition of Families of Korean and Cold War POW/MIAs. 

"We need to do everything in our power to ensure that those who have given the ultimate sacrifice in service of our nation are brought back home.  I'm thankful that the Bring Our Heroes Home Act has now been introduced in the House of Representatives," said Senator Shaheen.  "By creating an expedited and efficient process allowing family members of missing service men and women to access information on their loved ones, we will move one step closer to delivering closure to families and honoring our commitment to return these brave Americans home.  I'll continue to work to move this important legislation through Congress." 

"I can't imagine the feeling of families who have waited years and in many cases decades to learn any information at all about their loved ones who are missing in action or unaccounted for," said Representative Pappas.  "For far too long, the federal government has not had an expedited process in place to declassify and make public the necessary information that could bring peace to these families. This tangible step towards identification and repatriation reaffirms the commitment to our nation's service members and their families with a clear message: you are not forgotten." 

Since its introduction on November 6, 2019, the Senate bill has gained 11 additional co-sponsors in the Senate, including Senators James Risch (R-ID), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Jon Tester (D-MT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Rick Scott (R-FL), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Mike Rounds (R-SD) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH).