Commerce, Justice, Science; Energy and Water Development; and Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699085/commerce-justice-science-energy-and-water-development-and-interior-and-environment-appropriations-act-2026


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I come to the floor today to join Leader  Schumer and others in requesting that this body address the healthcare  disaster that is facing millions of American families. It is a  disaster, sadly, that we have seen coming for more than a year. And if  we are serious about protecting both the physical and financial health  of Americans, we must restore the enhanced premium tax credits that  expired on December 31.

Congress has not fulfilled its duty to protect Americans from rising  healthcare costs. And at a time when so many Americans are worried  about the cost of living, inaction is causing health insurance premiums  to skyrocket for millions of Americans. More than 22 million Americans  have already been affected by the expiration of the enhanced premium  tax credits.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services reported earlier this  week that more than 1.4 million people, including tens of thousands in  New Hampshire, have already lost their healthcare coverage because of  the unaffordable cost increases of healthcare premiums without the  enhanced premium tax credits. And unfortunately, that is just the  beginning. Insurers have told us higher prices and more losses are  coming, as families realize they can't continue to pay their monthly  premiums. The Urban Institute predicted almost 5 million people could  lose their healthcare coverage. Families are being forced to reduce the  quality of their coverage, and they are facing higher out-of-pocket  costs.

Back in October, one of my constituents from New Boston, NH, Darla,  contacted me with serious concerns about whether she and her husband  would be able to afford healthcare coverage without the enhanced  premium tax credits. This is what is so disturbing.

Last month, she reported that her family's monthly premium would go  from $100 a month to $1,200 a month, so more than $15,000 a year. She  and her husband can't afford that kind of an increase. They are in  their fifties; so they can't afford to go without healthcare coverage.

If we fail to act, we have failed Darla's family and millions of  other Americans.

The crisis was avoidable. We knew that this would happen if the  enhanced premium tax credits expired.

One year ago, on January 9, I introduced the Health Care  Affordability Act, which would have made the enhanced premium tax  credits permanent. There are 44 Democratic cosponsors on my bill.

Last week, we saw the House pass an extension with strong bipartisan  support, and I applaud all those Members of the House who supported  that 3-year extension and who worked hard to make it bipartisan.

I know many of our Republican colleagues agree that we need to  restore the enhanced premium tax credits so people like Darla and her  family can afford healthcare coverage. They know that Americans want  Congress to act to bring down costs. And what Leader Schumer asked for  today is straightforward: that the Senate allow an immediate extension  of the enhanced premium tax credits to move forward without delay.

I am not surprised at the objection because we saw what the vote was  back in December on extending the premium tax credits in this body.

I am hopeful that the bipartisan efforts that have been ongoing to  try and find a compromise to address some of the reforms that Senator  Crapo referenced, but also to ensure that we can, both, lower the cost  of healthcare and make sure we don't have millions of families who lose  their health insurance--I am hopeful that bipartisan effort can  continue, that we can reach a compromise, and that we can do what is in  the best interest of the people of this country and the millions of  Americans who are faced with losing their health insurance coverage.