Letter to Jerome Powell, Chair of the Federal Reserve - Warren, Colleagues Urge Fed to Reconsider Arbitrary Population Requirements That Lock Most Cities and Counties Out of CARES Act Budget Help


Dear Chairman Powell,

We write to you today to express our concerns regarding the seemingly arbitrary city and countypopulation thresholds used to determine eligibility for the Federal Reserve's recently announcedMunicipal Liquidity Facility program authorized in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and EconomicSecurity Act (CARES Act; P.L. 116-136). Cities and counties across the country are in desperatefinancial straits and need assistance from Congress and the Federal Reserve, and the FederalReserve's announcement last week that it would be purchasing up to $500 billion of debt fromeligible cities and counties was welcome news.1 But by limiting the direct purchase of short-termnotes to cities with at least one million residents and to counties with at least two millionresidents, the Federal Reserve's program will benefit only 15 counties and 10 cities, leaving outmuch of the country, including some of the hardest-hit communities.

With over 50,000 different issuers within the municipal bond market, we understand that theFederal Reserve had to take the difficult step in establishing parameters on what type ofmunicipal bonds can be accepted into the facility.3 However, the population limitation isarbitrary and unacceptable and will hurt hundreds of communities nationwide. We, therefore,strongly urge you to revise the terms of the Federal Reserve's Municipal Liquidity Facilityprogram by considering more inclusive alternatives to reducing the complexity of the municipalliquidity facility.

As we look to weather our Nation's health and economic crisis, we have been in constant contactwith state and local governmental entities affected by the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)pandemic across our country. Cities and counties are on the front lines in this public healthemergency and need assistance from the federal government to address the lost revenue from andincreased costs of the fight against COVID-19. The pandemic has caused significant revenueshortfalls and has also increased costs for local governments. A National League of Cities reportreleased earlier this week found that more than 2,100 cities are planning for major budget shortfalls this year as a result of unexpected increase in expenditures and loss in revenue.4 Thishas resulted in localities scaling back projects and services to focus on curbing the spread of thevirus. Now more than ever, localities need the expeditious support of the federal government tofill these short and long-term gaps in funding.

On a local level, localities are experiencing and responding to these shocks in a variety of ways.Baltimore City, Maryland (population 602,000) anticipates a $42.3 million budget shortfall as aresult of COVID-19 and has been forced to undergo a spending and hiring freeze.5 The City ofBoston (population nearly 695,000) will see tens of millions in lost revenue and unexpectedexpenses related to the immediate public health response and the long term effects of restartingthe local economy. Because of the pandemic, Toledo, Ohio (population: 276,491) anticipates abudget deficit of $10 million but it could balloon as high as $50 million. To trim costs, the cityhas placed over 10% percent of its employees on temporary emergency leave - a decision thathas affected every facet of city government, including the police and fire departments. And, NewYork's Westchester County (population 967,506) is estimating over a $100 million decline insales tax revenue, plus nearly $16 million in reduced public transportation fares and $8 million incounty park fees. These are just four examples of how this economic shock is playing out aroundthe U.S.

Congress intended for the law to channel badly needed resources to state and local governmentsthat are fighting on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic while grappling with a historiceconomic slowdown and billions of dollars in lost revenue. By imposing the limits set out in itsMunicipal Liquidity Facility program, the Federal Reserve is denying the vast majority of ourcountry's local governments direct access to funding, leaving them in desperate straits. Withoutquick access to federal assistance, these governments will be forced to cut services or raisetaxes--both of which can harm public health and the economy when they are most vulnerable.

As we continue to navigate this difficult time for our Nation, we must stay united in our resolveto combat this virus and the economic crisis it has created, and the federal government mustprovide all states and counties with much-needed assistance. We therefore urge you to expandeligibility for the new Municipal Liquidity Facility.

Sincerely,