National Ahec Week


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689246/national-ahec-week


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise today to recognize this week as  National AHEC--Area Health Education Centers--Week.

The AHEC program, originally authorized in 1971, began by working in  conjunction with other Health Resources and Services Administration  programs to develop health professionals to staff brick-and-mortar  community health centers across the country. Today, AHECs offer hands- on and  innovative health career curriculums for pre-college level students and  are committed to continuing education, clinical training of health  professionals, and responding to community health needs. The Nation's  300 AHECs operate in nearly every State and in multiple U.S.  territories.

AHEC clinical training placements put students in a variety of real- world settings, such as urban and rural community health clinics and  health departments that provide care to traditionally hard-to-reach  populations. Students, in particular those working through their AHECs,  are more likely to remain in the communities where they trained, making  it critically important to establish training opportunities in rural  and underserved areas.

The need to strengthen the healthcare workforce continues. According  to new data from the Association of American Medical Colleges, the U.S.  could see a shortage of up to 124,000 physicians by 2034, and the  American Hospital Association says more than 200,000 new registered  nurses are needed each year to meet increasing healthcare needs and to  replace retiring nurses. AHECs have continued to work towards  addressing workforce shortage areas, especially in rural and  underserved communities. Just in the past 5 years, the AHEC program has  trained 2 million healthcare professionals.

I have had the opportunity to work closely with the New Hampshire  AHEC and have witnessed the amazing work they do. The mission of the  New Hampshire AHEC is to support workforce development activities for  current and future healthcare workers in the Granite State. In 2024,  the New Hampshire AHEC offered continuing education to over 4,500  healthcare workers, improving treatment options for patients suffering  from diseases such as diabetes and substance use disorder. In addition  to working with providers, they also offer trainings on chronic  disease, chronic pain and diabetes self-management to patients in the  community. More than 3,000 individuals have participated in these  programs since 2010.

The New Hampshire AHEC team were pioneers in identifying the need for  a workforce that bridges healthcare and community. Over the past 27  years, New Hampshire AHEC has focused on building the healthcare  workforce by offering both day and residential programs for high school  students, while also providing didactics and community-based  experiences for health professions students across the State. I cannot  stress enough how important the New Hampshire AHEC is for our  communities and how important it is that the program continues to be  supported by Congress. AHECs not only address current healthcare gaps  and challenges, but they recruit, train, and bolster our future health  workforce. On behalf of my constituents at the New Hampshire AHEC  program and the national AHEC program more broadly, I call on my  colleagues to join me in recognizing March 24 to March 28 as National  AHEC Week.