NH Delegation Raises Concerns Over Potential Changes to Veterans' Disability Claims Process


Today, Congressman Chris Pappas, a member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, and Chairman of the Subcommitte on Oversight and Investigations, along with U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen and Maggie Hassan and Congresswoman Annie Kuster raised concerns over potential changes to how the Department of Veterans Affairs considers disability claims.

The VA announced that it is ending its current 48-hour review period for a claim determination that historically has helped make sure that veterans don't lose out on benefits because of technical mistakes in their application. The VA is also proposing to limit who can access case files, which may result in veterans not receiving the assistance that they need to move forward in the disability claims process.

"Veterans who sustained injuries in service to our country have earned their benefits, and we should be working together to make it easier for them to receive them, not throwing up new roadblocks. These changes will make the claims process more cumbersome for veterans," wrote the New Hampshire Congressional Delegation.

The Congressional Delegation also addressed the timing of these proposed changes: "We are deeply concerned that the VA is phasing out this quality review mechanism in the midst of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Staff assisting veterans are working at remote locations with fewer resources during an ever-evolving situation. Our country is facing an unprecedented emergency, and confusion during this crisis only leads to further frustration."

The Congressional Delegation letter comes in response to concerns raised by the New Hampshire Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) over the proposed changes.

"We appreciate both Senators, Congresswoman and Congressman's support on this issue. Hopefully there is enough pressure on VA Secretary Wilkie to reverse this terrible decision," said Paul Lloyd, State Adjutant of the NH VFW. 

"On behalf of our NH Veterans and Veterans everywhere, thank you for your prompt action and response to this request," added Jörg Dreusicke, National Legislative Committee Representative of the NH VFW.