NH Delegation Announces More Than $6.7 Million in Funding Through CARES Act to Support Home Energy Assistance


Today, U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Representatives Annie Kuster (NH-02) and Chris Pappas (NH-01) announced that New Hampshire is set to receive $6,768,870 in assistance under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). LIHEAP is a federally funded program that provides eligible households with help paying a portion of their energy bills. The program provided assistance to nearly 30,000 Granite Staters this past year, many of them families, seniors and people with disabilities.

"COVID-19 poses a long-term threat to the financial security of low-income families and seniors, and we need to make sure they have access to the support they need during this crisis," said Senator Shaheen. "During negotiations, I was adamant that COVID-19 relief include resources for LIHEAP so that low-income Granite Staters don't have to choose between paying their heating bills and paying for other necessities like food or medicine. Though I'm pleased this funding is out the door, we still have much work to do and I'll continue to work across the aisle to deliver relief to New Hampshire."

"As Granite Staters struggle with the unprecedented economic impact of this pandemic, it is essential that they can afford to keep their homes at a safe temperature, especially as they are spending more time indoors as a result of the stay-at-home order," said Senator Hassan. "This federal funding will help Granite Staters get through these hot summer months, and I will continue working to support our most vulnerable citizens during this challenging time."  

"Many Granite Staters are facing serious financial challenges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, making it difficult to afford necessities including their home energy bills," said Congresswoman Kuster. "This funding through the CARES Act will help New Hampshire families with their home energy bills, giving those who are struggling during this public health emergency one less thing to worry about. I will continue working to ensure Granite Staters have the resources and support they need to get through this heath and economic crisis."  

"Energy assistance is essential for low income households, and it will be of even greater importance as more Granite Staters seek relief from the economic impacts of this pandemic," said Congressman Pappas. "I'm pleased to see this funding released to help those who are struggling, and I will continue working to ensure New Hampshire gets the support we need to help our families weather this crisis."

Ensuring Granite State families and seniors have access to heating assistance has been a top priority for Senator Shaheen. As a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Shaheen has historically saved and boosted funding for LIHEAP, which President Trump's budget proposals have repeatedly sought to eliminate.