Nominations En Bloc


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696058/nominations-en-bloc


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, while I voted nay on S. Res. 412, which  calls for an up or down vote on 108 nominations, en bloc, I would have  voted yea on the following nominations if I had the opportunity to vote  on each nomination separately:

1. Calendar Number 126: Leah Campos, of Virginia, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Dominican Republic.

2. Calendar Number 128: Joseph Popolo, of Texas, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Kingdom of the Netherlands.

3. Calendar Number 158: David Fink, of New Hampshire, to be       Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration.

4. Calendar Number 265: Marc Andersen, of Virginia, to be       an Assistant Secretary of the Army.

5. Calendar Number 355: Christopher Fox, of Virginia, to be       Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, Office of       the Director of National Intelligence.

6. Calendar Number 359: Macon Hughes, of Texas, to be an       Assistant Secretary of Defense.

7. Calendar Number 360: Philip Weinberg, of Virginia, to be       an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.

8. Calendar Number 374: Arch Capito, of West Virginia, to       be United States Attorney for the Southern District of West       Virginia for the term of 4 years.

9. Calendar Number 375: David Dunavant, of Tennessee, to be       United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee       for the term of 4 years.

10. Calendar Number 376: Matthew Harvey, of West Virginia,       to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of       West Virginia for the term of 4 years.

11. Calendar Number 379: Adam Sleeper, of the Virgin       Islands, to be United States Attorney for the District of the       Virgin Islands for the term of 4 years.

12. Calendar Number 380: David Toepfer, of Ohio, to be       United States Attorney for the Northern District of Ohio for       the term of 4 years.

13. Calendar Number 381: Kurt Alme, of Montana, to be       United States Attorney for the District of Montana, for the       term of 4 years.

14. Calendar Number 382: Nicholas Chase, of North Dakota,       to be United States Attorney for the District of North Dakota       for the term of 4 years.

15. Calendar Number 383: Bart McKay Davis, of Idaho, to be       United States Attorney for the District of Idaho for the term       of 4 years.

16. Calendar Number 384: David Metcalf, of Pennsylvania, to       be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of       Pennsylvania for the term of 4 years.

17. Calendar Number 385: Lesley Murphy, of Nebraska, to be       United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska for the       term of 4 years.

18. Calendar Number 386: Ronald A. Parsons, Jr., of South       Dakota, to be United States Attorney for the District of       South Dakota for the term of 4 years.

19. Calendar Number 387: Kurt Wall, of Louisiana, to be       United States Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana       for the term of 4 years.

20. Calendar Number 388: David Charles Waterman, of Iowa,       to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of       Iowa for the term of 4 years.

21. Calendar Number 389: Daniel Rosen, of Florida, to be       United States Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the       term of 4 years.

22. Calendar Number 391: Somers Farkas, of New York, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Malta.

23. Calendar Number 392: Nicole McGraw, of Florida, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Croatia.

24. Calendar Number 395: Stacey Feinberg, of California, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.

25. Calendar Number 396: Kenneth Howery, of Texas, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Kingdom of Denmark.

26. Calendar Number 397: Richard Buchan III, of Florida, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco.

27. Calendar Number 398: Bill Bazzi, of Michigan, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Tunisia.

28. Calendar Number 400: Howard Brodie, of Florida, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Finland.

29. Calendar Number 401: Arthur Fisher, of North Carolina,       to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the       United States of America to the Republic of Austria.

30. Calendar Number 402: Melinda Hildebrand, of Texas, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica.

31. Calendar Number 403: Michel Issa, of Florida, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Lebanese Republic.

32. Calendar Number 404: Nicholas Merrick, of Texas, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Czech Republic.

33. Calendar Number 405: Roman Pipko, of Florida, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Estonia.

34. Calendar Number 408: John Giordano, of Pennsylvania, to       be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Namibia.

35. Calendar Number 411: Sean O'Neill, of Virginia, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Kingdom of Thailand.

36. Calendar Number 412: Julie Stufft, of Ohio, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of Kazakhstan.

37. Calendar Number 413: Dan Negrea, of Connecticut, to be       Representative of the United States of America on the       Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the       rank of Ambassador, and to serve concurrently and without       additional compensation as an Alternate Representative of the       United States of America to the Sessions of the General       Assembly of the United Nations.

38. Calendar Number 414: Sergio Gor, of Florida, to be       Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United       States of America to the Republic of India.

39. Calendar Number 415: Stephanie Hallett, of Florida, a       Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of       Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and       Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the       Kingdom of Bahrain.

40. Calendar Number 416: James Holtsnider, of Iowa, a       Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of       Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary       of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of       Jordan.

41. Calendar Number 417: Jacob Helberg, of Florida, to be       an Under Secretary of State (Economic Growth, Energy, and the       Environment).

42. Calendar Number 418: Benjamin Black, of New York, to be       Chief Executive Officer of the United States International       Development Finance Corporation.

43. Calendar Number 419: Thomas DiNanno, of Florida, to be       Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International       Security.

44. Calendar Number 424: Michael DeSombre, of Illinois, to       be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific       Affairs).

45. Calendar Number 427: Todd Wilcox, of Florida, to be an       Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security).

46. Calendar Number 428: Neil Jacobs, of North Carolina, to       be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.