Scarper Ridge Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701298/scarper-ridge-golden-gate-national-recreation-area-boundary-adjustment-act


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Go ahead.

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from Hawaii both  for her eloquent statements and for her willingness to let me go ahead  of her. I appreciate that, but she was here first.

I come to the floor today to join my colleagues Senator Blumenthal,  Senator Hirono, and so many others in this caucus because after years  of relentless attacks on reproductive freedoms nationwide, what we are  seeing from our colleagues here in Congress and the Trump  administration is that they have now set their sights on our Nation's  veterans, those who have dedicated their lives in service to our  country.

The Trump administration's new policy that we are voting to overturn  today isn't just extreme; it is flat-out dangerous. Republicans and  Democrats alike have committed to doing everything we can to uphold the  basic promises we have made to our Nation's veterans. So we have to  ask: Why is this administration bending over backward to further erode  the freedoms our veterans risk their lives to protect by ripping away  the basic, essential healthcare that women need?

After the Dobbs decision, the VA took a basic but critical step to  protect the health of veterans and their families by providing them  access to healthcare in a very specific set of circumstances--tragic  instances like when our veterans have been victims of rape, when they  have experienced incest, or when their lives or their health has been  directly in danger--because when the Supreme Court overturned Roe v.  Wade and diminished the reproductive freedoms that women have enjoyed  for half a century, it was clear that the Federal Government needed to  take action to make it easier, not harder, for the hundreds of  thousands of young women who have served our country to be able to  access basic healthcare when they need it the most--veterans who have  often waited until after their military service to start a family and  now must question whether it is going to be safe for them to do so,  veterans who are now facing the most restrictive abortion ban across  the Federal Government.

This policy doesn't just prevent those brave Americans from receiving  care under dire and heartbreaking circumstances; it actually prevents  them from receiving basic counseling about their health as well. As my  colleagues have already pointed out, this ban on abortion counseling  means that VA providers can't discuss pregnancy options with their  patients.

While the VA claims they will always save a veteran's life, their own  internal guidance is so vague that providers will be forced to make  impossible decisions. In this case, the lack of planning and  specificity will leave it up to the VA to make split-second decisions  about an urgent medical need based on very murky guidelines.

At every turn, this administration has pushed forward dangerous  policies intended to threaten access to full reproductive care. That is  why I am calling on our colleagues across the aisle to show some common  sense and to realize that we can't repay those veterans who have  already sacrificed so much for their country with a policy that puts  their lives in danger, particularly at a time when one in three of our  Nation's female veterans has reported experiencing military sexual  trauma over the course of their service.

Let me repeat that because I think that is a staggering statistic.  One in three of our Nation's female veterans has reported experiencing  military sexual trauma during their service.

These brave women deserve better than the carelessness of this  administration refusing to give them full access to reproductive health  care. We can't sit back and abandon them when they need it the most. We  can't sit back and watch as reproductive freedoms slip away because  access to necessary, lifesaving reproductive care should not be left to  chance or the  split-second decision of a provider. It should be a fundamental right,  especially in the United States of America, where we have a  Constitution that says that all people are created equal. Now, I know  it says ``all men are created equal,'' but I think, since the founding  of this country, that has been expanded to the understanding that we  are talking about all of the citizens of this country.