Shaheen, Hassan Urge FCC to Ensure That All Students Can Remotely Continue Education During Coronavirus Emergency


U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH) today joined their colleagues in calling on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to help provide Wi-Fi hotspots or devices with Wi-Fi capability to students who lack internet access at home. The letter requests that the FCC temporarily allow schools to utilize funding through the federal E-Rate program, which provides discounts to help eligible schools and libraries in the United States obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. Temporarily expanding the funding to allow schools to support broadband access in students' homes will give students in need the ability to access their classwork online. New Hampshire recently made the decision to close all public schools for three weeks to contain the spread of the coronavirus, increasing the urgency of ensuring that students have the support that they need. 

"Expanding access to high-speed internet has long been an urgent need in New Hampshire and the unprecedented global health crisis we are experiencing underscores that necessity. It shouldn't take a global pandemic to raise awareness to the fact that unequal access to internet hurts communities' ability to compete economically, and in this case, ensure students and educators have the ability to connect in emergency situations," said Senator Shaheen. "That's why today I joined my colleagues to send a letter to the Federal Communications Commission urging the agency to utilize E-Rate program funding for devices with Wi-Fi capabilities to ensure students who lack internet access at home can have it. I'll continue to push for more resources to meet the demand that Granite State students -- and all Americans--are facing during this crisis."

"Students, regardless of whether they currently have internet access at home, must be able to continue their education while schools are shut down due to the coronavirus pandemic," said Senator Hassan. "I am urging the Federal Communications Commission to allow schools to temporarily use their E-Rate program funding to help provide Wi-Fi to students who otherwise would not have internet access at home so that more students can continue their studies uninterrupted."

The E-Rate program is capped at $4 billion each year, with the FCC having already allocated about $2 billion this year, leaving approximately half of the funding available for potential emergency action. In their letter, the senators call on the FCC to determine how much of this funding can be spent on one-time discounts for schools seeking to loan Wi-Fi hotspots to students who do not have internet at home, as well as those trying to equip school-distributed devices with Wi-Fi capability that can be lent out while physical classes are on hold. The senators also request the FCC make clear to state and local institutions that undertaking any similar measures during this crisis will not affect their future E-Rate eligibility.

Senator Shaheen has worked to expand broadband coverage to underserved areas in New Hampshire and across the country. Bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Senators Shaheen and Hassan to help improve the accuracy of these broadband maps is currently on its way to the President's desk for a signature. In December, Senators Shaheen and Hassan joined their colleagues to urge the FCC to prioritize sustainable rural broadband networks as the FCC considers new rules in the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund proceeding. A senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Senator Shaheen worked to include $750,000 in government funding legislation that was signed into law last year for the Northern Border Regional Commission (NBRC) State Capacity Building Grant Program, a new program Shaheen established to increase the Northern Forest region's capacity for business retention and expansion, increase access to high-speed broadband, and other critical infrastructure.