Shaheen Applauds Quick Release of $4.9 Million for NH to Support Coronavirus Response as a Result of Congress' Bipartisan Work


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, issued the following statement after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released $4.9 million to assist the Coronavirus response in New Hampshire. The funding was the result of bipartisan, bicameral Coronavirus response legislation that was signed into law on Friday. 

"I'm pleased the CDC moved quickly to release these funds to New Hampshire to assist efforts to contain and mitigate the spread of the Coronavirus," said Senator Shaheen. "This funding will provide a welcome boost to support state and local efforts to protect public health. I appreciate the bipartisan cooperation we've seen from every level of government to respond to this emergency and I hope that continues as we work together to confront this crisis. The public health of Granite Staters and the American people is my top priority and I'll keep working across the aisle to ensure our state has the resources it needs to combat the full scope of this threat." 

Senator Shaheen joined with New Hampshire's delegation in calling for the emergency Coronavirus funding legislation signed into law last week to include reimbursement for states who are already bearing a substantial financial burden as they respond to the Coronavirus.    

The bipartisan emergency funding bill provides:   

$8.3 billion for the national effort to respond to the Coronavirus;A formula grant that ensures New Hampshire will receive an initial $4.9 million to support NH's response efforts;$350 million for areas of the country where there are high concentrations of the virus;$500 million to procure pharmaceuticals, masks, protective equipment, and other medical supplies to distribute to state and local hospitals;Funding to reimburse states for expenses stemming from Coronavirus response efforts;Replenishes the CDC Infections Disease Rapid Response Fund which helps send CDC personnel and resources around the country;And provides funding for training local responders and bed capacity in areas with high concentrations of the virus.   Shaheen has been sounding the alarm on the need for additional federal funding and access to public information in preparation for the spread of the Coronavirus. Ahead of President Trump's budget announcement earlier this month, Shaheen sent a letter with the New Hampshire congressional delegation calling for the administration to appropriately fund Coronavirus prevention efforts in the President's budget proposal for fiscal year (FY) 2021. Shaheen also sent a letter with fellow senators urging the Trump administration to put forward an emergency funding request to Congress. Further, Shaheen joined a group of 25 Senators earlier this month, calling on the National Security Council (NSC) to address and coordinate administration efforts in response to the Coronavirus and other global health security threats.