Shaheen: NH Fishermen & Seafood Industry to Receive $2.7 Million in Urgently Needed Assistance Through CARES Act


Today, U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) -- a lead negotiator of the bipartisan Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and the lead Democrat on the Senate subcommittee that funds the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) -- announced that New Hampshire is set to receive $2.7 million to help the state's fishermen and seafood industry survive the economic impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Senator Shaheen helped secure this funding through negotiations of the CARES Act.  

"New Hampshire fishermen and our seafood industry play an important role in the Seacoast economy and the economic wellbeing of our state, and they have been hit hard by this crisis," said Senator Shaheen. "New Hampshire fishermen in particular were operating on razor thin margins before COVID-19. I fought for this relief to help our seafood industry weather the economic fallout from this pandemic. Much work remains in Congress, and I'll keep working to deliver help to New Hampshire small businesses and workers in upcoming coronavirus emergency response legislation."

Shaheen has been a strong advocate for New Hampshire fishermen. As the lead Democrat of the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, Shaheen has secured more than $30 million to reimburse New Hampshire and New England fishermen for costly at-sea monitoring fees and, over the past three years, has secured $6 million for Northeast groundfish research and $4 million for lobster research.

As the impacts of the coronavirus outbreak continue to grow in New Hampshire and across the nation, Shaheen has worked to communicate with Granite State stakeholders affected by the public health emergency, including small businesses, leaders of New Hampshire communities, including mayors and non-profit service organizations and charities who are assisting response efforts in communities throughout the state.