Shaheen and Hassan Applaud Bipartisan, Bicameral Agreement on Coronavirus Response Legislation


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and U.S. Senator Maggie Hassan (D-NH) issued the following statements after the Committee released bipartisan, bicameral legislation to bolster the national response to the Coronavirus. 

"I've called on Congress to craft legislation that begins to meet the threat of this virus and quickly deliver it to the President's desk for signature. I'm pleased that this legislation announced today is the product of a good-faith, bipartisan effort to respond to the Coronavirus which will help states like New Hampshire contain and mitigate its spread," said Senator Shaheen. "As I, alongside New Hampshire's Congressional Delegation have urged, this legislation will also help reimburse states for the work that's already been done to respond to this virus. I'm very hopeful that this legislation can pass Congress in the same spirit of bipartisan cooperation in which it was written. At every level of government we need to be working across the aisle in the best interests of public health. I'll continue to do everything in my power to help New Hampshire prepare and respond to this emergency." 

"As the Coronavirus outbreak worsens, we must ensure a coordinated, well-resourced response across all levels of government to protect public health and safety," said Senator Hassan. "Alongside New Hampshire's congressional delegation, I've called for a strong, bipartisan package, and I'm pleased that this agreement gives the federal government, state governments, and health care professionals more resources to detect and respond to this outbreak. Importantly, it also reimburse states for the costs they have already incurred in responding to Coronavirus. Congress should swiftly pass this bipartisan agreement, and I will continue to work across the aisle to get communities the support that they need." 

Senators Shaheen and Hassan joined with New Hampshire's delegation in calling for this emergency legislation to include reimbursement for states who are already bearing a substantial financial burden as they respond to the Coronavirus.    

The bipartisan emergency funding bill announced today provides:   

$8.3 billion for the national effort to respond to the Coronavirus;A formula grant that ensures New Hampshire will receive an initial $4.9 million to support NH's response efforts;$350 million for areas of the country where there are high concentrations of the virus;$500 million to procure pharmaceuticals, masks, protective equipment, and other medical supplies to distribute to state and local hospitals;Funding to reimburse states for expenses stemming from Coronavirus response efforts;Replenishes the CDC Infections Disease Rapid Response Fund which helps send CDC personnel and resources around the country;And provides funding for training local responders and bed capacity in areas with high concentrations of the virus.   Shaheen and Hassan have been sounding the alarm on the need for additional federal funding and access to public information in preparation for the spread of the Coronavirus. Ahead of President Trump's budget announcement earlier this month, Shaheen and Hassan sent a letter with the New Hampshire congressional delegation calling for the administration to appropriately fund Coronavirus prevention efforts in the President's budget proposal for fiscal year (FY) 2021. Shaheen and Hassan also sent a letter with fellow senators urging the Trump administration to put forward an emergency funding request to Congress. Further, Shaheen joined a group of 25 Senators earlier this month, calling on the National Security Council (NSC) to address and coordinate administration efforts in response to the Coronavirus and other global health security threats.