Shaheen Introduces Legislation to Assist Charitable Organizations Involved in Coronavirus Response


U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced legislation to help provide financial assistance to non-profit service organizations involved in coronavirus response efforts. The Supporting Charitable Institutions Act creates a new incentive for individuals to make donations to non-profit organizations as they respond to this public health crisis by establishing a refundable tax credit for charitable contributions.

"I've heard from a number of charities and non-profits in New Hampshire who fear that they will have to stop their vital work to support Granite Staters due to funding shortfalls. We need to support these groups as they assist those in need, especially during this public health emergency," said Shaheen. "This legislation encourages people to donate to non-profit organizations on the frontlines of this crisis so that they can continue to carry out their missions. I'll be working across the aisle to pass this urgently-needed legislation as Congress continues to work in coordination with states, federal agencies and community partners to deliver relief to our communities." 

Yesterday, Shaheen voted in favor of robust economic coronavirus response legislation to provide financial support to workers, businesses and families impacted by the spread of the coronavirus. The President signed it into law last night.

Senator Shaheen has been sounding the alarm on the need for additional federal funding to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. Following calls from Shaheen and others in Congress, on Friday, President Trump declared a national emergency in response to the spread of coronavirus. Shaheen supported bipartisan government funding legislation to help states' response efforts, which was recently signed into law. The CDC disbursed an initial $4.9 million in funds for New Hampshire included in that funding package. Earlier this week, Shaheen shared a video message with Granite Staters in response to the spread of the coronavirus, which can be viewed in full here.