Terminating the National Emergency Declared to Impose Duties on Articles Imported From Canada


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689483/terminating-the-national-emergency-declared-to-impose-duties-on-articles-imported-from-canada


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I come to the floor to join my  colleagues because I am so concerned about the damaging impact of  President Trump's tariff taxes. I call them taxes because that is what  they really are, but those tariffs, particularly on Canada, although we  heard today that he announced a number of others.

I have been hearing from a lot of small businesses in New Hampshire.  But on Monday, I visited a bakery in Derry, NH, that may have to go out  of business due to what President Trump is proposing on tariffs on  Canada.

The owner of Chatila's Bakery moved to the United States 36 years  ago. He was a cardiologist and his brother a Ph.D. scientist. They are  from Lebanon. He became a citizen, raised his family, and sent his  daughter to college. He and his brother got interested in sugar-free  desserts and candies because their mother was diabetic. So he spent the  last 36 years building his business. And now he might have to sell his  factory because of the trade war that President Trump has started with  Canada.

Chatila's Bakery makes sugar-free desserts. They get some of their  ingredients from Canada. All of those ingredients are now more  expensive.

While I was there, he showed me a fuel bill he had just gotten that  said that because of the tariffs, his fuel bill was going up.

But, more important than that, 85 percent of his business comes from  exporting to Canadian customers. Most of his sales contracts in Canada  were canceled after these tariffs went into effect last month, so he  says he is going to lose between $400,000 and $500,000 this year in the  business.

Now, President Trump says he is worried about trade imbalances and  that he wants to support exporters. Well, here is an American small  business and an exporter, and because of what this President is doing  with his reckless trade war, this small business owner might go out of  business.

Mr. Chatila said to me:

When I came, this was the American dream, which is why we       built it. But now, you see it in front of yours eyes. It's       just melted, like ice.

I asked him what he would like to ask President Trump if he had the  opportunity, and his question was to the President:

What do you want me to do? If you really care about your       country, why don't you support small businesses, which are       the backbone of every community?

I think that said it about as well as anybody I have heard. We know,  sadly, that his business is not the only one. Many of our small  businesses in New Hampshire are reliant on travel and tourism.

I have heard from business across our State about Canadian tourists  canceling plans already, about bookings that they rely on that are not  going to come through. Last week, we saw that airline tickets from  travelers coming from Canada this summer are down more than 70 percent  from this time last year. That represents lost business for my  constituents and for businesses and communities across this country.  All of this will put their businesses at risk, and it will do so when  they are also facing higher costs for inputs because of these tariff  taxes.

Two weeks ago, I visited a bus company that runs buslines between the  seacoast of New Hampshire and Boston and New York. They are facing  $500,000 in added costs because of these tariffs. Now, on top of that,  he stands to lose business because fewer people are visiting the United  States. He also goes between the seacoast and Logan Airport--all of  that because the President has damaged the relationship we have with  one of our closest allies.

It doesn't make sense to me. What is the logic of antagonizing those  allies and partners whom we rely on?

Lest anyone forget, the President is claiming that the flow of  fentanyl from Canada justifies all this. Well, fentanyl and other drugs  are serious issues, and I have spent much of my time in the Senate  doing what I can to help stop those drugs from entering the United  States and to getting help for those who need it. Just last month, the  Senate passed the HALT Fentanyl Act, which is legislation I  cosponsored, along with a lot of my colleagues, which would permanently  schedule fentanyl-related substances.

Imposing tariffs against Canada is not the way to fight fentanyl and  other drugs. This kind of legislation, like the HALT Fentanyl Act, is  something that is going to have much more of an impact. CBP statistics  show that all of the fentanyl seized along the northern border from the  beginning of 2022 until now is 71 pounds. Now, that is a lot of  fentanyl, and that could kill a lot of people, so I don't endorse that  by any means, but when you compare that with the 67,966 pounds that  have been seized along the U.S.-Mexico border for the same period of  time, wouldn't it make more sense to focus on where most of this  fentanyl is coming from?

Instead of imposing tariffs, we should be working cooperatively with  our allies and partners, and Canada has taken a number of steps to  crack down and to stop drugs from coming into the United States.

The tariffs in place before today are likely to raise costs by nearly  $2,000 for the average household. That is money many families in New  Hampshire and across this country can't afford to pay when they are  trying to cover the costs of groceries, of housing, of childcare, of  energy--all of those things that President Trump, when he was running  for President, said he was going to address.

I have heard from many New Hampshire families about how these tariffs  will raise prices for keeping their homes warm, for putting gas in  their cars. Now the Trump administration has reportedly fired the  entire staff of the LIHEAP program that helps families and seniors heat  their homes when they can't afford to pay.

The message to the American people from this administration is  increasingly clear: They do not care about you and what your needs are.  So voting for Senator Kaine's resolution presents an opportunity for  Congress to help Americans who are worried about higher costs. I intend  to vote for this resolution to end the tariffs on Canada, to lower  costs for Americans, and to help our small businesses. I hope all of my  colleagues will do the same.

I just want to add that, in the last hour, President Trump announced  a new tax of 10 percent on everything Americans import, with far higher  taxes on many countries. Everything from the EU will now face a 20- percent tax--Japan and South Korea, 25 percent. I mean, again, the  rationale for why we are going after our allies and partners makes no  sense.

This is a tremendous tax increase on American businesses and  families. It is likely the largest peacetime tax increase in U.S.  history. This new Trump tariff tax will add at least another $3,000 to  the costs for an average household.

Again, this President promised he was going to lower costs for  families. This does nothing to do that. He is taxing all of the goods  that people buy every day. What he doesn't tell you is that the reason  he is doing this is so that he can give more money to provide tax cuts  for the top 1 percent of  the income earners in the country, so the billionaires.

I don't think this tax increase is going to help the small business  owner I visited on Monday or the families in my State and across this  country who are trying to afford groceries. I intend to vote to end  those tariffs on Canada today when I have the opportunity. I hope my  colleagues will join me.