Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696340/trump-administration


Mrs. SHAHEEN. Will the Senator yield for a question?

Mrs. SHAHEEN. I am normally your seatmate, but I thought it might be  easier if we talked this way.

Mrs. SHAHEEN. So I am down here in a different place than I usually  am to ask a question.

But I want you to know how much I and all of your colleagues  appreciate your standing up for democracy because we are in a pivotal  moment, as you said, not just in this country but globally.

I know that you care about not just what is happening domestically in  the United States, but you also care about what is happening in the  world because you and I serve on the Foreign Relations Committee  together.

I just came from a meeting with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte,  who shared that Europeans are now spending more on defense than the  United States for the first time since President Eisenhower. And they  are working together to strengthen sanctions against Putin and his  bloodthirsty gangs who are wreaking havoc on Ukraine and Europe.

I have some good news that I wanted to share with you from the  Foreign Relations Committee this morning, since you weren't able to be  with us, and it applies to what is happening in Ukraine and Europe-- because this morning, in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the  committee considered three bipartisan bills to address Russia's  continued, expanding aggression--for the first time in this Congress.

So the first time since the beginning of the year, we have actually  taken action in the Foreign Relations Committee, action that you  supported with your proxy votes--and I appreciate that--to take action  against Russia's aggression in Ukraine.

One bill will designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism  because of what they have done to kidnap Ukrainian children. One will  stop Chinese entities from supporting Russia's brutal war machine  against Ukraine. And the final one will authorize a continued quarterly  transfer of Russia's foreign assets that have been seized in the United  States to support Ukraine.

So I think--all of these bills passed. They were bipartisan. They  passed unanimously out of the committee. And I think it is a critical  time in history for this Congress to be taking a stand on Ukraine.

So, Senator Merkley, given this important moment in history, what  more can we do in the Senate to support our allies and to protect the  Ukrainians from further bloodshed from Vladimir Putin?

Mrs. SHAHEEN. Thank you.