U.S. Global Health Programs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691139/us-global-health-programs


Global                              Health Programs                              (April 2, 2025)

``In less than two months, the Trump Administration has       undone six decades of investments that made the United States       more respected and influential than any other nation. The       resulting chaos has left us weaker and more vulnerable. Like       all of my colleagues, I have always supported reforming       government and making sure our tax dollars are spent wisely.       But this administration has ignored U.S. laws enacted by       Congress--cutting foreign assistance programs and USAID staff       that are essential for our national security.'' Ranking       Member Senator Jeanne Shaheen

On April 2, 2025, Senator Shaheen hosted a public       roundtable for Senators to examine the profound consequences       of the Trump Administrations' cuts to U.S. global health       programs. The panel highlighted the increased risks to the       health of Americans from diseases, including drug-resistant       TB and Ebola, to Americans livestock and plant farmers from       bird flu and plant diseases, and the increase in global       mortality from cuts to vaccines, HIV prevention, malaria,       maternal care, newborn care and water and sanitation       programs.                    top line impact of global health cuts

Our 50-country network for stronger surveillance to deadly       diseases from bird flu to swine fever [is] gone.

Our emergency response system that cut response times to       global outbreaks from greater than two weeks to less than 48       hours [is] gone.

AIDS programs to prevent new cases of HIV in high-risk       populations [is] gone

Programs for preventing child and maternal deaths that       reached 93 million women and children under 5 in 2023 and       added 6 years of life on average [has been] cut 92%.

Lifesaving tuberculosis programs cut [by] 56%.

Lifesaving water and sanitation programs cut [by] 86%.

Funding for GAVI, the global vaccine alliance, which was       set to vaccinate half a billion children [was] terminated       and, if not restored, will cost 500,000 lives a year and       drive higher exposure to measles in the U.S.

Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator for Global       Health, USAID    quotes from panelists on the consequences of the cuts are represented                                   below

Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator for Global       Health, USAID

Dan Schwarz, Vice President, Management Sciences for Health

Nicolas Enrich, former Acting Assistant Administrator for       Global Health, USAID           usaid programs are cost-effectiveness and accountability

``I led 800 health staff in [USAID] headquarters working       alongside more than 1,600 staff in 65-plus countries. With       less than half the budget of my Boston hospital system . . .       they saved lives by the millions and contained disease       threats everywhere. The new administration not only shuttered       this work, they fired the staff of the entire agency,       terminated 86% of its programs, and kneecapped the rest--all       against Congressional directives. They dismantled the US's       largest civilian force advancing global stability, peace,       economic growth, and survival. And they have done it in a way       maximized loss of life and mismanagement of taxpayer       dollars.'' Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator       for Global Health, USAID

``So, you know, for USAID, in the last six inspector       general reports, 94% of the spending had been audited, 0.3%       were found to have issues. Half of that was reclaimed. That       is not an enterprise that has been, you know, utterly driven       by, criminal behavior.'' Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant       Administrator for Global Health, USAID                cuts are increasing health risk for americans

``The safety of Americans is very much at risk as global       health security programs are shuttered. Programs that . . .       addressed things like the plague, Ebola, [and] drug-resistant       tuberculosis. Those have suddenly ended with no warning, even       as . . . the United States experienced the worst tuberculosis       outbreaks in decades. Emerging health programs . . . helped       address emerging health threats at their source in other       countries. They're gone.'' Dan Schwarz, Vice President at       Management Sciences for Health

`` . . . And I think it should be clear to all of us by now       that outbreaks abroad do not stay overseas. That's why       Congress has appropriated millions and millions of dollars to       shore up early warning systems, surveillance and fragile       health systems around the world so that we can protect and       detect and respond to diseases early and . . . so that we can       get them before they get out of control, before they come to       our borders. And unfortunately, these are exactly the       programs that have been terminated.'' Whistleblower Nichloas       Enrich, former Acting Assistant Administrator for Global       Health, USAID

``[W]e have had a global reduction in, childhood deaths,       childhood mortality in the U.S. and abroad of 75% over the       last 50 years. 40% of that benefit is from vaccines alone.       60% of that benefit is from measles vaccine alone . . . ''       Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator for Global       Health, USAID            the PRC is stepping up where the U.S. is stepping back

``That support has been withdrawn and the sustainability       and the long-term system of strengthening . . . is       questionable for the future. The People's Republic of China       is filling that gap. The people in the communities that we       serve have lost services, and they are quick to, frankly       speaking, look towards other options for [the] . . . support       that they need.'' Dan Schwarz, Vice President at Management       Sciences for Health            People Are Dying Because Of Cuts To Foreign Assistance

``About the claim that no one has died. It's absolutely       false. [A] medical facility [in Burma] was cut off with no       access to oxygen [and] no alternative delivery system. A       woman who had come with severe pneumonia had to be turned       away because the facility was shut down. And she died three       days later from pneumonia. Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant       Administrator for Global Health, USAID                 Malaria Deaths Are Increasing Unnecessarily

``U.S. global health efforts have led to a decline in over       48% of malaria deaths globally in Nigeria. During the time       that I am delivering these remarks to you, at least two       children will die of malaria in Nigeria.'' Dan Schwarz, Vice       President at Management Sciences for Health                      Ebola Response Programs Terminated

``On February 25, 2025, Elon Musk said in a White House       cabinet meeting that Ebola activities had been accidentally       turned off, and then turned back on immediately. This was       also false, as none of the activities were approved, and no       funds had been made available for any Ebola response       activities.'' Whistleblower Nichloas Enrich, former Acting       Assistant Administrator for Global Health, USAID

HIV-Aids Transmission And Deaths Are Increasing Because Of Cuts To                               Pepfar Funding

Cases of HIV have risen and they're seeing now       complications of HIV. There's a disease called Cryptococcus       meningitis [where] . . . a parasite get[s] to the brain       because of the loss of immune systems. [The] U.S. had       supported . . . a treatment for Cryptococcus meningitis and       it was sitting on shelves in the warehouse, but inaccessible       to this person. And this person died, and they still don't       have that treatment on hand to be able to address these       problems. Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator       for Global Health, USAID

American scientists had developed a drug called Lenacapavir       that could prevent or treat HIV with a single injection that       lasted six months and perhaps even a year. Deploying this       game-changer in high-risk communities through PEPFAR could       finally bring an end to HIV as a devastating public health       threat.'' Cuts to PEPFAR will prevent USAID from deploying       this game-changing tool. Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant       Administrator for Global Health, USAID

``We're in the opposite place now. We're seeing babies born       again with HIV at rates we haven't seen before. We're seeing       HIV transmissions now regularly occurring.'' Dr. Atul       Gawande, former Assistant Administrator for Global Health,       USAID                                 Tuberculosis

``USAID [had] launched a trial of a four-dose pill that       could prevent tuberculosis in exposed individuals and       dramatically reduce cases. This intervention is at risk from       funding cuts. Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant       Administrator for Global Health, USAID                 Trump Administration Fraud, Waste And Abuse

``When the [USAID] Inspector General, Paul Martin, reported       on half a billion in food aid that was rotting in warehouses,       having lost controls to prevent diversion to actors who       should not get it, the response was not to address the       problem, but instead to fire the inspector general.'' Dr.       Atul Gawande, former Assistant Administrator for Global       Health, USAID

``If you want to see waste, look no further than the       interest accruing on unpaid bills since payments were       stopped--interest at levels we have never seen before. If you       want to see fraud, look into the contractual promises we have       made and then broken, forcing our partners into debt for       relying on the deals we made with them. If you want to see       abuse, look at how the administration has prioritized       payments for the few firms that have the ear of senior       officials.'' Whistleblower Nichloas Enrich, former Acting       Assistant Administrator for Global Health, USAID   U.S. Withdrawal From The World Health Organization Means No Role In The                                Flu Vaccine

``On day one . . . the United States not only said we were       ending membership in the WHO, but [that] our agencies could       no longer provide funds immediately to WHO . . . and could no       longer even communicate [with the WHO]. [There are i]ssues       like getting . . . the fall flu vaccine, which depends on a       WHO process that accesses specimens from people in China . .       . where we don't have direct access. [The WHO] directly       provides that capability for the United States to guide the       determination of our own fall flu vaccine. Now, that's still       going to happen . . . but not with direct U.S involvement and       not with [the U.S. on] an advisory committee doing the       technical oversight.'' Dr. Atul Gawande, former Assistant       Administrator for Global Health, USAID                      Pandemic Risk And Zoonotic Viruses

``[The] Food and Agriculture Organization . . . is a       critical network that we have now brought . . . 49 countries       around the world [into]; 75% of our pandemic risks come from       animal to human transfer of disease. [FAO] are the ones who       are out in the communities monitoring bird flu, monitoring       for anthrax, monitoring for, African swine fever, which       doesn't necessarily transfer to humans but does devastate our       agricultural sector. And [FAO] enable[s] a response that can       contain matters before they, before they get out of control.       That capability alone . . . is often [the] highest priority       investment that [countries] . . . call for. And shutting off       that capability is blinding ourselves to what we need to be       able to see the surveillance in the first place and then       critical to getting that response time.'' Dr. Atul Gawande,       former Assistant Administrator for Global Health, USAID                       Oral Statement by Nick Enrich

Ranking Member Shaheen, Members of the Senate Foreign       Relations Committee, Thank you for convening this important       round table.

I am Nicholas Enrich, a career civil servant with 15 years       in the federal government under four administrations--both       Democrat and Republican.

Currently, I serve as the Acting Assistant Administrator       for Global Health at USAID, overseeing approximately $10       billion annually appropriated by Congress to strengthen       health systems to:

Prevent and respond to infectious diseases,

improve maternal and child health,--and

diagnose and treat HIV, TB and Malaria.

As a result of my lawful whistleblowing, I was placed on       administrative leave on March 2, 2025.

On January 28, the day I was designated as the Acting       Assistant Administrator, Secretary of State Rubio issued a       waiver for Life-Saving Humanitarian Assistance to President       Trump's Executive Order pausing foreign assistance.

From Day One, implementing this waiver was my highest       priority. My team recognized it as the only way to mitigate       the harm caused by the sudden halt of over a thousand of our       programs preventing pandemics and suffering worldwide.

I challenge the administration to provide evidence of the       waste, fraud, and abuse they claim to have found at USAID. In       reality, USAID is among the most effective agencies in terms       of return on investment, with strong financial oversight       ensuring accountability of our programs.

If you want to see waste, look no further than the interest       accruing on unpaid bills since payments were stopped--      interest at levels we have never seen before.

If you want to see fraud, look into the contractual       promises we have made--and then broken--forcing our partners       into debt for relying on the deals we made with them.

If you want to see abuse, look at how the administration       has prioritized payments for the few firms that have the ear       of senior officials.

Despite our efforts, by the time I was placed on Leave, we       had been fully prevented from implementing the waiver. Our       lifesaving programs had been effectively shut down.

By March 2, when I was pushed out:

Nearly all of the contracts needed for our life-saving work       had been terminated--abruptly shuttering clinics,       interrupting supply chains, and cutting patients off from       treatment for deadly diseases, like tuberculosis, risking a       rise in new, potentially untreatable, drug-resistant strains.

All Global Health programming--aside from HIV--had been       excluded from the Agency's definition of lifesaving. Contrary       to the common understanding of the term ``lifesaving'', USAID       was no longer able to respond to deadly outbreaks under the       waiver.

With very few exceptions, payments were halted for our       lifesaving work. USAID's efficient and reliable financial       system was destroyed, and replaced by a wasteful and       inaccurate patchwork that fails to provide needed funding to       implement our programs.--and--

And--The Global Health workforce was slashed from nearly       eight hundred to just over sixty, eliminating key experts--      doctors, epidemiologists, and public health specialists.

Those of us who have dedicated our careers to helping the       most vulnerable are all too aware of the damage the       dismantling of USAID has caused. However, this damage will       not only affect people in need, around the world, but also       us, here at home. This will impact our health, our well       being, our national security.

This crisis has resulted from deliberate actions and       obstructions by leadership at USAID, the Department of State,       and DOGE. Their reckless disregard for human life and       national security prevented me and my team from implementing       lifesaving assistance.

Ultimately, with nearly all of the awards terminated, and       with no path for funding new activities, it had finally       become clear that there was only one thing left to do. That       was to document, in a series of memos, our repeated and       increasingly desperate requests, pleas, and warnings,       regarding the need to implement activities to avert loss of       life on a massive scale,--and substantial risks to U.S.       national security.

On March 2, as my last official act before I was sent home,       I sent those memos to the Global Health staff, to keep for       their records, in the event the blame game ends up pointing       the finger at them.

That brings us to today.

Thank you again for the opportunity to speak before you.  Senate Roundtable on the Dangerous Consequences of Funding Cuts to U.S.                           Global Health Programs                   (Tuesday, April 1 from 2:30-3:30 p.m.)                      Testimony of Atul Gawande, MD, MPH

I was the Assistant Administrator for Global Health at       USAID during the last administration. It was the best job in       medicine most people haven't heard of. I led 800 health staff       in headquarters working alongside more than 1,600 staff in       65-plus countries. With less than half the budget of my       Boston hospital system--about $9 per U.S. household--they       saved lives by the millions and contained disease threats       everywhere.

Before my departure on January 20, I briefed this committee       about several major opportunities ahead for the next few       years. Among them were three breakthroughs. The journal       Science had just declared one of them the scientific       breakthrough of 2024. American scientists had developed a       drug called Lenacapavir that could prevent or treat HIV with       a single injection that lasted six months and perhaps even a       year. Deploying this game-changer in high risk communities       through PEPFAR could finally bring an end to HIV as a       devastating public health threat.

Similarly, USAID launched a trial of a four-dose pill that       could prevent tuberculosis in exposed individuals and       dramatically reduce cases--while three TB vaccines complete       testing.

And USAID was just about to scale up a novel, inexpensive       package of existing drugs and treatments that was found to       reduce severe hemorrhage after childbirth--the leading cause       of maternal hemorrhage--by 60%.

American companies, nonprofits, and scientists played key       roles in these breakthroughs, and they were poised to       transform global health over the next five to ten years. The       next administration had no reason not to pursue these       objectives. Congress had already funded them. There was       nothing partisan about them at all.

But instead of saving millions of lives, we got surgery       with a chainsaw. The new administration not only shuttered       this work, they fired the staff of the entire agency,       terminated 86% of its programs, and kneecapped the rest--all       against Congressional directives. They dismantled the U.S.'s       largest civilian force advancing global stability, peace,       economic growth, and survival. And they have done it in a way       maximized loss of life and mismanagement of taxpayer dollars.

Here are few specific examples of the global health damage:

Our 50-country network for stronger surveillance to deadly       diseases from bird flu to swine fever--gone.

Our emergency response system that cut response times to       global outbreaks from >2 weeks to <48 hours--gone.

AIDS programs to prevent new cases of HIV in high-risk       populations--gone

Programs for preventing child and maternal deaths that       reached 93 million women and children under 5 in 2023 and       added 6 years of life on average--cut 92%

Lifesaving tuberculosis programs--cut 56%

Lifesaving water and sanitation programs--cut 86%

Funding for Gavi, the global vaccine alliance, which was       set to vaccinate half a billion children--terminated and, if       not restored, will cost 500,000 lives a year and drive higher       exposure to measles in the U.S.

The damage is already devastating. And it is all part of a       larger dismantling of America's world-leading capacity for       scientific discovery, health care delivery, and public health       that goes well beyond USAID. They are using the same playbook       to purge staff and destroy programs in across our entire       domestic infrastructure in government, universities, and       medical center. And they inserting political controls on NIH       science research, FDA approvals, and CDC guidance.

For the sake of power, they are destroying an enterprise       that added more than 30 years to U.S. life expectancy and       made America the world leader in medical technology and       innovation. We need you in Congress to stop this process.       USAID cannot be restored to what it was. But we must salvage       what we can of our health, science, and development       infrastructure and stop the destruction.       Dan Schwarz--Vice President at Management Sciences for Health                 testimony at senate global health roundtable

Good afternoon Ranking Member Shaheen and members of the       Committee. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak       with you today about the impact of the recent terminations of       global health programs.

My name is Dan Schwarz, I grew up in a small town in       Appalachia and am a practicing pediatrician and a Vice       President at Management Sciences for Health.

MSH is a Virginia-based nonprofit that works with       communities to save lives by sustainably strengthening       country health systems. MSH has been in operation since 1971       and has worked in more than 150 countries, often in close       partnership with the U.S. Government.

My remarks today are informed by my career as a doctor,       both here in the U.S. and abroad. They are guided by my oaths       to care for all and to do no harm. I offer them in the spirit       of an objective analysis of the impact recent program       terminations will have on the health of the most vulnerable       communities around the world.

I would like to begin by telling you about one of the most       effective methods of stopping malaria. Quite simply, it       involves providing preventative treatment to women and       children most at risk throughout the rainy season--the most       dangerous time for malaria. In Nigeria, where we work, they       have over 25% of the world's malaria infections and 30% of       malaria deaths--that's about 200,000 deaths a year. 70% of       those deaths are children under the age of 5. During the time       that I am delivering these remarks to you, at least two       children will die of malaria in Nigeria.

Every year, with the generous support provided by the       American people, at the beginning of the rainy season we work       with the Nigerian ministry of health to get the medicines and       train the health workers who provide it to those children.

This has prevented millions of cases of malaria and saved       hundreds of thousands of lives. It's extraordinary life-      saving work that Americans should be very proud of.

This year, however, this will not happen. That is because       these U.S. government-funded projects have been terminated.       Millions of children are at risk of sickness and many will       die. We should not be proud of that.

These stories are not unique. Thousands of programs have       been terminated without warning, with deadly consequences for       communities around the world. At MSH we had 15 USAID projects       terminated; only five remain. We have let go of over 1,000 of       our team members--colleagues who live and work in these       communities, providing this life-saving treatment.

At MSH, we focus on building strong health systems. Viewed       from this perspective, the recent terminations are even more       concerning. The elimination of foundational programs like       maternal health or health worker training only serves to       undermine the effectiveness of what programs remain. These       cuts will devastate entire communities.

But let's bring it home, right here in this city, in this       very room. The safety of Americans is very much at risk as       global health security programs are shuttered. Programs we       implemented that responded to the plague, Ebola, and drug-      resistant tuberculosis have suddenly ended, even as the       United States experiences its largest TB outbreak in decades.       These programs helped address emerging health threats at       their source and built the capacity of country governments to       confront disease themselves.

Today, we should be discussing how to make America's       investment in global health more efficient and effective. We       should be discussing how we can integrate programs such as       HIV and malaria treatment into countries' primary health care       systems and reduce reliance on outside sources. Or how we can       help countries to finance their own health needs. Instead, we       are asking if lifesaving foreign assistance is of benefit to       the U.S. The answer to that question is and always has been a       resounding ``yes.'' We have so much to be proud of. But with       the recent program terminations, we are turning our backs on       that. So much progress has already been lost in the past two       months, and so many lives will be lost with it.

Thank you again for allowing me the opportunity to speak       with you today. I look forward to your questions.