Unanimous Consent Request


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I am pleased to be able to join my  colleague Senator Cardin, who is the ranking member on the Small  Business and Entrepreneurship Committee, as well as Minority Leader  Schumer. I am pleased that the chairman of the Small Business and  Entrepreneurship Committee, Senator Rubio, is also here because Senator  Cardin, Senator Rubio, Senator Collins, and I all worked on the  Paycheck Protection Program and the small business provisions that are  in the CARES package that we passed over 5 weeks ago. I am proud of our  efforts to negotiate in a bipartisan way to help small businesses get  through this crisis. 

  Not only did we pass, in that first CARES package, $350 billion to  help small business, but just a couple of weeks ago, Congress also came  together to pass an additional $370 billion  for the Paycheck Protection Program and the Economic Injury Disaster  Loan Program. 

  Our intent in passing that legislation was to deliver relief to small  businesses that are truly hurting. Small businesses are the lifeblood  of this economy nationally, really, and certainly in New Hampshire,  where 99 percent of our businesses are considered small businesses.  They employ over 50 percent of the New Hampshire workforce. 

  In New Hampshire, 20,000 small businesses and nonprofits have  received over $2.5 billion in low-interest, forgivable loans under the  Paycheck Protection Program. There have been challenges. We have heard  some of those stories from small businesses that weren't able to access  this assistance because some larger businesses got into the queue ahead  of them--some of those large, publicly traded companies that had a  relationship with their lender, and so they were able to get in early.  We need information if we are going to correct the things that haven't  been working about this program. That is why the legislation that  Senator Cardin, Senator Schumer, and I are introducing, I think, would  be so helpful. 

  The Trump administration and Congress need to be held accountable for  implementation of these programs. In order to do that, we have to have  oversight, as Senator Cardin said. Transparency is fundamental. We need  to ensure that assistance is going to the small businesses and  nonprofits that need it most. 

  Senator Cardin listed off a number of those companies: the women- owned companies, minority-owned companies. We also need to think about  those businesses that have fewer than 10 employees--those mom-and-pop  shops that really need help, that may not have as long a relationship  with their lender or may not have any relationship with a lender. 

  All we are asking for today is a measure that would provide the bare  minimum that this administration should provide to ensure that these  programs are functioning as Congress intended. 

  This is commonsense legislation. All it would do is require the Small  Business Administration to provide daily reporting on PPP and EIDL  loans, to provide more detailed weekly reports on these programs, and  to make this information publicly available, while at the same time  protecting borrower and participant privacy. 

  We have heard the horror stories about problems with this program.  There have also been a lot of success stories. But the public isn't  going to know both sides of that unless there is reporting and  transparency so that people know what is working and what is not  working. 

  The bill would also ensure that PPP and EIDL funds are reaching  underserved and underbanked borrowers. It would establish an early  warning system for the SBA and for Congress so we can figure out how to  respond to things that aren't working and when we are expecting an  additional funding shortfall. 

  These proposals shouldn't be controversial. These are all things that  I have heard people on both sides of the aisle talking about  supporting. What they will do is allow Congress to perform our basic  oversight responsibilities and foster public confidence in the  integrity of these programs. And perhaps, most important, these  improvements will help make sure that the limited resources that are  available are getting to the small businesses that need them the most. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT