Condemning Chaotic and Harmful Failings of This Congress


Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, we are going to adjourn and not do the  peoples' business because we have thus far gotten an ``F.'' An ``F''  for the work of the people in this Congress. We have taken health care  away from hundreds of thousands of people. We have taken SNAP payments  and nutritional sustenance, away from tens and hundreds of thousands of  people. We have made injuries to the Earth, God's Earth we are here to  preserve, and we only use. We have taken away from women the right to  go to Planned Parenthood to have health care that they need. We have  taken away protections for clean energy to change the rate of growth of  global warming that affects our planet and affects our future with  hotter and hotter summers, flash floods, fires and disasters. It will  increase our reliance on fossil fuels, which make the air dirtier and  people sicker, all while we are taking away people's health care. This  Congress has earned an ``F.'' We do not deserve a better grade.

I am ashamed to be a part of this Congress, but I will stay because  people need to stand up, speak the truth, stand up for things the  American people have always stood for: justice, due process, the rule  of law, fairness, caring about the little guy, caring about giving  people something when they need it, but not giving something to people  who have too much--millionaires and billionaires.

Just think, Mr. Speaker, of the harm the rescissions bill did to  public broadcasting--NPR and PBS--legacies of President Johnson's Great  Society that help our citizens stay informed. Think of the harm done to  life-saving foreign aid that keeps children fed and vaccinated from  dreadful diseases that can and will cross our borders in check. And the  Big Ugly Bill does substantial harm to critical programs and to the  people who rely on them, so millionaires can get a tax break and the  rest of the country gets huge and endless deficits and trillions more  in debt.

Newsweek reported this week that the current Congress is one of the  least effective ever, passing only 27 bills since January 3, far fewer  than in previous Congresses at the same point. Unfortunately, the  biggest, ugliest bill we passed, and the rescissions package will  contribute to incalculable pain, suffering, and death all around the  world.

Come to think of it, maybe this Congress should get something worse  than a grade of ``F.'' Maybe those voting for these cruel and dangerous  provisions should be sent to the principal's office and expelled.