Financial Services and General Government and National Security, Department of State, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699059/financial-services-and-general-government-and-national-security-department-of-state-and-related-programs-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Chairman, today we are voting on a two-bill  appropriations package that funds Financial Services and our National  Security and State Department. This bill keeps the government running,  protects America, and respects the taxpayer. This package contains two  bills with real cuts, real security, and real governing, Mr. Chairman,  not bloated omnibuses, not last-minute shutdown threats or games, but  Members on both sides of the aisle who are actually doing the work line  by line and in the open.

This package cuts nearly $9 billion compared to last year. Financial  Services is flat-funded. National Security and State are cut by a  whopping 16 percent. It is proof that we can fund priorities without  growing our government.

We rein in Washington by cutting IRS enforcement back to Trump 45-era  levels. Chairman Joyce blocked Democratic efforts to tie the  administration's hands and help refocus spending so that taxpayer  dollars only go where they actually make America safer.

Chairman Diaz-Balart delivered DOGE-era USAID cuts while still  funding national security investments. In fact, I was honored to help  Chairman Diaz-Balart retain some of these programs under the new banner  of national security investment programs at the State Department under  the direction of Secretary Rubio.

The bottom line, sir, is if it is not having to do with our national  security interests, we are not funding it. We fully fund CFIUS to stop  foreign threats from buying up America, keep longstanding pro-life  protections in place, and deliver a bill with no poison pills. This  package keeps spending below the current continuing resolution and  moves us closer to finishing all 12 appropriations bills. They said it  couldn't be done. We are going to do it.

The bottom line is, this bill delivers three critical things: safety,  strength, and freedom. Two bills, real cuts, real security, real  governing, a bill so good the White House just endorsed it.

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Chairman, this bill is so good, the White House just  endorsed this bill, and I want to read the last paragraph: ``The  administration urges the Congress to support this fiscally responsible  bill and looks forward to working with the Congress on the remaining  appropriations bills to address key priorities and avoid another  disastrous government shutdown.''

Mr. Chairman, I along with Donald J. Trump, the White House, and the  OMB Director urge my colleagues to vote for this funding bill. Let's  get `er done.