Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692959/military-construction-veterans-affairs-and-related-agencies-appropriations-act-2026


Mr. ALFORD.  3944, and that I may include  tabular material on the same.

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

I am honored to present the fiscal year 2026 Military Construction,  Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to the House  today. This bill supports our troops, their families, and our Nation's  veterans.

The bill includes nearly $18 billion for military construction  efforts. It is critical that our servicemembers and their families have  the infrastructure and support they need. This bill delivers to  construct and improve military housing, childcare centers, and other  quality-of-life components that are so important to those who risk so  much.

This bill continues to build on investments that strengthen our  national security through the construction of modern infrastructure and  improvements to critical quality-of-life facilities for our  servicemembers and their families.

Additionally, we continue to provide significant funding to build  upon prior years' work to enable the Department of Defense to meet the  challenges in the Indo-Pacific.

The bill honors our commitment to our Nation's veterans and to our  troops. To honor that commitment, the bill provides full funding for  healthcare and benefits for veterans. Our veterans have earned these  benefits, and we are making good on our promises to them. That includes  fully funding our commitment to the PACT Act.

The bill continues robust investments in women's health, rural  health, veterans' homelessness issues, and mental health. The  legislation maintains all the funding for medical and prosthetic  research. It increases funding for VA infrastructure and supports  Arlington National Cemetery. It invests in the improvement, operations,  and maintenance of burial grounds for those who have sacrificed.

I thank Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz. I am glad we are at this  step in the process and hope that we continue to work together to  support our troops and our veterans.

Everyone--everyone, Mr. Chair--should understand that this bill cares  for our veterans. It supports our troops and their families. This bill  keeps the promises that we have made to our heroes.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3944, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

I, unfortunately, could not possibly disagree with the gentleman from  Missouri (Mr. Alford), my friend, more on the description of this bill,  which is why I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3944, the fiscal year  2026 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies  bill.

While I unfortunately cannot support the bill on the floor today, I  will say in Chairman Carter's absence that I am thankful and  appreciative of the work that we have been able to accomplish together  over the years on this subcommittee. I know he and I both prioritize  quality of life for our servicemembers and their families and caring  for our veterans.

Unfortunately, this bill hurtles us toward VA privatization, a top  Project 2025 priority that undercuts what veterans consistently ask us  for in Congress. They want high-quality medical care at the VA; not  privatized care that takes longer to receive.

By transferring record funding from VA medical services to community  care, which is a 67 percent increase of $14 billion, this bill pushes  veterans into private care, even though veteran polls and studies show  that when given the option, veterans prefer to receive their medical  care at the VA.

In 2024, veteran trust in VA healthcare rose to a record 92 percent.  We should build on this success, not kick veterans to an already  crowded private market. I understand that there is a need for community  care, especially for veterans in rural areas and specialty care when  necessary, and when appointments at the VA are scarce.

However, countless studies show that when veterans seek care at  private hospitals and clinics, they wait longer to see providers, and  they get worse care. They know VA medical professionals choose this  work due to their mission to care for our veterans, and that is  something the private sector simply cannot replicate.

We should invest more in VA provider recruitment and retention  incentives, increase benefits counselors and adjudicators, not ignore  veterans' wishes and speed recklessly into privatization.

On the military construction side, this bill underfunds military  construction by $904 million compared to the President's budget  request, and fails to fund some specific needs such as installation  resilience and NATO infrastructure commitments. As Russia continues to  wage an illegal war in Ukraine and threaten Europe, we should be  sending a clear sign that we stand with our NATO allies, allies who  have stood by us for decades. We are talking about infrastructure for  our troops who are over there, as well as our allies' troops.

We all know that warming global temperatures are having a devastating  impact on our military installations, including sea level rise,  recurrent flooding, hurricanes, and extreme weather, as well as extreme  heat and drought, yet this bill includes zero dedicated funding to  mitigate this extreme weather damage to our installations and force  readiness.

We have seen time and again what devastating extreme weather can do  to installations. In 2018, Hurricane Michael mauled Tyndall Air Force  Base in Florida, my home State, and cost the Air Force $4.9 billion to  rebuild. When Typhoon Mawar ran through Guam and devastated the island,  this Congress provided almost $1.8 billion to begin recovering from the  damage. Unfortunately, we know that future need from Typhoon Mawar will  cost many billions more.

Finally, this bill includes a plethora of harmful poison pill riders.  It once again prohibits the VA from implementing its interim final rule  to protect a woman's right to abortion and counseling. The message sent  on that is clear: Republicans want to further limit women's access to  healthcare.

Never mind if an abortion is in the best medical interest for the  veteran, between her and her doctor. Disturbingly, Republicans think  you should only have access to abortion if you are dying.

This bill has the government making personal medical decisions for  veterans, not their doctor or the veteran themselves. It is a cruel and  ironic way to treat those who fight for our freedoms by taking them  away.

This bill also undermines VA's ability to keep at-risk veterans safe  by preventing VA from reporting a beneficiary to the National Instant  Criminal Background Check System. This rider prohibits VA from  following Federal law to keep guns out of the hands of people who  Federal law says should not have them because they are a danger to  themselves or others.

My subcommittee receives notifications every time there is a suicide  on VA property. Over the last year, Mr. Chairman, we received suicide  notices from Asheville, Los Angeles, McAllen, Minneapolis, Las Vegas,  south Texas, Puget Sound, and many, many more. Every single veteran  committed suicide with a firearm. Every single one.

With all of these serious concerns, I cannot in good conscience  support this bill. I urge my colleagues to oppose it, and I reserve the  balance of my time.

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Today is the first of 12 essential steps that the House  Appropriations Committee will take to restore strong, responsible  governance under the golden age of the Trump administration.

Just this past weekend, Missouri's own 509th Bomb Wing and the 131st  Guard Wing of Whiteman Air Force Base in my district demonstrated the  vital role that our B-2 long-range strike force plays in preserving  national and international security.

Drone warfare between Ukraine and Russia has shown just how  vulnerable strategic assets can be. This bill emphasizes the importance  of modernizing and hardening our infrastructure for the world's most  advanced air wings, such as the B-21 Raider.

Our greatest asset, though, is not our aircraft. I think the ranking  member would agree, it is our people. This bill makes bold strides to  improve the quality of life for our servicemembers and their families.  It expands childcare options. It enhances access to tutoring for  children of fallen and disabled veterans, and it supports the daily  needs of the men and women who wear the uniform.

Access to a VA facility is not a reality for some of our rural  veterans. I hear this each and every day out in my district, 24  counties southeast of Kansas City. This bill, though, ensures that they  are not forgotten. We increased access opportunities by increasing the  funds available for community care.

In a powerful act of bipartisanship, we are strengthening the  Veterans Crisis Line. When a veteran calls, someone must answer.  Increased staffing and resources will help ensure that support is there  each and every time.

Mr. Chair, our veterans fought for us. It is time that we fight for  them. This bill does that, and I urge my colleagues to vote for this  bill, a vote to support our veterans.

Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I  may consume.

I would certainly agree with the gentleman from Missouri if the Trump  administration under Elon Musk's DOGE effort hadn't actually fired  employees and interrupted the ability of employees of the Veterans  Crisis Line from actually doing their job.

We have no idea how many people lost their lives as a result of that  interruption in service. I would love to agree with the gentleman, but  unfortunately, the facts on the ground actually reflect that they do  not share the same commitment that we do to ensure the safety of our  servicemembers and making sure that we look out for them.

Mr. Chair, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms.  DeLauro), the distinguished ranking member of the Appropriations  Committee.