Pay Our Homeland Defenders Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701360/pay-our-homeland-defenders-act


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I feel as if I need to start with an apology to the  minority leader. I wrongly laughed out loud when I heard him say in the  well of the floor of the House of Representatives: ``Yes, we will  always support securing the border--today, tomorrow, and forever.'' It  was an uncontrollable laugh.

This is what started all of this: an administration that did not care  about securing our border and the Democrats who backed him up, along  with Alejandro Mayorkas, who let 15 million illegal aliens into our  great Nation to cause chaos, not to be a part of the fabric of America  but to tear apart the fabric of America.

This is the stupidest shutdown in U.S. history, Mr. Speaker. Why do I  say that? I will quote the ranking member from a press release January  20, the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), my good friend:  ``The Homeland Security funding bill is more than just ICE. If we allow  a lapse in the funding, TSA agents will be forced to work without pay,  FEMA assistance could be delayed, and the U.S. Coast Guard will be  adversely affected. All while ICE continues functioning without any  change in their operations due to $75 billion it received in the One  Big Beautiful Bill.''

That prediction came true, and now we have chaos in America--chaos  that the Democrats want and promote. Airports are backed up. TSA agents  are working without pay. Some are sleeping in their cars and going on  the weekends to food banks in their communities to get food to feed  their families.

Democrats are playing political games. Instead of protecting American  families, every day that they keep the DHS unfunded is another day that  the ranking member's prediction comes true in America. This must end  today. Today, for the third time, House Republicans will vote to fully  fund the Department of Homeland Security.

Let's get back on track. Let's pay the people who protect you, who  protect me, who protect the ranking member, and who protect the  minority leader of the U.S. House of Representatives.