Recognizing the Funky Buffalo Coffee House and Trading Company


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I highlight a special place in Camdenton,  Missouri, in the Fourth Congressional District of Missouri: The Funky  Buffalo Coffee House and Trading Company, a weird name, but a great  place. It is our September Small Business of the Month.

Now, this just isn't an ordinary coffee shop. It is where community  happens, families gather, students study, friendships are built, and  real conversations are had like we used to do back in the day.

We had the opportunity to stop by there and have some of their great  coffee and see firsthand during one of our townhall tour stops in  August. Yes, we actually did townhall tours. I know a lot of you are  surprised by that. We got out there and listened to people.

From seasonal fall specialty coffees to strawberry lemonade  smoothies, the Funky Buffalo is always offering new drink recipes.

The Funky Buffalo is run by Kendra. She is a wife, a mom of three,  and now a bold small business owner. She and her husband, Chris, have  poured their hearts into this place creating not just a business but a  blessing for our district.

Their family is directly affected by ``22 a day,'' the number of  veterans who take their own lives each and every day. Uncle Ry,  Kendra's husband's younger brother, was just 26 when he lost his battle  to post-traumatic stress on U.S. soil. Ryan was a son, a brother, a  best friend, and an uncle.

This is why 100 percent of their shop's net proceeds of coffee,  awareness bracelets, and awareness shirts are donated to suicide  prevention programs and other veteran organizations.

Mr. Speaker, I am more than proud to recognize the Funky Buffalo as  our small business of the month, and I thank them for investing in  people, investing in our community, our district, and in the American  Dream.                  September Veteran of the Month: Dale Karst

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, today, I am honored to recognize our  September Veteran of the Month: Mr. Dale Karst.

Dale proudly served in the United States Air Force, entering service  on September 16, 1966. After basic training, he was stationed at  Whiteman Air Force Base with the Air Police Squadron before deploying  to Vietnam with the 377th Combat Defense Unit.

He was stationed at Tan Son Nhut during the Tet Offensive, one of the  most dangerous moments of that war. When he returned home, Dale was  stationed at Grand Forks Air Force Base in North Dakota.

Dale told me his most cherished memory of service was returning from  Vietnam to meet his newborn child and embracing his wife again, a  moment he wasn't sure he would ever see.

Today, Dale and his wife, Patty, enjoy time with their grandchildren  and working on projects together. He reminds us of three things we must  always honor: God, family, and country.

Dale's got some health challenges right now, and I had the  opportunity of visiting him at our VA Hospital in Kansas City a few  weeks ago. Although, he is going through these challenges, he has a big  smile on his face.

I will tell Dale that we are praying for him. We are going to make  sure he gets through this and that he gets the best healthcare possible  through the VA system.

Mr. Speaker, please join me in thanking Mr. Dale Karst, a true  American hero, for his courage, his sacrifice, and his enduring love  for the United States of America. I want Dale to know we love him.