Recognizing Winners of 2025 Fourth District Congressional Speech Competition


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the winners of our  2025 Fourth Congressional District speech competition for the great  State of Missouri. This is our second year to do this. It is a great  competition.

Our next winner is Lucas Tate, who is a junior at Odessa High School.  Lucas wrote: ``Freedom is a word that rings loud in the hearts of many  Americans. We all know what freedom is. We all know what the absence of  freedom feels like, but what does it mean to stand up for your freedom?  Standing up for your freedom is not always loud, not always quiet.  Standing up for your freedom is swimming against the school, looking  for those who may follow. It is a war cry against the face of tyranny  and injustice. It is a tough battle, one that we as Americans must be  proud to face every day because, simply, it is American.''

Our next winner is Tanner Gill, who is in ninth grade at Raymore- Peculiar High School. Tanner wrote: ``Standing for freedom means  protecting the rights and values that make America strong. In our  country, this means making sure that people have justice, fairness, and  the ability to speak freely. Everyone can help by being active in their  community and standing up for what is right. Around the world, the U.S.  supports freedom by helping people who live under unfair governments by  promoting democracy. As a leader, America has a responsibility to set  an example and defend human rights. Standing for freedom isn't just  about words. It is about action. By respecting our history and working  to protect freedom, we help make the world a better place.''

Our next winner is Riley Olendorff, who is a junior at Glasgow High  School. Riley wrote: ``Standing for freedom is having courage,  integrity, and speaking out against injustice. Freedom includes  protecting the rights of others, even when it may be hard and  challenging. We have to be able to defend our rights for ourselves and  others when there is risk of being taken away. Freedom is not just  about personal choices, advocating for fairness, and presenting  different opinions now and for future generations. Past history has  presented sacrifices from leaders and soldiers who defend our nations.  True freedom grows when people are willing to stand up for themselves  and others. As an American, I am fortunate enough to live in a free  country, and I stand for what freedom means.''

I thank everyone who participated in this year's congressional speech  competition, and I congratulate our winners.                      Recognizing Alewel's Country Meats

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Missouri's Fourth  Congressional District May Small Business of the Month, Alewel's  Country Meats.

What better month to highlight this amazing small business than  National Beef Month?

What began as a small downtown grocery store in 1932, Alewel's has  grown into a fixture of Warrensburg's local community.

This federally inspected meat processing and retail facility  developed old German recipes to create quality fresh meats and homemade  specialty products.

Randy Alewel, the third-generation CEO of Alewel's Country Meats, has  expanded the facility four times now.

Today, we congratulate Alewel's Meats and thank them for their  contributions to Missouri and the Fourth Congressional District.                          Recognizing Rick Fullerton

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize our May Veteran of  the Month, Mr. Rick Fullerton of Independence, Missouri. He is a World  War II vet and lives at the Missouri Veterans Home in Warrensburg in  our district.

Mr. Fullerton attended Smith-Cotton High School in Sedalia and  graduated in 1945. That September, he began his service in the U.S.  Army Air Corps. He served as an accountant in Mobile, Alabama, and he  is so proud of the fact that he was instrumental in making sure our  servicemen got paid for their sacrifices.

Mr. Fullerton created a wonderful family with his wife, Betty, and 2  children, 4 stepchildren, 13 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.

I am proud to honor Mr. Fullerton on the floor today, and I thank him  for his service to our great Nation.