Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692100/save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-2025


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for this important  piece of legislation. I thank the ranking member for her passion and  her concern for small businesses in America.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2931, the Save  SBA from Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025, championed by my good friend  Congressman Finstad.

Mr. Speaker, this is not about a culture war in America. This is  about putting American small business owners first, while ensuring  lawless sanctuary cities do not reap the benefits of hosting SBA  offices.

It is pretty simple. This is all about protecting America's small  businesses and making sure that Federal taxpayer dollars are not  funneled into lawless sanctuary cities that put illegal aliens ahead of  their own citizens.

Why should hardworking American entrepreneurs in law-abiding  communities be second in line to support from their own government?  They shouldn't be.

This bill will relocate SBA regional offices from sanctuary  jurisdictions to communities that actually respect the rule of law,  that actually put American citizens first, and that is not  controversial. It is just common sense.

President Biden's open-border policies let in millions of illegal  aliens, unvetted illegal aliens, including dangerous, violent  criminals.

The woke policies of Democrat-run sanctuary cities, fueled by woke  politics, have become magnets for chaos, stretching public resources to  the brink, and crowding out citizens who actually follow the law.

What happens? Well, it often depletes the public resources meant for  U.S. citizens.

Moving SBA offices into nonsanctuary jurisdictions is a step in the  right direction.

Let me be clear, Mr. Speaker. The Federal Government should not  reward sanctuary cities with permanent SBA infrastructure. That is not  just wrong, quite frankly, it is insulting to every law-abiding  taxpayer and every small business owner struggling to stay afloat.  These offices have got to be moved.

This legislation is another example of House Republicans working to  codify President Trump's executive orders.

In March, SBA Administrator Loeffler announced a series of actions to  put Americans first, including moving SBA regional offices out of  sanctuary cities. This bill makes it law and backs that up.

This commonsense legislation, as well as others that Members will be  voting on this week, put Americans and American small businesses first.  It puts Main Street first.

Mr. Speaker, people can't stop there. There are many cities that  share the same lawless, woke policies as sanctuary cities. They are  soft on crime, even if they don't wear the sanctuary label outright.

Kansas City is one of those, just as one example. It is not  officially designated as a sanctuary city, but it might as well be a  first cousin of one.

That is exactly why I have asked Administrator Loeffler to relocate  the SBA regional office from Kansas City in Missouri's Fifth  Congressional District down to our district, the Fourth District.

At the end of the day, American citizens and small businesses should  be the ones being served by SBA offices, not illegal aliens in  sanctuary cities.

Let's get serious. Let's put America first, like the mandate directed  to be done in November, the America First agenda led by President  Donald J. Trump.

I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and vote ``yes'' for  H.R. 2931.