Stock Trading Ban for Members of Congress


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Rhode Island, and  I am honored to follow my friend from Kansas City, Reverend Emanuel  Cleaver.

Mr. Speaker, I agree with him. This is a bipartisan issue. Today, I  rise to introduce the Preventing Elected Leaders from Owning Securities  and Investments Act. My bill is complementary to Senator Josh Hawley  over in the Senate.

If you travel the Fourth District of the great State of Missouri,  just south of Reverend Cleaver's district in Kansas City, and you ask  the average person, Mr. Speaker, if Members of Congress should be able  to trade individual stocks, they will say no. That is not good for our  Nation. It is not good for this body. It is not good for rebuilding  trust in the U.S. House of Representatives or the U.S. Senate.

The reason we introduced this is because there have been widespread  reports of suspicious transactions associated with public officials and  it raises a lot of concerns about what we are doing here in this great  body.

If you want to run for the U.S. House of Representatives or you want  to serve the people, Mr. Speaker, that is fine. If you want to trade  stocks, then go to Wall Street.

I am the chair of the Oversight, Investigations, and Regulations  Subcommittee for the Small Business Committee, I am concerned about  Main Street. I am concerned about the 772,047 individuals that I  represent. That is what we should be here about, not trying to get rich  on trading stocks.

My bill is bicameral. It is bipartisan. As I said before, it is led  in the Senate by Senator Josh Hawley. President Trump has announced  that he will support this legislation to make this law. He will sign it  into law.

Today, Speaker Johnson indicated his support for the underlying  policy and the Members gathered here tonight prove that this is a  bipartisan mission, to right the ship, to get us back on the right  track.

This legislation has workable compliance deadlines. It allows trading  in broad-based index and mutual funds and requires real enforcement. It  has teeth with substantial penalties for violations. As public  servants, we should hold ourselves to a higher standard, Mr. Speaker,  and avoid the mere appearance of corruption and impropriety.

Unfortunately, too many Members of Congress are engaging in  suspicious stock trades based on nonpublic information to enrich  themselves. These gross violations of the public trust make it clear:  We must finally take action and take a stand to ban Members and their  spouses from owning or selling individual stocks.

It is simple. Public service should never be a pathway to private  wealth, especially when everyday Americans are struggling. This is  about rebuilding trust in what we do.

Congress works for the people, not to enrich our bank account. I am  proud to join my colleagues tonight on the other side of the aisle. It  is kind of refreshing to have something that we  agree on, but we agree that America comes first, our constituents come  first, and we, as servant leaders, should come last.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for holding this Special Order  hour.