Taking A Step Toward True Energy Dominance


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692964/taking-a-step-toward-true-energy-dominance


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, if you are packing up your car, booking a  flight, or planning a trip this summer, you have probably noticed that  things feel a little bit better this year, a little bit smoother, and  much more affordable.

Mr. Speaker, that is not luck. That is because Congress is working to  pass President Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill Act, and it is already  making a difference in our summer travel plans.

Mr. Speaker, hardworking American families deserve the freedom to  fuel up without pinching pennies, and Trump's bill gets us one step  closer to true energy dominance.

One of the biggest costs to families hitting the road this summer is  the price at the pump. That is why we fought hard to include an  important provision in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act that cuts red  tape on domestic energy production. It reopens Federal lands for  drilling and streamlines refinery regulations.

Mr. Speaker, it is simple: When America produces more energy, we pay  less at the pump. That means that we don't have to beg foreign  dictators for oil.

In fact, experts are already predicting a decline in gas prices as we  move through the summer months. Usually, they go up because the summer  fuels are more expensive. Because of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, we  have the freedom to make more summer family memories without breaking  the bank.

It is not just about driving, either. If you have flown lately, you  have probably experienced the delays, cancelations, and chaos plaguing  America's airlines and our airports.

President Trump's big, beautiful bill tackles this head-on by  investing in modern air traffic control technology, expanding staffing  pipelines, and overhauling the bureaucratic logjam that has kept our  skies grounded for way too long.

Mr. Speaker, thanks to President Trump, America will begin  streamlining hiring for air traffic controllers, improving FAA  coordination, and bringing our aviation infrastructure  into the 21st century where it belongs. That means smoother trips for  everyone just in time for peak summer travel season.

This bill is exactly the kind of commonsense, America First  legislation that I came to Congress to support. It is proof that when  we put American small businesses, our families, and our travelers  first, we can make real progress.

Whether you are headed out to one of my favorite spots, Lake of the  Ozarks, in my district, if you are flying to visit family, or just  filling up the tank for the weekend, know this: Your summer will be  easier because we are passing the President's One Big Beautiful Bill  Act.           Honoring the 509th Bomb Wing at Whiteman Air Force Base

Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with immense pride for the  brave airmen of Missouri's own 509th Bomb Wing at Whiteman Air Force  Base in my district, who executed decisive, strategic strikes against  the Iranian regime under the leadership of President Donald J. Trump.

I also will take a moment to honor the other heroes who are part of  this historic operation. Pilots from the Air National Guard's 131st  Bomb Wing, also at Whiteman, made up 50 percent of the flyers alongside  the 509. The operation, maintenance, and the support personnel also  contributed significantly to the experience in planning, preparation,  and execution.

Just this past weekend, the world saw, once again, what American  resolve looks like when we are paired with unmatched precision and  capability. B-2s launched from Whiteman and executed a long-range  strike against Iran in Operation Midnight Hammer.

This is one of the best examples of integration of total force that  has come from Whiteman Air Force Base in recent times. Operation  Midnight Hammer is a vivid example of what our long-range strike  capabilities are all about: strategic reach, rapid response, and  incredible deterrence.

Let me be clear, Mr. Speaker, these were not just strikes, they were  a message to the world. It is a message to every rogue regime that  threatens American lives and our global stability that when President  Trump draws a red line, he means it. This is what peace through  strength looks like.

We are all reminded, once again, that under President Trump, America  does not bend to tyrants or terrorists. We confront evil. We prove our  dominance on the world stage, and we ensure that regimes like Iran's  will never get their hands on a nuclear weapon.

Let me say one thing for the Ayatollah. He now has a choice. This is  a time for choosing whether he wants peace or chaos, prosperity or  poverty, isolation from the rest of the Arab world or integration to  make the Middle East great again.

God bless the 509th and 131st Bomb Wings. God bless our airmen and  women at Whiteman Air Force Base, and God bless Donald J. Trump, our  President.