Winners of the Congressional Speech Competition


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691260/winners-of-the-congressional-speech-competition


Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to announce our winners today for  our second annual Missouri's Fourth Congressional District speech  competition for 2025. This is something we started last year here in  this very Chamber, and I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the  aisle to maybe adopt this in their district to try to re-instill  patriotism into our great Nation.

Our prompt this year is: What does it mean to stand for freedom here  at home and abroad?

Our first winner is Taylor Olendorff who is in the 11th grade at  Glasgow High School.

Taylor wrote this:

Standing for freedom means advocating for the inherent       rights of individuals to live without oppression, pursue       their dreams, and express themselves without fear.

In America, freedom is foundational, symbolized by       democratic values like free speech, equality, and the pursuit       of happiness.

At home, this means protecting civil liberties and ensuring       justice for all, regardless of race, gender or background.

Abroad, America plays a critical role in promoting freedom       by supporting democratic movements, opposing tyranny, and       providing humanitarian aid.

The U.S. has historically used its influence to encourage       the spread of human rights and liberty worldwide, embodying       the belief that freedom is a universal right, not just an       American ideal.

Our next winner is Grey Landreth, who is in the 11th grade at  Waynesville High School.

Grey wrote:

A tall, stone lighthouse standing firm against turbulent       waters, giving a path for sailors even in the most       treacherous of storms, always steadfast.

This is what it means to stand for freedom, to be resolute       in one's principles in the face of adversity.

America is the lighthouse of freedom and democracy is the       unforgiving sea of the world.

Illuminating the path to the patriotic way of life for       which the previous people of this country fought so hard.

Not only is it important for the lighthouse to point the       way for smaller vessels on the water, but also to maintain       its light, to maintain its freedom.

Before America can radio the path for other countries, it       must first prioritize its own freedoms and make sure its       lightbulb never flickers.

Our next winner is Lauryn Lercher, who is also an 11th grader at  Waynesville High School.

Lauryn wrote:

Freedom isn't just a word; it is a responsibility. To stand       for freedom means defending the rights of others, even when       it is difficult.

At home, America strives to protect democracy, ensuring       every voice is heard.

But freedom isn't just for us, it is a global value. The       U.S. promotes human rights and stands against oppression       worldwide through diplomacy, aid, and example.

However, authentic leadership means acknowledging our flaws       and working to improve.

Standing for freedom isn't about power, it is about       justice, equality, and courage.

If we truly believe in freedom, we must defend it       everywhere, for everyone.

Because without freedom, we lose what makes us who we are.

I am extremely proud of these young people. They are talented, smart,  and patriotic Americans who want our country to be better. Let us all  strive in this body no matter what side of the aisle we are on to make  that happen.

Mr. Speaker, I will continue at a later date with our remaining  winners.

Again, I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to adopt  the congressional speech contest to build patriotism among our young  people in the United States of America.