Boosting America's Housing Supply


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692993/boosting-americas-housing-supply


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to highlight just one way the  House-passed One Big Beautiful Bill Act will help more people live the  American Dream.

As the chairman of the Housing and Insurance Subcommittee, I am very  concerned about the housing crisis that America is experiencing. The  One Big Beautiful Bill Act, which this House passed last month,  includes a key provision that expands tax credits to incentivize the  building of more workforce housing. While increasing housing supply has  no silver bullets, expanding the low-income housing tax credit is a  major step in the right direction.

According to the National Association of Realtors, there is a 5- million-unit gap between housing demand and housing supply in this  country. Once the bill is law, the expanded tax credit will boost  America's housing supply.

I look forward to continuing to work together to tackle the housing  issues facing America with creative solutions.                           Recognizing Randy Gates

Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the hard work and  dedication of one of the First District's most dedicated public  servants, the city of Norfolk's finance officer, Randy Gates.

I have known Randy almost my entire life. He has served Norfolk for  over four decades, and his career has been defined by a deep commitment  to growing and maintaining Norfolk's economic success while using sound  accounting principles and conservative fiscal planning.

Thanks to his steady leadership and smart fiscal policies through the  years, Norfolk has become a shining example for communities across our  State. Earlier this month, Randy was honored with the League of  Nebraska Municipalities' prestigious LEAD Award, presented at the 2025  Municipal Accounting and Finance Conference. This award is just one  more testament to Randy's success and the enduring impact his work will  have.

I congratulate Randy on this well-deserved recognition. I look  forward to his continued success and leadership on behalf of Norfolk.                            Honoring Andrew Ozaki

Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor a giant in Nebraska  journalism, Andrew Ozaki.

Over the course of his 43-year career, Ozaki led KETV's Lincoln  bureau and built a reputation for both tenacity and kindness.

Whether he was covering the unicameral, the Governor's office,  sports, or more, Andrew Ozaki was everywhere covering everything. From  staking out legislative hearings to running up and down the sidelines  of Husker football games, Ozaki relentlessly chased stories that have  shaped public policy, entertained crowds, and brought our entire State  together.

As he prepares to retire from KETV, his absence will be noticed not  just by the numerous people he covered but by the audiences who relied  on his accurate stories.

Wherever Andrew's next chapter takes him, his integrity, compassion,  and commitment to storytelling have left a mark on our State that will  endure for years to come.