Disapproving the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Relating to ``Defining Larger Participants of A Market for General-Use Digital Consumer Payment Applications''


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689949/disapproving-the-rule-submitted-by-the-bureau-of-consumer-financial-protection-relating-to-defining-larger-participants-of-a-market-for-general-use-digital-consumer-payment-applications


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill for his attentiveness  to this issue, and I thank my colleague in the Senate, my co-lead,  Senator Pete Ricketts from Nebraska, for championing this effort and  getting the resolution through the U.S. Senate in record time, in less  than a week. He beat us to it.

There are a lot of reasons to support this resolution eliminating the  larger participant rulemaking from the CFPB.

Number one--think about this--the CFPB finalized this rule in the  eleventh hour in January days before the transfer of power, well after  other agencies stopped their rulemaking.

Number two, the rule itself is effectively a regulatory power grab by  the CFPB's outgoing Biden nominee, Mr. Chopra. By designating companies  engaged in payments activities as larger participants, the Bureau will  get to expand their examination authority over an amorphous and ill- defined group of firms with payment tools. Given their track record, I  think it is fair to say that we should not be supporting greater exam  reach of the CFPB.

I don't want our concerns to remain abstract. Let's take a look at  some of the practical effects that CFPB examination would have over  these payment firms.

First, let's take a look at some of the problems with how the rule  actually distinguishes who is and is not a larger participant in  payments. The rule does not only apply to tools where consumers are  using wallets to exchange funds on a peer-to-peer basis. It also  applies to any number of payment intermediaries that assist small  businesses and merchants.

For example, express checkout tools would be affected by this  rulemaking. Let's say you want to buy an item on the website of a small  retailer in Lincoln, Nebraska. If that website allows interfacing with  express checkout tools, as many do, then you are going to see the  effects from this rulemaking on their ability to easily accept payments  from their customers.

Congress aside, everybody in this room should fear what happens at my  house when my wife does not have access to express checkout.

According to a survey from the Small Business and Entrepreneurship  Council, 53 percent of small business owners use express checkout  tools. When asked whether express checkout services help their business  succeed, 94 percent of small businesses agreed that the online payment  tool is boosting their businesses' growth.

Yet, despite the obvious potential for Main Street and small business  effects from this rulemaking, the CFPB failed to conduct any  substantive analysis of the effects this rulemaking would have on small  businesses or even conduct a sufficient cost-benefit analysis of the  rulemaking more broadly.

The reason was the Bureau was less interested in the cost of the rule  than in expanding their own regulatory reach. This rule is a perfect  example of regulate first, ask questions later. That was the approach  of Director Chopra.

Ultimately, this style of regulation is going to chill innovation and  hurt the smallest players that depend on these technologies to compete  with the big guys.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter signed by myself and 19  Financial Services Committee Republicans to Director Chopra in 2023.                                  Congress of the United States,                                   Washington DC, December 18, 2023.      Hon. Rohit Chopra,      Director, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,           Washington, DC.

Dear Director Chopra: We write today to express our concern       with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB)       proposed rule subjecting large participants within the       general-use digital consumer payment application industry to       CFPB supervision. Innovation is the driving engine of the       American economy and the proposed rulemaking's broad scope       will have significant consequences on the ability for nonbank       firms to offer innovative products and services and for       consumers to benefit from competition in the market.                            scope of the proposal

Under the proposed definition and criteria, the CFPB       estimates that 17 market participants would be affected by       this rule. However, the Bureau fails to identify which firms       comprise that number, or to provide specific criteria that       would enable market participants to determine the firms       captured by the rule. It is essential that businesses and       consumers understand the implications of this proposal to       enable them to provide comprehensive feedback on its impact.

Further, it is important to clearly delineate the extent of       the rulemaking's scope. In its current form, the proposal       leaves open the possibility that entities far outside the       market for general-use digital consumer payment applications       will be captured. For example, the proposal specifies that       the CFPB's supervisory authority ``is not limited to the       products or services that qualified the person for       supervision.'' This suggests the rule will have no       boundaries, which is unacceptable and will create significant       uncertainty.

While the proposed rule contains certain exclusions, these       exclusions further confuse the intended scope of the       proposal. For example, the definition of a covered consumer       payment transaction excludes ``[a] payment transaction       conducted by a person for the sale or lease of goods or       services that a consumer selected from an online or physical       store or marketplace operated prominently in the name or such       person or its affiliated company.'' While this exclusion       seems to cover transactions between consumers and merchants       using a merchant's own payment software, the proposal later       states the exemption for merchants would not apply, ``if a       merchant or online marketplace's digital consumer application       stores, transmits, or otherwise processes payments or       financial data for any purpose other than initiating a       payments transaction by the consumer.'' When combined, these       two provisions within the rule create further ambiguity       regarding the scope of the proposal for merchants. Without a       meaningful exclusion for merchants, the Bureau's authority       could extend from players in consumer payments directly to       merchants across the country.

As you know, third party point of sale technology is used       largely by small businesses, and the frequency with which       small businesses are accepting digital payments is       increasing. With this in mind, the CFPB should consider the       impact this rule will have on the merchants that rely on       electronic payment services to process payments. The       rulemaking could have serious implications for small       businesses and sole proprietors across the country, and we       believe the CFPB should carefully assess the rule in this       context.

Furthermore, we are concerned the CFPB neglected to fully       consider the impact of increased compliance costs. The       proposed rule states, ``the CFPB lacks detailed information       with which to predict the extent to which increased costs       would be borne by providers or passed on to consumers, to       predict how providers might respond to higher costs, or to       predict how consumers might respond to increased prices.''       However, with no analysis conducted on the compliance costs       of the proposal, the rule later certifies that the proposal       ``would not have a significant economic impact on a       substantial number of small entities.'' The inability to       track the costs of compliance of this proposal, and how it       would be passed down to small entities, paired with an       assurance that the rule will not have a significant effect on       those same entities is alarming. If the Bureau believes small       entities will not be significantly affected by the rule, it       should provide the evidence it uses to support that claim.                                digital assets

Lastly, we also have concerns regarding the rule's       applicability to digital assets and digital asset wallet       providers. The proposed rule indicates that the purchase of a       crypto asset using fiat currency would be exempted by the       rule. However, the rule includes digital assets in its       definition of ``funds.'' Taken together, these two provisions       raise many questions, including what crypto asset       transactions would be included in the rule and whether the       rule extends to certain wallet providers.

The CFPB's proposed rule also comes as other jurisdictions       are pushing to promote both competition and innovation in       payments. Given the CFPB's track record of overreach, we       strongly urge the Bureau to refrain from exceeding its       authority and instead, commit to clarifying and narrowing the       scope of this rule. Given the breadth of the proposal and       ambiguity regarding its applicability, we urge the Bureau to       extend the comment period for an additional 30 days. This       additional time will give market participants the opportunity       to provide comprehensive feedback.            Sincerely,          Patrick McHenry, Chairman, House Committee on Financial             Services; Mike Flood, Andy Barr, Tom Emmer, Dan Meuser,             Byron Donalds, Young Kim, Scott Fitzgerald, French             Hill, Ann Wagner, Bryan Steil, William R. Timmons, IV,             Erin Houchin, Michael V. Lawler, Alex X. Mooney, Andy             Ogles, Andrew R. Garbarino, Zach Nunn, Barry             Loudermilk, Ralph Norman, Members of Congress.

Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, in addition, the Bureau has consistently  tried to imply their authority would not only apply to tech companies,  but there is a chance they could bring merchants into their regulatory  purview as well. The general counsel of the CFPB said in a speech  during Director Chopra's tenure that merchants might be implicated as  large payment players in the future if they aren't mom-and-pops.

Last year, in response to a question on the record from me on this  topic, the Director made the case that a merchant that incorporates  payment capabilities directly into a website could potentially blur the  lines between banking and commerce and, therefore, be subject to the  CFPB oversight in the future.

However, Dodd-Frank explicitly calls for an exclusion for the  merchants from the CFPB's regulatory purview. That idea that a merchant  engaging in a commercial financial activity due to payment activities  in a merchant's own store or website is outright ridiculous, and it  represents yet another expansion of the CFPB's rapidly growing  authority.

Finally, I would like to highlight another major concern with CFPB  examination authority of these firms and what it would bring. The firms  within the scope of this rulemaking are payments firms, but some of  these firms also have a social media element to their businesses.

If we fail to act here in Congress, there will be career bureaucrats  from the CFPB with the authority to examine some of the most  influential social media companies in the country behind the scenes.

Do any of us really think that a liberal CFPB examiner would restrict  their comments to only a social media company's payment activities?

Are we sure that they wouldn't provide some ``feedback'' on the free  speech policies of Meta or X?

Leaving this rulemaking in place could provide the next Democratic  administration with the tools that they need to more directly influence  even social media.