Recognizing Mayor David Black


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698932/recognizing-mayor-david-black


Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Papillion,  Nebraska's, Mayor David Black, as a paragon of public service and  remarkable stewardship.

Through more than two decades of service to the people of Papillion,  Mayor Black helped to guide the city into the thriving economic hub  that it is today. This month, he announced that he will not seek  reelection, which will conclude 17\1/2\ years as mayor and nearly 5  additional years of serving the city in other roles.

Mayor Black leaves behind a strong foundation built on partnership  with an exceptional professional staff and the business community.

Decades of engagement and community outreach have produced clear  results, attracting firms like Google and Facebook to expand to  Papillion.

He will be deeply missed by the people of Papillion, and I am hopeful  he will continue public service down the road. Mayor Black has more  than earned the opportunity to spend additional time with his family  once his final term in office concludes.

Papillion, Mr. Speaker, is a special place, with Mayor Black's legacy  being built yet another example of that truth. I thank Mayor Black for  his outstanding public service.                        Ben Sasse Never Stops Fighting

Mr. FLOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize former U.S. Senator  Ben Sasse.

Ben is a Nebraskan, a native, and a Fremonter. He lives in the First  Congressional District. Early in his career, he served as chief of  staff for a previous member of the same district.

Last month, Ben announced that he had been diagnosed with stage IV  pancreatic cancer. This news stunned me, and, quite frankly, it stunned  the world.

Ever since Ben has stepped back from public life following his time  in the Senate and at the University of Florida, his intellect and voice  have continued to influence conversation across the country.

From education to healthcare and beyond, he has shaped debates in  higher ed, politics, journalism, and more through the years. Ben did  this all at a young age. Even though he has a very public profile, he  and his wife, Melissa, have built a vibrant family. All of this made  the cancer diagnosis seem almost unthinkable.

While this is hard news for all of us to hear, we know this isn't the  end of the story. Ben has a lot of fight left in him, and as he has  joked himself: ``He is not dead yet.''

From the people of the First District and across Nebraska, Mr.  Speaker, may Ben know that we are praying for him. We are with him,  with Melissa, and his kids. I know he won't back down from this fight.