No New Burma Funds Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697197/no-new-burma-funds-act


Ms. WILLIAMS of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R.  4423, the bipartisan No New Burma Funds Act.

This bill, which I introduced with my colleague Young Kim, would  mandate that the United States use its voice and vote to continue the  World Bank's pause on disbursements and new financing commitments to  the Government of Burma. This pause was initiated after a military coup  overthrew the democratically elected Government of Burma in 2021.

Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago, the democratically elected leaders in  Burma's ruling party, the National League for Democracy, were  overthrown by the Tatmadaw, Burma's military. Since the military  regime's coup, we have seen families displaced. We have seen citizens  detained without access to income, education, or healthcare. There has  been brutal violence against the Burmese civilian population.

I center my work on my constituents and fighting for those most  marginalized. Mr. Speaker, while I hope we are going to have a robust  conversation around making sure that everyone back home in my district  is housed with affordable housing and lowering costs in this country,  today, this bill is still central to my constituents. In my district  alone, DeKalb County is home to over 2,000 Burmese refugees.

In another life, prior to my congressional service, I was a public  school teacher. I had a student who was a Burmese refugee. Htet-Yet and  his family's story is empowering and a stark reminder that not only do  we have an obligation to help those no matter their ZIP Code, but we  have a duty to help those no matter where they are around the globe.

This legislation gives our country yet another tool to put financial  pressure on the Burmese Government. This bill will ensure that the U.S.  executive director at the World Bank pushes the institution to continue  its pause on the disbursement of funds and new financing commitments to  the government, incentivizing the Burmese Government to give power back  to the most important piece of any thriving free country: the people.

I thank Congresswoman Young Kim for co-leading this important  legislation with me. I also thank Chairman Hill and Ranking Member  Waters for their support of this priority. I urge all of my colleagues  to support this bill.