Advanced Geothermal Innovation Leadership Act of 2019


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, 2 years ago at this time, we were hearing  that the internet, as we know it, was going to disappear. On February  27, 2018, Senate Democrats sent a tweet warning that Americans would be  getting the internet one word at a time. Why? Because the Federal  Communications Commission had repealed heavyhanded, Obama-era internet  regulation. If we didn't immediately undo the FCC's rules change,  Democrats warned, the effects on internet access would be catastrophic. 

  Well, 2 years later, the internet, as we know it, isn't just still  with us, it is flourishing. Broadband access has expanded; Americans  are enjoying faster internet speeds; and we are implementing 5G  internet technology across the Nation, including in more rural places  like South Dakota. 

  It turns out the internet doesn't fall apart without the heavy hand  of government. In fact, it thrives. That should be an important lesson  for us going forward. Historically speaking, the Federal Government has  taken a light-touch approach to internet regulation. The government  largely stayed out of the internet's way, and innovation and creativity  flourished, delivering nearly everything from Netflix to weather apps,  to Uber. But in 2014, the Obama administration decided it wanted the  Federal Government to start regulating the internet more heavily, and  in 2015, the Obama Federal Communications Commission passed the Open  Internet Order, which dramatically expanded the Federal Government's  power over the internet in the name of net neutrality. 

  Now, you might not know it from Democrats' rhetoric, but net  neutrality is a concept that enjoys broad support in both parties. I  support net neutrality and rules that prevent blocking, throttling, or  the paid prioritization of internet traffic. I don't think a major  service provider should be able to block a small new startup, and I  don't think Netflix should be able to pay to have its search results  appear before anyone else's. 

  What the Obama FCC did in 2015 went far beyond net neutrality. In the  name of keeping the internet open to everyone, the Obama FCC asserted  broad new government powers over the internet using rules that were  designed for telephone monopolies back during the Great Depression.  This opened a whole host of new internet regulations, including price  regulations. 

  Unsurprisingly, the FCC's move resulted in a decline in broadband  investment as companies saw the possibility of burdensome new  regulations headed their way. That was bad news for Americans,  especially Americans in rural States like my home State of South  Dakota. 

  Getting broadband to rural communities is already more challenging  than installing broadband in cities or suburbs. The possibility of  heavier regulations acted as a further disincentive to expanding  access. 

  Fast forward to 2017, and the Federal Communications Commission,  under Chairman Pai, voted to repeal the heavyhanded internet  regulations passed by the Obama FCC. Democrats, as I already mentioned,  responded hysterically, predicting that the internet, as we knew it,  would disappear. Providers, they warned, would slow down internet  speeds to a crawl and block access to desired content--except, of  course, none of that has happened. 

  Here is what actually has happened. Broadband investment has  rebounded. In 2018, private broadband investment rose by $3 billion.  Broadband access is expanding. The FCC reports that in 2018,  ``broadband providers, both small and large, deployed fiber networks to  5.9 million new homes, the largest number ever recorded.'' 

  Internet speeds have increased. 

  The Nation is poised for widespread adoption of the next generation  of internet, which is 5G. All of this despite light-touch government  regulation or, perhaps more accurately, because of light-touch  government regulation. 

  At a time when Democrats are pushing for government takeovers of  everything from our healthcare to our energy choices, it is important  to remember that a lot of times heavyhanded government involvement  causes problems instead of solving them. Of course, there is a place  for government regulations, but more government involvement does not  automatically mean a better outcome. In fact, a lot of the time it  means the opposite. 

  Giving the Federal Government more power over the internet not only  didn't help anything, it actually discouraged the investment needed to  ensure that all Americans have access to reliable, high-speed internet  service. Lifting the heavy hand of government regulation, on the other  hand, encouraged broadband investment, which is resulting in better  internet access for more Americans. 

  If we want the internet to continue to thrive and serve as an engine  of economic innovation and advancement, we should ensure that the  Federal Government stays away from heavyhanded regulations. 

  I have spent years calling for a bipartisan net neutrality bill that  would address concerns about blocking while codifying a light-touch  approach to internet regulation. I am still waiting for a Democratic  partner on that legislation. 

  While the current FCC has established a healthy approach to  regulation, a different administration could return and, in the same  way they did during the days of the Obama FCC, slow down internet  advances like 5G and the expansion of broadband that is happening in  rural communities across the country. 

  I will continue to work for bipartisan net neutrality legislation  that ensures that the government will not weigh down the internet with  unnecessary and heavyhanded regulations. I hope my Democratic  colleagues will join me. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT