Authorizing Testimony, Document Production, and Representation By the Senate Legal Counsel in the Case of in Re Architect of the Capitol Employment Dispute


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691911/authorizing-testimony-document-production-and-representation-by-the-senate-legal-counsel-in-the-case-of-in-re-architect-of-the-capitol-employment-dispute


Mr. THUNE.  Res. 262, which is at the desk.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, this resolution concerns a subpoena for  deposition testimony and documents in a civil action pending in Federal  district court in the District of Columbia. Plaintiffs in this case,  former employees of the Architect of the Capitol, have sued the  Architect of the Capitol alleging discrimination based on gender, age,  and military status or service.

Plaintiffs have sent a subpoena to Nichole Kotschwar, deputy staff  director of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, seeking  deposition testimony and document production regarding matters in  connection with the underlying employment dispute. The subpoena  implicates the Committee's constitutional privilege and presents  concerns regarding imposing an undue burden on a nonparty Senate  committee employee. On advice of counsel, the Rules Committee seeks  Senate authorization for Ms. Kotschwar, on behalf of the committee, to  provide testimony and produce documents and communications with  individuals outside of Congress relating to the requests of the  subpoena.

This resolution would authorize the testimony and production of  documents from Ms. Kotschwar except where a privilege or objection  should be asserted. The resolution also authorizes the Senate legal  counsel to represent Ms. Kotschwar in this matter.

Mr. THUNE.   on Thursday, June 5; that following the prayer and pledge, the morning  hour be deemed expired, the Journal of proceedings be approved to date,  the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the  day, morning business be closed, and the Senate proceed to executive  session to resume consideration of Executive Calendar No. 144, James  O'Neill, under the previous order; further, that notwithstanding rule  XXII, the cloture motions filed during Tuesday's session of the Senate  ripen following disposition of the O'Neill nomination and if cloture is  invoked on the Eisenberg nomination, the postcloture time expire at  1:45 p.m. tomorrow; finally, that if cloture is invoked on the Shumate  nomination, all postcloture time be expired and the Senate vote on  confirmation of the Shumate nomination at a time to be determined by  the majority leader in consultation with the Democratic leader, on  Monday, June 9.