Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, yesterday the Senate passed the Families  First Coronavirus Response Act, which is bipartisan legislation that  will provide critical relief to American workers, families, and small  businesses. 

  Two weeks ago, the Senate passed the first phase of Congress's COVID- 19 response, and that was $8.3 billion in funding for coronavirus  research, testing, and medical care. Yesterday's bill was the second  phase of that response. The Families First Coronavirus Response Act  will ensure that all Americans can access coronavirus testing at no  cost. 

  The bill also ensures expanded telehealth access for Medicare  recipients during this outbreak, which I strongly support. As a  resident of a rural State, I have long been a supporter of telehealth  for the expanded healthcare access it can deliver for rural  communities. The value of telehealth isn't limited to rural States.  During an outbreak like this, for example, telehealth services can help  keep patients--particularly vulnerable, elderly patients--out of  doctors' offices and hospital waiting rooms. Patients can use a phone  call or the internet to check in with their doctors for minor  complaints or medication followups, instead of having to venture out  and be exposed to possible coronavirus infection. I am very pleased  that Medicare patients will have greater access to telehealth services  during this outbreak. 

  The largest part of the Families First Coronavirus Response Act  focuses on providing economic support for families during this  difficult time. The bill makes provisions for paid sick leave and paid  family and medical leave for American workers, particularly for those  who might not otherwise have access to these benefits. It also invests  additional money in unemployment insurance where benefits are available  for those who need them. 

  I am pleased we were able to pass this bipartisan bill that the House  produced, but there is more work to be done. The House bill touches on  only a small part of what is needed to help Americans weather the  storm, which is why Senate Republicans are currently working to develop  the third phase of Congress's response. 

  Our legislation will address three priorities: providing direct,  immediate assistance to American workers and families; giving our  economy, especially our small businesses, the necessary support to  weather the storm; and, of course, most importantly, providing medical  professionals with the resources they need to fight this virus. 

  I have been working closely with colleagues on the Senate Commerce  and Finance Committees to develop the parts of the legislation that  will address tax relief, particularly for small businesses, and support  for industries that have been directly impacted by this pandemic,  including the airline industry, which has taken a devastating hit from  this outbreak. 

  The Senate will be here as long as it takes to get this additional  legislation to the President's desk. 

  These are difficult days. This is new territory for most of us, and  there is a lot of uncertainty in the air. Americans are worried about  their own health and that of their loved ones. They are worried about  what this outbreak will mean for their jobs and their financial health.  It is a difficult time for our country. We are going to get through  this. 

  America has faced big challenges before, and we have come through  them even stronger. This time will be no different. I see the strength  of America everywhere I look--in the dedicated doctors and nurses  putting their lives on the line to care for the sick and our first  responders who are always at the forefront of the response to any  crisis and the truckdrivers and grocery store employees and delivery  workers who keep on doing their jobs in the face of the outbreak,  ensuring all of us have the essentials we need. It is also in the  thousands of ordinary Americans who are stepping up to help their  neighbors--running to the grocery stores for elderly or sick  individuals, providing childcare for those who can't telework, and  looking out for those who are struggling financially. This is what will  get us through.  

  I and my colleagues in Congress will continue to do our part to  ensure that our country has everything it needs to weather this crisis  and to defeat this disease. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT