Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Of course, the other thing we are focused on this week is  the issue that is at the top of everyone's mind, and that is dealing  with the coronavirus outbreak. 

  Two weeks ago, Congress passed coronavirus legislation providing more  than $8 billion in funding for virus research, testing, and medical  care. This week, we are looking to pass the second phase of Congress's  response, and that is legislation to continue our investment in medical  care and to begin to address the economic impact the coronavirus is  having on American workers. 

  The House has reached an agreement with Treasury Secretary Steve  Mnuchin, and Senators are currently reviewing the House's legislation,  which arrived here in the Senate just this morning. I look forward to  passing that bill this week. 

  As the leader said on Sunday, Senate Republicans believe that any  legislation we pass this week is only the beginning of Congress's  response to the virus. 

  As this outbreak continues to unfold, other issues will need to be  addressed, and Senate Republicans are already planning for legislation  to address future priorities, whether they be in the increased funding  for medical facilities or measures to provide support for American  families and businesses. 

  This is a challenging time for our country, but it is often in  challenging times that we see the very best of America. We are seeing  that already--in neighbors' ensuring that neighbors are supplied with  necessities; in sports figures' donating to ensure that workers at  their arenas are still paid even when games aren't being played; in  restaurants' helping to feed their neighbors even though their  businesses are currently suffering; in companies and arts  organizations' acting to provide free resources to families who are  hunkering down at home; in the millions of Americans who are providing  the essential services we need during this outbreak--from the workers'  stocking the shelves at our grocery stores and pharmacies to the truck  drivers' delivering needed goods across our country; finally and  especially, in  our healthcare professionals, from doctors and nurses to sanitation  staff, who risk exposure every day to ensure that Americans receive the  care they need. 

  When we have come through this outbreak, all of us will want to be  able to look back and say that we did everything we could to help keep  our fellow Americans safe and slow the spread of this disease. The best  way to do that is by following the guidelines that we have been given-- washing our hands frequently and thoroughly, practicing social  distancing, avoiding large gatherings, and staying home when advised.  Some of these measures may be inconvenient, but they are a small price  to pay to flatten the curve and limit the disease's spread. 

  While anyone can be hit hard by the coronavirus, there are a lot of  people who are especially vulnerable to complications--from elderly  Americans to the many individuals who have preexisting conditions.  Let's do everything we can to protect our fellow Americans and prevent  our hospitals and our healthcare professionals from being overwhelmed  with cases. 

  I am confident that, if we pull together and look out for each other,  our Nation will emerge from this challenge stronger. I look forward to  working with my colleagues here in Congress to ensure that our Nation  has the resources it needs to combat and defeat this disease. 

  I was encouraged to hear our Senate Democratic leader speak about his  willingness to work with the Republicans. Obviously, to do anything  here in the Senate requires 60 votes, which means we have to have  bipartisan cooperation. We have a legislative vehicle, as I mentioned,  that contains a number of features that are helpful, I think, in terms  of addressing the crisis that we are experiencing, not only on the  healthcare front but on the economic front with regard to the hardships  that are being experienced by millions of Americans. 

  There is more that we need to do, and those discussions, as I  mentioned, are underway, and I am hopeful that we will be able to come  to a conclusion, to a resolution, that would be good not only for those  Americans who have been hurting economically and who, perhaps, are not  working and are not able to get to work, but for those businesses that  have shut down--our small businesses that create the majority of jobs  in this country--and for, certainly, the healthcare professionals, who,  as I said, are on the frontlines every single day. We need to take  every step we possibly can to ensure that we protect people from the  spread of the disease and ensure that they continue to sustain their  economic livelihoods in the midst of this crisis. 

  Many of the things that are being discussed and worked on that will  require collaboration with the Democrats and the House of  Representatives will need to be approached in a bipartisan way. We need  to recognize that the need is great and that the absolute necessity of  cooperation is greater than ever. I look forward to working with our  colleagues here this week as we move forward in a way that will,  hopefully, lead to some very positive results and will address the very  critical needs being felt by families all across this country as a  result of this coronavirus disease. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT