Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, here in the Senate, we are continuing to  move forward with the next installment of coronavirus relief  legislation. I expect, later today, we will pass the bill that was  passed by the House earlier, and we are looking beyond it to a third  bill that will provide additional relief to the American people. 

  As the leader has said, we have three priorities: providing direct  assistance to American workers and families, many whose lives have been  disrupted and dislocated in jobs, who are feeling a lot of economic  harm, economic pain; giving our economy, especially our small  businesses, the necessary support with which to weather the storm; and  most importantly, providing medical professionals with the resources  they need in order to fight this virus. The House bill addresses these  priorities to some degree, but it is not a comprehensive bill, and  additional legislation is going to be needed. 

  We especially need to ensure that the worker benefit requirements the  House bill places on small businesses are accompanied by sufficient  support. Small businesses are at the most risk economically during this  time, and we need to ensure they have the resources they need to get  through this. I am looking forward to continuing to work with my  colleagues of both parties on the House bill and on additional  legislation. 

  This is a time for all of us to come together to ensure that medical  professionals, American businesses, and American families have what  they need to combat the coronavirus and to deal with its effects. I  can't think of a time at which we have seen schools and businesses  close on such a mass scale. It is a challenging time for our country,  but if we pull together, we can get through this and come out even  stronger. 

  All of us have roles to play in combating this virus--washing our  hands regularly and thoroughly, practicing social distancing, staying  at home as much as possible, listening to advice from healthcare  officials. All of these things are essential to our flattening the  curve and limiting the number of infected Americans. 

  It is vital that we keep as many people as possible from getting  infected so that our hospitals and medical professionals are not  overwhelmed with cases. Our medical professionals are putting their  lives on the line every day to care for coronavirus patients. Let's  make sure we do everything we can to keep the number of cases they are  dealing with as low as possible. 

  In difficult times, Americans rise to the occasion, and I am  confident that is what we will do again. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT