Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, as we continue our work here in the  Senate, COVID-19 continues to be at the top of  our agenda. We are monitoring implementation of the $2.4 trillion of  the coronavirus funding that we provided, and we are talking to experts  about what is needed to help our country reopen. Our committees, where  so much of our key legislative work is done, have held a number of  coronavirus hearings over the past 2 weeks, and there are more on the  agenda. 

  This week, the Committee on Aging will hold a hearing on caring for  seniors during the coronavirus crisis. The Senate Banking Committee  will hold a hearing with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Federal  Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell to discuss implementation of the  Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act--the CARES Act-- which was our largest coronavirus relief bill. 

  The Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee will hold a  hearing to consider the nomination of Brian D. Miller to be special  inspector general for pandemic recovery at the Treasury Department.  With just an ounce of cooperation from Democrats, we could confirm this  important watchdog yet this week. 

  Finally, the Commerce Committee, of which I am a member, will be in  executive session to consider legislation and nominations, including  two coronavirus bills. 

  Of course, while coronavirus remains our top priority, we are also  focused on doing the other business the American people expect us to  do, from funding our government to protecting our Nation. Last week,  the Senate voted to reauthorize three expired provisions of the Foreign  Intelligence Surveillance Act that provide essential tools to our law  enforcement and intelligence communities, as well as a number of  reforms to strengthen privacy protections and guard against abuses. 

  We have also been considering nominations for key administration  posts, including Director of National Intelligence and Secretary of the  Navy. This week, we expect to confirm a nominee to reestablish a quorum  at the Federal Election Commission, as well as a number of nominees to  fill vacancies on Federal district courts. 

  So that is what the Senate has been doing. What has the House of  Representatives been up to? Well, until last Friday, the answer was not  much. But on Friday, the House brought its Members back to Washington  to vote on a massive, $3 trillion piece of legislation the Democratic  leaders billed as coronavirus relief. In reality, as one House Democrat  pointed out, the legislation is nothing more than a messaging bill-- that from a House Democrat. 

  Under the guise of coronavirus relief, House leaders put together a  massive package of liberal priorities that they well knew would be dead  on arrival here in the U.S. Senate. How unserious is their bill? Well,  the Democrats' legislation mentions the word ``cannabis''-- ``cannabis''--more often than the word ``jobs.'' 

  Let me repeat that. House Democrats' legislation mentions the word  ``cannabis'' more often than the word ``jobs.'' 

  In case Democrats didn't realize, Americans are not suffering from  lack of cannabis right now. They are suffering from a lack of  employment. 

  Let me mention some other highlights of the Democrats' legislation: a  tax cut for millionaires and billionaires; stimulus checks for illegal  immigrants and deadbeat dads; environmental justice grants to study  pollution; significant changes to election law--that is really related  to the coronavirus--a ban on sharing information about lower cost  health insurance options; and more. I could go on. The list literally  goes on and on. 

  Unfortunately, while Democrats were focused on federalizing election  law and requiring studies on diversity in the cannabis industry, they  forgot about a few basics. Their bill does not include any meaningful  plan to get Americans back to work. It provides hardly any relief or  support for small businesses. It doesn't touch the issue of liability  reform--even though preventing frivolous coronavirus lawsuits will be  key to getting our economy going again--and it doesn't do anything to  hold China accountable. The Democrats' bill is a fundamentally  unserious bill at an incredibly serious time. 

  Democratic leaders knew from the beginning that there was no chance  of this legislation getting through the Senate or being signed by the  President. In fact, Democrats had some work to do to persuade members  of their own caucus to vote for the bill. As POLITICO put it, ``As of  late Thursday evening, the House Democratic leadership was engaged in  what a few senior aides and lawmakers described as the most difficult  arm-twisting of the entire Congress: convincing their rank and file to  vote for a $3 trillion stimulus bill that will never become law.'' 

  Unfortunately, Democratic leaders were successful in their arm- twisting, and the bill did pass the House, albeit with some Democratic  defections. 

  I have talked about the liberal wish list in this bill, but I haven't  mentioned the other aspect of this proposal, and that is the enormous  pricetag, a portion of which, of course, wouldn't even go to anything  coronavirus-related. My friends across the aisle think that all  problems can be solved with more money or a new government program, but  they can't. And spending too much money can actually hurt rather than  help Americans. 

  So far, we have spent $2.4 trillion to fight the coronavirus. That is  a tremendous amount of money, but these are extraordinary  circumstances, and they call for an extraordinary response. We may very  well have to spend more before this pandemic is over, and if we need  to, we will. But we have an absolute obligation to make sure we are  spending only what is needed. 

  Every dollar we have spent so far on this pandemic is borrowed  money--every single dollar. It is money we needed to borrow, and we  were glad to do it, but we do need to remember that it is borrowed  money, and the younger workers and our children and grandchildren are  going to be paying for it. We have an obligation to them to borrow only  what is absolutely necessary to fight and beat this virus. Diversity  studies for the cannabis industry should not be making that cut. 

  Some of the Democrats' proposals might be acceptable at another time,  and I emphasize the word ``some.'' But no matter how worthy the  proposal, there is a limit to what we can responsibly spend, and we  have to prioritize measures that will directly fight the virus and get  Americans back to work. 

  Republicans are also focused on developing measures that will help  fight the virus and get our economy going again without spending  trillions of dollars--something I might recommend to my Democratic  colleagues. We are currently working on a package of liability  protections. Personal injury lawyers are already filing coronavirus- related cases, and we need to ensure that frivolous lawsuits don't  hamstring our economic recovery while ensuring that real cases of gross  negligence and misconduct are punished. 

  We are considering a lot of other measures to provide relief while  driving up the national debt as little as possible, such as regulatory  reform and tax protection for healthcare workers who cross State lines  to provide their services. I am pushing for approval of my Mobile  Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act, which I introduced last  year, along with Senator Sherrod Brown. 

  Our legislation would create an across-the-board tax standard for  mobile employees who spend a short period of time working across State  lines. It would ensure that States receive fair tax payments while  substantially simplifying tax requirements for employees and employers.  This legislation has particular relevance in the age of coronavirus,  with doctors and nurses crossing State lines to voluntarily work in  States that have been hit hard by the pandemic. 

  The Governor of New York is looking to cash in on the pandemic and  has already threatened to subject these medical professionals to New  York's income tax. We need to make sure that doctors and nurses who  travel to other States to help fight the coronavirus aren't rewarded  with big tax bills. 

  Partisan messaging bills, such as the one the House Democrats passed  last week, are a waste of Democrats' time but, more importantly, do  nothing to serve the American people. How many hours did the Democrats  spend on their massive liberal wish list--hours that could have been  spent working with Republicans to come up with real relief  measures? But that is pretty much par for the course for Democrats  these days. They are intent on remaking America according to their ever  more extreme leftist agenda. They are certainly not going to let a  national crisis get in the way. In fact, more than one leader of the  Democratic Party has spoken with pleasure of the opportunity the  pandemic presents to remake America in their far-left image. 

  It is deeply disappointing that Democrats are more focused on their  pet projects than on addressing this pandemic and its consequences, but  that will not stop the Republican-led Senate from moving forward with  the business of the American people, and I hope that Democrats will  eventually decide to join us. BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.  Rounds). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT