Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today we are taking up a War Powers  Resolution ostensibly aimed at hostilities with Iran. The impetus for  this resolution was the strike the President authorized to take out  Iranian General Qasem Soleimani. 

  Iran has a long history of fomenting violence and conflict in the  Middle East, and General Soleimani was always right in the center of  that. As head of the Quds Force of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps,  Soleimani masterminded Iran's terrorist activities for two decades.  Iran has been linked to one in six U.S. military deaths in Iraq,  notably through the IEDs that have become so emblematic of the War on  Terror. 

  This was Soleimani's work. He is responsible for the deaths of  hundreds of American soldiers and countless innocent civilians, and the  threat Iran poses to U.S. personnel is an ongoing threat. At the end of  December, an Iran-backed militia fired more than 30 rockets at an Iraqi  military base, killing an American contractor and wounding four U.S.  troops. Days later, Iran-backed protesters stormed the U.S. Embassy in  Baghdad, conducting a 2-day siege of the Embassy before withdrawing. 

  The strike on General Soleimani wasn't just based on these recent  attacks or on Soleimani's long reign of terror in the Middle East. The  President authorized the strike on Soleimani because there was credible  intelligence that Soleimani was planning imminent attacks against U.S.  interests. That was the conclusion not of the President but of the U.S.  intelligence community and nonpartisan experts like the CIA Director  and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. It was in response to this  conclusion from the intelligence community that the President ordered  the strike. 

  The War Powers Resolution coming before the Senate was introduced out  of concern that taking out Iran's top terrorist leader would lead to  escalation, but that has not happened. The perspective provided by the  nearly 6 weeks that have passed since Soleimani's killing underscores  the one-off nature of the strike. The President has not escalated this  conflict or used Soleimani's death as an excuse to send troops into  action against Iran. In fact, this strike was designed to check  escalation in the region--specifically, increasing aggression and  imminent attacks by Iran. 

  We live in a dangerous world. The United States must be able to  respond to imminent threats to our security. I support the robust  interpretation of Congress's constitutional prerogatives when it comes  to the declaration of war and the deployment of U.S. troops, but I also  believe that the President has the authority and, indeed, the  responsibility to protect the United States from imminent threats. 

  The strike against Qasem Soleimani has reminded those hostile to the  United States that we will not stand idly by while U.S. personnel are  threatened. It has removed the top terrorist leader from the arena, a  leader responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Americans. It has  reduced, although certainly not eliminated, the risk to our men and  women in uniform deployed in the Middle East. 

  I believe that the President's action was justified, and I think this  resolution is an ill-advised and potentially problematic response to  the President's action. 

  With Soleimani's evil influence removed from the Middle East, Iran  has the chance to chart a new course, to rethink its participation in  terrorism and its oppression of its own people. I hope that Iran will  moderate its activities, but, of course, we have to be prepared for the  likelihood that it will not. We have to continue to ensure that our  words and actions make Iran and any other hostile nation think twice  before attacking American citizens. 

  We have to continue to ensure that our military and intelligence  community have the resources they need to identify and to defeat any  threat. I will continue to work to ensure that our military is the best  prepared, best equipped fighting force in the world and that our  intelligence professionals have the resources they need to protect our  country. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT