Energy Regulations


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689698/energy-regulations


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, over the last 4 years, the Biden  administration put our energy security on a dangerous trajectory. The  administration sharply restricted oil and gas development. It  threatened the closure of existing powerplants with burdensome new  regulations, even as our electric grid struggled to keep up with  demand. President Biden attempted to force the widespread adoption of  electric cars, despite the incredible strain that would place on our  already shaky power grid. And that is just to start with.

The administration unleashed a veritable blizzard of Green New Deal  regulations as it attempted to push through its far-left agenda.

The American people called for a new direction this past November,  and the Trump administration and the Republican majorities in Congress  have wasted no time in getting to work to provide relief from  burdensome regulations, especially when it comes to energy.

Last month, the EPA announced 31 significant deregulatory actions.  Among these are actions addressing the Biden administration's good  neighbor rule and Clean Power Plan 2.0. Both of these regulations were  designed to effectively force fossil fuel-powered powerplants to  close--a dangerous goal at a time when we are already running low on  the electricity we need to meet demand. And preventing these Biden-era  rules from going into effect removes a significant threat to our energy  supply.

Farmers, ranchers, and other landowners can also breathe more easily  knowing that the Obama-era waters of the United States rule, which the  Biden administration attempted to resurrect, is being revised. The so- called WOTUS rule would have given the Federal Government sweeping  jurisdiction over most water features on private property, including  things like irrigation ditches, ephemeral streams, and even prairie  potholes.

I know farmers and ranchers in my State of South Dakota would have  appreciated a seat at the table before the Biden administration  resurrected this harmful policy, and I am pleased that the Trump  administration is committed to consulting with stakeholders for their  input on an alternative clean water rule.

The EPA is also now working to terminate the Biden electric vehicle  mandate. The switch to electric vehicles that the Biden administration  envisioned was unwelcome, unworkable, and unaffordable for a lot of  Americans and, as I said, threatened to put an incredible new strain on  our already creaky electric grid. I know South Dakotans were concerned  about the loss of choice and about being forced into electric vehicles  that aren't suitable for the long distances and bitter cold of life on  the Great Plains. So the elimination of this mandate is welcome news in  South Dakota, as I am sure it is for a lot of Americans around the  country.

Here in Congress, we are joining the President in his deregulatory  efforts, and Republican majorities in the House and Senate have spent  the last several weeks working to rescind burdensome energy regulations  using the Congressional Review Act. President Trump has already signed  two CRA resolutions into law--one eliminating the marine archeology  rule that targeted offshore energy development and the other stopping  the implementation of the Biden tax on natural gas.

Last week, the Senate passed another CRA resolution to block a Biden- era regulation on walk-in freezers and coolers. This rule, part of the  Biden administration's climate agenda, would have heaped additional  costs on small businesses like restaurants, butchers, convenience  stores, and others.

And, later this week, I expect the Senate to vote on another energy- related CRA resolution--this one to block a Biden administration rule  that would take certain gas water heaters off the market by 2029. This  rule would not only increase the cost of water heaters for American  homeowners, it would also imperil U.S. manufacturing jobs. One  manufacturer has said the rule could force a shutdown of its $70  million plant in Georgia.

The resolution to repeal this burdensome rule received bipartisan  support in the House, and I hope our Democrat colleagues will join  Republicans in opposing this regulation.

The impact of these regulations is felt across industries by American  workers and American businesses. They are felt by Americans who work in  the energy sector, by manufacturers, by small business owners, by  farmers, by ranchers--and the list goes on.

Regulatory burdens can be especially tough on smaller businesses,  sometimes leading them to sell or shutter their operations. Those who  stay in business often have to raise prices to stay afloat. And whether  it is through higher utility bills or higher costs at the grocery store  or for other goods, it is the American people who ultimately bear the  cost of these rules.

That is why this is such an important issue for Republicans. It is  why we are working hard to eliminate these and many other regulatory  burdens, and we will continue working to deliver regulatory relief for  the American people.