Executive Calendar


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE.  today. I further ask that if  confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon  the table and the President be immediately notified of the Senate's  action. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, we are back for our second week in the  Senate after spending some time working remotely to help flatten the  coronavirus curve. We are getting used to the temporary new normal-- social distancing during hearings, floor votes, and meetings; masks; a  lot of conference calls and Skype calls instead of in-person meetings;  lots of hand washing and hand sanitizer; and as many staff working  remotely as possible. We are committed to doing the essential work of  the American people, and they are depending on us to do it in the  safest way possible. 

  Responding to the coronavirus continues to be at the top of the  agenda. Last week, we held a number of coronavirus-related hearings,  including a hearing on coronavirus testing and a hearing on the impact  the pandemic has had on the airline industry. 

  When people think about what the Senate does, they tend to think  about voting on bills and debating on the floor, but the truth is,  committee work is some of the most important work we do here in  Washington. Committees are where we review nominees' qualifications,  hear from experts in various fields, develop legislation, and conduct  essential oversight of government programs. The work we do in  coronavirus-related committee hearings will inform any future  coronavirus legislation we might consider. 

  This week, the Senate Banking Committee will be voting on the  nomination of Brian D. Miller to be Inspector General for Pandemic  Recovery at the Treasury Department. If he is confirmed by the full  Senate, Mr. Miller will be an essential part of ensuring that the  trillions we have provided for coronavirus relief are spent properly.  The Banking Committee will also be holding an oversight hearing with  key Federal financial regulators to learn about the steps they have  taken to ensure the safety and soundness of our financial sector during  this challenging time. 

  The Senate Judiciary Committee will be examining the issue of  liability during the COVID pandemic and discussing ways to prevent  frivolous lawsuits from damaging our economy once we reopen. 

  The Senate Commerce Committee, of which I am a member, will be  holding a hearing looking at efforts to maintain and expand reliable  high-speed broadband access during this time when so many Americans are  relying on their internet for work, school, and connections with  friends and family. 

  The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee will be  hearing directly from the leaders of our fight against the  coronavirus--Drs. Fauci, Redfield, and Hahn, and Admiral Giroir.  Senators will be talking to these experts about what we need to do to  safely reopen our economy and our schools. 

  Another big part of our coronavirus response right now is monitoring  the implementation of the funds we have already provided. We have  delivered a tremendous amount of money to respond to the pandemic-- equal to almost 50 percent of the entire Federal budget for 2020--and  it is important that any future funding be carefully targeted. 

  We are facing extraordinary circumstances, and they call for an  extraordinary, bold response from Washington, but it is important to  remember that every dollar of the trillions we provided for the  pandemic is borrowed money, and our children and grandchildren are  going to be paying for that borrowing. That doesn't mean we are not  going to provide more money if necessary, but it does mean we need to  make sure we are spending money wisely and well and only appropriating  what is really needed. That means monitoring the implementation of the  funds we have already provided, which haven't been fully spent yet.  Once we see how and where those funds are getting spent, we will have a  better sense of where we have spent sufficiently and where more money  may be necessary. 

  It is also important that we make sure those funds are being spent in  the most effective and efficient way possible. Again, these are all  dollars that our children and grandchildren will have to pay for. We  want to make sure we are not wasting any of that money. 

  Finally, while coronavirus will, of course, continue to be at the top  of our agenda, there are other important things we have to do to keep  the government running and to protect the Nation. 

  This week, we will take up legislation to renew and reform several  key provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which the  Democratic-controlled House allowed to lapse despite unanimous support  for an extension here in the Senate. 

  Our law enforcement officers are working every day to protect  Americans from terrorist threats. It is essential that we make sure  they have the tools they need to do their jobs, while also providing  critical protections for civil liberties. 

  We are also taking up two nominations this week for senior  administration posts: Brian D. Montgomery to be Deputy Secretary of  Housing and Urban Development and Troy Edgar to be the Chief Financial  Officer of the Department of Homeland Security. 

  The American people are relying on us right now, and we have a  responsibility to deliver for them. We will continue to do everything  we can to support our Nation's families and businesses as the country  fights its way through this crisis and emerges on the other side. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.  Sasse). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT