Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today is the first day of National Nurses  Week--an annual commemoration each May celebrating the contributions of  nurses--so today seemed like a fitting day to come down to the floor  and talk about the contributions of nurses and other essential workers  over the past couple of months. 

  When we think about heroism, we tend to think of striking actions  that take place in extreme circumstances--running into burning  buildings, jumping onto a grenade to save a fellow soldier, racing out  under fire to rescue a wounded comrade. And it is right that when we  think of heroism, we think of such acts--acts of superhuman courage,  generosity, and self-sacrifice. 

  The past couple of months have also reminded us of another kind of  heroism--the quiet heroism of doing one's duty, of getting up and going  to work and doing your job day after day in difficult circumstances,  even when you are tired, even when you are scared, even when you know  that doing your job could place you in danger. We have seen a lot of  that heroism over the past couple of months. 

  A lot of Americans have been able to telework during the coronavirus  crisis, but many, many more have had to go out and do the work that  can't be done from home: police officers, first responders,  pharmacists, grocery store employees, farmers and ranchers, food supply  workers, cleaning personnel, bank employees, utility workers, delivery  drivers, and most of all, doctors and nurses. 

  Over the past few weeks, we have come to realize how much we rely on  these individuals and that society couldn't operate without them. All  the food in the world won't do us any good if it doesn't make it to  grocery store shelves. That prescription from the doctor for lifesaving  blood pressure medication is useless without a pharmacist to dispense  the drug. We tend to take our utilities for granted, but what would we  do during this crisis if no one was picking up our trash or making sure  that the water keeps running and the electricity keeps flowing? 

  Sometimes heroism looks like running into a burning building, and  sometimes it looks like putting on a mask and gloves and stocking the  shelves with bread and pasta and cereal. 

  I want to say a special word about medical personnel. Of all the  essential workers who have gotten up and gotten on with their duty in  these days of the pandemic, medical personnel have displayed a special  courage. They have been on the frontlines of this battle, the ones  directly confronting the disease. Every day when they go to work, they  go to work knowing that day could be the day they catch the virus from  a sick patient, but they go to work anyway. They have read about and  sometimes seen colleagues die from the disease. At times, they have  lacked adequate protective equipment, but they have gone to work  anyway. 

  Those nurses we are celebrating this week have worked 12-hour shifts  providing medical care in a high-stress environment and have still  found time to sit with and comfort patients. I have read more than one  story about nurses making sure coronavirus patients separated from  family and friends don't die alone. 

  To our Nation's doctors and nurses and other medical personnel: Thank  you. We are so grateful for your courage and for your sacrifice. 

  Before I close, I want to say a special thank-you to the essential  workers around the Capitol Complex here in Washington. 

  While Senators have been able to do aspects of our job remotely, we  have  also had to be here in the Capitol to do the critical work of  responding to the crisis, and we simply couldn't be here without the  contributions of a number of individuals: the men and women of the  Capitol Police, the cleaning staff, the food service workers, the  maintenance technicians and other support staff, the staffers who have  to be in the office for the Senate to be able to operate, and the  staffers right here on the floor--the doorkeepers and cloakroom staff  and individuals from the Offices of the Secretary and the  Parliamentarian. 

  I know these are stressful days to be coming to work. I know you have  been asked to exceed your normal duties. I am incredibly grateful and I  know that all of my colleagues are incredibly grateful for everything  you have done to keep the Senate operating safely. It is because of you  that we are able to get keeping our work done for the American people. 

  Sooner or later, we are going to get through this pandemic and life  will return to something resembling normal, but I hope we will still  remember to be grateful for the people who have kept our society  running during this crisis, who have shown us, in a difficult and  challenging time, how to get up every day and do our duty. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran)  would have voted ``yea''. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from North Carolina (Mr. Burr) and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Kansas (Mr. Moran)  would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT