Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, many of us here in the Senate thought we  would be opening the new year with an impeachment trial, but that is  not what is happening this week because the Senate is still waiting-- waiting for Speaker Pelosi to actually send over the Articles of  Impeachment. 

  Democrats rushed impeachment through the House, throwing fairness and  due process to the winds in their haste to impeach the President, but  now they are apparently content to just sit on the Articles of  Impeachment for the foreseeable future. If Democrats really believe  that this impeachment is a serious matter, that there is literally a  crime spree in progress, as they have claimed, they would have already  sent over the articles. The truth is, Democrats' impeachment efforts,  which basically started before the President had even taken the oath of  office, have been politically motivated from the start. Democrats  thought they could damage the President politically by rushing to  impeach him, and now they think they can damage the President  politically by stalling a trial. 

  Speaker Pelosi is also attempting to force the Senate to conduct the  trial she would like it to conduct in hopes of getting the outcome she  would prefer--demonstrating once again the fundamentally political  nature of the Democrats' impeachment quest. Here in the Senate, we will  continue working on the business of governing until  the Speaker decides she is ready to stop playing games.                                     Iran  

  Mr. President, on Friday, we learned that Iranian General Qasem  Soleimani had been killed in a U.S. airstrike. Iran's terrorist  activities throughout the Middle East are well known. Iran is a key  backer of Hamas and Hezbollah and has fomented conflict throughout the  entire Middle East--escalating sectarian conflict in Iraq, fueling  civil war in Yemen, and supporting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's  brutal regime. 

  At the end of December, the Iran-backed militia Kataib Hezbollah, or  KH, as they are called, fired more than 30 rockets at an Iraqi military  base, killing an American contractor and wounding 4 U.S. troops. Days  later, Iran-backed protesters stormed the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad,  conducting a 2-day siege of the Embassy before withdrawing--although  not without setting fire to parts of the Embassy's exterior. 

  The list of Iranian terror activities is long, and at the center of  all these activities has been General Qasem Soleimani. As head of the  Quds Force of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, General Soleimani has  been masterminding Iran's terrorist activities for two decades. Iran  has been linked to one in six military deaths in Iraq, notably through  the IEDs that have become so emblematic of the War on Terror. This was  Soleimani's work. He is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of  Americans and thousands of innocent civilians throughout the Middle  East. It is a good thing that his reign of terror is over. 

  While I hope we can all agree that Soleimani was a just target, there  are naturally questions about the timing of the strike and what options  were laid before President Trump. The Senate will be briefed tomorrow,  and I hope my colleagues and I will be given a clear intelligence  picture of the imminent and significant threat Secretary of State  Pompeo and other administration officials have described. 

  Soleimani's death provides Iran with an opportunity to change course  and to rethink its participation in terrorist activities throughout the  Middle East and its aggression against the United States.  Unfortunately, Iran doesn't seem ready to take that opportunity, and  there are rightfully concerns about how Iran might retaliate for  Soleimani's death. 

  Iran has vowed severe revenge, but I hope Iran's leaders recognize  that the United States will not tolerate Iran's aggressions. The United  States is obviously closely monitoring any Iranian response or  escalation, from attempted cyber attacks to threats against U.S. troops  or citizens or our allies. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General  Milley, has cautioned that there remains a significant risk, and we  have seen the Department of Defense and the State Department adjust  their postures accordingly. 

  As I said, with Soleimani's removal, Iran has the opportunity to  change course. In both Iran and Iraq, we have seen protests bravely  displaying the desire for a new way forward and, in the case of Iraq,  for freedom from Iran's malign influence. The path to that new day is a  difficult one. Soleimani's decades of work building terrorist networks  will not easily be undone, and his replacement has already been named  and has vowed revenge. 

  In addition, under pressure from Iran, Iraq's Parliament advanced a  nonbinding resolution calling for the removal of U.S. troops from Iraq.  I hope that cooler heads will prevail in Iraq and that we can come to  an agreement that upholds our mutual security interests and is  beneficial to both the United States and to the people of Iraq. We have  invested a lot in regional security efforts that we should see through.  As we know all too well from the rise of ISIS, the consequences of  leaving a power vacuum can be dire. I hope that power vacuum will not  be resurrected as the United States suspends counter-ISIS operations in  order to defend our installations. 

  The world may enjoy a degree of closure with the killing of Qasem  Soleimani. Citizens of the Middle East who suffered at the hand of  Soleimani's terror may have hope for a safer future, but this will  require the Iranian regime to recognize the opportunity it now has to  rid itself of Soleimani's agenda and chart a new course. 

  Iran's leadership knows full well the consequences of maintaining its  vendetta against America, our allies, and those who seek to live in  peace and freedom. It got a preview of our military and intelligence  capabilities last week. This is not a call for escalation but a frank  acknowledgment that the United States will stand resolutely against  those who threaten American lives. 

  While the initial reaction from Iran has not been promising, I hope  General Soleimani's death will encourage Iran to think carefully before  it proceeds any further on its path of terror. I look forward to  talking with the Defense Secretary, the CIA Director, and others  tomorrow about what we need to do to minimize the threat of retaliation  and to keep Americans and our allies safe. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr.  Perdue). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT