Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, let me say that I, along with I think most  Americans, am grateful that in the rocket attacks launched last night  by Iran, there were no American casualties. I think I, like most of our  colleagues here in the Senate, I hope, will have an opportunity later  today to hear from the administration about the state of events there  and what the plans are going forward. 

  We all know it is a dangerous part of the world. It has been that way  for decades. The Iranian influence there is a  malign influence that has put at risk and in jeopardy not only American  lives but lives of countless people throughout that region. 

  Mr. Soleimani, who was removed in the last few days, of course, was  responsible for hundreds of American deaths. His loss is something that  I think people not only in this country but certainly people in that  region of the world benefit from because he will no longer be able to  conduct and operate and commit terrorist attacks and bring about death  to people all over that region of the world.                                 Impeachment  

  Mr. President, I would also like to point out, as I think most know,  and most of the reporting has reflected this, that Republicans in the  Senate--and yesterday Leader McConnell made the statement--are prepared  to take up the Articles of Impeachment when they are delivered to us by  the House of Representatives. For whatever reason--and it appears that  the House Democrats under Speaker Pelosi have determined that it is to  their political advantage for some reason to hang on to those articles  and to perhaps game this out a little bit. We, of course, don't know  what that gains them. But in any event, they have not yet, after now  several weeks, decided to proceed and to bring those over here to the  Senate. 

  I would point out that it can't be because there isn't a process in  place to deal with those articles when they arrive. Obviously, what  Republicans in the Senate have agreed to adopt is the Clinton  precedent--in other words, the precedent that was used when President  Clinton went through impeachment 21 years ago. At that time, it was  good enough for all of the Democrats in the U.S. Senate--by a vote of  100 to 0, a unanimous vote in the U.S. Senate--to proceed to those  articles. 

  All Senate Republicans are simply saying is that is a good precedent.  It was good enough for Democrats and Republicans back then, and it  ought to be good enough for Republicans and Democrats today. 

  What that simply provides for is to allow both sides--the managers in  the House to come over and make their argument; the President and his  team to be able to put up their defense; Senators to have an  opportunity to listen to those arguments and then to propound  questions, to ask questions through the Chair that could be responded  to, and then, at that time, to determine whether additional  information, evidence, witnesses, et cetera, could be brought forward.  But as a very straightforward process--one, as I said, that met with  the approval of all 100 Senators, both Democrats and Republicans, back  in 1999--the Clinton precedent seems to me, at least, to be a fair way  in which to proceed and one that Senate Republicans have agreed to move  forward with. 

  If and when the House Democrats under Speaker Pelosi determine they  are ready to send those articles over here--it seems like maybe they  are waiting for something to rescue what I think is an otherwise fairly  weak argument they have to make, but when those articles arrive here,  we will have a process in place in which to move forward and get this  trial underway in the Senate and hopefully hear the arguments and at  some point--I hope in the not too distant future--conclude this and get  it behind us and move on to the work the American people sent us here  to do. 

  Obviously, there is an election coming up in November. The first  votes will start being cast just a few weeks from now in the States of  Iowa, New Hampshire, and other States, followed very closely on by  Super Tuesday. The election process is already underway, and I think  that is the means by which most Americans believe we ought to deal with  our leadership. In a democratic system of government, we have the  opportunity as people to express our opinions and to voice our views in  that manner. I hope that is where we can settle these political  differences and disputes we have.                 United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement  

  Mr. President, while the House continues to be bogged down and  stalled out over impeachment, the Senate is moving forward with the  business that I think is important to the daily lives of the American  people. 

  Yesterday, the Senate Finance Committee passed the United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement out of our committee. I serve as a member of  that committee. I was pleased to vote to move this agreement one step  closer to final approval by the full Senate. 

  The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement will benefit almost every  sector of our economy, from manufacturing, to digital services, to the  automotive industry. It will create hundreds of thousands of new jobs,  boost our economic output, and increase wages for workers. 

  The agreement breaks new ground by including a chapter specifically  focused on small and medium-sized businesses. This is the first time a  U.S. trade agreement has ever included a dedicated chapter on this  topic. Roughly 120,000 small and medium-sized businesses around our  country export goods and services to Mexico and Canada, including a  number of businesses in my home State of South Dakota. USMCA will make  it easier for these businesses to successfully export their product. 

  South Dakota businesses and consumers will also benefit from the fact  that the agreement maintains the current U.S. de minimis threshold-- something I fought hard to protect. 

  I am also particularly excited about the benefits the USMCA will  bring to farmers and ranchers. Farmers and ranchers have had a tough  time over the past few years. Low commodity and livestock prices,  natural disasters, and protracted trade disputes have left farmers and  ranchers in my home State of South Dakota and around the country  struggling. 

  I spend a lot of time at home talking to farmers and ranchers. Again  and again, they have emphasized to me that the most important thing  Washington can do to boost our Nation's farm economy is to conclude  favorable trade deals. That is why I have spent a lot of time this past  year pushing for adoption of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement  and why I am so pleased that after a long year waiting for the House  under Speaker Pelosi to take it up and act on it, we are finally going  to have the opportunity to approve that trade deal in the Senate. 

  Canada and Mexico are the No. 1 and No. 2 markets for American  agricultural products. The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement will  preserve and expand farmers' access to these two critical export  markets, and it will give farmers certainty about what these markets  will look like long term. 

  I am particularly excited about the improvements the agreement makes  for dairy farmers. If you drive the I-29 corridor north of Brookings,  SD, you will see firsthand the major dairy expansion South Dakota has  experienced over the past several decades--I should say, over the past  several years. 

  The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement will preserve U.S. dairy farmers'  role as a key dairy supplier to Mexico, and it will substantially  expand market access in Canada. In fact, the U.S. International Trade  Commission estimates that the agreement will boost U.S. dairy exports  by more than $277 million. The agreement will also expand market access  for U.S. poultry and egg producers. It will make it easier for U.S.  producers to export wheat to Canada. 

  There is so much more in this agreement. 

  Yesterday's Finance Committee vote was a long time coming for South  Dakota farmers and ranchers. Months of delay by House Democrats left  agriculture producers wondering if they would ever see the benefits of  this agreement. But we have at last been able to move forward, and I  look forward to full Senate passage of the United States-Mexico-Canada  trade agreement in the very near future. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Georgia (Mr.  Perdue). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT