Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I want to speak here in just a moment to  the issue of internet traffic and how that has been impacted by the  coronavirus, how it has impacted our lives during the coronavirus.  Before I do that, though, I want to just respond to a few things the  Democratic leader mentioned. 

  He again pointed out that the Republican Senate isn't doing work  here. It is hard to fathom how he can possibly come to that conclusion.  The Democrat-run House of Representatives is out of session for the  entire month--the entire month of June. They are not even here. The  Democratic House of Representatives isn't even in town. 

  The Senate is here doing work, and important work, I might add. He  said  we haven't passed any legislation. Well, the week before the Memorial  Day break we passed the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act  reauthorization, a critical piece of national security and intelligence  legislation that all our intelligence experts tell us is critical to  fighting the war against terrorists. Pretty important legislation, I  would say. 

  He pointed out that the agenda for the month of June doesn't include  much. Well, that is only if you don't think that the National Defense  Authorization Act is not important. Funding the military, authorizing  the weapons systems, paying the personnel, the technology, the  intelligence, all the things that go into protecting the country seem  to me to be pretty important. 

  So the National Defense Authorization Act is a piece of legislation  that the Senate will process during the upcoming weeks here in the  month of June. In fact, that will probably take a good week to move  across the floor of the Senate. It typically does. It is something we  have to do on an annual basis, but there is nothing more important and  more critical to the national security of the United States than the  National Defense Authorization Act. 

  We will be passing a major parks bill this next week, which will help  fund the backlog in a lot of our national parks--something that has  been a priority for many Democrats here in this Chamber for a long  time. In fact, it is a great bipartisan bill. In fact, I think, out of  the Democratic caucus, there are somewhere on the order of 43 of the 47  Democrats who are cosponsoring the piece of legislation that will be  called up later this week and be on the floor most of next week. 

  So it is something that has been around here for a while. It is going  to be a major legislative accomplishment. It will be a bipartisan  accomplishment when it passes. 

  So I would just say that the fact that we aren't doing the things the  Democratic leader wants to do doesn't mean the Senate isn't very busy.  The things he wants to do, the things he talks about wanting to do, are  things that we are doing. We are dealing with the coronavirus on a  daily basis around here. 

  I am a member of the Senate Finance Committee. Yesterday, the Senate  Finance Committee had a hearing in which officials from the FDA, for  example, critical agencies when it comes particularly to  pharmaceuticals in this country, attended, and the subject of the  hearing was the pharmaceutical supply chain and what we need to do to  shore that up, to make sure that in future pandemics, with lessons  learned from this one, we aren't dependent upon unreliable supply  chains in places around the world that, frankly, may not be dependable.  That is a pretty important issue when it comes to dealing with the  effects and the impacts of the coronavirus. 

  Today, in the Senate Commerce Committee, another committee on which I  serve, we are going to be examining the impact of the coronavirus on  our transportation infrastructure and how important this transportation  has been throughout the course of the coronavirus in ensuring that we  keep commerce going, that we keep food in the grocery stores. 

  We are going to be looking at both the highway aspect, the rail  aspect--all of those--and how they are impacted by the coronavirus and  what we might need to do to ensure that they continue to be able to  provide the services that they do going forward. 

  So we are consistently looking at, on a daily basis, the coronavirus,  the impact it is having on our economy, the impact it is having on the  health of people in this country, the health emergency, and putting  measures in place that would deal not only with that health emergency  but also with the economic crisis created by it. 

  In the meantime, we are seeing the economy start to open up again,  which I think is a very good thing. I am hopeful we will see, as the  economy opens up, that people will get out, consumers will spend,  investors will invest, and we will see that economy start to grow  again, jobs to come back. 

  Obviously, we have very high unemployment right now--a major concern.  We also have a major unemployment insurance piece of legislation that  was moved by this Congress earlier to provide assistance and help for  those who, through no fault of their own, have had to go on  unemployment. 

  To suggest for a moment that we aren't focused on the coronavirus is  completely missing the point--as is to suggest, also, that we haven't  done a lot already. We passed four major pieces of legislation,  totaling almost $3 trillion, and that is $3 trillion if you don't  include the amount of leverage we gave to the Federal Reserve and the  Treasury to extend credit and create liquidity out there. With the  power of that leverage, it is somewhere on the order of about $6  trillion in assistance that we have put out there through different  legislative vehicles to the American people. 

  So you are seeing that translated into the Paycheck Protection  Program, which is keeping people employed, keeping jobs in this  country, keeping businesses functioning and operating. It has been a  very successful program. 

  You are seeing it in the form of direct assistance to State and local  governments. And $150 billion has been put out there, much of which  hasn't been spent, and that is on top of a lot of other assistance to  State and local governments, which totals somewhere on the order of  about $500 billion. Almost half a trillion dollars, so far, sum total,  has gone out to State and local governments.  

  Much of that, as I said, is in the pipeline, hasn't been spent yet.  It can be used, as the Treasury has pointed out, given the States'  flexibility, for emergency personnel, first responders, police, all the  things that the Senator from New York talked about. That is flexibility  the States have now to be able to meet the needs that they have and to  work with their local governments and meet the needs of the local  governments. 

  So there is a lot of money in the pipeline, not to mention, of  course, first and foremost, the money we put out there for investment  in therapeutics, in vaccines, in diagnostic testing, and all the money  that has gone out to hospitals and nursing home providers and long-term  care facilities to help them get through this crisis in the form of  direct assistance. So there is a lot of money in the pipeline--as I  said, about $2.9 trillion that has already been authorized, and I think  about 40 percent, maybe, has been spent. So there is still a lot of  assistance going out there. 

  My friend, the Democratic leader, would just want to put a whole  bunch more money out there without knowing what the need is, and I  think, at a time when we are already running a $21 trillion--now $25  trillion--debt, we ought to be very circumspect and pay attention to  what is happening in our economy, what the needs are, what we need to  keep the economy opening up and responding, what we continue to need to  do to help people who are unemployed, what we continue to need to do to  help families in this country who are struggling through this crisis. 

  But we ought to do that based on the need, not just somebody saying:  Well, let's just throw a bunch more money out there and hope that it  has an impact. We have done that. We have flooded the zone with  dollars. There is a tremendous amount of resources out there right now,  a lot of which has yet to be spent, and it strikes me, at least, that,  in the eyes of most Americans, they would view it as pretty important,  before we spend more tax money--all of which, I might add, is going to  be borrowed money--that we see how what we have done already is  working, if it has been effective and is having the desired impact. 

  There is so much going on around here dealing with the coronavirus,  it just completely defies any sort of logic to what the Democratic  leader suggested was happening here in the Senate. 

  He made one other comment, which I think I have to respond to. He  said that the Senate is in the process--Republicans in the Senate are  processing rightwing judges who have antipathy for the very civil  rights issues that we are dealing with right now. 

  I don't know how you can make a statement like that. I don't know how  you can ascribe motive or intent to judges. You don't know who these  judges are. 

  We have a judge we are going to be processing here for the DC  circuit. It is  a pretty important circuit in this country. He is the district judge  from Kentucky. He has been rated as very ``well qualified'' by the  American Bar Association. The American Bar Association isn't a  rightwing group at all. In fact, many on our side think they certainly  drift the other direction. Yet they have said this judge is a well- qualified judge. Do you think they would be saying something like that  about a judge who had antipathy for civil rights? I mean, that is just,  I would say, a reckless and irresponsible statement unless you have  something to back that up and support it. 

  So I just thought it would be important to respond to some of the  things that the Democratic leader just said with respect to the agenda  here in the Senate, which, as I pointed out earlier, is a very full  one. If you compare it to the agenda of our colleagues in the Democrat- controlled House, which is zilch because they are not here for the  entire month, it seems to me the Senate is getting a lot of work done.                                      5G  

  So, Madam President, what I came here to talk about--I came down to  the floor a couple of weeks ago to talk about how the coronavirus is  highlighting the importance of strong internet networks. 

  Despite the surge we have seen in internet traffic that the  coronavirus has produced, with Americans using the internet for  everything from work to school to family dinners, U.S. networks have  held up tremendously well. 

  Americans have been able to enjoy the same speed and streaming  quality that they typically enjoy, something that hasn't happened in a  lot of other countries, and that is a direct result of the United  States' light-touch approach to internet regulation, which has  encouraged American companies to invest in the latest communications  infrastructure and new technologies to make more efficient use of  spectrum. 

  Our Nation is currently preparing for the widespread adoption of the  next generation of internet technology--what is known as 5G. We need to  make sure that our 5G networks will be as strong as our current  networks, but we still have some work to do to get to that point. 

  I come down here frequently to the floor to discuss that work, which  includes paving the way for the widespread installation of the small  cells that are necessary for 5G networks, enhancing the availability of  the mid-band spectrum that is necessary for 5G deployment, and  investing in a 5G workforce. 

  But there is also another aspect we need to think about when it comes  to 5G, which is sometimes not talked about as much, and that is network  security. With its incredible speed and connectivity, 5G will usher in  a new era of innovation: advances in medical care, the large-scale  deployment of precision agriculture, safer transportation technologies.  5G will bring all of these things and more. 

  But like any new technology, 5G networks will present new risks and  vulnerabilities. And because 5G will mean a vastly greater number of  connected devices, the risks with 5G will be greater. That is the why a  central part of deploying 5G networks has to be looking at how we can  mitigate security risks. 

  We need to ensure that our component parts of our devices and,  critically, the component parts of telecommunications networks, like  cell towers and the small cells that will be required for 5G, are  secure. A primary way to do that is by ensuring that 5G equipment comes  from trusted vendors. 

  Currently, one of the biggest suppliers of 5G equipment worldwide is  a Chinese company, Huawei, which is supported by the Chinese  Government. China's 2017 national intelligence law requires Chinese  companies to support the Chinese Government's intelligence activities.  American security officials have raised concerns that much of Huawei's  equipment is built with back doors that give the Chinese Government  access to global communications networks. 

  I don't need to tell anyone that we should be wary of China's motives  and that China's interests are frequently opposed to those of the  United States. 

  China's handling of the coronavirus is a striking current example of  the Chinese Government's prioritizing its own interests or pride over  the public good. As a New York Times article noted in February, ``The  [Chinese] government's initial handling of the epidemic allowed the  virus to gain a tenacious hold. At critical moments, officials chose to  put secrecy and order ahead of openly confronting the growing crisis to  avoid political alarm and political embarrassment.'' 

  Whether it was driven by the hubris of the Communist Party or merely  the callous indifference the Communist state has for the well-being of  its own citizens, China was not transparent about the grave danger of  COVID-19. It failed to release accurate information about the nature  and spread of the virus, and it took active steps to make sure the  truth did not get out in other ways. Whistleblowers were punished; the  centers were censored; and journalists were expelled. 

  Despite the fact that its negligence undoubtedly contributed to the  global spread of COVID-19, China still continues to be less than  forthcoming about the virus. Unfortunately, this is run-of-the-mill  governing in China, as we saw with the SARS outbreak in the early 2000s  and as we have seen in many other instances. 

  Not content with its role in aggravating the spread of the  coronavirus, the Chinese Communist Party has also taken advantage of  the pandemic to strip Hong Kong of its autonomy and freedom. China's  hope is that our Nation is too preoccupied with this pandemic to notice  its efforts to undermine what should be Hong Kong's autonomy under the  one state, two systems construct. 

  We have noticed. As many of my colleagues and I have expressed, we  stand with Hong Kong. We must carefully consider an appropriate  response, one that will rebuke the Communist Party of China without  negatively affecting the people of Hong Kong, their well-being, and  their democratic aspirations. 

  We didn't need COVID-19 or China's recent actions in Hong Kong to  know that giving the Chinese Government a backdoor into American  communications networks is a bad idea. But it certainly underscores the  need to make sure that 5G infrastructure is not made by companies  beholden to the Chinese Government. The United States has taken a  number of steps to prevent equipment from Huawei and another suspect  Chinese company, ZTE, from being used in U.S. communications networks,  but these companies still pose a risk to the United States. 

  For starters, some U.S. broadband providers, often in rural areas,  still have equipment from Huawei and ZTE in their communications  networks. A number of our allies and trade partners--entities with whom  we regularly share information, including sensitive national security  information--have used or are using technology from Huawei and ZTE. 

  What can we do? An initiative is already underway to replace suspect  telecommunications components in U.S. networks with hardware from  trusted companies. 

  In March, the President signed legislation developed by the Commerce  Committee chairman, Roger Wicker, the Secure and Trusted Communications  Network Act, to help speed up this process. This legislation, which I  cosponsored, will help small telecommunications providers with the cost  of replacing network components that pose a security risk. 

  Also, In March, I introduced legislation to help address the other  part of the problem, and that is the use of Huawei technology by our  allies and our trading partners. We regularly exchange information,  including sensitive national security information, with our allies and  trading partners. And this information can only be secure if networks  on both ends are secure. That is why the United States has called for  other countries to reject telecommunications technology from Huawei and  ZTE. 

  A number of countries have committed to using trusted companies to  build out their telecommunications networks, but other countries are  still planning to make use of Huawei's technology. My legislation, the  Network Security Trade Act, would make telecommunications security a  key objective when negotiating future trade deals. 

  We should be using trade agreements to push for enhanced network  security globally, which would benefit not only our country but every  country with which we do business.  

  We recently opened negotiations on a new trade deal with the United  Kingdom, which has been using Huawei technology to build its 5G  networks. I am pleased that it now looks like the UK is reconsidering  its use of Huawei components. I hope they will decide to reject the  suspect technology. 

  I hope the trade negotiations will emphasize the importance of using  trusted companies to build out the UK's telecommunications networks.  The security of our communications with our trading partners and  allies--particularly those allies like Britain--needs to be a priority. 

  As we move forward into the 5G future, we need to make sure that our  technological advancements are matched with advancements and network  security. That starts with keeping Huawei and other suspect technology  out of our networks and, if at all possible, out of the networks of our  allies. 

  I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that we have not  only the infrastructure but the security needed to keep American  networks at the forefront of the telecommunications revolution. 

  Before I close, let me just say one more word about China. As I said  earlier, China's coronavirus deception is undoubtedly partly  responsible for the fact that this virus has now spread to every corner  of the world. China's recent actions with regard to Hong Kong  underscore the hostility of the Chinese Government to the values that  freedom-loving countries hold dear. 

  China has a lot of work to do if it ever hopes to rebuild trust with  other nations. At a bare minimum, we expect China to uphold its recent  trade commitments, which are critical to America's hard-hit farmers and  ranchers. I will be looking, and our entire government will be looking,  to see if China's word on trade agreements can be relied upon. I hope  that the Chinese Government will live up to its commitments. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from North Dakota (Mr. Cramer), the Senator from North Dakota (Mr.  Hoeven), and the Senator from South Dakota (Mr. Rounds). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from North Dakota (Mr.  Hoeven) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT