Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, today we will vote on two pro-life bills:  the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act and the Pain-Capable  Unborn Child Protection Act. 

  These bills should be completely uncontroversial. Every one of us in  this Chamber ought to be able to agree that infants who are born alive  during an abortion procedure should receive the same care that a baby  born alive in a hospital would receive. 

  Every one of us ought to agree that, at the very least, we should not  be aborting babies after the point that they can feel pain, but  unfortunately the abortion extremism in the Democratic Party is such  that it is unlikely that these two bills will even get a chance to be  debated. 

  We shouldn't even need the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection  Act. It should be obvious that any baby born alive, wherever he or she  is born, ought to receive care, but with more than one leading Democrat  over the past year refusing to rule out infanticide, it has become  clear that we need to underscore that being born alive in an abortion  clinic instead of a hospital doesn't eliminate a baby's right to  medical care. 

  Like the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, the Pain- Capable Unborn Child Protection Act should be a no-brainer. This  legislation would ban abortions beginning in the sixth month of  pregnancy, a point at which science has clearly demonstrated that the  unborn child is able to feel pain--and not only able to feel pain. By  this point in a pregnancy, approximately 20 weeks, babies are almost  able to survive outside of their mothers. Babies have survived after  being born at 25 weeks, at 24 weeks, at 23 weeks, and, like Ellie  Schneider, who attended the State of the Union Address with her mom, at  21 weeks.  

  It is unthinkable that we are killing babies who are so far advanced  that it is possible for them to survive outside of their mothers, but  we are. In 2016, somewhere around 11,000 babies were aborted at or  after the 21-week mark in pregnancy--11,000 in one year. 

  Democrats like to point to European countries to support their push  for government-run healthcare and other socialist policies, but they  never mention--they never mention--that almost every European country  has more limits on abortion than we have here in the United States. In  fact, the United States is one of just seven countries in the entire  world that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Among  the other countries are China and North Korea--not exactly the kind of  company we want to be in when it comes to keeping and protecting human  rights because--make no mistake--that is what we are talking about with  abortion: human rights. 

  Abortion denies unique, individual human beings, with their own  fingerprints and their own DNA, the most basic of human rights: the  right to life. It is happening on a massive scale. Every year, in the  United States alone, hundreds of thousands of irreplaceable human  beings are killed by abortion. That is not some number that the pro- life movement has cooked up. That is straight. That is straight from  the pro-abortion Guttmacher Institute, formerly affiliated with Planned  Parenthood, which reports, ``Approximately 862,320 abortions were  performed in 2017''--862,320. Most of us can't even fathom a number  that big. 

  To put it in perspective, 862,000 is roughly equivalent to the  population of the entire State of South Dakota, my home State. That is  right. Think about that. In 2017 alone, the number of babies killed by  abortion was roughly equivalent to the population of the entire State  of South Dakota. 

  We can do better. Americans are better than this. Our country was  founded to safeguard human rights, not to take them away. While we  haven't always lived up to that promise, we have never stopped trying.  It is time for us, as a country, to stand up and to start protecting  the rights of unborn human beings. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors  Protection Act and the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act will  not stop all, or even most, abortions, but they are an important step,  a chance for us, as Americans, to draw a line in the sand and to start  standing up for the rights of babies who are able or nearly able to  survive outside of their mothers. It is time for us to join the vast  majority of the global community in prohibiting elective abortions past  20 weeks. It is time for us to make it clear that, no matter what some  extreme Democrats may say, Americans believe that all children, whether  born alive in a hospital or in an abortion clinic, deserve protection  and basic medical care. 

  I hope my colleagues across the aisle will take a stand for human  rights and for human decency and allow debate to move forward on these  two important pro-life bills. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT