Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, after a few weeks of working remotely to  help flatten the coronavirus curve, we are back in Washington to  continue our coronavirus response and address other important issues.  It has been an incredibly difficult couple of months for our country  and, in fact, for most of the world. More than 1 million Americans have  contracted the coronavirus, and thousands have died. Our economy has  taken a huge hit. Millions of Americans are out of work, and businesses  are struggling to stay afloat. Americans are worried. They are worried  about their own health. They are worried about the health of their  families and loved ones, and they are worried about their finances. 

  My colleagues and I know that Americans are suffering. Our overriding  priority over the past 2 months has been  responding to the coronavirus crisis. We passed several major response  bills and provided substantially more than $2 trillion in assistance.  We have funded testing, medical care, personal protective equipment for  frontline medical personnel, vaccine and treatment development, paid  sick leave, unemployment benefits, direct relief payments to American  citizens, forgivable loans for small businesses, and much more. 

  Our goal has been to provide a comprehensive response, addressing not  just the medical priorities but also the economic impact this virus has  had on so many American families, and there is more work to be done.  Right now a big part of that work is monitoring the implementation of  legislation we have already passed. We provided a tremendous amount of  money, and we need to make sure it is getting to where it needs to go  as quickly as possible and is being spent in the most effective way. 

  Monitoring the implementation of the legislation we have already  passed is also crucial for informing any future legislation. As I said,  we have provided a tremendous amount of money for coronavirus, equal to  almost 50 percent of the entire Federal budget for 2020, and it is  important that any future funding be carefully targeted. We need to  make sure that Federal dollars are going only to real coronavirus  priorities. Our children and grandchildren will be footing the bill for  the money we are adding to the national debt. 

  As a case in point, the debt to GDP, which was scheduled to be 79  percent this year, is now expected to be, in the Year 2020, 101  percent. That jump from 79 percent debt to GDP to 101 percent debt to  GDP is the largest jump, I am told, literally, since 1943, in the  middle of World War II. So it is essential that we spend wisely. 

  In addition to overseeing the implementation of the coronavirus  legislation we passed and gathering data to inform any future bills, we  also have a number of coronavirus-related nominations to consider,  something that is a role that is unique to the U.S. Senate under the  Constitution. When it comes to judicial nominations, nominations to the  executive branch, the Senate has the responsibility to ensure that we  conduct the research, investigate nominees, hold confirmation hearings,  and ultimately vote to put people into key positions in the  administration and on the courts. 

  So the question about why we are here this week I think is a fairly  easy one to answer, and that is because there are lots of really  important positions that are key not only to the healthcare crisis we  are facing in this country but to our ongoing national security  priorities as well as to the economic challenges we are facing through  this crisis. 

  In fact, this week, the Senate Banking Committee will be holding a  hearing on the nomination of Brian D. Miller to be the special  inspector general for pandemic recovery at the Treasury Department, a  key role created by the legislation that we passed here in the  Congress, critically important to the implementation, making sure  everything is done in the right way. As we all know, inspectors general  pay a key oversight role in Federal departments, helping to root out  waste, fraud, and other abuses of taxpayer dollars. If confirmed, Mr.  Miller will be an essential part of ensuring that the trillions we  provided for coronavirus relief are spent properly. 

  Committees are doing other essential coronavirus work this week as  well. The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee is  holding hearings on an initiative Senators Blunt, Alexander, and others  worked to get included in the coronavirus legislation. This initiative  was designed to spur innovation in private sector and public sector  collaboration, with a goal of dramatically increasing our coronavirus  testing capabilities. So that is going on in the Health, Education,  Labor, and Pensions Committee. 

  The Senate Commerce Committee, of which I am a Member, is holding a  hearing this week looking at the impact of COVID-19 on the airline  industry, an industry we know is being profoundly impacted by what is  happening with the virus. 

  Next week, the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions  Committee will be hearing directly from the leaders of our fight  against the coronavirus--Drs. Fauci, Redfield, and Hahn and Admiral  Giroir. Committee work will play a key role in any future coronavirus  bill, and it is good to have committees able to meet once again here in  Washington, DC. 

  Of course, while the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to be our  priority in Washington in the coming weeks and months, there is other  essential work that we have to do for the American people:  appropriations bills, nominations to essential administration posts,  and critical national security legislation is just some of the items on  our agenda over the next couple of months. This week, the Senate Armed  Services Committee and the Senate Intelligence Committee are holding  hearings on nominees for key national security positions, including the  Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of the Navy. 

  Senate Republicans are committed to getting our country through this  crisis and helping American workers and businesses deal with the  virus's impact. We will be discussing a lot of ideas over the next  couple of weeks, from tax and regulatory relief to support farmers and  ranchers to ways to spur job creation and shield responsible businesses  from frivolous litigation once the economy is opened up again. As I  said, we will continue to focus on making sure that the money we  provided gets where it is needed as fast as possible. 

  The United States undoubtedly has more tough days ahead, but we are  going to get through them. We are going to come out tougher on the  other side. In the meantime, we have work to do here in the U.S.  Senate. People across this country are hurting and struggling, and  there are many priorities that need to be addressed. So I am pleased  that the Senate is open for business. We are going to be working the  next few months, as I mentioned, on the national defense authorization  bill, a piece of legislation that we have to do on an annual basis that  deals with all of our national priorities, making sure that the men and  women who defend this country, the American people, and our interests  around the world have the training, equipment, and resources to do  their jobs to keep Americans safe. 

  We have a critical water infrastructure bill that will be marked up  by the Environment and Public Works Committee, also a piece of  legislation that is important to the economy in this country. If you  look at the long list of things and priorities that we need to deal  with here in the U.S. Senate, it is important that we be about the  people's business. 

  I know I can speak from personal experience that over the past  several weeks, like my colleagues, we have worked really hard to stay  connected. I worked really hard to stay in touch with people across  South Dakota using technology, platforms, and apps that I never really  had much experience with using in the past. From Zoom to Skype, to  Google Hangouts, to Shindig, there are all kinds of interesting new  apps that I think many of us became acquainted with, conducting lots of  virtual meetings and staying in touch with our constituents to see what  is important to them, finding out what is working and what is not  working and getting feedback on what we could be doing to even better  respond to the crisis that is out there. But there is no substitute,  when it comes to doing the Nation's business, for being here, for  committees to work, to meet, for us to be able to vote, for us to be  able to deal with the important nominations I mentioned that under the  Constitution, we, the Senate, have an obligation and responsibility to  advise and consent on, whether that is a judicial nomination, key  Cabinet post, or an important administration position that pertains to  national security and the virus. 

  There are lots of priority items for which the U.S. Senate has a key  and principal responsibility, and we need to be about that business. So  I hope, in the days and weeks ahead, as we take on those challenges,  that we can work together in a way that provides maximum safety for the  people who work here but also gives the important priority to the items  and the issues that are critical to Americans at this point, in the  middle of this crisis and, hopefully, when we get on the other side of  it, those important critical national security priorities, economic  priorities, and other business that the American  people need us to deal with on a daily basis. 

  I thank the Presiding Officer for the time and look forward to  working with my colleagues, albeit in different circumstances than we  have had to deal with in the past but, nevertheless, to have the U.S.  Senate, the people's representatives, here doing the important work the  American people expect us to do. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT