Genius Act


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, let me just say that the Democrats have  just used the filibuster for the fourth time this year. Why? Well, in  this case, no one really knows.

This is a bipartisan issue. It is a bipartisan bill, and it had a  bipartisan process from the very beginning. And if Democrats were  interested in further changes, as they claim, they would have had the  chance to make those changes on the floor. All they had to do was vote  for cloture.

Not every bill that comes to the floor is a final bill. Now, that may  be how it  worked when they were in control, but Republicans are doing it  differently. We are determined to restore the Senate to what it was  meant to be.

The floor is where every Senator gets a chance to give his or her  input on legislation. That is what would have happened today if cloture  had been invoked, the motion the Democrats just voted against. It would  have meant open debate, further deliberations, further modifications.  But the Democrats refused to even begin that debate.

I don't know what Democrats would change about the process this bill  has gone through. It had a 3-hour markup in the Banking Committee that  considered 40 amendments. That is what we used to call regular order  around here.

It was reported out of the Banking Committee by a vote of 18 to 6,  with 5 Democrats supporting the bill. And since the markup, Senators  have been meeting nonstop to modify the bill on both sides of the  aisle, Democrats and Republicans--countless meetings.

In fact, there have been fully six versions of this bill and numerous  modifications made, many of them to satisfy the Democrats' demands--six  versions of this bill based on feedback and input from Members on both  sides and, in many cases, modifications made that were done in response  to demands made by Democrats in the bill--six versions.

I don't know how you can have any more process than that. Democrats  have been accommodated every step of the way, up to and including long  sessions yesterday and late into the night last night.

Mr. President, I just have to say, frankly, I just don't get it. I  don't know what more they want. I don't know why you vote against  proceeding to a bill on the floor after you voted to refer that same  bill to the floor, as a number of Democrats, as I just said, did coming  out of the Banking Committee, which, of course, makes you wonder if  this is about the bill at all or if it is simply Democrats obstructing  because they want to deny Republicans or President Trump a bipartisan  win. Given the fact that the Democrats keep moving the goalposts, it is  hard not to suspect that is the case, and I have to say that is deeply  disappointing.

I strongly support this bill, but I have now changed my vote to no  today so that we can bring this legislation up again if and when  Democrats are ready to get serious. Clearly, today, they are not.