Joint Session of Congress


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688403/joint-session-of-congress


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, this evening, President Trump will come to  the Capitol to address Congress. I am looking forward to hearing the  President discuss his accomplishments so far and outline his vision for  our country.

President Trump may have been in office for a matter of weeks, but he  has already built a considerable record of success. Chief among his  successes, of course, is the work he has been doing to confront illegal  immigration and restore order to our southern border.

Over the weekend, it emerged that there were just 8,450 encounters,  approximately, at our southern border for the entire month of  February--at least a 25-year low. That is a stunning turnaround. To put  that number in perspective, under President Biden, the Border Patrol  sometimes saw that number in a single day. It is incredible what  President Trump has accomplished in just 6 weeks.

I haven't even mentioned how his administration has been making our  communities safer by arresting and deporting criminals here illegally.  In just 6 weeks, they have taken a lot of dangerous people off of our  streets.

It all goes to show what is possible when you have a President  committed to protecting our border and our Nation's security.

Of course, that is not all the President has accomplished during his  first 6 weeks in office. Among other things, he has also been laying  the groundwork for unleashing American energy. While Democrats may not  like to admit it, the United States is rapidly heading toward an energy  crisis where we simply don't have the supply to meet the demand.

The Washington Post noted last March:

Vast swaths of the United States are at risk of running       short of power as electricity-hungry data centers and clean-      technology factories proliferate around the country, leaving       utilities and regulators grasping for credible plans to       expand the nation's creaking power grid.

That is a pretty serious situation.

Instead of taking steps to increase our energy supply, the Biden  administration pushed us further toward crisis with measures designed  to restrict conventional energy development and force Americans to  adopt electric cars, putting a vast new burden on our electric grid.

Fortunately, President Trump recognizes the precarious situation we  are facing, and he is already demonstrating his commitment to  increasing our Nation's supply and promoting a secure and affordable  energy future. I look forward to hearing from him as he discusses the  work he has been doing tonight.

Here in the Senate, we have been working to support President Trump's  agenda first and foremost by getting his Cabinet in place. I am proud  to report we have confirmed 20 of the President's 22 Cabinet nominees-- a substantially faster pace of confirmations than in any of the three  previous administrations.

In addition to Cabinet nominations, we have also been laying the  groundwork for making the tax cuts we passed during the first Trump  administration permanent as well as delivering a transformational  investment in our border, national, and energy security.

Of course, we are currently working to overturn burdensome Biden  administration regulations using the Congressional Review Act.

This week, we are taking up two rules that infringe on Americans'  financial freedom. First, we will vote on Senator Cruz's resolution to  stop the Biden administration's digital asset broker rule, which puts  at risk the privacy and security of tens of millions of Americans who  trade digital assets. This rule could also mean forfeiting American  leadership in financial innovation by giving the advantage to foreign  companies that do not have to comply with the rule and driving  innovation overseas.

Later this week, we will vote on Senator Ricketts' resolution to  prevent an unnecessary expansion of the Consumer Financial Protection  Bureau, or CFPB. The Biden administration made a last-ditch effort to  increase government supervision of nonbank payment apps like Venmo and  PayPal by expanding the CFPB's authority. But these types of apps are  already regulated, and they accounted for just 1 percent of the CFPB's  consumer complaints in 2023. Why add another layer of bureaucracy?

Apparently, Democrats can't help but see innovation as an opportunity  for regulation. All told, the Biden administration saddled Americans  with $1.8 trillion in regulatory burdens. That is a big weight on the  economy and on crucial industries like American energy, and we will  continue our work to alleviate these burdens. The Biden administration  left our Nation facing a lot of challenges, but we are turning the page  on the Biden administration's failed policies, and I firmly believe  there is a brighter future ahead.

I look forward to hearing from President Trump tonight as he outlines  his vision for American greatness.