MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I thank my colleague from North Dakota for  his great leadership on this issue and all over here. 

  Senator Roberts--the longtime chairman of the Senate Ag Committee and  before that, the House Ag Committee--was very instrumental in our  getting a farm bill in late 2018--a farm bill which provides a safety  net and provides a little bit of stability in agriculture, which, as he  pointed out, has been just in the tank literally since 2013. 

  Our producers, farmers, and ranchers across the country and in South  Dakota have been operating with negative cash flows, eating into their  equity, and trying to keep their operations viable, and that was before  COVID-19. Now we have COVID-19, and we saw the bottom fall out of the  cattle market in this country. 

  I don't have to tell the Presiding Officer that agriculture is  important. It is the lifeblood of our economy in South Dakota. It is  our No. 1 industry. But that ripple effect is felt all across the  country. It is our food supply. Senator Hoeven talked earlier today  about the importance of ensuring that we maintain a safe, quality,  predictable, and affordable food supply for people in this country,  particularly when people are concerned in a time of crisis. We need to  maintain that food supply. So I want to thank him and all of our  colleagues here from farm country for working together to provide some  assistance in this particular bill, which would hopefully give some  relief for those who are out there, day in and day out, grinding it out  to make sure we have the food and fiber to keep this country going and,  for that matter, to feed the world.  

  Unfortunately, again, Senate Democrats don't seem willing to do that.  I was encouraged to hear just a little bit ago from my friend from West  Virginia, who is an advocate for agriculture. We also had the ranking  member of the Ag Committee down here earlier, saying she is willing to  work with us. But, unfortunately, we don't have time to waste. We don't  have time to waste. This isn't something that can be put off to another  day. We have producers that, if we don't do something, we are going to  leave them behind, and we need our Democratic colleagues to step up and  help get this bill passed. 

  As Senator Hoeven mentioned, the bill would provide $30 billion to  replenish the Commodity Credit Corporation, and it has a temporary  funding increase of an additional $20 billion in CCC funding to address  the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19. This funding would allow the  Department of Agriculture to quickly get assistance to farmers and  ranchers throughout America who are facing market volatility and  declining pricing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Farmers and  ranchers, I might add, as I already mentioned, were already dealing  with a weak ag economy well before this emergency hit. 

  I spoke with the Secretary of Agriculture a couple of days ago and  conveyed to him the incredible amount of hardship and economic pain  that is being created across the farm belt these days, particularly  with our cattle ranchers, and the pain they are feeling as a result of  these declining prices and what it might mean to their operations. 

  So I would simply say, in supporting all of my colleagues in what  they said today, that we don't know the full impact of this outbreak  across the agricultural industry, but we do know this: Our producers  are doing their part to keep the grocery shelves stocked and food on  our tables, and we need to do our part in providing the resources  necessary to support them, which is why it is so important for many of  the reasons we talked about earlier today to get on this legislation  and get it moving. 

  The national economy is melting down, and, of course, as I said, in  the economy out in farm country, it was happening well before the  national economy. But if we don't do something to stop the bleeding and  do it soon, there is going to be a whole world of hurt. Let's get this  bill across the finish line. We need help from our Democratic  colleagues to do that. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT