National Small Business Week


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690626/national-small-business-week


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, this is Small Business Week, a time to  celebrate the entrepreneurs and innovators of our communities, the  farmers and ranchers, the sons and daughters carrying on the family  business. These hard-working Americans are the backbone of our economy  and a sign that the American dream is alive and working.

Small business is a big deal, and the Trump administration and  Republicans in Congress are working hard to deliver for American small  business owners. One of our top priorities this year is making the 2017  Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent.

TCJA did a lot for small businesses. Lower tax rates, the 199A small  business deduction, and bonus depreciation and other investment  incentives lowered small businesses' tax burden and encouraged them to  invest in themselves, hire more workers, and, in turn, grow our  economy. And that is what happened.

After the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed, we saw businesses buy new  equipment. They hired new workers. Paychecks got bigger. It was good  for small business and good for American workers, and it led to a very  strong economy before the pandemic.

But many of the law's provisions are expiring at the end of this  year, and if we don't extend the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, small  businesses will face a $600 billion tax hike in 2026. Republicans do  not intend to let that happen, but we don't just want to extend the  TCJA's provisions. We want to give small businesses certainty by making  these pro-growth tax policies permanent because permanence will  encourage long-term investment, it will encourage growth, and it will  maximize our economy's potential.

According to one estimate, making the 199A deduction permanent would  lead to 1.2 million more jobs per year, and that number will grow  larger as the years go on. And that is just one pro-growth, pro-small  business provision in the law.

In addition to making the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent, President  Trump has already prioritized restoring American manufacturing. The Tax  Code is a key part of that. Investment incentives like bonus  depreciation helped manufacturers purchase the latest technology and  grow their workforce with good-paying jobs for the American people.

More manufacturing--more businesses and jobs here in America--grows  our tax base, and that means more revenue--revenue that we get the  right way, which is with a bigger and stronger economy, not bigger tax  bills.

We have an opportunity to help turn the page on the Biden economy and  set up our country for long-term economic strength, and we can do that  by delivering on the President's tax priorities and making his first  term tax success permanent.

Another one of our small business priorities is regulatory relief.  When I meet with South Dakota business owners, I often tell them to let  me know how we can help, even if sometimes that means getting out of  the way. Often, that is what the government needs to do--get out of the  way--and that is what we have been trying to do this year.

Congress has blocked a number of burdensome Biden-era regulations  through the Congressional Review Act, and we have more Congressional  Review Act measures planned for this week. For example, we have passed  resolutions blocking Biden administration rules on commercial  refrigerators and freezers and walk-in coolers. These are rules that  would have driven up costs and reduced choices for small businesses.

One standard had a payback period--if you can get this--of 90 years;  meaning, a small business would start saving money almost a century  after purchasing an appliance. That is absurd, and it is just one  example of the regulatory burdens Congress is working to lift off the  backs of small business owners.

The Trump administration is also working overtime to rescind a host  of bad Biden-era rules that would place heavy burdens on small  businesses.

Farmers, ranchers, and landowners would be pleased to know that the  EPA has initiated a more collaborative process with stakeholders as it  considers an alternative to the Biden administration's WOTUS rule, or  waters of the United States.

And the administration and Congress have been working to repeal anti- energy Biden regulations and unleash American energy dominance to  ensure we have an affordable and reliable energy supply for years to  come.

Strong small businesses mean a strong America. I will always be  grateful for the lessons I learned getting my start working in small  businesses. During the summers, my parents, who were educators, ran a  motel in my hometown of Murdo, and as is common in a lot of small  businesses, the whole family helped out.

Later on, my first job was as a busboy at the Star Family Restaurant.  I later graduated to a cook. I learned a lot there, including what it  took to keep the business running day to day and week to week.

Small business owners work hard in pursuit of their dream. They  create opportunity and jobs, and they bear the heavy responsibility  that comes with signing the front of a paycheck. I know that small  businesses have been facing a number of challenges lately, and my aim  is always to do everything I can to help.

I look forward to continuing to work with my Republican colleagues  here in the Senate to support and strengthen small businesses because  when small businesses succeed, we all succeed.