Nomination of Linda McMahon


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688343/nomination-of-linda-mcmahon


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, the Senate will vote later today to confirm  Linda McMahon to be Secretary of Education. Mrs. McMahon is an  accomplished businesswoman and public servant. She is known for her  role in building World Wrestling Entertainment, better known as WWE,  from a small operation to a large and thriving enterprise. And she has  used her success to give back and make a positive impact.

Mrs. McMahon led efforts to promote reading and civic engagement  through WWE. She spent 16 years on the board of trustees for Sacred  Heart University in her home State of Connecticut. She served on the  Connecticut Board of Education. In his first term, President Trump  tapped Linda McMahon to lead the Small Business Administration, where  she was known for listening to small businesses to make the SBA a more  effective Agency.

She will bring valuable experience, an incredible work ethic, and a  passion for education to her new role leading the Department of  Education. And she has a big task ahead of her. Let's acknowledge that.  In January, the Nation's report card revealed that American students  are still struggling to make up ground lost during the pandemic.  Reading scores among fourth and eighth graders declined again, after  falling in 2022 and 2019. One-third of eighth graders are reading below  a basic level--the highest proportion ever recorded. Math scores showed  modest improvement, but they still remain below prepandemic levels. And  there is a widening gap in student performance. This should concern all  of us.

As the son of two public school educators and father of two daughters  who went to public schools, I know this problem is not going to be  fixed by Washington bureaucrats. It is going to be fixed by good  teachers, administrators, school boards, and parents--the people who  are closest to the students and most invested in their success.

The Federal Government provides less than 10 percent of funding for  schools in this country. The other 90 percent of funding--money that  keeps the lights on, pays teachers, and buys new textbooks--well, that  comes from State and local governments and from private sources. But  while the Federal Government provides a small percentage of education  funding, it is responsible for an outsize amount of bureaucracy and  mandates in education. More often than not, it is these policies that  are holding back school districts from innovating and ultimately  improving the education that they provide.

I am glad that Mrs. McMahon recognizes that education is not one- size-fits-all. States have different needs. School districts and  individual schools have different needs. And every student has his or  her own needs and aspirations. So I am glad that Mrs. McMahon plans to  work in a way that empowers those closest to the student, because they  are in the best position to do what is right for that student.

When I met with Mrs. McMahon, we had a long conversation about South  Dakota's unique education needs, including our Tribal schools, and I  look forward to working with Linda McMahon to limit bureaucracy,  empower State and local governments, and let good teachers do what they  are best at and what they love to do, and that is to help students  succeed.