Reconciliation


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702027/reconciliation


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, in a moment here, I am going to move to  proceed to a budget resolution, but let me just say before I do that  that we are in this spot because we tried to appropriate. We tried to  fund the DHS Agencies ICE and CBP through the regular order, normal  appropriations process--a process which had concluded in a bipartisan  deal with Democrats and Republicans both having agreed to fund DHS, an  outcome that was walked away from by the Senate Democrats.

Then, because they wanted reforms, we sat down for 45 days, I think  it was, and went through a process where Democrats kept coming up with  new ideas. The White House kept meeting them. There were a number of  reforms that were made by the White House.

Then, subsequent to that, in the negotiation with the Democrats,  Republicans here in the Senate and in the House and the White House  worked together to try to accommodate more requests for reforms--all of  which were met with a resounding no from the Democrats, so much so at  one point that there was one offer made by the White House, and the  Democrats didn't even respond for 18 days. Eighteen days suggests a  lack of seriousness about this issue.

Ultimately, I think what has happened here is the far-left Democrat  base in this country has insisted that their leadership not fund the  Agencies that are responsible for law enforcement in this country,  whether that is the Border Patrol, which has responsibility for  ensuring that our border is secure, or ICE, which is responsible for  ensuring that illegals who commit criminal acts in this country are  deported. Enforcing the laws of this land--that is the job these two  Agencies have been charged with, and the Democrats have determined they  are not going to fund them.

So essentially, when the Democrat leader talks about Republicans  owning something, I will tell you what the Democrats own. The Democrats  own the position which they have tried before and failed, and that is  open borders, wide-open borders, millions of people coming into this  country illegally over the past four years, and defunding the police.

Open borders and defunding the police--that is what the Democrats  own. Because of that and their unwillingness to work with us on an  appropriations process that provides reforms and funding for those two  Agencies, Republicans have been forced to use the budget reconciliation  process to ensure that those two Agencies are funded not only for today  but in the future because I don't see a universe in which the far-left  Democrat base is ever going to let their leaders fund these Agencies  that are responsible for law enforcement in this country.

This is defund-the-police. That is simply what it is. So we are going  to move to budget reconciliation to ensure that those two Agencies are  funded not only for today but for the balance of this administration's  term in office.