Recognizing the Significance of Community College Month in April


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702139/recognizing-the-significance-of-community-college-month-in-april


Mr. THUNE.  Con. Res. 33 be 10 minutes in length.

Mr. THUNE.  5281; Hirono,  No. 4884; and Hickenlooper, No. 4956.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we have four more amendments in this  tranche that we are doing right now, but if we could start to compress  this time for votes even more. We are still running close to 20  minutes, and it is a 10-minute vote, so let's try to do it in 10  minutes.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we have a finite list of five amendments.  So if everybody could stay in their seats, and we will try and knock  them off quickly and do legit 10-minute votes.

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I know of no further amendments on the  concurrent resolution.                           Vote on S. Con. Res. 33

Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, before we leave and finish this evening, I  would like to take a moment to recognize a departing member of the  Republican cloakroom staff Tony Hanagan. He is leaving this Friday  after 12 years in the cloakroom and his 12th vote-arama.

Tony, I know a lot of those occurred here in the last 15 months, and  I am hoping we didn't push you out the door by forcing you to go  through another one. But, seriously, it is hard for me to think of the  Republican cloakroom without Tony.

When you become leader, you realize all over again just how  indispensable our cloakroom staff are. The command of Senate procedure  and the institutional knowledge they bring is as essential to passing  legislation as is the votes of our Members.

Since I became leader, I have relied on Tony's expertise on a daily  basis, whether we are adopting a UC or I am delivering the wrapup. Tony  isn't just smart and knowledgeable; he is also invariably positive,  hard-working, and deeply committed to the team--our team here in the  Senate--and the sports teams at his beloved Gonzaga College High School  here in Washington, DC.

Tony, you have played an indispensable role in the victories we have  won for the American people, and I am very grateful for the 12 years  you have dedicated to the cloakroom and to this institution. I want to  wish you the very best of everything in your future ventures. Wherever  you go, I am confident you will excel.                             Motion to Reconsider