Remembering George Floyd


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, last Monday, George Floyd died in the  hands of a Minnesota police officer. This senseless death left  Americans reeling, most of all because there have been too many George  Floyds and Breonna Taylors and Ahmaud Arberys. 

  As a nation, we need to work to ensure that what happened last Monday  in Minneapolis never happens again and that the perpetrators of crimes  like this one are held accountable and brought to justice. We also need  to acknowledge how deeply many of our fellow citizens are suffering in  the wake of George Floyd's senseless death. A lot of our fellow  Americans are afraid right now, shaken by another death and worried  that that could easily have been their son or husband or brother. Too  many Americans feel unsafe in their own communities, and we need to  listen to them with humility, to listen to those whose experience of  America has often been very different from many of ours. 

  In the wake of George Floyd's death, Americans took to the streets  and cities across the country to express their outrage. They joined a  powerful tradition and exercised a cherished right. Peaceful protest is  an American institution, and as the civil rights movement demonstrated,  a powerful agent for change. These protests aren't relegated to big  cities. We are seeing them in towns across South Dakota and in many  other places in the United States. 

  Unfortunately, though, there has also been counterproductive and  unnecessary violence. Arson, looting, and destruction of property have  happened in cities around the country, and communities have suffered  damage that will be felt for years. Communities' faces and community  buildings have been damaged. Local businesses have seen their shops  defaced and their aisles ransacked, and innocent bystanders have been  injured. This is not a solution to the problems highlighted by George  Floyd's death, and this violence needs to end. Putting others' lives in  danger cannot be an acceptable response to an unjust death. 

  Around our country, our law enforcement officers have been called out  to respond to these riots. I just want to say a couple of words about  our police officers. It was a police officer who caused George Floyd's  death, and, around our country, other police officers are sickened by  that officer's actions and the tragic result. Most of our Nation's  police are like Houston's police chief, who went out and marched in  solidarity with protesters, or like the police chief of Norfolk, VA,  who did the same, or like the police officers in Camden, NJ, who joined  locals to march, led by their police chief. 

  There are certainly exceptions, sadly--too many exceptions. But the  vast majority--the vast majority--of our Nation's police officers are  men and women of character who care deeply about protecting everyone in  their communities and who strive to do their jobs with justice and with  integrity. 

  For too many years, the promise of the declaration that ``all men are  created equal'' was denied to many. Even in our own day, with both  slavery and segregation now mercifully in our past, the effects of  these great national sins still make themselves felt. We must  rededicate ourselves to ensure that the promise of liberty and justice  for all is realized for every American. It will take work, but I have  faith in our country and in my fellow Americans, and I believe that we  can get there. 

  My prayers today are with George Floyd's family and with all those  who are suffering because of his unjust death. ``And what does the Lord  require of you,'' the book of Micah asks, ``but to act justly and to  love mercy and to walk humbly with your God.'' 

  May we all seek justice and mercy and walk humbly in the days that  are ahead. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT