Rural Health Transformation Program


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698574/rural-health-transformation-program


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, as someone who grew up in rural South  Dakota, in the town of Murdo, which has a population of roughly 500-- and that would be rounding up--I know firsthand the joys of living in a  rural community. I also know some of the challenges.

Everything from package delivery to internet reliability can be more  difficult when you live far outside a major city, and access to  healthcare can sometimes be a real challenge. More than 100 rural  hospitals have closed over the past two decades, and doctors can be few  and far between in rural areas.

But thanks to the working families tax cut legislation, however, help  is on the way. Republicans' legislation created a $50 billion Rural  Health Transformation Program to address the rural healthcare crisis.  Instead of a top-down, Washington-dictated approach, we are giving  States the resources and the freedom to find solutions for the  particular challenges in their State and to find sustainable ways of  ensuring rural healthcare access in their communities going forward.

The response has been robust. Every State in the Union--red and blue,  alike--has applied for and been approved for funding from this program.  States have big plans.

The Texas Tribune reports:

The state's health care agency said it will use the funds       to strengthen rural health care clinics in a variety of ways,       including: creating wellness and nutrition programs to rural       providers; educating and attracting health care professionals       to work in rural areas; and modernizing resources and       technology in rural centers.

More specifically, it plans to ``add more than a thousand       rural health care'' positions with the additional funds.

Another news article reports on Ohio, noting that ``the state's  proposal focuses on addressing barriers to healthcare by building on  existing state investments to expand access to care, strengthen the  rural health workforce and modernize facilities and technology.''

Georgia will be using Rural Health Transformation funding to upgrade  technology and invest in its rural workforce. North Carolina will use  the fund to, among other things, support more than 400 rural health  facilities.

The list goes on.

My own State of South Dakota will be using its funding to invest in a  number of priorities, including a major investment in telehealth, which  can be a key way to access healthcare for those in rural areas.

South Dakota will also be using its funding to create regional hubs  for emergency services and to improve access to maternal and infant  health, to ensure delivery of essential medical care.

Back in June, a few months before Democrats tried to repeal the Rural  Health Transformation fund, the Democrat leader said:

This little fund to help reimburse rural hospitals is just       a fraud.

He should tell that to his State, which applied for the program and  received a $212 million grant. And that is for 2026 alone. When the  State announced its application, the Office of New York State Mental  Health Commissioner, Dr. Ann Sullivan, stated:

Expanding access to services in underserved communities is       an important part of our effort to strengthen mental health       care statewide. The Rural Health Transformation Grant will       help New York State explore new partnerships, build our       health care workforce, and pursue innovative opportunities to       expand care in these areas.

Let me repeat that.

The Rural Health Transformation Grant will help New York       State explore new partnerships, build our health care       workforce, and pursue innovative opportunities to expand care       in these areas.

That doesn't sound like fraud to me.

Perhaps the Democratic leader would have preferred his State to miss  out on these resources.

Perhaps he would disagree with the Democrat Governor of Hawaii, who  said:

As a relatively small State, this will help us a lot to       keep our hospitals open, to make sure there are providers       available to have telehealth available.

Mr. President, the Democrat leader can spread all the disinformation  he wants. The Rural Health Transformation Program is in effect, and  every State in the Union is benefiting. Republicans will continue to  work to make healthcare more comfortable and accessible for American  families.

I want to thank Dr. Oz and his team at the Centers for Medicare and  Medicaid Services for their tireless work to get this program up and  running on an expedited timeline. I look forward to seeing all the ways  this program will help transform healthcare in rural America.