Senate Agenda


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698482/senate-agenda


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, 2025 was a historically busy year here in  the U.S. Senate: the longest session period in more than 15 years; the  greatest number of votes in half a century; many, many, many hours in  session, substantially exceeding the average of the past 78 years.

What do we have to show for all of that? More than 400 Presidential  nominees confirmed, far exceeding the totals of the first year of  President Trump's first term and of President Biden's; repeal of a  number of burdensome Biden rules and regulations, including multiple  rules that would have driven up prices for American families and  businesses; legislation to combat the fentanyl epidemic; to keep  criminal illegal immigrants off our streets; to create the first U.S.  Federal framework for stablecoins and ensure U.S. leadership in  financial innovation; and first and foremost, of course, we passed the  Working Families Tax Cut and the rest of our landmark legislation.

January 1 was this past Thursday. If Democrats had their way,  Americans would have been facing a big tax hike at the start of this  year. Instead, thanks to the Working Families Tax Cut, Americans will  continue to pay the lower tax rates Republicans passed in 2017. And  that is not all.

In addition to making permanent the tax relief we passed in 2017,  Republicans have added a number of new tax relief measures to ensure  that Americans can keep more of their hard-earned money. We further  increased the standard deduction. We further increased the child tax  credit and indexed it to inflation so that its value will never go  down. We added a new bonus deduction for seniors, no tax on tips and  overtime, and the list goes on.

Thanks to our legislation, Americans will be able to keep more of  their hard-earned money permanently, and that is not all our  legislation did. Our once-in-a-generation legislation also invested in  our national security, in a more secure border, and safer streets.

We repealed Democrats' natural gas tax and took steps to unleash  American energy production to ensure Americans have a stable and  affordable energy supply and more.

Our goal for 2025 was more money in Americans' pockets, new  opportunities, and safer streets. We are accomplishing that with the  Working Families Tax Cuts and the rest of our landmark legislation, and  we will continue to expand on that work in 2026.

There are a number of bills that I would like the Senate to take up,  including ROAD to Housing--legislation that addresses housing  affordability and availability--and market structure legislation that  builds on the success of the GENIUS Act and provides long-overdue  clarity on digital asset regulation.

Our first item of business, though, is appropriations. We still have  work to do to get as many full-year appropriations bills as possible  across the finish line for fiscal year 2026. I made it very clear when  I became majority leader that I wanted to get the Senate back to  regular-order appropriations, and we made a strong start last year,  passing three appropriations bills with robust bipartisan margins  before the August work period--the first time that we have passed an  appropriations bill that early since 2018.

Unfortunately, Democrats then chose to shut down the government,  which seriously delayed our appropriations work. But we got right back  to it after Democrats finally agreed to reopen the government, and we  were able to get those three appropriations bills signed into law by  the President this fall.

Now we have another bipartisan, bicameral package of three bills that  was released today and is ready to move through the House and the  Senate. That will be the priority as soon as this package comes over  from the House, and Senators can expect continued work on  appropriations for the remainder of January.

We have a January 30 deadline to fund the government, and nobody  should want a repeat of the recent Democrat shutdown at the end of this  month. So let's get the rest of this year's appropriations bills done  so we can turn our attention to our other responsibilities and to  getting the next fiscal year's appropriations bills done in a timely  fashion.