Taxes


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701915/taxes


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, tax day was last week, and I would like to  read a brief excerpt from a Washington Post article.

The title of this article: ``Tax refunds shoot up as Americans take  advantage of new deductions.''

And here is the excerpt:

Karen Richardson, 68, has had a predictable tax return       since she retired from her job administering government       benefits four years ago. She lives on a fixed income and       usually owes some money at tax time, so she was surprised to       get a $1,000 refund this year due to the senior deduction.       ``The Big Beautiful Bill worked for me,'' she said, ``I       didn't think it applied to more than the richer people. . . .       I really didn't think it applied to me.''

Well, as Ms. Richardson and many other hard-working Americans have  discovered, the Big Beautiful Bill, the Working Families Tax Cuts, does  indeed apply to them. It worked for them this tax season, and it will  work for them in future tax seasons.

In 2017, Republicans overhauled our outdated Tax Code so that it  would work better for our economy and for American families alike.

We cut tax rates across the board, doubled the child tax credit, and  nearly doubled the standard deduction. And all of this made a  significant difference to working families' tax bills. But this relief  was scheduled to expire at the end of 2025, which meant that starting  this January, Americans would have seen a lot more of their paychecks  going to the Federal Government.

Republicans were determined not to let that happen. And so last  summer, we passed the Working Families Tax Cut to prevent a massive  $2.6 trillion tax hike on Americans making less than $400,000.

But we didn't just prevent a tax hike. In addition to ensuring that  Americans can keep enjoying lower tax rates, Republicans passed a  number of additional tax relief measures. We boosted the standard  deduction again. We increased the child tax credit and linked it to  inflation so its value will never go down. We instituted no tax on  tips. We instituted no tax on overtime and more.

And hard-working Americans are reaping the benefits. This tax season  more than 30 million seniors claimed the new bonus deduction for older  Americans. More than a million taxpayers bought an American-made car  and were able to deduct an average of $1,800 in auto loan interest on  that new vehicle. More than 25 million American workers were able to  deduct overtime pay from their taxes, resulting in substantial tax  savings.

And more than 6 million workers were able to deduct their tips from  their taxes. And that doesn't even count the parents who were able to  take advantage of the enhanced child tax credit or the new tax- advantaged accounts for their child or all the Americans, all of the  Americans who benefited from our further increase in the standard  deduction.

The Working Families Tax Cut is working for working families. The New  York Times recently interviewed a number of taxpayers. The Times  reported:

Many of the taxpayers said they had received their largest       refund in years, money that is going toward paying down       credit card debt, catching up on bills, padding savings       accounts or covering the cost of a vacation.

``money that is going toward paying down credit card debt, catching  up on bills, padding savings accounts or covering the cost of a  vacation.''

That was our goal with this bill, to take some of the pressure off,  to free up money that families could use to do things like pay down  debt or put away for a rainy day or take a much-needed vacation. Thanks  to the Working Families Tax Cut, Americans now have a little more  breathing room in their budget.

And whether we are passing tax relief, new measures to make  prescription drugs more affordable at the pharmacy counter, or  legislation to address the cost of housing, Republicans will continue  to work to make life more affordable for hard-working Americans.