Thune Statement on Senate Passage of Additional Coronavirus Relief


U.S. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) today released the following statement after the Senate overwhelmingly approved additional coronavirus relief funding that will continue to provide support to the American people, including by ensuring there are no financial barriers to testing. The bill, which strengthens protections for employees who have been adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak, now heads to the president to be signed into law. On March 5, Thune supported the first phase of coronavirus funding and has discussed additional steps that will be required to address this outbreak. 

"Today we passed important bipartisan legislation that will provide critical relief to American workers, families, and small businesses," said Thune. "While this is welcome news, there's a lot more work ahead of us to address the coronavirus' economic impact, and Senate Republicans are prepared to stay in Washington as long as it takes to get additional legislation to the president's desk. I've been working with Leader McConnell and my Republican colleagues to identify legislative proposals that could be included in a third legislative package, and I'm optimistic about where those conversations are headed. This is a challenging time for our country, but it's often in challenging times that we see the very best of America. I am confident that if we pull together as a nation, we will emerge from this challenge stronger."

The Families First Coronavirus Response Act will:

-Provide support to the American people through the duration of the coronavirus outbreak;-Ensure there are no cost barriers for Americans who need to be tested for the coronavirus, regardless of their personal financial or health insurance situation;-Provide tax credits to employers so they can help support American workers who are adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak (those who are sick, required to self-quarantine, or provide care to others); and-Increase the use and availability of telemedicine, a tool Sen. Thune has long supported, particularly for the benefits it provides to rural America.