Trump Administration


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693870/trump-administration


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, yesterday marked 6 months since President  Trump took office, and today is the 200th day of the Republican  majority here in the U.S. Senate.

In that time, the Trump administration and Senate Republicans have  been hard at work executing the mandate we received from the American  people last November. We already have a number of accomplishments on  the list.

We got started by sending the Laken Riley Act to President Trump's  desk during his first week in office to keep criminal illegal  immigrants off our streets.

President Trump signed the HALT Fentanyl Act last Wednesday, which  permanently classifies fentanyl analogs as the deadly drugs they are.

On Friday, he signed the GENIUS Act, the landmark bill to bring  digital  assets into the mainstream and secure U.S. leadership in financial  innovation.

And the first rescissions package in three decades is headed to the  President for signature.

We have passed measures to end 16 burdensome Biden-era regulations.  We passed the TAKE IT DOWN Act to combat nonconsensual explicit images  being shared online.

And, of course, 2 weeks ago on the Fourth of July, the President  signed into law the Big Beautiful Bill to deliver permanent tax relief  to the American people to make our country safer, stronger, and more  prosperous.

We have additional bills coming down the pike. The Armed Services  Committee under Chairman Wicker recently reported the National Defense  Authorization Act of fiscal year 2026, and the Appropriations Committee  under Chair Collins has reported out four bipartisan bills, which we  will begin considering this week.

I said last year that I was committed to bringing appropriations  bills to the floor through regular order, and we are in the process of  doing exactly that.

Of course, any regular order consideration of appropriations bills is  going to require cooperation from Democrats. This week, we will get a  glimpse of where Democrats are on this issue.

It was deeply disappointing the Democrat leader threatened to shut  down the government if Republicans dared to pass legislation to trim  just one-tenth of 1 percent of the Federal budget, but I am hopeful  that is not the position of the Democratic Party.

Time will tell.

The Senate also has important work to do to confirm the President's  nominees. We started out this year by confirming 21 of the President's  Cabinet nominees at the fastest pace in more than two decades, and we  have kept up our focus on getting President Trump's team into place.

We have now confirmed 96 civilian nominees, far outpacing where the  Senate was at this point in the first Trump administration. And the  only reason, frankly, that we are not moving faster is because of  Democrats' historic--that is right historic--level of obstruction.

Democrats have been forcing cloture votes for every civilian nominee.  Something that is without precedent. President Trump is the first  President on record not to have a single civilian nominee go by  unanimous consent or voice vote at this point in his Presidency. The  first President on record. Think about that.

And Democrats are using this strategy even on noncontroversial  nominees. Almost a quarter of the nominees whose confirmation process  Democrats have dragged out actually got more than 60 votes here on the  Senate floor.

The American people gave President Trump a mandate, and he deserves  to have his team in place to execute that mandate for the American  people. Democrats can continue to drag this process out, but  Republicans are going to get these nominees confirmed.