United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, later today, the President will sign phase  one of the trade agreement we are negotiating with China. Of particular  importance to my State, phase one includes a pledge from China to  substantially increase its imports of American agriculture products. 

  That is good news for South Dakota. It is good news for farmers and  ranchers who have been struggling in a tough ag economy. Low commodity  and livestock prices, natural disasters, and protracted trade disputes  have made the last few years challenging ones for farmers and ranchers  around the country. 

  I spend a lot of time in South Dakota, talking to our farmers and  ranchers. One thing they always emphasize is the need for trade deals  that will open up new markets or expand current markets for their  products. 

  The China deal should significantly increase demand for American  agricultural products and boost the farm economy. But while this  agreement is excellent news, we do need to make sure that China will  actually live up to its commitments. China doesn't have  the best record in this regard, so it is important the United States  make clear that any agreements must be honored. 

  As we wait for the China deal to take effect, one piece of definite  good news on the trade front is the arrival in the Senate of the United  States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. After months of delay by House  Democrats, USMCA is finally--finally--moving through Congress. Here in  the Senate, it is advancing rapidly through the required committees,  and I expect it will be received for final Senate consideration in the  next few days. 

  Last week, I voted in support of this agreement in the Senate Finance  Committee, and just this morning--a few minutes ago, in fact--I voted  for this agreement in a meeting of the Senate Committee on Commerce.  The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement has been a big priority of  mine over the past year, in particular because of the ways the  agreement would benefit farmers and ranchers. 

  Canada and Mexico are the No. 1 and No. 2 markets for American  agriculture products, and this agreement will preserve and expand  farmers' access to these two critical export markets and give farmers  certainty about what these markets are going to look like going  forward. 

  I am particularly pleased about the ways that USMCA will benefit  dairy farmers. If you drive the I-29 corridor north of Brookings, SD,  you can see firsthand the major dairy expansion South Dakota has  experienced over the past several years. 

  The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement will preserve U.S. dairy farmers'  role as a key dairy supplier to Mexico, and it will substantially  expand market access to Canada. The U.S. International Trade Commission  estimates that the agreement will boost U.S. dairy exports by more than  $277 million. The agreement will also expand market access for U.S.  poultry and egg producers. It will make it easier for American  producers to export wheat to Canada and much more. 

  Of course, the benefits of this agreement are not limited to farmers  and ranchers. The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement will benefit  virtually every sector of the economy, from manufacturing to digital  services to the automotive industry. It will create hundreds of  thousands of new jobs, boost our economic output, and increase wages  for workers. 

  The agreement also breaks new ground by including a chapter  specifically focused on small and medium-sized businesses--the first  time a U.S. trade agreement has ever included a dedicated chapter on  this topic. 

  Roughly, 120,000 small and medium-sized businesses around our country  export goods and services to Mexico and Canada, including a number of  businesses in my home State of South Dakota. The United States-Mexico-  Canada Agreement will make it easier for these businesses to  successfully export their products. South Dakota businesses and  consumers will also benefit from the fact that the agreement maintains  the current U.S. de minimis threshold, which is something I fought hard  to protect. 

  It is too bad farmers and ranchers had to wait so long for the USMCA  trade agreement. This agreement was concluded well over a year ago, and  it could have been taken up much sooner. But House Democrats have,  unfortunately, been more focused on playing political games than on  working with Republicans to do the American people's business. 

  I am very glad we are taking up this agreement now, though, and I  look forward to voting for final passage of USMCA in the very near  future. We should get this agreement to the President's desk without  delay. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT