Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. Madam President, so far Congress has passed four  coronavirus relief bills that have provided $2.4 trillion to meet the  coronavirus crisis. Our goal has been to provide a comprehensive  response addressing not just the medical priorities but also the  economic impact this virus has had on so many American families. 

  We have provided funding for coronavirus testing, for medical care,  for personal protective equipment for frontline medical personnel, for  vaccine and treatment development, for veterans, for nutrition  programs, for first responders, for unemployment benefits, for  elementary schools, high schools, and colleges, for farmers and  ranchers. The Coronavirus Aid Relief and Economic Security Act, or the  CARES Act, the third relief bill we passed, provided nearly $350  billion for the Paycheck Protection Program to help small businesses  keep employees on their payroll during this crisis. When the program  ran out of money, we provided another $310 billion to ensure that as  many small businesses as possible were able to take advantage of this  help. 

  The CARES Act also appropriated $293 billion for direct payments to  American citizens to help them get through this difficult time. At this  point, government agencies are focused on getting all of the aid we  passed out the door. Some programs, such as the Paycheck Protection  Program, have been up and running practically since day one. More than  4 million businesses have applied for or already received forgivable  loans through the Paycheck Protection Program, enabling millions of  workers to keep their  jobs. The vast majority of direct payments to American citizens,  approximately 130 million so far, have been sent out. Other aid is  still in the process of getting out the door. 

  The Department of Agriculture recently announced it will use funds  appropriated in the CARES Act, plus other money, to issue direct  payments to farmers and ranchers affected by this crisis. These  payments are expected to reach farmers and ranchers in late May or  early June. 

  Over the course of four coronavirus bills, we provided more than $500  billion to State and local governments. That is equal to roughly 25  percent of the yearly operating budgets of the 50 States combined. That  money includes at least $185 billion for unemployment benefits, $150  billion for general relief funds for States, localities, and Tribes;  $45 billion for the Disaster Relief Fund; nearly $26 billion for  nutrition programs; $13 billion for school districts; $4 billion to  help the homeless; more than $1 billion for first responders; and there  is so much more. 

  On top of that, Congress directed the Federal Reserve to provide an  additional $500 billion in loans to help States and municipalities  manage cashflow issues during the pandemic. A lot of the money that we  have provided has already been sent to States while some is still in  the process of being disbursed. Meanwhile, States are in the process of  figuring out how to spend the money they have received--some they have  spent and some they have not--which brings me to an important point. 

  My friends across the aisle are pushing for more money, more money,  more money. Yesterday, the House of Representatives unveiled a $3  trillion coronavirus relief bill--that is right, $3 trillion. 

  But we haven't yet seen the effects of the money we have provided  already. It is difficult to understand how Democrats can call for an  additional $3 trillion--all money borrowed, I might add, on the backs  of younger workers and our children and grandchildren--when they  haven't even seen what existing funds have been used for or whether  they have been used at all. 

  Nobody is questioning--nobody is questioning that we may need  additional money to address this crisis. Republicans have stepped up  and appropriated $2.4 trillion--roughly, 50 percent of the entire  Federal budget for 2020. That is an extraordinary amount of money, but  these are extraordinary circumstances, and they call for an  extraordinary response. But it is important to remember that every  dollar of what we have appropriated for coronavirus is borrowed money,  and today's young workers and our children and grandchildren are going  to be paying for this borrowing. 

  We are putting an incredible burden on younger generations. We have  an absolute obligation to make sure that we are only appropriating what  is really needed. The way we find out what is really needed is by  carefully monitoring the implementation of the $2.4 trillion that we  have already provided, not by rushing to provide trillions more before  we know whether and where they are needed. Once the money we have  already provided has been fully allocated, we will have a better sense  of where we may need to appropriate additional funds and where we have  spent enough. 

  It is also important to remember that there are other things we can  do in Congress besides borrowing money that younger generations will  have to pay. Yesterday, the leader came down to the floor to talk about  the liability protections the Republicans are pursuing for healthcare  workers, businesses, and others on the frontline in response to  reopening. As the leader noted, hundreds of coronavirus lawsuits have  already been filed around the country, and these lawsuits represent a  real threat to our economic recovery. Doctors and hospitals, for  example, are making extraordinary efforts to protect patients and  healthcare workers but are still reluctant to resume noncoronavirus- related medical care for fear of being sued if a patient were somehow  exposed to the disease in the process of receiving care. 

  Businesses are worried that they can be held responsible if one of  their employees develops coronavirus, even if the business took every  reasonable precaution to discourage infection. 

  There is obviously a place for lawsuits when individuals or  businesses engage in gross negligence or intentional misconduct. We  will not be giving a free pass to anyone who fails in their basic  duties during this crisis, but we need to make sure that medical  professionals and small businesses and others can get back to running  their operations and employing Americans without worrying that an army  of trial lawyers is about to descend. 

  There are undoubtedly other things we can do to help Americans get  back to work and deal with the effects of coronavirus without spending  trillions of dollars, everything from regulatory reform to ensuring  that frontline volunteers don't face surprise tax bills. 

  That is not to say that we will not be providing additional funding.  In fact, it is likely that we will have to appropriate more money for  the coronavirus response, but as I have already said, it is absolutely  essential--essential--that we consider further investment carefully and  only spend money where it is truly needed. 

  My friends across the aisle tend to think that government money and  government programs are the solution literally to every crisis. They  are happy to throw taxpayer dollars around without thought to the  consequences of future generations. Disturbingly, more than one  Democrat has indicated that they would like to take advantage of this  crisis to remake America in their own far-left image. That is not a  responsible response. 

  Republicans are going to continue to do everything we can to help  Americans through this crisis. We are committed to meeting the  country's needs while spending taxpayer dollars responsibly and with an  eye to the burden we are placing on younger workers and future  generations of Americans. 

  We undoubtedly have more difficult days ahead, but our country is  strong and so are the American people. We are going to get through  this. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.  Sasse). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``nay.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. THUNE. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the Senator  from Tennessee (Mr. Alexander) and the Senator from Nebraska (Mr.  Sasse). 

  Further, if present and voting, the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.  Alexander) would have voted ``yea.'' 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT