Working Families Tax Cut Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701763/working-families-tax-cut-act


Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I don't know a lot of people who look  forward to April 15. No. I suspect tax day doesn't rank high on  Americans' favorite days of the year, but I would wager that a lot more  Americans were pleasantly surprised this year when they went to file  their taxes because thanks to Republicans' Working Families Tax Cut  bill, a lot more Americans kept a lot more of their hard-earned money  this year.

That is right. Hard-working Americans saw lower tax bills. Tax  refunds increased by more than 10 percent compared to last year, and  the average refund is more than $3,400 this year thanks to Republicans'  tax cuts.

As the American people have now seen firsthand, the Working Families  Tax Cuts provided significant tax relief. First of all, it locked in  the lower rates permanently. In 2017, Republicans lowered rates--tax  rates--across the board, and as of last year, these new lower rates are  now permanent which means that hard-working Americans won't have to  worry about a higher tax bill in the years to come.

We also nearly doubled the standard deduction in 2017. The Working  Families Tax Cuts raised it even further and made that permanent too.

And then there is the child tax credit which Republicans doubled in  2017. The  Working Families Tax Cuts raised it again to $2,200. And Republicans  didn't just raise the child tax credit, we linked it to inflation so it  doesn't lose its value over time. That, too, is a permanent feature of  the Tax Code thanks to Republicans' landmark bill.

The Working Families Tax Cuts also introduced a number of new tax  relief provisions into the Tax Code. This tax season, more than 30  million seniors claimed a new $6,000 bonus deduction for older  Americans.

Over a million people bought a new American-made car and were able to  deduct an average $1,800 in auto loan interest on that new vehicle.  More than 25 million American workers were able to deduct overtime pay  from their taxes and realize thousands of dollars in tax savings. And  over 6 million workers deducted income from tips this tax year.

With all that, a lot more Americans were looking at a bigger refund  when they finished their tax returns, and they are thinking about the  best use of that additional money in their pocket: Saving for their  first home, investing in their kids' education, taking a family  vacation, using their money how they see fit rather than sending it to  Uncle Sam.

As its name implies, the Working Families Tax Cuts focuses on working  families. But this bill also did a lot to support America's small  businesses as well as family farms and ranches.

Thanks to Republicans' landmark bill, 12 million small businesses saw  an average tax reduction of $7,000. This bill made the 199A small  business deduction permanent, which has been a significant boost for  small businesses and for family farms and ranches.

One agriculture co-op in my State of South Dakota estimates its  impact at over $100 million since it was created by Republicans in  2017.

Millions of small businesses, farms, and ranches were able to use  this provision and reduce their tax bill this year freeing up money to  invest in their operations and employees, create jobs, and increase  innovation.

That is not all. The working families tax cuts made 100-percent bonus  depreciation permanent too, which allows businesses and farmers and  ranchers to deduct the full cost of a new piece of equipment the year  they start using it.

Permanent research and development expensing is already paying  dividends for businesses in my State.

A lot of farmers, ranchers, and small business owners breathed a sigh  of relief when they heard that this bill raised the death tax threshold  and spared them--spared them--from a potentially devastating tax bill,  not to mention from the costly estate planning expenses that come with  it.

Since Republicans passed this landmark bill last summer, we have  heard Democrats' typical refrain that this bill was just tax cuts for  billionaires. That is laughable. It really is.

The largest proportional benefits from this bill went to Americans  earning less than $50,000 a year. The increased standard deduction from  this bill is something that was claimed by more than a 100 million  Americans this year to reduce and simplify their taxes. More than 34  million American families claimed the child tax credit this year, which  the working families tax cuts permanently increased and linked to the  cost-of-living.

And nearly half of filers--half of filers--claimed one of the new tax  cuts--no tax on tips and overtime, auto loan interest, or the senior  deduction.

Millions of middle-income Americans saw a lower tax bill this year,  and that is no fluke. The working families tax cuts puts these hard- working Americans first. It lets them keep more of their hard-earned  money to spend, invest, and save how they see fit. It helps hard- working people get one step closer to the American dream.