Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690009/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the resolution as a woman  and as the chairwoman of the Republican Women's Caucus, not only for  election integrity but clearly literacy because Democrats have not read  the resolution. That much is clear.

This resolution is very simple. It ensures that only American  citizens can vote in our Federal elections. This isn't hard. Eighty- seven percent of Americans agree that only Americans should vote in our  elections.

Mr. Speaker, it makes me wonder why my friends on the other side of  the aisle are always and consistently looking for ways to ensure that  illegals can vote in our elections. It is almost as though they have an  ulterior motive.

You have to show an ID to board a plane, to buy alcohol, to cash a  check. You have to show an ID to buy cold medicine for God's sakes. Why  should people not have to verify their citizenship to register to vote?  I say to register because my friend over here keeps pointing out that  women in every single congressional district will have to provide proof  of their name change in order to vote.

I ask my colleagues across the aisle to read the bill, page 14. If  you are registering to vote, there is a process by which the States  establish. If you are already registered to vote, you are fine. Read  the bill. Stop insulting women.

I am sick and tired and I know women across this country are sick and  tired of being talked down to and being insulted repeatedly with the  fear-mongering tactics of the left. It is disingenuous for them to  stand there and to continue to say that women will not be eligible to  vote.

This is about protecting one of our most sacred rights that we have  as Americans, and I am so proud to stand here as a woman, as a married  woman, and, again, as the chair of the Republican Women's Caucus in  safeguarding and ensuring the integrity of our elections.

Mrs. CAMMACK. The point is, is that Americans around this country are  sick and tired of the fear-mongering tactics that they have been  subjected to by the left for decades. We need to ensure the integrity  of our elections. It has been demanded by the American people, and we  are making good on that promise today.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the SAVE Act.