Thanking Mr. Jeffrey Askew


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688857/thanking-mr-jeffrey-askew


Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Florida's Third Congressional  District, we thank Mr. Jeffrey Askew for his storied career in Marion  County.

A native of Auburn, Alabama, Jeffrey joined the U.S. Navy in July  1977 after completing his high school studies. He completed his basic  training in San Diego, California and his first duty station was Naval  Air Station Pensacola where he worked as a plane captain for A-4s and  T-2s. While there he qualified for the A-4 back seat rider before  transferring in 1980 to the USS Coral Sea CV-43 which was stationed in  Alameda, California. While on the Coral Sea he visited the Philippines,  Thailand, Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, and a host of other countries.  He says his most rewarding job on the ship was the Primary Fly Control  Tower Supervisor.

Jeffrey participated in the Iran Hostage rescue where he was awarded  the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal. He also participated in Operation  Desert Shield and the Liberation and Defense of Kuwait, earning 12  medals in his 22-year tenure, including four Navy Achievement Medals  and two Navy Commendation Medals. His duty stations include USS  O'Bannon (DD-987), USS Lexington (CVT-16), USS Dwight D. Eisenhower  (CVN-69), and various Shore Commands.

His final duty station was Naval Air Station Jacksonville, Detachment  Astor, located in the Ocala National Forest. He served as an operations  officer where he conducted training with 50 air squadrons in various  air to land operations. Retiring in 1999 as a Navy Chief, Mr. Askew  went on to serve as Marion County's Veterans Services Director and the  Administrator of the Ocala/Marion Veterans Memorial Park. He and his  staff were awarded the ``Service Office of the Year'' in 2009 and 2012,  making Marion County the only county to have received the award twice  from the Department of Florida and the VFW.

I congratulate him on an incredible career and thank him for his  service. We wish him the best as he moves on from Marion County and  continues to make a tremendous difference in the lives of our heroes.