Women's History Month


Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend and colleague,  Representative De La Cruz, for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, it is such an honor to be here today as we recognize the  incredible contributions of women throughout American history.

Many of us grew up reading about the courageous women who shaped our  Nation, women like Abigail Adams, Harriet Tubman, and Clara Barton.  Their stories weren't just words in a textbook. They were testaments to  the power of perseverance, patriotism, and principle.

History is not just simply about the past. It is about what we pass  on to the next generation. That is why the Smithsonian American Women's  History Museum is such an important project. It ensures that these  stories are not only preserved and honored but shared with all  Americans. Our daughters and granddaughters should be able to walk into  this museum and see firsthand how women have helped shape this Nation,  not as passive observers but as leaders, innovators, and changemakers.

This museum tells the stories of the women who built businesses,  defended our freedoms, and served their communities, all through the  lens of hard work, personal responsibility, and faith in the American  Dream.

This commitment to empowering women isn't just about history. It is  about the present and the future. That is why I am so proud to be here  this evening to celebrate the recent launch of the Republican Women's  Caucus, a group that I am so proud to chair, which is dedicated to  amplifying the voices of strong, principled women serving today in  Congress. Conservative women are making history every day, championing  policies that promote freedom, opportunity, and the values that have  made this Nation great.

Women's History Month is a time to reflect on our progress and  reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that every American, regardless of  their background, has the chance to achieve their full potential. That  is the legacy that we honor, and it is the one future that we are  building together.

May we always celebrate the remarkable women who have made our  country stronger, and I am so grateful for the leadership of my fellow  colleagues.

Ms. De La CRUZ.  Adams).