Unfair Enforcement of Endangered Species Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697857/unfair-enforcement-of-endangered-species-act


Mr. BENTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call out the injury and  injustice being inflicted on my State and my constituents by the  inappropriate and unfair enforcement of the Endangered Species Act as  it has been and is being applied to the reintroduction of the gray  wolf.

This injustice is apparent in the Federal Government's inability to  manage and control the killing and maiming of livestock and in the  failure of the government to properly pay the costs of its decision to  reintroduce the wolf.

I will address the lack of management first. Let me begin my  discussion of failed management by showing several pictures, which are  graphic illustrations of the reality that my ranching families face all  too often.

Mr. Speaker, as you can see, there is nothing refined about how a  wolf goes about feeding itself. You can imagine the feelings of the  rancher when he or she finds livestock torn apart and dying.

Mr. Speaker, these animals may have been part of the herd for a  decade or more.

We can try to imagine the incredible anger they feel, knowing they  are legally prevented from stopping the wolf that caused this pain and  horror to their cattle and calves from doing this again and again.

I have held meeting after meeting across my district, listening over  and over to stories about wolves attacking herds, scattering cattle,  and ignoring the ineffective hazing efforts that owners of these cattle  are allowed to use under the law to try to protect their livelihoods.  The anger and intense frustration they feel is totally understandable.  It is why I am on the floor today, sharing as best I can their pain  with my colleagues.

If we are to protect those who are trying their best to feed this  country, to make a living, to keep their small and often remote  communities viable, to put out range fires, to pay their taxes, and to  continue to be productive parts of this Nation, we need to delist the  wolf and move the management of these animals back to the States.

Let me turn to the actual cost of the reintroduction of the wolf and  the need for those who have created this cost to be responsible for  paying it.

The actual annual cost of the wolf, imposed upon the cattle  businesses across this Nation, as of a few years ago is estimated to be  $128 million a year. This number is higher now that cattle prices are  higher. Many think the only cost of the wolf is the killing of  livestock, but the impact of primal fear that cattle understandably  feel when a wolf is near has dramatic and serious impacts on weight  gain and on pregnancy rates.

These losses are real, and they are serious. At a time when even the  President is concerned about beef prices, these losses affect everyone  by reducing the size of the cattle herds and their productivity.

There has been legislation enacted, both in the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act and at the State level, to try to bring some reimbursement  equity into play by providing at least some payment for the death of  cattle caused by wolves. These programs, although welcome, come nowhere  near to making those damaged by wolves whole.

In addition, I can assure everyone that the rancher would absolutely  be happier if he or she could completely avoid the losses that lead to  asking for justice under these programs.

If we are properly, fairly, and logically to manage the wolf, we must  pass Representatives Boebert and Tom Tiffany's bill, H.R. 845, the Pet  and Livestock Protection Act. This would delist the wolf and allow  States to manage these populations.

If we are to properly allocate responsibility for the monetary costs  of the wolf, those millions of dollars each year unjustly imposed on  ranchers and farmers damaged by the reintroduction, we must appropriate  the money needed to make these good people whole.