Change of Command Daniel Russell


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1690861/change-of-command-daniel-russell


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, rain or shine, turbulence or calm,  the Red Lancer's Commanding Officer is always steady at the helm-- because leadership doesn't come with an `abort mission' button.

I rise today to congratulate Commander Daniel Russell on his  promotion to Commanding Officer of Patrol Squadron VP-10 of the United  States Navy, also known as the Red Lancers.

When it comes to leadership in the Navy, it's more than just a title.  It is a calling, a duty, and a profound responsibility. It requires  vision, dedication, and commitment to those who serve. Commander  Russell has already demonstrated these qualities in abundance, serving  with distinction as Executive Officer, guiding this squadron with a  steady hand and an unwavering focus on operational excellence.

A native of Troy, North Carolina, Commander Russell is a graduate of  East Carolina University, where he earned a degree in the science of  biology. He began his military career by enlisting in the United States  Navy in 2005 and has since held numerous assignments, including on the  USS Maryland (SSBN-738), USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74), and successfully  completed two deployments.

Throughout his service, he has not only accumulated over 2,000 flight  hours in various  aircraft, but numerous military decorations, including the CAPT Tim  Tibbets Leadership Award, six Navy Commendation Medals, as well as the  Navy/Marine Corps Achievement Medal.

As he steps into the role of Commanding Officer, I know that  Commander Russell will continue to execute vital maritime patrol and  reconnaissance missions with precision and uphold the highest  traditions of Naval Aviation.

Mr. Speaker, Commander Russell is a true patriot and distinguished  American who has devoted himself to the service of our Nation. It is  appropriate that we honor him today by expressing our gratitude for his  dedication and wishing him well on his new command.

And while he may not be able to push the ``abort mission'' button, I  know that when the pressure rises, Commander Russell will rise higher.