May Beam Continue to Light the Way


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694060/may-beam-continue-to-light-the-way


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, a beam is a ray of light, a symbol  of hope. For more than 40 years, BEAM in Jacksonville Beach, Florida,  has been that light, delivering hope and help to northeast Floridians  in need.

It started in 1985 by representatives of local churches who saw  people needing a hand up.

Today, I rise to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Beaches Emergency  Assistance Ministry, BEAM, a lifeline for families facing hardship in  eastern Duval County, places like: Mayport, Jacksonville Beach, Neptune  Beach, Atlantic Beach. From keeping the lights on to filling the  pantry, supporting seniors and single parents, BEAM continues to show  up with compassion and care.

Mr. Speaker, I know what you are thinking. They are 40 years old, and  they don't look a day over 29. That is true. What is also true is their  volunteers and benefactors are everyday heroes, quietly providing  critical services to thousands of neighbors each year.

As our community has grown and changed, BEAM has remained a constant  source of light, guiding families through tough times with warmth,  direction, and hope.

Today, we celebrate more than a milestone. We celebrate that ray of  light that is never dimmed. May BEAM continue to shine, lighting the  path forward for those who need it most for years to come.                 Honoring the Life of Carrol Eugene Franklin

Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, today I rise with a heavy heart but  a grateful spirit to honor the life of my friend, Commissioner Carrol  Eugene Franklin, who passed away peacefully in Hilliard, Florida, at  the young age of 76.

Born in Booneville, Mississippi, Carrol lived a life shaped by hard  work, deep faith, and a quiet but profound dedication to others. He was  a proud combat veteran who served in the U.S. Army's 9th Infantry  Division during the Vietnam war.

That same courage and resolve stayed with him throughout his life,  whether it was in service to his country, in business, or in leadership  with the Nassau County Ocean, Highway & Port Authority.

Carrol was a man who showed up, not just when it was easy but when it  was needed. He believed in faith, integrity, and perseverance. He loved  his family dearly. For 42 years, he stood side by side with his beloved  wife, Judy, raising their sons, Garrett and Greg. They also cherished  their granddaughter, Diana Del.

To his church and to his church family at First Baptist of Boulougne;  his brothers and sisters; and his many friends, nieces, nephews, and  neighbors who knew him, Carrol was the kind of man whose legacy is  etched not in headlines but in the lives he lifted.

Mr. Speaker, we say goodbye to a veteran, a man of character, a  family man, and my friend. It hurts because that is the impact that  Carrol made on so many.

May his memory continue to inspire us all to serve with heart, live  with purpose, and love without hesitation.