Preserving the Past for the Future in Nassau County, Florida


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701144/preserving-the-past-for-the-future-in-nassau-county-florida


Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, sometimes the best way to preserve  the past is to prepare for the future. That is exactly what has  happened in Nassau County, Florida.

This year, Nassau County will be recognized by the United States  Environmental Protection Agency with not one, but two national awards  for the American Beach Water and Sewer Conversion Project, earning  distinction for both community engagement and innovative financing. Out  of the thousands of projects across the country, Nassau County,  Florida, stood out in two categories.

At the heart of this recognition is American Beach, a place with a  unique and important history. American Beach on Amelia Island, Florida,  was founded during a dark time in history: segregation. It was a place  where Black families could gather, rest, and build community along  Florida's First Coast. That legacy still matters today, making the  success of this project all the more significant.

This effort, Mr. Speaker, wasn't just about the infrastructure. It  was about doing the job the right way: listening to residents; many  community engagements; respecting the community's history; and  delivering modern, safe, and clean-for-the-environment reliable systems  that will serve families for generations.

It is especially near and dear for me. I was in the State legislature  some 6, 7 years ago when this project first started, and I was  instrumental in bringing in the State of Florida as a partner for this  project.

Today, I recognize the Nassau team that made it possible, including  the county commissioners: Commissioner John Martin, Commissioner  ``Hupp'' Huppman, Commissioner Jeff Gray, Commissioner Alyson  McCullough, and Commissioner Klynt Farmer. The Nassau team also was  recognized, including County Manager Taco Pope, Brandy Carvalho, and  Amy Bell, and the many others, Mr. Speaker, that worked together to  make it happen.

Mr. Speaker, Nassau County didn't just complete a project. They set a  standard, and I am happy that the Nation is now taking notice.                           Is It Real or Is It Fake

Mr. BEAN of Florida. Mr. Speaker, we have all been there before,  watching a video online, and we pause to ask, is this real or is this  fake?

What if, Mr. Speaker, there was a way that would tell us instantly?  Is there a way to know is this fake or is it real? Hold your phone, Mr.  Speaker. Help is on the way because today, I am proud to announce a  group of students from the free State of Florida who are helping meet  this challenge with creativity and skill.

Yes, they are the winners of Florida's Fourth Congressional District  App Challenge from Stanton College Preparatory School in Jacksonville.  They are: Sushaan Kandukoori, Jackson Miller, Avaneesh Parvathareddy,  and Grishma Madukuri.

Together, these students developed TruthSnap, a mobile app that  uses--get this--artificial intelligence to instantly verify the  accuracy of any video content--and here is the kicker--without the  users having to leave the platform they are already on.

By combining strong technical skills with thoughtful problem-solving,  the team created a tool that empowers users to make informed decisions,  learn the truth, and promotes greater digital literacy. Their work is a  clear example of how students and student innovation can drive real- world impact and strengthen our communities.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Sushaan, Jackson, Avaneesh, and Grishma  for their dedication to responsible information sharing and powerful  use of technology.

Mr. Speaker, the next time someone sees a video and says: Is this  real? Be confident that smart kids from northeast Florida are helping  us find the truth.