Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for  yielding, and I congratulate him for managing his first rule on the  House floor. His constituents are lucky to have him representing them  in the House of Representatives.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying  legislation. This is an important week in the House as we take up  legislation to fund our military and advance several key financial  services bills, including efforts to establish a clear market structure  for cryptocurrency and protect Americans' financial privacy by blocking  a surveillance-style central bank digital currency.

Let me begin with the Defense appropriations bill. Chairman Calvert  and his team have, once again, delivered a strong, thoughtful proposal  that makes  strategic investments in American military superiority, strengthens our  southern border, and, most importantly, takes care of our troops and  their families.

I am especially proud that the rule makes in order several of my  amendments, including those that highlight the importance of continued  support for the advanced combat engine and innovative semiconductor  production, two areas critical to our national security and future  readiness.

On the financial services front, as a former member of the Financial  Services Committee, I am encouraged to see Chairman Hill and Chairman  Thompson leading the charge to ensure America remains a global leader  in the fintech sector.

This package brings regulatory clarity to the digital asset  ecosystem, promotes market innovation, and protects Americans'  financial freedom and privacy by prohibiting the Federal Reserve from  issuing a CBDC without congressional approval.

These bills are the product of years of thoughtful, collaborative  work, some of which I was proud to contribute to.

These bills ensure that we remain a leader in the digital asset  ecosystem and will strengthen the U.S. dollar as a global currency.

Mr. Speaker, I urge the passage of this rule and all of these bills.

Finally, to our friends on the other side of the aisle regarding the  amendment that was offered in our Rules Committee last night that  several Republicans voted against, it is a stretch on germaneness,  although it was ruled germane. I do find it incredibly interesting that  our colleagues on the other side of the aisle suddenly want to force  this issue because it is politically expedient, even though they did  not release any of it when they were in charge.