Providing for Consideration of H.R. Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections; Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protecting Our Nation's Capital Emergency Act; and Providing for Consideration of S. Halt All Lethal Trafficking of Fentanyl Act


Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules, I  call up House Resolution 489 and ask for its immediate consideration.

The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:                                H. Res. 489

Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be       in order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 884) to       prohibit individuals who are not citizens of the United       States from voting in elections in the District of Columbia       and to repeal the Local Resident Voting Rights Amendment Act       of 2022. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2056) to       require the District of Columbia to comply with federal       immigration laws. All points of order against consideration       of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a       substitute recommended by the Committee on Oversight and       Government Reform now printed in the bill, modified by the       amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules       accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted.       The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points       of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are       waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered       on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment       thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except:       (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the       chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on       Oversight and Government Reform or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 3. Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2096) to       restore the right to negotiate matters pertaining to the       discipline of law enforcement officers of the District of       Columbia through collective bargaining, to restore the       statute of limitations for bringing disciplinary cases       against members or civilian employees of the Metropolitan       Police Department of the District of Columbia, and for other       purposes. All points of order against consideration of the       bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute       recommended by the Committee on Oversight and Government       Reform now printed in the bill shall be considered as       adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read.       All points of order against provisions in the bill, as       amended, are waived. The previous question shall be       considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any       further amendment thereto, to final passage without       intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally       divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority       member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or       their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.

Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in       order to consider in the House the bill (S. 331) to amend the       Controlled Substances Act with respect to the scheduling of       fentanyl-related substances, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Energy and Commerce or their respective       designees; and (2) one motion to commit.

The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Moore of Utah.) The gentlewoman from  Indiana is recognized for 1 hour.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield  the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.  McGovern), pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume.  During consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the  purpose of debate only.                                General Leave

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in  support of the underlying legislation.

Last night, the Rules Committee met and produced a rule, House  Resolution 489, providing for the House's consideration of several  pieces of legislation.

House Resolution 489 provides for closed rules for S. 331, H.R. 884,  H.R. 2056, and H.R. 2096.

The rule provides 1 hour of debate equally divided by the chair and  ranking member for the Committee on Energy and Commerce, or their  respective designees, for consideration of S. 331.

Additionally, the rule provides for 1 hour of debate each for H.R.  884, H.R. 2056, and H.R. 2096, equally divided and controlled by the  chair and ranking member of the Committee on Oversight and Government  Reform or their respective designees.

Mr. Speaker, starting with S. 331, the HALT Fentanyl Act, important  legislation that the House considered back in February when 98  Democrats supported it, this bill would permanently classify all  fentanyl-related substances as illegal and give our law enforcement  officers more tools to combat the crisis. The bill also ensures that  medical professionals can research fentanyl-related substances so that  we can better understand their effects on human health.

In 2023, more than 100,000 people nationwide, including 2,190 from my  home State of Indiana, died from a drug overdose. National numbers from  the same year indicate that approximately 75,000 people died an  overdose death related to synthetic opioids. Fentanyl deaths account  for as much as 77 percent of adolescent overdose deaths, and it is the  leading cause of death in the 18- to 49-year-old age bracket.

We cannot stand by and do nothing while this scourge exists. The  bottom line is that this overwhelmingly bipartisan bill is necessary to  assist our law enforcement officers in combating fentanyl.

Mr. Speaker, I will transition to the issue of free and fair  elections and H.R. 884.

In 2022, Washington, D.C., enacted a dangerous law: the Local  Resident Voting Rights Amendment Act, D.C. Act 24-640, which allows  noncitizens, including illegal immigrants, foreign agents, and  diplomats, to vote in local elections.

We should not allow foreign entities who are hostile to the United  States to vote in our elections, period. We should not allow illegal  immigrants to vote in our elections. This is a direct assault on the  value of American citizenship, and it undermines the voices of lawful  voters.

Worse, it is part of a broader effort by the left to chip away at  Congress' constitutional authority over our Nation's Capital. The  Constitution is clear: Congress has the power to legislate in all cases  whatsoever concerning Washington, D.C. Under the Home Rule Act, we have  the duty to review and reject laws that threaten the integrity of our  elections and our constitutional system.

Even Mayor Bowser withheld her signature from those actions, and I  thank her for that.

Of all places, we must not let the Nation's Capital become a model  for illegal voting.

Additionally, this rule provides for H.R. 2096, the Protecting Our  Nation's Capital Emergency Act.

In 2023, the D.C. Council passed the so-called Comprehensive Policing  and Justice Reform Amendment Act, a bill that singles out the  Metropolitan Police Department, making it the only union in the  District stripped of its ability to collectively bargain on  disciplinary matters.

H.R. 2096 puts an end to this antipolice policy and restores fairness  to the bargaining process for D.C.'s law enforcement officers.

Finally, this rule includes H.R. 2056, the District of Columbia  Federal Immigration Compliance Act, which simply ensures that D.C.  follows Federal immigration law. That is because no city, especially  not our Capital, should get a free pass to ignore the laws of the land.

In 2019, D.C. Mayor Bowser approved the Sanctuary Values Amendment  Act of 2019, which, according to the Mayor's Office, ``limits the  District's cooperation with Federal immigration agencies, including by  complying with detainer requests from Immigration and Customs  Enforcement (``ICE'') absent a judicial warrant or order issued by a  Federal judge or by providing to Federal immigration agencies  information about when or where someone will be released.''

This is ludicrous. In other words, D.C. will make it harder for ICE  to detain dangerous criminals and otherwise impede their ability to do  their jobs.

Mr. Speaker, you can't make this stuff up. While my colleagues  continue to double down on their America-last policies, House  Republicans are charging forward and standing up for hardworking  families and vulnerable Americans.

The legislation before us is common sense, pro-law enforcement, and  necessary.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to the consideration of these important  pieces of legislation. I urge the passage of this rule, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I have said this again and again. The rhetoric from our  Democratic colleagues on the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is just not  true.

In fact, we are preserving benefits for those who need it most by  preventing people who are illegal and ineligible from accessing  Medicaid. We are also ensuring that able-bodied adults have a mandatory  work requirement of just less than 20 hours per week. It includes the  ability for participating in education, job search, and community  engagement to all count toward that work requirement.

What we were trying to do in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is ensure  that limited resources are protected for pregnant women, children,  seniors, and individuals with disabilities. That is the truth.

With reference to the CBO, the CBO has been wrong again and again. It  is on record as being wrong by more than $1 trillion. We cannot count  on the CBO's score alone as a measure of how well or what savings this  bill will have or not have.

In fact, the Democratic-led CBO has overestimated the cost of Trump's  tax cuts, underestimated the cost of the Affordable Care Act, and  overestimated the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act.

I will note something about this being political misdirection, as my  colleague noted. He said that this is not an urgent crisis. Mr.  Speaker, my colleagues may want to take a look at the lawlessness that  is happening in California. That is not a crisis? I think it is, and it  is certainly something that we don't want to see in our Nation's  Capital, in Washington, D.C., which is exactly the type of thing that  we are trying to prevent by passing this legislation.

Mr. Speaker, one of the things that my colleague mentioned was the  people who are food insecure. I note something that we should be  ashamed of is the inflationary policies of the Biden administration  that drove up food costs leading to more people being food insecure.

I am glad to hear that my colleague on the other side of the aisle is  interested in preserving healthcare for those who need it most. I hope  that means he will vote for H.R. 1.

One of the things we heard just in the last few minutes is that  children with cancer and the mother of a child with cancer will not be  covered. That is just not true. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act protects  benefits for those children.

Democrats are fighting to protect healthcare for 1.4 million illegal  immigrants. They are fighting to protect billions of dollars in fraud,  waste, and abuse.

The number that they keep referencing just keeps going up. It has  been 13.7 million, 14 million, and now it is 16 million. That is just  not true. Even The New York Times said that the numbers that the  Democrats have been saying about people who will ``lose their  healthcare'' is not true.

If you are illegal, if you are ineligible, if you are able-bodied and  could work, those are the people that this bill will target.

Finally, I will say that, once again, taking it back to the issues at  hand, we are here to do the important work of safeguarding our  elections in the United States, supporting the police, and ensuring  that local jurisdictions aren't obstructing immigration enforcement.

Similar bills on these topics have gained support from some  Democrats. Instead of trying to belittle these issues or endlessly  debate H.R. 1 at every possible turn, they can stop and reflect about  their opposition to these commonsense bills, bills supported by the  agenda that voters backed months ago.

Democrats just can't seem to help themselves. President Trump's  multifaceted approach to immigration enforcement is working. Illegal  border crossings are down 95 percent. Daily border encounters are down  by 93 percent. Got-aways are down by 99 percent. Fentanyl flows are  down 54 percent. Mr. Speaker, there were 2,000 ICE arrests every day  recently. ICE is finally cleaning up the open-border policy of the  Biden administration. Yes, they were open-border policies.

Mr. Speaker, I hope that our colleagues will support the underlying  rule and the bills that we have considered before us today because we  need to secure our elections and stand up for our police and the rule  of law.

Mr. Speaker, fear-mongering is not a solution to the problems that we  face today. If we are not going to find savings across all agencies by  rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse, we are not going to safeguard  these programs for the future.

Unfortunately, my colleagues are against rooting out even waste,  fraud, and abuse. By doing so, they are not protecting the very  programs they claim that they are fighting to protect.

Again, with the CBO, according to the White House press secretary,  there hasn't been a single staffer in the entire Congressional Budget  Office that has contributed to a Republican since the year 2000, but  guess what? Many of the staffers within the CBO have contributed to  Democratic candidates and politicians in every single cycle since.

Unfortunately, it is not an institution in our country that is  bipartisan. It has become partisan and political, which is why  conservatives and Republicans on our side are skeptical of the CBO and  what they report.

My colleague referred to closed measures, so I just want to note that  it is true, there have been 53 closed measures, but the number needs  context. Twelve were in the rules package, which passed 2 weeks before  the 119th Rules Committee even organized to begin meeting. An  additional 21 measures were either CRAs or received no amendments,  making them closed by definition, so only 17 measures have been closed  by discretion of the committee.

Mr. Speaker, again, I would like to make the emphasis what it should  be today, which is on safeguarding our elections, supporting local law  enforcement, and trying to eliminate the deadly scourge of fentanyl  across the United States.

Mr. Speaker, many of the entities that my colleague on the other side  of the aisle mentioned do not account for growth. The growth measure is  significant in reducing the deficit, and I believe that under President  Trump's One Big Beautiful Bill Act, we will have record amounts of  growth.

Our version of the bill only accounts for about 2.6 percent of  growth. Some of these agencies are accounting for only 1.8 percent  growth counting toward the calculations in this bill. If we are not  accounting for robust growth, which I think we will get, then we will  have an unclear picture, which is why I am leaning into OMB Director  Russ Vought's assessment of the bill.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close.

Mrs. HOUCHIN. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time I have  remaining.

I have got just a couple of things I would like to note in my  closing, and this is reasons why the One Big Beautiful Bill Act is the  best chance in a generation to pass critical reforms that the American  people voted for:

It delivers tax relief, the largest tax cut in American history,  meaning an extra $5,000 in Americans' pockets with double-digit percent  decrease to their tax bills.

It makes the Trump tax cuts permanent, preventing the largest tax  increase ever.

It raises Americans' take-home pay by as much as $13,300 and wages by  as much as $11,600.

It reverses the spending curse plaguing Washington, D.C.

The bill delivers the largest deficit reduction in nearly 30 years,  with $1.6 trillion in mandatory savings, the largest single reduction  in mandatory spending in our country's history.

It delivers no tax on tips and no tax on overtime.

It provides historic tax relief for seniors.

It finishes President Trump's border wall. It boosts Border Patrol  and ICE agents on the front line, with the largest border security  investment in history.

It increases the child tax credit to $2,500 per family.

It protects Medicaid for Americans who truly need it.

It implements popular work requirements for able-bodied Americans  receiving taxpayer-funded benefits.

It eliminates hundreds of billions of dollars in green new scam tax  credits. It reverses electric vehicle mandates that let radical climate  activists set the standards in American energy.

It ends Biden's war on American energy.

It streamlines onerous permitting processes so America can get  building again.

It refills the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to safeguard America's  energy security.

It repeals and rescinds every green corporate welfare subsidy.

It stops illegal immigrants from receiving tax credits and tax  remittances sent to foreign countries.

It supports small businesses by increasing the section 199A deduction  to 23 percent.

It incentivizes made in America.

It creates new Trump savings accounts for newborns. It expands access  to childcare for hardworking families.

It provides historic increases in funding for the U.S. Coast Guard.

It supports building new factories to grow domestic business  operations.

It helps American farmers, producers, and ranchers compete and sell  products in foreign markets.

It holds woke elitist universities accountable by increasing the  endowment tax on large universities.

It protects hardworking taxpayers by canceling Biden's illegal and  unfair student loan bailouts.

It ends taxpayer-funded gender transition procedures.

It is a once-in-a-generation chance to revolutionize our Nation's  defense capabilities and protect the homeland against new threats by  funding President Trump's Golden Dome.

It enhances the capacity of America's naval fleet.

It modernizes air traffic control.

It strengthens SNAP benefits.

It implements critical program integrity and cost-containment  provisions in Medicaid to strengthen it for future generations.

It safeguards the Second Amendment by removing tax and registration  requirements for firearm silencers and eliminating silencers from the  National Firearms Act.

It provides critical disaster recovery funding to farmers, producers,  and ranchers.

It provides funding to rebuild America's military.

It expands health savings accounts to give Americans greater choice  and flexibility in how to spend their money.

It gives $10,000 bonuses annually over the next 4 years to Border  Patrol and ICE agents on the front lines.

It incentivizes scholarships that empower American families and  students to choose the education that best fits their needs.

It repeals Democrats' insane attack on the gig economy.

It reforms and streamlines the Federal student loan program to drive  down tuition costs and simplify repayment plans.

It strengthens accountability for students and taxpayers on Federal  student loans and implements critical reforms to Pell grants to make  sure they prioritize students who truly need financial assistance while  promoting completion.

It increases timber sales on Federal lands.

It authorizes the sale of expanded spectrum megahertz to strengthen  rural broadband and secure America's technological dominance in AI and  other emerging technology.

It creates permanent fees that illegal immigrants must pay for their  applications so American taxpayers aren't saddled with covering these  costs.

It protects family farmers.

It ends abusive financing practices in Medicaid by freezing provider  taxes and prohibiting new provider taxes.

It reins in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and it rolls  back harmful Biden-era regulations that increase costs and  administrative burdens with limited flexibility for States.

Mr. Speaker, we are not here today to talk about the One Big  Beautiful Bill Act. We are here today to talk about the many provisions  that are important to the safety and security of the United States. We  are talking about a rule that includes provisions to secure American  elections, protect and support our police, and target the deadly  scourge of fentanyl across the United States.

Despite what my colleagues on the left may say, that this is a  distraction, we say it is necessary and that we can multitask by doing  these things and the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

The American people understand the importance of immigration  enforcement and the need to provide law enforcement with the tools  necessary to stop the deadly flow of fentanyl. That is why 77 million  Americans voted to end the Biden-Harris administration's reckless  handling of the border and their disregard for the rule of law.

Today's measures crack down on fentanyl, safeguard our elections, and  back the blue. It is about law, order, and protecting the American  people.

I look forward to moving these bills out of the House this week, and  I ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the previous  question and ``yes'' on the rule.

The material previously referred to by Mr. McGovern is as follows:

An Amendment to H. Res. 489 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts

At the end of the resolution, add the following:

Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the       House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the       bill (H.R. 2753) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of       1974 to provide for a point of order against reconciliation       measures that cut benefits for Medicaid or the Supplemental       Nutrition Assistance Program, and for other purposes. All       points of order against consideration of the bill are waived.       The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order       against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous       question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on       any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening       motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and       controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the       Committee on Rules or their respective designees; and (2) one       motion to recommit.

Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the       consideration of H.R. 2753.