American Cancer Society Fly-In


Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to welcome to our Nation's  Capitol patient advocates from the American Cancer Society Cancer  Action Network for their annual fly-in.

This week, 700 advocates representing every State and all 435  congressional delegations and districts will be raising awareness of  the urgent need for policies that improve cancer prevention, early  detection, treatment, and patient support. It is truly an honor to have  these advocates with us this week sharing their stories of resilience,  loss, determination, and hope.

Like so many of these advocates, I know firsthand the impact cancer  can have on our families. On June 10, 2021, I lost my beloved mother,  Nancy Gardner Sewell, to pancreatic cancer. Like so many patients  diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, my mother's cancer was not detected  until it was stage IV, and therefore, was not treatable.

Tragically, the cancer took her life 8 short weeks after her  diagnosis. It was a shock to our entire family, the lingering effects  of which I feel every day.

In an effort to turn my pain into passion, I made a commitment to do  all that I could to prevent other families from experiencing such a  painful loss. That is why I am proud to be leading legislation  alongside my Republican colleague, Congressman Jodey Arrington from  Texas, to expand access to early detection cancer screenings.

Our bill, the Nancy Gardner Sewell Medicare Multi-Cancer Early  Detection Screening Coverage Act, would create a pathway for Medicare  to cover emerging blood tests, once FDA approved, which holds the  promise of screening for up to 40 types of cancers with a single blood  draw.

When it comes to cancer, we know that early detection is our best  protection, and that is exactly what this bill will do. It is about  ensuring that those who are most at risk can catch cancer early and  stop it before it spreads.

Thanks to the advocacy of the American Cancer Society and their  partners, our bill has bipartisan support. Mr. Speaker, 295 House  Members and 62 Senators have cosponsored it.

Last Congress, Jodey surprised me by renaming the legislation in  honor of my late mother, Nancy Gardner Sewell, of Selma, Alabama, who  passed away in 2021 from pancreatic cancer.

Who was she?

My mom was a devout Christian who lived a life of faith, an exemplary  educator, and a library media specialist. She served in the Selma  public school system for 36 years where she shaped minds and uplifted  children. As a librarian, she was a strong advocate for reading,  initiating the Reading is Fundamental, RIF, program in 1973, delivering  books to children throughout Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. It is  a program that still serves children in Selma and Dallas County and  Alabama's rural Black Belt today.

Nancy Sewell was a trailblazing civic leader. She became the first  African-American woman elected to Selma's city council and served as an  inspirational role model for women in politics.

Her favorite saying was: Bloom where you are planted.

We can make a difference right where we are, and she made a big  difference in the lives of so many people whom she touched.

Again, I want to thank the American Cancer Society and their more  than 700 supporters for honoring my mother on this day of advocacy, her  birthday.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join us in this important  effort. Let's pass H.R. 842, the Nancy Gardner Sewell Medicare Multi- Cancer Early Detection Screening Coverage Act and pave the way for a  world without cancer.