Haiti Economic Lift Program Extension Act


Ms. SEWELL. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from the Virgin  Islands for yielding me time.

I rise in strong support of H.R. 6504, a 3-year extension of the  Haiti HOPE/HELP trade preference program, one of the most important  tools for promoting economic stability, job creation, and long-term  development in Haiti.

The Haitian people have faced enormous hardships in recent years,  after suffering successive political and environmental tragedies. Now  is the time for Congress to demonstrate our support for the Haitian  people and to promote trade policies that promote stability and spur  economic development in Haiti.

In 2020, I led the bipartisan effort to reauthorize the U.S.- Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act, which works together with the  Haiti HOPE/HELP program to ensure that the manufacturing sector stays  invested in Haiti.

For more than a decade, HELP/HOPE has been a lifeline for Haiti's  fragile economy. The program allows Haitian manufacturers to export  certain goods to the United States duty-free, providing critical market  access that has helped to sustain 50,000 jobs, many held by women, and  anchor one of the few reliable industries in that country.

However, Haiti HOPE/HELP is not just a development initiative. It is  a mutually beneficial partnership. American companies rely on Haiti as  a near-shore sourcing location that is close to U.S. markets, supports  resilient supply chains, and provides competitively priced apparel that  helps keep costs affordable for American consumers. This partnership  strengthens both of our economies and creates opportunity abroad while  boosting economic activity right here at home.

Today, however, Haiti faces extraordinary political unrest, economic  strain, and humanitarian need. Just as families are struggling to  afford basic goods, this vital program is set to expire. Without this  critical trade preference, Haitian exporters will face sudden and steep  tariff increases. For many factories, these added costs are  unsustainable. This result would be devastating: widespread job loss,  factory closings, and further destabilization of a country already in  crisis.

We should be clear about what is at stake. Allowing Haiti HOPE/HELP  to lapse would not only undercut one of the few functioning economic  pillars in Haiti, but it would also push families deeper into hardship,  increasing migration pressures, and eliminating a key source of  stability in our hemisphere.

Congress must act now. Businesses rely on this critical program both  in Haiti and the United States. Workers need the reassurance that these  jobs will not vanish overnight. Our close neighbor, just 700 miles from  our shore, needs the continued support of this very important program.

Ms. SEWELL. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman from the Virgin  Islands for her leadership. I thank the chair, Chair Jason Smith, as  well as Ranking Member Neal for ensuring that this bill continues to  have bipartisan priority in our committee.

Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this extension and to  protect the partnership that delivers real and measurable benefits for  both Haiti and the United States.