America Must Come Together


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700968/america-must-come-together


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I recently changed my voter  registration to Independent. Accordingly, I asked the Clerk of the  House to update my party designation to Independent in all official  publications and databases of the U.S. House of Representatives.

This reflects the way I have always approached my role as an elected  Representative: to be an independent voice for the communities that I  represent, to hold politicians in both Sacramento and Washington  accountable, to work with both sides to find common ground, and to  answer directly to my constituents and always put our district first.

While it is unusual for a Member of Congress to have no party  affiliation--in fact, I am now the only such Member in the House--this  is the norm for most elected positions throughout the country. In  California, for example, almost all offices are nonpartisan: your  mayor, city councilors, school board members, county supervisors,  sheriff, and district attorney. Every day, these officials work toward  practical solutions to the problems affecting their communities,  unencumbered by partisanship. I think we could use more of that in  Congress.

It is no secret that I have been critical of partisanship in  Congress, from the longest government shutdown in U.S. history to an  epidemic of gerrymandering that has spread from State to State.

If there is one thing that Americans agree on, it is that political  division has become a serious problem for our country. We need to  reorient our politics toward bringing us together as Americans rather  than tearing us apart as partisans. That means, for example, finding  concrete ways to make life more affordable rather than each side  blaming the other for why it isn't.

We are also living in a moment of great uncertainty and perhaps  dramatic transformation, where technological change could bring  incredible opportunities along with unfamiliar risks and dislocations.  The ordinary rituals of partisan politics are simply inadequate in  these extraordinary times and are simply incapable of meeting this  generational challenge. Our ability to work as one team serving all  Americans is now more important than ever.                     Sequoias Provide Living Link to Past

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, this week, I was delighted to  see that a bill that I am sponsoring, the Save Our Sequoias Act, passed  the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support.

This act, as the name suggests, is designed to save, preserve, and  protect one of the truly great marvels that we have here on Earth. The  sequoia is the largest organism on the planet, and it actually  continues to grow throughout its lifetime. They can live for millennia,  so these trees serve as a living link to our past, a link to antiquity  itself.

When you see these marvels, which we have so many of in California,  it truly inspires a sense of awe and humility as you contemplate both  their scale here in the present and their link to our past.

The bad news is that these incredible marvels are under threat. Over  the last decade, we have seen 20 percent of them destroyed, largely  because of the growing intensity of wildfires. The time has come for us  to take urgent action to ensure that they can continue to inspire awe  and serve their important ecological purpose as well for generations  and millennia to come.

Specifically, the Save Our Sequoias Act enhances coordination between  Federal, State, Tribal, and local land managers. It creates a giant  sequoia health and resiliency assessment to prioritize and inform  forest management practices. It declares an emergency to expedite  environmental reviews and consultations while maintaining robust  scientific analysis. It establishes a comprehensive reforestation  strategy to generate giant sequoias in groves destroyed by catastrophic  wildfires. It directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop and  implement an insect-monitoring strategy to limit potentially fatal  infestations. All of this is designed to expedite forest management and  wildfire prevention for the remaining giant sequoia groves.

Mr. Speaker, I was speaking a moment ago about the need to find  common ground and things that can bring us together, and this is a  small--well, actually quite large, but in the grand scheme of things  small--example, but I think it is an encouraging one.

This is an example where we have been able to come together and say  that this is something that is larger than any of us; this is something  that transcends partisanship; and this is a way that we can be stewards  of our heritage and protect a true treasure for those who will inherit  it from us for generations to come.                           Science-Based Approach to Literacy

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise to convey the good news  that a bill that I am an original cosponsor of, the Science of Reading  Act of 2026, has passed the Education and Workforce Committee with  unanimous bipartisan support.

This bill says something very simple, which is that funding for  literacy should not be used for discredited approaches to teaching  literacy. This is particularly urgent in my State. Sadly, California  has the highest illiteracy rate in the entire country.

A lot of that stems from the fact that we have a lot of challenges  when it comes to education in California, and we have not, for a long  time, in many schools, taught literacy in the right way.

In fact, this has been a nationwide phenomenon where, starting in the  1970s, there was a departure from the traditional approach where  students were taught to read by identifying letters and the sounds they  represent. Instead, a new idea took hold called whole language, leaving  behind the explicit instruction of phonics as old-fashioned.

This new method, which came to be known as three-cueing or balanced  literacy, encourages students to read by guessing an unknown word based  on its context and structure within a sentence or even adjacent  pictures in the book. This approach was at odds with the science of  reading, which aims to ensure students develop strong foundational  skills.

In fact, it is a misapprehension of a false equivalence between  spoken and written language, where the human brain is wired to learn  spoken language sort of by osmosis, whereas there is this language  instinct but no reading instinct. Reading has to be taught in a very  explicit way.

That is what the science of reading is all about. It emphasizes five  core skills that every child must master: phonological awareness,  phonics, fluency, vocabulary, and comprehension.

Almost every State has corrected course and is returning to the  science of reading, some more than others. California has been late but  is now finally getting there itself. We have seen that States that  embrace the science of reading, returning to the basics and a science- based approach to literacy, have seen incredible results. We saw  Mississippi, for example, go from being one of the worst States in the  country in literacy to one of the very best, simply by returning to the  science of reading.

Now that we have passed this bill through the Education Committee, I  look forward to it passing the House of Representatives and the Senate  and getting signed into law so that we can declare once and for all  here that the reading wars are over.

We can return to science-based literacy instruction throughout the  country, and this will be of great benefit in my State. We can overcome  having the highest illiteracy in the country, as well as the Nation as  a whole, where we continue to fall behind our peer nations when it  comes to academic achievement. A big, big part of that is our failure  to teach reading in the right way.

This is a very encouraging sign. I am glad this bill has bipartisan  support. I hope that it will quickly move its way through the rest of  the process and be signed into law.              Raising Alarm on Escalating Gas Prices in California

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise to, again, raise alarm  as to the escalating gas prices that Californians are continuing to  face, which at this moment is $5.56 per gallon, on average, throughout  the State. Of course, some places are much higher.

This is about 50 cents higher than the second place State. Even the  State with the second highest gas prices in the country is paying 50  cents less than in California. It is over 50 cents higher than Hawaii,  which is an island State.

Mr. Speaker, while we have seen some volatility throughout the  country over the course of the last month, in California, the main  problem and the main source of high prices is the policies that we have  at the State level.

I have introduced a bill here in the House to address part of that,  to put a cap on how high a State can raise its gas taxes. That will  provide some relief to folks in our State, but we need to see more  aggressive action from policymakers in Sacramento.

Unfortunately, they have been going in the opposite direction, where,  by some estimates, we could soon have $8 per gallon in California or  even higher, which is something that our residents simply cannot afford  when we already have the highest cost of living and the highest poverty  rate in the entire country.

There are a few things that we can do right now, and that our State  lawmakers, the Governor and the legislature, can do right now, to spare  Californians from having to pay so much more than anyone else in the  country.

Number one, they can suspend the gas tax in its entirety. That right  there would save folks quite a bit right off the bat.

Number two, they can reverse, rollback, or at least mitigate the  regulations associated with the cap-and-trade program. In particular,  they can make sure that the California Air Resources Board doesn't  adopt a new set that has, by many estimates, the potential to raise gas  prices by a dollar more or even more than that. That action is expected  to happen very soon. The legislature and the Governor have the ability  to stop that from happening.

Finally, California could relax its restrictions on its specialized  fuel blend, which has made it so that we are now having to source our  gasoline from places all around the world, in addition to the fact that  California simply is not pursuing energy domestically.

That is a fourth thing we can do: relax restrictions on being able to  develop our own energy and allow for us to accept our own sources of  gasoline, as well as relaxing the fuel blend, so it is not so  restrictive, and we are not having to go to the Bahamas in order to  bring gas into California.

By the way, when you have these tankers that are coming into the  State from the Bahamas and other places, those aren't particularly good  for the environment. The backward policies we have in Sacramento have  given us both the Nation's most expensive gasoline and its most  environmentally unfriendly gasoline.

Mr. Speaker, we are doing what we can. I am doing what I can here in  the House of Representatives. I am glad that I have seen some  bipartisan support for the idea from Sacramento that we need to take  some bipartisan steps to give Californians the relief that they truly,  truly need.