California's Disastrous Policies


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, Californians could soon be  paying over $8 a gallon for gasoline. That is the result of the  disastrous policies that have been imposed by Gavin Newsom and the  California Legislature's supermajority.

The most recent news is that there are two refineries that are  closing operations in California: the Phillips 66 refinery in L.A. by  the end of 2025, and the Valero refinery by April 2026.

According to a letter from Senate Minority Leader Brian Jones in  California, these two facilities produce about 20 percent of  California's in-State gasoline supply.

According to a recent study by USC Professor Michael Mische, the  effect of this is going to be an increase in gas prices in California  of up to 75 percent by April of 2026. The projections estimate a 33.6  percent increase just by April of 2025. By next year, 2026, we could  see prices rising as high as $8.43 per gallon by the end of 2026.

This is because we are going to see a severe decline in in-State  production. Indeed, it could fall from over 34 million gallons per day  in 2023 to just 27 million gallons by the end of 2026. Then you factor  in the higher transportation costs. You are going to see Californians  not only paying these astronomical prices at the gas station, but it is  going to increase the cost of goods and services throughout the  economy.

That is not to mention that it is going to lead to the loss of  hundreds of jobs for the folks who were working at these refineries.  The gas that we are now going to have to import from other States or  other countries is not only going to cost a lot more, but it is going  to be way worse for the environment, releasing way more emissions.

The fact is California already has, by far, the highest gas prices in  the country. We pay over 30 cents more than second-place Hawaii, which  is an island State. This is because of nonsensical regulations,  including the new fuel standard that was just recently imposed by the  Air Resources Board, as well as a slew of other regulations relating to  the fuel mix and other factors, as well as having the highest gas tax  of any State in the country.

By the way, you would think that, since we have the highest tax, we  must have great roads as a result. No, that is not the case either. We  have just about the worst roads of any State in the country.

How does that work: highest taxes, deepest potholes? It is a stark  illustration of our State government's utter inability to provide  effective services to our citizens.

Mr. Speaker, I am calling on Governor Newsom and the State  legislature to take immediate action to prevent Californians from  having to pay over $8 a gallon for gas by the end of next year. We need  immediate action to overturn regulations and to restore common sense in  our State.                             Fraud in California

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I have sent a letter along with  several of my colleagues in the California delegation to Secretary of  Education Linda McMahon and Attorney General Pam Bondi asking them to  investigate a simple question: Why is it so stunningly easy to commit  fraud against the State of California?

During the COVID era, we saw fraud unlike we had ever seen when $32  billion in unemployment benefits were purloined from fraudsters,  international criminal syndicates, who were easily able to just defraud  Gavin Newsom's Unemployment Department.

Mr. Speaker, the latest example that we have learned is that over a  third of community college applications in the State were fraudulent.  These were not real people, not real students actually seeking a spot  at one of our community colleges.

What they were instead were scams, individuals who were trying and  succeeding in committing financial aid fraud, siphoning more than $10  million in Federal funds and millions more in State aid, according to  the California community chancellor's own office.

We have asked the Attorney General and the Secretary of Education to  look into this matter and see why California has not been able to stop  this from happening.

We know that, with respect to the EDD fraud in the COVID era, the  Governor's office failed to take the basic commonsense steps that other  States took that the Federal Government had advised. For example,  cross-checking applications for unemployment against the prison rolls,  something that almost every other State did, and California didn't do.  I would not be surprised to learn that there were similar oversights  here with respect to the community college fraud.

We look forward to getting back the results of this investigation,  and urge the State to take immediate action to make sure that millions  more in taxpayer dollars aren't lost.                              Independent Contractor Rule

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to let folks in  California and across the country know that Medi-Cal, our version of  Medicaid, is facing an unprecedented threat. Its very solvency, its  sustainability, and its ability to provide coverage for Californians  are being threatened by a completely reckless policy enacted by  Governor Gavin Newsom that does not exist in any of the other 49 States  in our country.

Because of this reckless policy, Newsom has just had to ask the  legislature for a bailout of Medicaid, $2.8 billion, which the  legislature provided. Now, of course, what I am referring to is the  policy of providing free, full-scope, comprehensive Medi-Cal coverage  to all illegal immigrants in the State who meet the income eligibility  requirements.

This, again, is a policy that is singular to California. No other  State has it. It was initially estimated to cost $3.1 billion. Since  that time, the cost, just for the first year of coverage, has exploded  to $9.5 billion.

As a result, Governor Newsom, number one, took out a $3.44 billion  loan from the State's general fund. That is the maximum allowed by law.  Of course, that wasn't enough to close the gap, so then, he had to go  and ask for a bailout of the program to stave off insolvency.

Now, you would think that this would compel Newsom and the  legislature to immediately roll back this disastrous experiment, yet  when Governor Newsom was asked, he said that rolling back this policy  was ``not on my docket.'' Let's be very clear: Saving Medicaid in  California is not on Governor Newsom's docket.

Fortunately, we are fighting back and looking to take measures here  that will ensure that tax dollars of Californians are reserved to  provide Medi-Cal coverage for people who are in our State legally.

When you think about this cost, $9.5 billion just in the first year,  is a cost that is basically triple what was originally projected. Think  what that is going to look like over the next 10 years. We are talking  about potentially hundreds of billions of dollars that could be going  toward Medi-Cal for our own residents that is instead going toward a  reckless policy that exists nowhere else in the country, which is only  going to entice more people who are here illegally to come to  California, thereby, increasing the cost even more.

By the way, because we are adding all of these additional people to  the Medi-Cal rolls, that is making it more difficult for Californians  who rely on the program to actually get access to healthcare. It is  extremely difficult to get a doctor's appointment if you are on Medi- Cal in California. It is actually very difficult, in some cases, if you  are on private insurance to get a doctor's appointment in California.  The Governor's reckless policy is a big reason why.

We are going to do everything we possibly can here to fight for  Californians and fight for Medicaid in California. I will do everything  I can to protect this program against the Governor and the  legislature's reckless policy.                         Supporting Teach For America

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I will take a few moments today  to share with folks here in D.C. and across the country a little bit  about a program that I am an alumnus of called Teach For America and to  share why I think this is an extremely important program for us to  protect and to support right now and in the years ahead.

Right now, we see our schools across this country in a state of  crisis. The nation's report card that recently came out revealed truly  shocking declines in student achievement, but one bright spot in this  otherwise very troubling picture has been Teach For America, otherwise  known as TFA.

What TFA does is recruit recent college graduates to go teach in the  toughest schools, schools in low-income communities. It is a very  selective program. In some years, the acceptance rate for those who  apply to be TFA teachers is as low as 11 percent. That is as selective  as many of the most elite colleges in the country.

I was a teacher through TFA in Los Angeles. I taught 10th grade  English. I had students who were, on average, at a fourth or fifth  grade reading level when they came to my classroom, but I had a  tremendous experience. My students achieved significant academic gains  as part of my classes. I chaired the English Department while I was  there. I even started an award-winning speech and debate program that  provided opportunities to compete for students who otherwise wouldn't  have had that experience or had that opportunity.

I will first, in underlining the importance of this program, speak to  my Republican colleagues here in the House. If you need any one reason  why you should support Teach For America, it is that the radical  Democratic supermajority in California actually tried to ban the  program from our State. That is not an exaggeration.

This is from a 2019 Politico article: ``Backed by powerful teachers  unions, Democrats are pushing to ban Teach For America from California  amid a wave of teacher strikes and a heated debate over charter schools  in the Nation's most populous State.''

The article goes on to say that ``the national nonprofit and its  recruits,  promising college grads eager to teach in poor communities, in the  crosshairs of the State's supermajority Democratic legislature.''

Why in the world would the Democratic supermajority in California  target TFA? I was there in the legislature at the time, and I helped to  kill that bill on the State assembly floor, but it did pass the  California State Assembly Education Committee, unbelievably enough.

What could possibly have motivated this attack? After all, TFA's  mission, its entire purpose, is to close the achievement gaps that  exist in this country so that every child, no matter where they are  born or no matter what their ZIP Code is, will have access to an  excellent education.

Mr. Speaker, the issue is that, in California, the governing majority  and education establishment there have a model of keeping kids trapped  in failing schools, and that has been the effect of the policies that  have governed the State year after year.

Organizations like TFA that, for example, provide alternative  pathways to get promising teachers into the classroom or, worst of all,  from the perspective of those who ran the legislature, place almost  half of their teachers in charter schools simply couldn't be tolerated.

Indeed, at the time, in 2019, Gavin Newsom, who had just taken  office, had declared a war on charter schools. Charters, which are  public schools that have a high level of flexibility as to how they run  their school but, in turn, are held to a greater standard of  accountability, have gotten tremendous results. Studies consistently  show that they outperform traditional public schools, and they have a  lot of students who are on their wait list. However, the teachers at  those schools are not automatically unionized as a matter of default.

That is what inspired Gavin Newsom and his enablers to try to enact  and, indeed, succeed in enacting an anti-charter school agenda. Because  TFA placed almost 50 percent of its teachers in charter schools, they  got caught up in it.

Fortunately, that bill did not pass. TFA has continued to serve  thousands of kids in California. Indeed, throughout its history, TFA  has placed some 65,000 teachers into classrooms.

This attack in California was truly an aberration. It really speaks  to the character of the supermajority in our State, specifically, that  it is out of step even with many reasonable Democrats, especially on  the issue of education.

There are a couple of things that I will emphasize about the program.  Number one is that TFA places teachers in areas that need teachers. It  helps to combat the teacher shortage that is particularly acute in  particular districts and particular subjects.

TFA partners with school districts facing persistent vacancies,  especially in low-income, urban, and rural areas. The districts request  TFA core members for hard-to-staff subjects like STEM, special  education, and bilingual education. In fact, in this last school year,  over 75 percent of TFA teachers served in title I schools.

The organization is recruiting motivated and talented young people to  go teach in areas where they have a hard time getting teachers, but how  do they do once they are there? The second thing I will emphasize is  that TFA teachers have an outstanding track record.

Last year, there was a comprehensive study that the American  Institutes for Research published. It was a meta-analysis that actually  looked at 23 preexisting studies of TFA's impact across 24 years.  Included in that were 63,134 teachers who taught 5 million students.

What did this comprehensive meta-analysis find? TFA teachers have had  a consistent and significant impact on students' academic achievements.  On average, students of TFA teachers perform better in math, science,  and reading. Some studies have found that having a TFA teacher adds up  to 50 additional days of learning.

Beyond that, by the way, many TFA alums go on to found schools. For  example, the founders of tremendous charter school networks KIPP, IDEA,  and YES Prep are TFA alums.

Personally, one of the main reasons I decided to run for public  office, first in the legislature and then for Congress, was my  experience as a classroom teacher. It motivated me to become the vice  chair of the California State Assembly Education Committee and now,  here in the House, the chair of the Early Childhood, Elementary, and  Secondary Education Subcommittee.

TFA is an AmeriCorps program. It is one of the professional core  programs for AmeriCorps. What that means is that the teachers who are  part of TFA are employees of a particular school district or of a  charter school.

For example, I was an employee of the Los Angeles Unified School  District, but they also receive a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award. The  reason that that is vital is because TFA is providing an alternative  pathway into the classroom where you can start teaching soon after  graduating college. They have an intensive summer program where  students teach summer school and receive training. They continue to  receive support from TFA as an organization throughout their time  teaching, and then they are also simultaneously pursuing a teaching  credential. Sometimes that takes the form of a master's of education,  which is what I received.

For example, when I was teaching 10th grade English, 1 day a week,  after spending the whole day teaching, I would then drive across town  to a local college or grad school where I sat in class for 5 or 6 hours  on that particular day, working toward my credential.

The education award helps students or the TFA teachers to pay for  that degree or for that credential, and it would be very hard for many  of them to actually be part of the program without this award.

I have heard reports recently that there have been some of these  grants that are in jeopardy or maybe have been lost already, putting  several thousand current teachers and several thousand more future  teachers in a state of uncertainty.

While I have personal experience with this particular AmeriCorps  program, I know that there are many others that fill similarly critical  needs in different sectors of society. In fact, AmeriCorps' own  definition of a professional core program recognizes that the  placements are a strategic response to longstanding workforce gaps. It  is not simply service programs. They are workforce solutions.

That is why I have respectfully requested in a letter that I am  sending today that the Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on  Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies  provide robust funding for AmeriCorps in the coming fiscal year.

Mr. Speaker, I am urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  come together in support of TFA and these other critical programs.                     Our Public Education System is Failing

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, at this moment, we have an  opportunity to catalyze a school choice revolution across America, and  one has never been more desperately needed.

The Nation's report card recently came out, and the verdict was  clear: Our public education system is failing. The National Assessment  of Educational Progress showed one-third of students are unable to read  at the basic level for their age group, and math scores are down 9  percent since 2018.

Now, the Biden administration's response was to continue to shovel  more money into a failing system. They threw 200 billion in tax dollars  into the same failed system with absolutely nothing to show for it. In  fact, things got worse. You can put this on a graph: The level of  funding has gone up; student achievement has gone down. It has been a  negative return on investment.

However, right now we can change that with reforms that will actually  work in expanding opportunity, giving choices to millions of families,  and providing a healthy sense of drive toward improvement in our public  education system generally. That is through two pieces of legislation  that I am sponsoring and that can also be included as part of the  budget reconciliation process.

The first is the Educational Choice for Children Act, which will  provide a tax credit for charitable contributions that enable  scholarships to attend private, parochial, and independent schools.  This could potentially expand  private school choice to millions of families in this country.

Secondly, along with Representative Claudia Tenney and others, I have  introduced the High-Quality Charter Schools Act, which will  significantly expand access to charter schools across the country. It  uses a similar mechanism, leveraging the tax code through an innovative  Federal tax credit that will allow the Nation's most effective charter  networks to create new high-quality seats.

In particular, it will provide a tax credit to cover startup costs  for expanding charter schools that already have a track record of  success. This is very important because you have a lot of families who  are on waiting lists for charters. We estimate that this measure could  potentially triple the number of students across the country who  receive this particular form of school choice of charter schools which  have a tremendous track record in advancing student achievement.

I will give you one example. Success Academy, which was founded in  New York City, manages 57 schools, serving 22,000 inner-city children.  They are 93 percent non-White, 72 percent low-income, with phenomenal  results at an impressive scale.

For 8 years in a row, Success has a 100 percent 4-year college  acceptance rate. Its students routinely outperform more affluent school  districts, and 14 of New York City's top 25 schools in math are Success  Academies.

Think about that. Over half of the top schools in New York City in  math are Success Academy campuses. That is why there is so much demand  to attend these schools. The number of families that apply is 10 times  the number of available seats, so they have to lottery them out. There  is so much demand, you have to enter the lottery and you have a 10  percent chance of winning that lottery. This bill would allow them and  other successful charter schools across the country to expand their  campuses.

Between these two measures, the Educational Choice for Children Act,  and the High-Quality Charter School Act, we could expand meaningful  school choice, meaningful options to millions and millions of families  in every community across the country, which would benefit those  families, and it would also reach the critical mass of school choice in  many areas that would compel improvements in traditional school  districts as well.

This is really a moment when we need to ask ourselves what our  priorities are because in general--this isn't true of all of them--the  Biden administration and Democratic majorities have moved our education  system in the wrong direction. They have had the wrong policies.

I believe Republicans have generally had the right policies, but the  questions are: What kind of priority are we going to place on those  policies? What kind of priority are we going to give education? What  kind of priority and sense of urgency are we going to bring to the fact  that our schools across this country are failing far too many of our  kids?

Now is the time to show that our commitment to educational reform and  school choice goes beyond just slogans, goes beyond political  arguments, but it is a real commitment to advancing the education and  the life prospects for kids all across America. We have a chance to do  that right now by assuring these measures are enacted into law.                    Sacramento Capitol-to-Capitol Program

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise to commend the  Sacramento Metro Chamber of Commerce and the well over 450 people who  joined the chamber's Cap-to-Cap program to visit Washington, D.C., this  week. This was the 53rd annual Capitol-to-Capitol, or Cap-to-Cap,  program where people, community leaders from the Sacramento region come  here to D.C. to participate in programming and to advocate for our  region to lawmakers.

I had the chance to be a part of this in many different ways. We had  a bipartisan discussion that I was part of with Representative Ami  Bera, and I met with well over 100, probably closer to 200, Cap-to-Cap  leaders throughout the week to discuss issues of importance to them and  to the communities, the industries, and the sectors that they lead.

I had very productive discussions about a number of actionable items  concerning public safety, wildfire prevention, natural resources,  transportation infrastructure, and California water, issues that are so  important to our region and our communities. I am so grateful that so  many leaders in the Sacramento area came here to discuss these matters.

I wanted to say thank you to everyone who took the time out of their  busy schedule to come here. This program has in the past, I think,  allowed our region to punch above its weight. Indeed, this is the  biggest chamber trip, I understand, to D.C. that exists anywhere in the  country.

It really underscores the tremendous spirit of collaboration that  exists in our region, that we have so many people--it crosses party  lines, it crosses different communities, different ZIP Codes--who are  working together, who are all rowing in the same direction for the  benefit of our region. We have been able to achieve tremendous things  because of that. We have been able to maintain a quality of life for  the folks that we represent so that our region remains a great place to  live, to work, to raise a family, and to retire. The Cap-to-Cap program  has been a very big part of allowing that to continue, of giving our  region a cohesive identity, and I look forward to the 54th annual trip  next year.             Honoring 2025 Graduating Class of Leadership Rocklin

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor and  recognize the 2025 graduating class of Leadership Rocklin. This  prestigious program is run by the Rocklin Area Chamber of Commerce and  provides an opportunity for participants to build upon their leadership  skills while developing meaningful relationships with community and  local business leaders.

The areas of learning for this program include leadership skills in  theory, education, volunteerism and community service, Rocklin civics,  public safety, transportation, health and human services, economic  development, the history of Rocklin, and much more.

Leadership Rocklin holds high esteem in the community and is  recognized by leaders as an important way to prepare those who wish to  further serve and learn about their community. I commend the  participants for their dedication to civic engagement and their  commitment to leadership development.

Therefore, on behalf of California's Third Congressional District and  the United States House of Representatives, I am proud to congratulate  this year's Leadership Rocklin graduating class.                  Congratulating Hebard Insurance Solutions

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  and recognize Hebard Insurance Solutions for their 75-year anniversary.  Hebard Insurance Solutions is a family-owned, independent insurance  agency in Loomis, California, a town located in Placer County.

Christine Hebard-Summers, who began working for the family business  at an early age, is the third-generation owner. Her grandfather, Roy,  started the business back in 1950. Roy would take Christine to the  office back when she was in kindergarten. At the time, she would help  around the office in exchange for a toy and some candy at the Main Drug  Store. Christine's father, Roy, Jr., managed the business until 2003,  when Christine officially purchased the business from him.

For more than seven decades, the Hebard Insurance team has been  committed to working closely with their clients to help them make  important and informed decisions relating to their protection and  future. They prioritize customer service and are committed to treating  their customers like family.

Hebard Insurance continues to be a staple in Placer County and  surrounding communities. In addition to providing exceptional services,  they are tremendously involved in their community. They are often seen  volunteering with local organizations, such as the Soroptimist  International Loomis Basin, taking leadership roles at the local  chamber of commerce, serving at the senior center, and contributing to  multiple youth programs.

It is an honor to represent exemplary businesses such as Hebard  Insurance Solutions in Congress. Therefore, on  behalf of California's Third Congressional District and the United  States House of Representatives, it is my honor and privilege to  congratulate them on their 75-year anniversary. Congratulations.                       Extending Gratitude to Teachers

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in recognition of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wanted to take an opportunity to highlight  the service of some of the truly amazing educators in California's  Third Congressional District.

In his 1988 proclamation, Ronald Reagan said: ``Our country's great  teachers often make many sacrifices as they fulfill their countless  responsibilities. They have earned, and truly deserve, the utmost  gratitude and esteem of students, parents, and community members.''

It is in that spirit that I rise today and recognize 15 individual  teachers from throughout California's Third Congressional District for  their exceptional dedication to their roles, students, schools, and  communities.

While representing almost 70 school districts and close to 300 K-12  schools, these teachers stand out among their colleagues and have made  an indelible mark on their students and communities.

As a former educator myself, I understand the unique challenges our  educators face and the passion and dedication it takes to enable our  students to succeed. A great teacher can help shape and transform the  trajectory of a student's life and their perspective on learning.

As such, we are quite fortunate to have truly exceptional  schoolteachers and administrators educating and supporting the next  generation in California's Third Congressional District. Therefore, I  would like to extend my gratitude to all of our communities' teachers  this week and to thank them for their tireless devotion to promoting  academic achievement, student success, and educational opportunities.

If you are an educator, I encourage you to reach out to my office or  visit Kiley.house.gov for Federal resources and services available to  local teachers and students.             Recognizing Janice Rowe for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National Teacher  Appreciation Week, I would like to take a moment to recognize Mrs.  Janice Rowe, a kindergarten teacher in the Pleasant Ridge School  District at Cottage Hill Elementary School.

For 40 years, Mrs. Rowe has taught at the kindergarten grade level.  Her commitment to her students, colleagues, and district is unmatched.  Mrs. Rowe not only instills a strong literary and mathematical  foundation for young learners but also creates a safe and caring  environment where students can thrive and their love for learning is  ignited.

She is instrumental toward establishing new academic programs,  standards, and expectations for all kindergarten students, leading the  continued development of the district's kindergarten programs.

She is often known for enrolling in classes, programs, and workshops  to further develop her professional skills and for working late to  prepare a special and hands-on learning experience for her students.

Not only does Mrs. Rowe demonstrate care and commitment to her  students but she is also relied upon by her colleagues to provide help,  mentorship, and collaboration. Mrs. Rowe has shaped the high standards  of excellence that the community has come to expect of the school and  school district.

Mrs. Rowe's four decades of commitment to teaching kindergarten  students has provided a lasting benefit for students' introduction to  public schools and foundational growth. It is a true honor to represent  exemplary teachers such as Mrs. Rowe in the United States House of  Representatives.

Therefore, in honor of her passion, dedication, her belief in the  transformative power of education, and her commitment to her students'  success, it is my privilege to recognize Mrs. Janice Rowe in  celebration of National Teacher Appreciation Week.           Recognizing Dominic Albano for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National Teacher  Appreciation Week, I would like to take a moment to recognize Mr.  Dominic Albano, a fourth grade teacher with 30 years in the profession  at Union Hill Elementary School.

Since 1996, Mr. Albano has been an extraordinary educator, coach, and  mentor whose legacy has touched thousands of lives. His commitment to  bringing history alive for his fourth grade students is unparalleled,  blending rigorous academics with immersive and unforgettable  experiences.

His passion for California's Gold Country, the 49er Gold Rush, and  Wild West history has created traditions that are now woven into the  very fabric of Union Hill's culture. Students of Mr. Albano receive a  living, breathing understanding of history and our Nation's story.

Beyond his dynamic and innovative teaching style, Mr. Albano is a  beloved coach who has grown Union Hill's cross-country and track-and- field programs into teams of nearly 90 students in a school of just  700. It is a tribute to the magnetism of his leadership.

He inspires students not only to learn but to believe in themselves,  which is instrumental in shaping their future. Not only does Mr. Albano  make a meaningful difference in his students' lives but he plays an  instrumental role in mentoring student teachers and collaborating with  his colleagues.

Mr. Albano is known by others for being a Union Hill legend, a  builder of traditions, and a cultivator of character. He is treasured  by his school and community for his reliability, kindness, positivity,  and generosity.

I am confident the impact of his contribution will be felt for  generations to come. It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers  like Mr. Albano in the United States House of Representatives.

Therefore, in honor of his dedication to serving his students and  community with passion, humility, and excellence, it is my privilege to  recognize Mr. Dominic Albano in celebration of National Teacher  Appreciation Week.

Recognizing Miranda Prakash for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National Teacher  Appreciation Week, I would like to take a moment to recognize Mrs.  Miranda Prakash, a special education teacher in the Sierra-Plumas Joint  Unified School District at Loyalton Elementary School.

Mrs. Prakash is an exceptional educator whose unwavering commitment  to student success has made a profound impact within the Sierra-Plumas  Joint Unified School District.

As a leader in special education with a decade of experience, Mrs.  Prakash has continuously developed and refined her program to meet the  diverse needs of her students, demonstrating innovation, adaptability,  and a deep sense of care.

Serving in a rural community where educational challenges are often  magnified, she has gone above and beyond to ensure that every student  receives personalized support and opportunities to thrive.

She is a tireless champion for her students, ensuring their needs are  represented and addressed with compassion and integrity. Her  collaborative spirit and willingness to work alongside general  education colleagues fosters an inclusive and equitable learning  environment.

Mrs. Prakash's creativity, professionalism, and genuine devotion to  her students make her a role model for other educators. It is a true  honor to represent exemplary teachers, such as Mrs. Prakash in the  United States House of Representatives.

Therefore, in honor of the outstanding contributions to her school  and the difference she continues to make in students' lives every day,  it is my privilege to recognize Mrs. Miranda Prakash in celebration of  National Teacher Appreciation Week.           Recognizing Steve Holland for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to highlight Mr. Steve Holland whose  29 years of dedicated service in education exceeds standards throughout  the Bishop Unified School District.

Mr. Holland began teaching in the Bishop Unified School District in  1996 as a middle school teacher and, more  recently, has been teaching the fourth grade.

Known for his kindness, calm demeanor, and unwavering dedication, Mr.  Holland has consistently gone above and beyond to support learning,  both academically and emotionally. Through his innovative teaching  methods, he continues to keep students engaged and inspired.

In addition to his deep commitment to student achievement, he has  also served as a coach and grade-level leader, providing mentorship to  his fellow educators and leaving a legacy of integrity and inspiration.  Mr. Holland has left an indelible mark on countless students,  colleagues, and families within his community.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mr. Steve Holland for his substantial  contributions to the Bishop Unified School District and the students of  the Bishop community.            Recognizing Brandy Rost for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to recognize Mrs.  Brandy Rost, an outstanding middle school math educator in California's  Third Congressional District.

During her 29 years of dedicated service to the Lone Pine Unified  School District, she has taught thousands of students, transforming  their view of math from an intimidating subject to one that is exciting  and achievable.

Mrs. Rost is known for her creative instructional style, integrating  hands-on activities, technologies, and real-world applications,  instilling engagement from students and empowering every student to  succeed.

Perhaps most remarkable is the academic transformation Mrs. Rost has  led since the COVID pandemic. In the wake of prolonged school closures,  Lo-Inyo Elementary School saw its math scores drop to new lows with  just 20 percent of students meeting or exceeding standards.

Recognizing this challenge, Mrs. Rost spearheaded an extraordinary  resolve. She retooled her instruction, built targeted interventions,  and created a classroom culture where growth in math became not just a  goal but an expectation.

Each year since the pandemic, her students' performance climbed  significantly. In the most recent testing, over 70 percent of her  students met or exceeded the math standard; a score that doesn't just  surpass local benchmarks but also substantially outperforms the State  average.

The story of Mrs. Brandy Rost is one of resilience, excellence, and  impact. Her dedicated efforts not only recovered learning loss but also  illustrated what success in rural education can look like.

Alongside these momentous achievements and beyond her classroom, Mrs.  Rost is a mentor to new teachers, a trusted colleague, and a favorite  among families. Her impact spans generations in the Lone Pine  community, where former students now bring their own children to her  class with pride and gratitude.

On behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I am honored  to recognize educator Mrs. Brandy Rost as an example of what it means  to teach with passion, purpose, and heart.

Recognizing Brandon Dell'Orto for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to recognize an outstanding and  prominent educator in California's Third Congressional District. I  would like to highlight, in particular, a teacher from the Roseville  Joint Union High School District, Brandon Dell'Orto, who has dedicated  35 years of his career to educating the students of our community.

Mr. Dell'Orto is a passionate historian and a mentor. He spent most  of his career teaching AP U.S. History, IB History of the Americas,  Military History, and World History at Granite Bay High School.

Not only does Mr. Dell'Orto have a deep understanding of these  subjects but he also knows how to bring historical events to life. His  integrated and engaging teaching style fosters student success, while  inspiring a lasting passion for history.

Beyond the classroom, he has been recognized by the Daughters of the  American Revolution and Founding Forward for his excellence in teaching  and ability to foster a deep appreciation of American history and civic  responsibility among his students.

Mr. Dell'Orto is an exceptional educator, and he continues to make a  strong impact in the educational journey of his students. It is a true  honor to represent exemplary teachers like him in Congress, and I  commend Mr. Dell'Orto for his more than three decades of unwavering  dedication to education and to promoting student success and academic  achievement.

As a former student of Mr. Dell'Orto myself, he is one of the truly  best teachers that I ever had. That goes for high school, college, and  law school. He is truly one of a kind, and you will rarely see someone  who has such a palpable passion for the subject matter he is teaching  and the ability to inspire that same love of learning in his students.  I really credit his class in many ways for inspiring my own love for  American history.

On behalf of the United States House of Representatives, it is really  an honor to recognize Mr. Brandon Dell'Orto for his significant  contributions to Roseville Joint Union High School District and to the  students of the Roseville community.             Recognizing Anne Jones for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to recognize a  teacher from the Foresthill Union School District, Anne Jones, who has  dedicated 35 years of her career to educating the students of her  community.

Mrs. Jones has been a devoted and passionate first grade teacher, and  she has inspired generations of the community's young scholars with her  warmth, patience, and with her clear passion for education.

She goes beyond teaching her students the fundamentals of reading and  math and also instills values in them that are invaluable for the  learning community--the values of kindness, gratitude, and creativity.

She brings joy and cheer to the classroom and creates an environment  in which students feel emboldened to explore their ideas and express  themselves, which helps facilitate their academic and personal growth.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers in Congress, and I  commend Mrs. Anne Jones for her more than three decades of dedication  to education and to promoting student success and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mrs. Anne Jones for her significant  contributions to Foresthill Union School District and to the students  of the Foresthill community.

Recognizing Samantha Harvey for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to highlight  Samantha Harvey, a teacher from the Dry Creek Joint Elementary School  District, who has dedicated 9 years of her career to educating the  students of her community.

Mrs. Harvey serves as a fifth grade level leader. In her role, she  demonstrates traits of a natural leader such as the ability to lead by  example, motivate colleagues, facilitate collaboration, and so much  more.

She has built an educational environment to ensure that students and  teachers alike feel valued, supported, and heard. As a positive  behavioral intervention and supports lead, Mrs. Harvey's efforts in  providing a variety of differentiated strategies and ensuring students  have the necessary tools for success, while maintaining a positive  environment, have been instrumental in shaping school culture.

Mrs. Harvey also develops student athletes through her role as a  cross-country coach and helps young athletes to learn the importance of  lifelong skills of perseverance, teamwork, and resilience, while  leading them to excel in competition.

Furthermore, as check-in and checkout coordinator, Mrs. Harvey  ensures the students have the structure and support they need to thrive  at school. She mentors students and provides accountability to help  them stay on track, both academically and socially.

Behind the scenes, Mrs. Harvey is valued by her colleagues as she  displays a commitment to teamwork, collaboration, and a continual  willingness to lend a helping hand.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers like her in  Congress, and I commend Mrs. Samantha Harvey for her tireless devotion  to education and to promoting student success and academic  achievements.

Therefore, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I am pleased to  represent Mrs. Samantha Harvey for her significant contributions to Dry  Creek Joint Elementary School District and to the students of the  Roseville community.

Recognizing Samantha Mashinchi for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to recognize a  teacher from the Loomis Union School District, Samantha Mashinchi, who  has dedicated 15 years of her career to educating the students of her  community.

Currently, Mrs. Mashinchi teaches fifth grade at an international  baccalaureate school and has consistently demonstrated an unwavering  devotion to fostering growth and excellence of her students.

Mrs. Mashinchi nurtures the natural curiosity of her students with a  global perspective. In doing so, she helps equip them with the skills  needed to thrive in an interconnected world. Mrs. Mashinchi has  consistently demonstrated leadership and a passion for her role,  working tirelessly to help each student reach their full potential.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers like her in  Congress, and I commend her for her tireless devotion to education and  dedication to promoting student success and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mrs. Samantha Mishinchi for her significant  contributions to Loomis Union Community School District and to the  students of the Loomis community.            Recognizing Tina Angell for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to highlight a teacher from Placer  County, Tina Angell, who has dedicated the past 8 years of her career  to educating the students of her community.

Miss Angel owned and operated her own business before going to work  for the Placer County Office of Education. She then obtained her Career  Technical Education credential, focusing on business and information  and communication technology pathways.

Miss Angell taught in this capacity for a few years and then, once  again, decided to obtain an additional credential in special education  so she could support students with mild to moderate learning  disabilities.

Miss Angell also provides students with a special opportunity by  being qualified to teach dual enrollment classes through a partnership  with a local college in my district, Sierra College.

Miss Angell is known for being an exceptional teacher and a lifelong  learner. She provides real-life applications in her classroom and  strives to prepare high school students for college and future career  opportunities.

Her engaging and integrated teaching style, which is accompanied by  her passion for teaching and for her students, inspires those in her  class to reach their full potential.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers like her in  Congress, and I commend Miss Angell for her dedication to education and  to promoting student success and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Miss Tina Angell for her significant  contributions to the students of Placer County.           Recognizing Holly Gotwals for Teacher Appreciation Week

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to recognize a  teacher from Rocklin Unified School District, Holly Gotwals, who has  dedicated 24 years of her career to educating the students of her  community.

Mrs. Gotwals, a graduate of Sacramento State, showcases innovation,  compassion, and dedication in her classroom. She teaches a special  education adult transition class for students who are 18 to 22 years  old with moderate to severe needs and did not receive a high school  diploma.

Mrs. Gotwals focuses her class on teaching her students functional  English and math, current events, independent living and vocational  skills, cooking, fitness and nutrition, how to be involved in their  community, mobility training, social skills, self-advocacy, and career  awareness.

In a remarkable manner, Mrs. Gotwals tailors each lesson to each  individual student. She goes as far as to work closely with local  community businesses to secure job training opportunities for her  students that match their interests and skills. She looks to the  futures of her students, and some go on to other educational  institutions, such as the UC-Davis SEED program, while others are able  to secure jobs locally in our community.

Mrs. Gotwals fosters a sense of independence and confidence in the  classroom. She is not just an educator, as she has proven to be a  strong advocate and a role model to her students. Her tireless devotion  to her students brings out their unique potential and prepares them for  opportunities to fulfill their dreams.

It is an honor to represent exemplary educators like her in Congress,  and I commend Mrs. Holly Gotwals for her exceptional dedication to  education and to promoting student successes and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mrs. Holly Gotwals for her significant  contributions to Rocklin Unified School District and to the students of  the Rocklin community.