California is the Exact Opposite of A Model of Efficiency


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698099/california-is-the-exact-opposite-of-a-model-of-efficiency


Mr. KILEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and congratulate  Chief Brian Estes of the CAL FIRE Nevada Yuba Placer Unit and the  Placer County Fire Department. He is retiring at the end of this year  after an exceptional career of over 35 years in the fire service.

In 1991, Chief Estes graduated at the top of his class from the Butte  Fire Academy, launching him into a long and successful career. He began  working as a firefighter at a station in San Diego County.

Mr. Speaker, 4 years later, he joined the CAL FIRE helicopter crew in  Tuolumne County, where he stayed for another 4 years. During this  timeframe, he held various leadership positions, such as CWN manager  and military helicopter manager. He coordinated with the California  National Guard as a military liaison officer.

In 1988, Brian Estes was promoted to fire apparatus engineer and was  assigned to the Amador/El Dorado Unit. Brian climbed the ladder and was  promoted through the ranks, becoming captain in 2000 and being promoted  to battalion chief in 2005.

In the coming years, Chief Estes responded to some of California's  most challenging fires, joining deployments and leading 14 Type I  incidents across California as Type I incident commander.

Brian Estes continued to be promoted, and he served as assistant  chief of operations, deputy chief of operations, and then, finally, as  unit chief for the Nevada Yuba Placer Unit and fire chief of the Placer  County Fire Department.

He had the honor of leading over 450 personnel and overseeing a  budget of  over $100 million across 1.7 million acres of State Responsibility  Area.

As Placer County Fire Chief, Chief Estes oversaw municipal services  across 1,000 square miles and served over 70,000 residents, protecting  $80 billion in assets.

In these capacities, he has been an outstanding force in protecting  the quality of life in our region by leading the front line of defense  against the all-too-common California wildfires.

Chief Estes is widely respected for his exceptional leadership skills  and unwavering commitment to collaboration. Under his guidance, his  units operate with greater strength, efficiency, and purpose,  reflecting his ability to maximize their potential and bring out the  best in those he leads.

A lifelong public servant, Chief Estes is truly a pillar of our  community. He is defined by his consistent and active engagement and  his deep dedication to those he serves, going above and beyond the  regular call of duty.

It has really been a privilege to work alongside Chief Estes  throughout my time in office. It is an honor to represent someone held  in such high esteem by his friends, family, colleagues, and community.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives  and California's Third Congressional District, I wish Chief Estes a  happy retirement and thank him for his many years of service.