Congratulating Eco-Clean Solutions


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697549/congratulating-eco-clean-solutions


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate JB  Harris, JT Chevallier, and the entire team at ECO-CLEAN Solutions for  reaching a record-breaking milestone late last year: 1 million square  feet of Lake Tahoe shoreline cleaned by the team's beach-cleaning  robot, BEBOT.

JB and JT, two longtime friends from Las Vegas, were drawn to the  Sierra Nevada by the beauty and lifestyle of the mountains. As their  connection to the area and the great outdoors deepened, JB and JT  witnessed the toll of increased tourism on their natural surroundings.

With the motivation to give back to the home that had given them so  much, ECO-CLEAN was created to respond to the need for environmental  responsibility and sustainability.

With the annual number of visitors to Lake Tahoe growing to 15  million people, Tahoe's beaches experienced a surge in waste,  particularly during peak travel seasons. JB and JT recognized the  problem and set out to find innovative and low-impact solutions to this  growing concern.

In their search, the team discovered BEBOT, the first battery- and  solar-powered beach-cleaning robot on the West Coast. Through funding  provided by the North Tahoe Community Alliance, the team was able to  successfully deploy BEBOT to the shores of Lake Tahoe, maximizing beach  cleanup efforts through advanced technology and in partnership with  local volunteers.

Through this innovative solution, ECO-CLEAN Solutions and their  beach-cleaning BEBOT have cleaned more than 1 million square miles of  shoreline, picking up over 38,000 pieces of litter that may have become  pollution in Lake Tahoe.

In comparison to visible litter items collected by volunteers, BEBOTs  detect and remove up to 10 times the number of items hidden under the  surface of the sand.

They also partner and collaborate with several local organizations,  one of  which includes the Desert Research Institute, which analyzes the litter  taken from the lake to better understand pollutants and proactively  address their source.

It is an honor to represent exemplary businesses such as ECO-CLEAN  Solutions in the United States House of Representatives. They exemplify  how American innovation can serve as a solution to the issues that are  facing our communities and the Nation at large.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am honored to recognize JB, JT, and ECO-CLEAN Solutions for reaching  this significant milestone and for their ongoing dedication to  protecting the beauty of Lake Tahoe's shorelines for generations to  come.

Recognizing South Tahoe Public Utility District on 75th Anniversary

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I wish to recognize and  commemorate the 75-year anniversary of the South Tahoe Public Utility  District, a trusted steward of environmental protection and sustainable  water management in the Tahoe community.

The South Tahoe Public Utility District was formed in the 1950s to  protect the ecosystem of the Lake Tahoe Basin while furnishing  customers with reliable water and wastewater treatment services. Since  then, they have grown into a nationally recognized utility that  exemplifies innovation, resilience, and exceptionalism in public  service.

The district supplies quality drinking water and provides reliable  wastewater collection, treatment, and export services to over 14,000  residents and 660 commercial and government sites. Their services play  a significant role in the function of the region and have improved the  quality of life and experiences for residents, businesses, and  visitors.

Over the span of more than seven decades, the South Tahoe Public  Utility District has achieved a wide diversity of accomplishments,  including building the world's first advanced wastewater treatment  plant, bringing high-quality Tahoe tap to the community, earning  national recognition as the Environmental Protection Agency's  Wastewater Treatment Plant of the Year, and becoming a 100 percent  recycled wastewater operation, just to name a few.

These successes reflect the district's deep commitment to protecting  Lake Tahoe's environment, ensuring the sustainability of its water  resources, and fostering community engagement.

Throughout its history, the South Tahoe Public Utility District has  faced and overcome many unique challenges. During droughts, wildfires,  and even a global pandemic, the district did not falter in its mission.  In moments of crisis, such as the Angora, Tamarack, and Caldor fires,  the district's personnel displayed courage and determination, standing  shoulder to shoulder with firefighters under hazardous conditions and  evacuation orders to continuously maintain water flow and wastewater  treatment.

For three-quarters of a century, the South Tahoe Public Utility  District has established a legacy of efficiency, professionalism, and  excellence. I have no doubt that that legacy will only continue to grow  in the years to come.

It has been a privilege to work alongside the South Tahoe Public  Utility District throughout my tenure as Tahoe's Representative in  Congress. Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of  Representatives and California's Third Congressional District, I am  proud to celebrate this milestone and to commend the South Tahoe Public  Utility District for their 75 years of unwavering dedication to the  region and to the protection of a national treasure that is Lake Tahoe.                    Restoration of Healthcare Tax Credits

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge prompt  action on a matter that could make life a lot more difficult for  millions and millions of people in this country, and that is the  expiration of tax credits that could lead to a massive increase in  healthcare costs.

We are talking about 22 million Americans who will be directly  affected, some of them seeing thousands and thousands of dollars in  increases in their healthcare costs. That is something that a lot of  these folks simply cannot afford.

Mr. Speaker, that is the reality of what will happen if Congress does  nothing and if Congress fails to act. Since that is not acceptable to  me--and I know it is not acceptable to a lot of Members on both sides  of the aisle--I have introduced bipartisan legislation with Sam  Liccardo called the Fix It Act, which will stop this cliff from  occurring and will spare these Americans this massive increase in  healthcare costs.

Here is what it does: It extends these tax credits for a temporary  period of time, for 2 years. That will give us the runway that we need  to work on a broader solution to the healthcare affordability crisis in  America without forcing millions of Americans to pay the price in the  meantime.

Mr. Speaker, importantly, our bill not only provides this temporary  extension, but it also includes reforms that pay for themselves. In  other words, the savings that we get through our reforms are actually  greater than the cost of the extension itself. This is according to the  Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, which analyzed several  proposals that are out there and found that the bill that Sam Liccardo  and I have introduced is the only one that actually does not increase  the deficit and, indeed, actually achieves savings for taxpayers.

We do this with sensible cost controls, income caps, to make sure  that the tax credits go to those who truly need it. You will still be  eligible as long as you are a family of four with an income level up to  $192,000.

It also includes strong antifraud measures that will save billions of  dollars from the fraud that we know is far too pervasive in this  program. It enacts reforms to a program called Medicare Advantage that  are supported by the AARP because we have seen that insurers have been  overcharging in this program to the tune of tens of billions of dollars  over the course of a decade.

Mr. Speaker, all of those elements not only actually make it so that  we are not increasing the deficit or having to raise taxes or increase  spending with this extension, but they also make the extension  inherently temporary in the sense that, if you have a pay-for, like we  do, then any extension will need another pay-for that will entail  additional tradeoffs. That is an accountability measure to make sure  that this doesn't become just a never-ending series of extensions but  truly is temporary.

Mr. Speaker, there are a growing number of Members in both parties-- we just had a press conference--who understand what is at stake here.  It is not just, by the way, for 22 million Americans who will be  directly impacted by utilizing the individual market and benefit from  these tax credits, but if you see millions of people who ultimately  choose not to get insurance and drop out of the market, that is going  to cascade to the employer-provided market, as well. People are going  to see increased costs there, as well.

Mr. Speaker, when we talk about affordability, which is so important  to so many people in this country right now, there is perhaps no single  policy issue that will have a higher impact on affordability in this  country than doing something about this issue right now.

For my colleagues on the Republican side, I simply point out this:  When Members look at the 22 million Americans who will be most directly  impacted, a lot of these folks are people who Republicans have been  fighting for, for a long time. For example, independent contractors,  freelancers, gig workers, and Uber drivers. They have been under attack  from the likes of Gavin Newsom and the corrupt political class in  Sacramento, who have targeted them and made it very difficult for them  to practice their professions.

The Biden administration actually brought in Newsom's labor  secretary, Julie Su, to try to do the same thing, targeting independent  contractors on a national level. They are the folks who will perhaps  suffer the most if these tax credits expire because they rely on that  individual market, and they don't really have any other option. They  will be forced to pay thousands and thousands of dollars more when  their income is already uncertain.

We simply can't let that happen to them or small businesses. Small  business owners' employees who rely on the individual market, this will  absolutely be devastating to many of them if they are forced to  shoulder this cost.

Early retirees who are not yet eligible for Medicare, millions of  them rely on these tax credits.

That is why I believe that doing nothing is not an option, and I have  made no secret of the fact that I think the House of Representatives  has been missing in action in a lot of ways in recent months.

The House was literally not here for a period of almost 2 months. The  Speaker inexplicably canceled session for 6 consecutive weeks. The  House has not been in the driver's seat when it comes to many important  policy issues facing the country. The House has even chosen to cede  some of its own legislative authority on certain issues. This is  extremely troubling to me. I have been encouraging a change of course.

Mr. Speaker, this issue right now, which is a matter of urgency and  needs to be dealt with before the end of the year, is an opportunity  for the House to change course, to reclaim its legislative authority,  to actually drive policy in the right way, and to become the people's  House again by actually serving the American people in a way that will  make a profound difference in the lives of many of them throughout the  country.                           Calling for Accountability

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise to present some truly  bewildering and completely unacceptable news out of my State, the State  of California. I have been very critical of government performance in  our State, with giving taxpayers the services that they are paying for.  This latest example makes that point very clearly.

For the last 6 or so years, Californians have been paying an extra  fee on their phone service. This was due to legislation enacted by the  legislature and signed into law by the Governor. All of these fees were  collected for the purpose of creating a next-generation 911 system,  which, honestly, is something we need. The system is quite outdated,  antiquated, and not up to the task of serving the many different kinds  of emergencies that we get in California.

For the last 6 years, these extra fees paid for by California  taxpayers, which are in addition to the State budget itself going up  over 50 percent during that time period, were used to build out this  new 911 system. The State spent $450 million building out this 911  system.

Just last week, it was announced that after spending all of this  money, the State is scrapping the entire project because the technology  does not work. It is absolutely beyond belief. The $450 million that  Californians have been paying on their phone bill was absolutely,  completely squandered, wasted by the State, which not only wasted all  that money, but has now left Californians with an inadequate 911 system  because they need to start over from square A.

This, Mr. Speaker, is an example of how the failures in Sacramento  that have degraded the quality of life for people throughout our State  are not a matter of Democrat versus Republican, but simply a matter of  competence, of basic government performance, and of serving the people  of our State as opposed to serving other agendas.

I hope that this latest debacle will be a wake-up call to demand the  sort of accountability that our taxpayers are entitled to in  California, and for the way the government in Sacramento is run to be  completely revisited, to be reoriented in a way that is based on  performance, that is based on competence, that draws upon the best  practices of the private sector, and that ultimately is geared toward  citizen service rather than the other interests and agendas that too  often prevail at our capital.                        Calling for Education Reforms

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, for years, I have been warning  about the declining education outcomes that exist across our country,  but in particular, in my State of California. We just received a  jarring reminder of just how bleak things have gotten.

UC San Diego, which is a rather selective school in California, has  recently announced that a large share of its students can no longer  even do basic math. The school announced that the number of students  who require remedial courses has gone from 1 out of every 100 to 1 out  of every 8.

This truly jarring state of affairs comes in spite of a massive  increase in education funding in California. Indeed, since Governor  Newsom came into office, the overall education budget has increased by  almost $40 billion. Yet, what is the outcome of that? We have students  at a fairly selective university who can't do basic math, and, by the  way, the State also has the highest illiteracy rate in the entire  country.

I have advocated for reforms to our education system in California  that would actually close achievement gaps and serve students. As chair  of the Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education  Subcommittee here in the House of Representatives, I have advocated for  those reforms not just for our State, but on the national level, as  well.

We have seen that when States and districts take a data-based  approach to instruction, they can get tremendous results for students.  We see examples like KIPP or Success Academy. These are charter  networks that have vastly outperformed other public schools, despite  serving students who are well below the poverty level in many cases.

If Success Academy were its own district, it would rank at the very  top of the rankings in student performance in the State of New York,  which is one of the reasons I am sponsoring the High-Quality Charter  Schools Act that would make more opportunities like that available  throughout the country.

We have also held hearings in my subcommittee on teaching literacy  appropriately, which California is finally moving in that direction,  teaching math appropriately, getting back to basics, utilizing  education technology in the right way, without having students be  exposed to excessive screen time. We have looked at school choice  programs, including, most importantly, expanding charter schools. We  have looked at the foundational importance of parental rights.

In California, unfortunately, we have an education system that is not  about the kids. That is why we have among the highest achievement gaps  in the country. That is why we have these jarring statistics that we  are getting out of UC San Diego. That is why California had the longest  school shutdown in the entire country during COVID-19.

I would hope that these latest numbers will serve as a wake-up call  to enact the sort of education reforms that have worked well in other  States because we are failing our students right now, and we are  imperiling our State and, increasingly, our country's future.                          California by the Numbers

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt that  affordability and the cost of living are increasingly salient issues  for many people in this country.

It is becoming harder for many people to get by, and there are many  reasons for that. I have proposed, and in fact passed, legislation in a  number of areas related to the cost of energy and the cost of  healthcare to start to address those problems.

I was caught somewhat by surprise to hear the Governor of my own  State of California commenting on this issue and even saying that no  State matches California's success, that ``the numbers speak for  themselves.''

I thought I would go through what some of those numbers are when it  comes to the lack of affordability in the State of California. I think  it offers insight into the steps that we could take nationally to make  life more affordable for folks not only in California, but across the  country.

The basic gist of it is to do exactly the opposite of what California  has done. Newsom says the numbers speak for themselves. Here are the  numbers:

California has the highest gas prices in the entire country, number  one out of all 50 States. It is not even close. You can drive a few  miles from here in Maryland, which is another blue State, by the way,  and you will get gas for $1.50, $2 cheaper at least. You can go to  Hawaii, which is an island State after all, and you will get gas for 20  cents cheaper than you do in California.

The cost of electricity: California is number one in the country. The  New York Times recently published a map showing how much electricity  rates have increased over the last several years, which tracks the time  that Gavin Newsom became Governor. California saw by far the biggest  increase  in electricity costs of any State in the country.

Water bills: California ranks first, or close to it, of any State in  the country for how much we pay for water.

The cost of housing: California is number one in the country for the  median cost of a home--actually, number one in the continental United  States. Hawaii is a little more expensive there.

Taxes: California is number one, has the highest income tax rate of  any State in the country, as well as the highest gas tax rate of any  State in the country.

Government spending and debt are so much higher in California, and  that relates to affordability as well because, of course, it means that  we have to get more money in taxes and fees. It also means that the  infrastructure that supports businesses is inadequate, which raises  their cost of living, which results in higher costs to consumers, not  to mention California being the worst business environment of any State  in the country.

It has repeatedly been rated as having the worst litigation  environment as well, which means that those costs are passed onto  consumers, too.

Insurance: When it comes to fire insurance in many parts of our  State, you pay more than you pay just about anywhere in the country  because of the catastrophic fires that have done so much damage and  because of the way the insurance issue itself has been mismanaged.

What is the lesson here?

Well, number one: The lesson is, California needs to change its own  policies.

Number two: We can learn from California's failures as we enact  reforms at the Federal level to improve the quality of life and  affordability for folks throughout the country.

Gas: When it comes to gas prices, it is no mystery what has happened.  California's taxes and regulations and insistence on special fuel  blends have caused costs to go up inordinately. This, by the way,  doesn't even factor in that we have two refineries that are about to  close. Fortunately, we just passed legislation here in Congress to  partially address this issue of the refineries. There is one study from  USC that says that by the end of next year, Californians could pay $8  for gas.

Electricity: California has passed all kinds of regulations that no  other State has, at least not to the extent that restrict the supply of  energy in our State. By the way, it is done ostensibly in the name of  the environment, but California's policies have been incredibly  damaging to the environment, as well.

In just 1 year, for example, the catastrophic wildfires that our  State had erased all of the emissions reductions from the prior 16  years. In fact, it erased them two times over because of our State's  very poor policies when it comes to forest management, which goes to  the insurance issue, as well.

That is why I am very proud to sponsor the Fix Our Forests Act, which  allows for more effective forest management which will stop  catastrophic wildfires and will make it so we don't have to keep  raising the price of insurance. That has passed the House of  Representatives with bipartisan support, and it is time for the Senate  to pass it, as well.

Housing: When it comes to the cost of housing, we have seen how  California has piled on fee after fee after fee so that a project costs  tens of thousands of dollars before you even break ground. Even worse,  we have seen how California has allowed frivolous lawsuits to delay  projects for years and for decades. That all gets baked into the price  of the home, and that is why I am sponsoring a number of measures here  to try to make housing more affordable.

Of course, the tax issues speak for themselves.

We have a lot we need to do to continue to make life more affordable  for Americans. We have seen some progress in certain areas when it  comes to the price of gas across the country, when it comes to the  supply of energy, and some other issues.

Unfortunately, people in my State are bearing the brunt of it. I  would, again, encourage the leaders of our legislature and the Governor  to chart a different course, to start actually working for the people  of California.

This is why, by the way, we have the highest real poverty rate in the  entire country. It is because the cost of living is so high and the  economic opportunity is so low. We actually have the highest  unemployment rate in California, as well. As the Governor would say,  the numbers speak for themselves.

I encourage us here not only for those of us in California to  encourage a change in action on the part of our State's own leadership  but for Congress itself to follow the anti-Newsom playbook in making  sure that we don't see costs across the entire country rise to the  level they have in California.                        Safety of Autonomous Vehicles

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I will share some data that has  recently been published on the safety of autonomous vehicles and self- driving cars, which have been widely deployed in a number of cities  across the country.

In California, Waymo has been operating for years now in San  Francisco and in Los Angeles, and now their footprint is actually about  to expand to the wine country and even into the Sacramento area. They  may even be coming to Washington, D.C., soon.

Tesla has a self-driving feature available on its cars as well and  they have been publishing some very encouraging data. What the data  shows, very clearly, is that even at the current state of the art that  is going to continue to improve, autonomous vehicles are overwhelmingly  safer than human-operated vehicles by a factor of about 10 when it  comes to the risk of injury or death.

When you think about that, that means that being in an autonomous  vehicle, in a self-driving car, is a much more effective safety  intervention than wearing a seat belt, which, of course, you should  continue to wear a seat belt as well.

There was an article in The New York Times a couple of days ago from  a doctor who actually likened this to a clinical trial, where you  actually have to stop the trial because the drug performed so well and  it becomes unethical to continue to give people the placebo and not  give them access to the drug.

We have 40,000 people who die in this country every year on our  roads. Many, many others suffer serious life-changing injuries. Every  American pretty much has been affected in some way, knows someone who  has been involved in an accident, and we now have the technology within  our reach to drastically reduce that number, to save tens of thousands  of lives every year just in this country and to spare tens of thousands  of people devastating injuries.

I do believe it is a political policy and a moral imperative to use  whatever levers we have here to remove barriers to expanding access to  this technology.

Mr. Speaker, I look forward to working with the administration as  well as folks on both sides of the aisle to do that because we really  do have an opportunity here to do an immense amount of good.