Defending Education Transparency and Ending Rogue Regimes Engaging in Nefarious Transactions Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689035/defending-education-transparency-and-ending-rogue-regimes-engaging-in-nefarious-transactions-act


Mr. KILEY. Mr. Chair, America's universities have long been the place  where for better or for worse cultural trends tend to begin and then  spread throughout the rest of the country. Unfortunately, in recent  years, it has been for worse.

An ethos of censorship took hold first in American universities  before spreading to tech companies throughout our broader culture and  into the government itself.

Of course we saw most vividly on university campuses the absolutely  appalling scenes of anti-Semitism that sadly also became part of our  broader problem for the rest of the country over the last few years and  even before that.

America's adversaries, noticing this phenomenon, have decided that  targeting our universities is a way to weaken the United States.  Infiltrating our universities is a way to influence our broader  institutions and to influence public opinion.

You see, for example, a congressional investigation found that there  were nearly $40 million in contracts with the CCP or CCP-linked  organizations. This is just what we know about.

Institutions have accepted billions in anonymous foreign funds  without any transparency or accountability. There was even a recent  study from the Institute for the Global Study of Anti-Semitism and  Policy showing how this has infiltrated K-12 classrooms as well as  funding from Qatar ended up at Brown University which developed anti- Israel curricula that then went to 8,000 K-12 schools throughout the  entire country.

The DETERRENT Act is a much-needed, commonsense piece of legislation  that simply says if you are going to accept funding from foreign  countries, you need to disclose that. After all, universities are  massively funded in various forms by the Federal Government, so if  taxpayer dollars are going to support institutions that are taking  foreign money, we should know about that.

The requirements put in place by this bill simply say that if you  accept a gift of $50,000 or more, a foreign gift, then you need to  report that, and it is anything of any value if it is from an  adversarial nation.

The bill also closes reporting gaps, including faculty-level  disclosures and imposes real penalties for noncompliance, including  loss of title IV funds.

The good news, Mr. Chair, is that over the last year or so we have  seen a reckoning begin in higher education in this country, and we are  starting to see very positive changes. A number of university  presidents have lost their jobs, and universities are increasingly  committing themselves anew to protecting civil rights and promoting  academic freedom.

The DETERRENT Act will be an important part of that trend. I am proud  to be a cosponsor.