Dismantling California's Citizens Redistricting Commission


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, in 2010, California voters overwhelmingly voted to  establish the Citizens Redistricting Commission. The voters said that  they wanted to take the process of drawing district lines out of the  hands of politicians. They said that voters should choose their  politicians, that politicians shouldn't choose their voters.

That commission has drawn our district lines through the last two  rounds of redistricting. Yet, the Governor of California has now  announced a plan to abolish the Citizens Redistricting Commission and  to seize its powers for himself. He initially proposed simply ignoring  the commission, ignoring the constitution, and overriding his maps with  those that he and the legislature drew. Yet, apparently, someone told  him that that would get immediately struck down in court.

What they are now plotting is a special election where they will use  confusing ballot language and other means of deception to try to  convince voters--to fool voters--into dismantling the very independent  commission that they recently established.

The point of this is that the Governor would like to reduce the  representation of Republicans in Congress in our State to 3 Members out  of 52, so that Republicans will hold 6 percent of the seats even though  Republicans typically get over 40 percent of the vote in statewide  elections. It could be the single most egregious act of corruption in  the history of our State.

Mr. Speaker, you don't need to take my word for that. You can take  the word of Common Cause, which is a group that typically, almost  always, aligns with Democrats on elections and voting issues. Its  executive director said: ``Point blank, it is a dangerous move.''

Or take the word of Patricia Sinay, a Democrat sitting on the  Citizens Redistricting Commission, who said: ``The very purpose of the  State's independent redistricting commission is to protect voters from  partisan power grabs like this. If this were to succeed, it would set a  dangerous precedent for suppressing voters across the Nation.''

Mr. Speaker, this is a moment for every Californian and every  American of decency, regardless of party affiliation, to speak out  against the abject corruption that our Governor is attempting.

Recognizing Tevis Cup Winners Heather and Jeremy Reynolds

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize  Heather and Jeremy Reynolds, the first- and second-place winners of the  69th Annual Tevis Cup, a grueling 100-mile endurance trail ride from  Robie Park to Auburn, held on July 12 of this year.

This year's competition proved even more challenging than usual, with  the heat and rocky road providing unforgiving conditions for all  competitors.

Of the 105 entrants, only 43 were able to complete the ride to  Auburn. However, the couple persevered through, crossing the finish  line in 17 hours 45 minutes.

Over the span of more than 20 years of competitive riding, the two  have accumulated countless awards, including eight Tevis Cups and five  Haggin Cups. Despite their many accolades, the one challenge they had  never conquered was crossing the finish line together. In this year's  competition, they did, crossing the finish line with their hands joined  together, marking an astounding new achievement that has been a goal of  theirs for over two decades.

Together, Heather and Jeremy Reynolds embody perseverance, teamwork,  and competitive excellence. Their achievement serves not just as  personal fulfillment but also as an inspiration to their peers, fellow  competitors, and our community at large.

It is an honor to represent remarkable individuals such as Heather  and Jeremy in Congress. Therefore, on behalf of the United States House  of Representatives, I proudly extend my heartfelt congratulations to  Heather and Jeremy Reynolds for their exceptional athletic achievement  at the 69th annual Tevis Cup and commend them for their unwavering  dedication to the tradition and sport of equine endurance riding.