Fire Improvement and Reforming Exceptional Events Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701964/fire-improvement-and-reforming-exceptional-events-act


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the best way to protect air  quality is to stop catastrophic wildfires. This is a statement that  should not be controversial and is one the truth of which we know all  too well in California.

For years in my State, the State piled on regulation after regulation  after regulation, piled on new forms of litigation, new fuel blends,  all things that raise the cost of living for people in our State. Yet,  even more perversely, at the same time, they made it more difficult to  proactively mitigate the risk of wildfire through active forest  management.

Let me tell you what the perverse result of that was. Between 2004  and 2020--this is a period of 16 years--you can aggregate all the  emissions that were reduced through emission reduction policies in  California--a period of 16 years leading up to the year 2020--take  every single emission that was reduced as a result of State policy over  those 16 years, and double that number of emissions were released into  the atmosphere because of the fires that occurred just that year.

All of the sacrifices Californians had made over the preceding 16  years were wiped out two times over because of these devastating  wildfires that, of course, on top of the environmental damage that they  inflicted, caused untold damage to life and property and our  communities.

The measure that we have before us today could not be more  commonsensical. It is that we should not disincentivize States from  taking steps that have been proven by the best science to reduce the  risk of wildfires that are an absolute catastrophe for the environment.  That includes the use of prescribed burns, which should not be  considered a detriment to air quality when the entire point is to  improve air quality over the long term.

This bill, in addition to other measures like the Fix Our Forests  Act, which will allow us to do better forest management without as many  arbitrary delays and hurdles to jump over, are vitally needed to assure  that we don't continue to have wildfires that devastate our communities  and devastate our environment.

I will say it again: The best way to protect air quality is to stop  fires from happening, and this bill will help us do that.