Guidance Out of Darkness Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688392/guidance-out-of-darkness-act


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the basic premise of this bill,  which I am happy to cosponsor, is that we should not have secret laws  in the United States.

A major opportunity that we have right now is to modernize our  government and to rein in the inexorable growth of the administrative  state, restoring power to our elected representatives, States, local  communities, and the American people themselves.

When we think about the administrative state, we think about all the  regulations that are churned out, one after another, and compiled in  the ever-growing Federal Register. The reality is, that is just the tip  of the iceberg. Layered on top of all of that are these so-called  guidance documents. These are memos, Dear Colleague letters, bulletins,  all manner of what is referred to as ``regulatory dark matter.''

With respect to the ranking member, this is not a melodramatic term.  It is actually quite appropriate. In physics, ``dark matter'' refers to  the mysterious substance that makes up about 85 percent of the mass of  the universe, but no one really knows what it is. Similarly, all of  these guidance documents make up a great deal of the regulatory  activity in our country, yet the agencies themselves can't even manage  to track them down. How is an individual or a small business supposed  to find out what this particular interpretation of the law is and how  it will affect them, let alone how Congress is supposed to figure out  how the laws that we have passed are ultimately being enforced and  administered?

This is a commonsense measure that says that all of these guidance  documents, which have real teeth when it comes to the enforcement of  regulations, need to be compiled in one place that is searchable and  accessible to every American citizen. It is a positive step for  transparency and toward restoring government by the people.