Illegal Bio Lab in Las Vegas


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699473/illegal-bio-lab-in-las-vegas


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to address a  serious national security issue that requires the immediate attention  and immediate action from the United States Congress.

An illegal bio lab was just raided in Las Vegas, and it is directly  linked to the secret Chinese bio lab found in Reedley, California, in  late 2022. That lab was oozing with E. coli, HIV, malaria, and other  dangerous pathogens.

The lab just raided in Vegas was operated by the same LLC and same  Chinese nationals as the one discovered in Reedley. We know a lot about  the one discovered in Reedley because I requested a report from the  House of Representatives, an investigation which resulted in a report  by the House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party.

I want to share some of the details of that report, but I will start  with its conclusion: That no one knows whether there are other unknown  bio labs because there is no monitoring system in place.

Those were the words of the Select Committee on the Chinese Communist  Party in 2023. We know there was at least one other such lab, but we  still don't know how many others because the legislation, the  bipartisan legislation, that I have proposed with Representatives Costa  and Valadao has not yet been passed.

Here is what we learned about this lab that was discovered in Reedley  and that has now had a counterpart discovered in Las Vegas.

It was run by an international fugitive from China named Jesse Zhu.  After running various state-connected companies in China, Zhu moved to  Canada where he set up dozens of corporations to steal valuable  American intellectual property and unlawfully transfer it to China. The  Supreme Court of British Columbia found that he committed fraud on an  epic scale, resulting in a $330 million judgment.

He then fled to America, assumed an alias, David He, and set up  several more companies, including the one behind the Reedley biolab and  now the Vegas biolab.

He was indicted in 2023 and has been in Federal custody ever since,  but his partner and other associates have not been.

The Reedley lab was discovered in December of 2022 when a code  inspector came upon a suspicious warehouse. Inside, she found many  Chinese nationals wearing white lab coats, glasses, masks, and latex  gloves, along with thousands of vials of biological substances and a  thousand mice. It was later learned that these were transgenic mice  genetically engineered to catch and carry the COVID-19 virus. A further  inspection found blood, tissue, and other bodily fluid samples and  serums, along with thousands of vials of suspected biological material.

Some of the vials were labeled in the names of infectious agents  while others were labeled in a code that was never deciphered.

At first the CDC--this was during the Biden administration--refused  to investigate and even hung up on local officials who asked for help.  After Representative Costa got involved, the CDC did an inspection and  found at least 20 potentially infectious agents, including HIV,  tuberculosis, and the deadliest known form of malaria. Yet, the CDC did  not bother to test any samples, even those with unknown contents,  making it impossible for the select committee to fully assess the  potential risks that this specific facility posed to the community. The  select committee report calls this baffling.

Later, local officials discovered a refrigerator in the lab labeled  ``Ebola.''

While the supposed purpose of the lab was to sell test kits, in fact,  all the company did was buy counterfeit kits from China and resell them  in the United States. Thus, the committee found there was a lack of  apparent legitimate or even profit-motivated criminal motive in the  operation of the facility.

Meanwhile, Jesse Zhu, its operator, was receiving unexplained  payments via wire transfer from Chinese banks.

As I mentioned, the report concluded that we don't know if there are  any other unknown biolabs because there is no such monitoring system.  That is why I am calling upon the House to act quickly to pass the bill  that I have introduced, along with Representatives Costa and Valadao,  to find any other such labs that exist across the country and assure  that they are shut down.

The Preventing Illegal Laboratories and Protecting Public Health Act  would address gaps in Federal law outlined in this Congressional  report.

Specifically, it would require distributors of highly pathogenic  agents to maintain federally reviewable logbooks of all transfers,  including purchaser identity and intended use for at least 3 years. It  would strengthen oversight by mandating Federal review of the number,  location, and risks of high-containment labs with updated national  standards for design, construction, and operation.

It would protect against foreign threats by ensuring adversaries  cannot exploit weak U.S. oversight to establish these secret labs. It  would create a public health biosafety and biosecurity team as a single  point of contact for State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments  when suspicious labs are identified. It would require a feasibility  study on creating a centralized national database of high-containment  labs accessible to State and local officials for biosecurity purposes.

As the city manager of Reedley, Nicole Zieba, said--who was centrally  involved in trying to get the Federal and State authorities to take  action here--she said: The Reedley incident highlighted a gap in the  Nation's biosecurity. Any city around this country could have dozens of  deadly pathogens stored next to sensitive locations and be completely  unaware of it. She said that this proposed legislation puts us on a  path to closing that critical gap that will help keep every American  safe from the hazards like those that were discovered in the Reedley  lab. Now, of course, we have seen alarmingly similar hazards discovered  in the Vegas lab.

I will be calling for a thorough investigation of what was discovered  in Las Vegas, and I am calling upon the House of Representatives to  move quickly to get this bipartisan bill passed so that it can then  pass the Senate and be signed into law.                        Extent of Fraud in California

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, people across the country are  rightly outraged by the fraud that has been discovered in the State of  Minnesota. However, for those of us in California, we have almost  become desensitized to it. Every time there has been an independent  audit, it seems, of any program in California, what is discovered is  fraud on a scale that dwarfs anything that was discovered in Minnesota.

We have already taken some action here in Congress to rein in the  fraud that exists in California and to provide oversight and  accountability that has  been sorely lacking. But what is needed is a comprehensive picture of  just how large the scale of this fraud might be.

That is why I am requesting that the Government Accountability Office  conduct a study on the scale of fraud in California. I will read, for  the record, my letter to Comptroller General Brown, Acting Comptroller  General of the GAO, requesting this study.

It says:

One of Congress' most crucial duties is to steward public       funds by assuring they are spent in accordance with the law       and not siphoned off by criminals. Unfortunately, several       high-profile incidents of fraud in recent years have shown       the inability of some States to adequately protect public       money. In particular, California has had difficulty stopping       fraudsters who steal benefits destined for the most       vulnerable among us. To gain a greater understanding of the       impact this theft has on Californians and the Nation, I am       asking that the GAO conduct a study on the amount of waste,       fraud, and abuse California has fallen victim to.

While fraud amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars in       Minneapolis has recently garnered public attention, it still       pales in comparison to the fraud perpetrated in California.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, LexisNexis estimated State       unemployment fraud reached $32.6 billion. Unemployed       Californians had their benefits stolen, and taxpayers were       taxed to fund criminals. The State's effort to aid the       homeless is also riddled with waste and fraud. The State       auditor examined spending on programs to reduce homelessness       between 2019 and 2024. Despite $24 billion in spending,       homelessness increased by 30,000 during that period, and no       grant recipients provided metrics that demonstrated any sort       of progress. This prevents the State government and the       public from knowing how money is being spent and if specific       programs are effective and worthy of continued funding.

San Francisco nonprofit workers have been charged with       theft of public funds intended for homeless seniors, and real       estate executives in Los Angeles have been charged with       stealing $50 million from a variety of homeless programs.       Theft of public money is not just confined to nonprofits in       California. Even an Orange County judge was convicted of mail       fraud for stealing from a workers' compensation program.

The letter concludes:

Due to the widespread nature of theft involving public       money in California, we urgently need more information to       develop an effective antifraud strategy.

To accomplish this, I ask the GAO to provide:

1, how much money in total was publicly reported as lost to       waste, fraud, and abuse in California since 2016;

2, a breakdown of fraud by economic sector such as       transportation, healthcare, housing, law enforcement;

3, who the perpetrators of fraud are;

4, what stolen funds are spent on; and,

5, using California as a case study, what steps can the       Federal Government take to reduce the most common frauds       perpetrated against taxpayers?

This study, Mr. Speaker, will provide information that we very much  need in order to exercise the full range of oversight and  accountability tools we have here in Congress to protect the tax  dollars of hardworking California residents.                  Recognizing Robin Trimble on Her Retirement

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I would like to recognize Robin  Trimble, who is retiring as the chief executive officer of the Rocklin  Area Chamber of Commerce, for her 20 years of dedicated service to the  Rocklin community.

For two decades, Robin has led the chamber with enthusiasm, strength,  and resilience. Through Robin's expertise, the Rocklin chamber was  guided through a period of growth and prosperity. She helped the  chamber expand its membership, started important community programs,  forged strong partnerships that support Rocklin's local businesses and  economy, and built a legacy that will continue to shape the Rocklin  community for many years to come.

Like any 20-year period, her tenure as CEO came with its fair share  of unique challenges. One example is the important role that she played  in minimizing the impact of the extraordinary challenges that arose as  a result of the restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 era.

Throughout her tenure, Robin has worked tirelessly to make the dream  of business ownership a reality and a successful path for many in the  Rocklin area. Her ongoing advocacy for Rocklin businesses has left a  meaningful mark on our local economy.

I have had the privilege of knowing and working with Robin since my  time in the State legislature. I have always appreciated her  professionalism, wisdom, kindness, and generosity that she brought to  her role as the chamber's chief executive officer. Robin's visionary  leadership has made a lasting impact on the Rocklin Area Chamber of  Commerce and the Rocklin community at large.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  join the Rocklin community in wishing Robin Trimble a very happy  retirement and thanking her for her 20 years of contributions to the  Rocklin business community.