Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I will be voting for this  measure today because the policy is good, but let's be realistic. It is  extremely modest, and it has no chance of becoming law because it was  hastily thrown together without, apparently, any bipartisan input, when  bipartisan support is necessary to pass any measure like this.

However, worst of all, the bill does not address the immediate urgent  problem in front of us, which is that 22 million people are about to  pay a lot more for health insurance. These are independent contractors,  freelancers, gig workers, and Uber drivers. It is small business owners  and their employees, and retirees who are not yet eligible for Medicare  who are going to pay thousands of dollars more in many cases. Some  people won't be able to afford health insurance at all.

What are we supposed to tell these folks? ``Oh, don't worry, it is  Obama's fault.'' Or, ``Oh, no, don't worry, we did a show vote on this  Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act.'' Is that going to be  any consolation?

Now, I have been extremely critical of the House Speaker for refusing  to put any measure to extend these tax credits on the floor, and I  think that criticism right now is more well deserved than ever.

We have in the past seen measures come to the floor that divided the  Republican Conference but that were able to pass with bipartisan  support on continuing resolutions or on foreign aid bills. There is no  reason that cannot be done here, and let the House work its will. That,  after all, is the best expression of the will of the people.

What about the minority leader, Hakeem Jeffries? He has had every  opportunity to endorse a compromise measure that has a temporary  extension with reforms. There are three bills that have numerous  bipartisan coauthors, but instead of supporting any of those, he has  directed his Members to only support an uncompromising measure that has  zero bipartisan cosponsors. That has already been rejected by the  Senate and so has no chance of becoming law.

This whole issue encapsulates what is wrong with this institution,  where party leaders focus most of their time and energy on trying to  blame problems on the other side rather than trying to solve those  problems, but it is not too late for action now. I am calling on the  Speaker or the minority leader or both to get a bill to the floor. That  is what this institution needs. It is what America needs.