Misguided Policy in California


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699151/misguided-policy-in-california


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, every so often there comes  along a policy so misguided, so self-destructive, so just utterly  stupid that it has catastrophic consequences before it is even adopted.

Such is the case with the newly proposed wealth tax in the State of  California, a proposal that is the height of folly, the height of  insanity. The proposal would seize the assets, 5 percent of the net  worth of citizens of our State who are purported to have a net worth  over a billion dollars. Of course, that will simply be the first line  that is drawn, with inevitably lower net worth levels ensnared in the  future.

This measure, which would be adopted this November and put into  effect next year, has a peculiar provision in it stating that it would  apply even to people who are no longer residents of the State at the  time of its enactment. It would apply to anyone who was a resident of  California up until January 1 of this year, even though it doesn't take  effect until January 1 of next year.

Those who would be affected by it got word that this is coming. Guess  what they did? They made sure that they were not here as of January 1  of this year. For example, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the founders of  Google, have relocated from California because one analysis suggests  that under this proposal the government could seize $60 billion from  each of them.

There are reports now that already $1 trillion in net worth has  exited California simply in anticipation of this policy being adopted.  They simply can't take the risk. One person with knowledge of the  affected individuals said that 80 to 90 percent of them either will  leave the State or have left already, not to mention those who don't  quite meet that threshold but know that they will be next, who have  already left or are looking at an exit strategy.

The consequences of this growing exodus cannot be overstated when it  comes to the future of our State. Number one, with all of these high- net-worth individuals leaving, they are, of course, taking all of the  taxes that they pay with them, so the State Treasury no longer receives  anything.

Now, obviously, this is a drain on the Treasury. It would be in any  State, but in particular in California because of the unusual extent to  which our State relies on the highest earners.

In some years, our State budget, our State income tax revenue gets 50  percent of its total revenues from the top 1 percent of earners. When  you see those people leaving the State, it means that the house of  cards that is our State's finances will come tumbling down.

We also should note the impact this is going to have on the startup  community in California, which is so central to our State's identity,  vitality, and economic prosperity and so central to what has made  California such a vital part of the American economy and such a driving  force in progress all around the world.

However, because this proposal would seize liquid assets, would  demand 5 percent of an individual's net worth even though they are  assessing assets of all kinds, what that would mean for a startup that  has a very high paper value--based simply upon the way that startups  receive their valuation, for example, based upon a multiple of an  initial seed investment--then essentially you would have startups that  would be forced to liquefy their assets or would simply not be able to  pay this bill. Therefore, it would no longer be viable to be a startup  in California. The entire ecosystem would cease to function as it does  now.

It is worth mentioning, by the way, that this exodus has been an  ongoing phenomenon in California. It is not just limited to those who  are of a high net worth. For the sixth straight year, U-Haul has just  ranked California as number one in the country in outbound U-Haul  rentals, in people leaving the State. It is usually not the wealthiest  people. It is people who simply can't afford to get by in California  because of the inordinately high cost of living.

This proposed wealth tax would take this trend to an entirely new  level in a way that would make it so California is a failed State, is  no longer viable as a political entity. That is why we need to make  sure that this provision does not pass. In addition, importantly, we  need to make sure that the unconstitutional scheme whereby former  residents would be ensnared is not allowed to even begin to be  executed.

That is why I am working on legislation here in the House of  Representatives, Federal legislation to preempt that provision, which I  believe is unconstitutional under the Commerce Clause, but we need to  have express preemption in law to make sure that at the very least  people do not feel the need to leave in anticipation of this measure or  a future such measure passing.

Now that we have discussed this absolutely insane proposal, I want to  take a closer look at the California State budget as it now stands  because this last week we got an announcement from the Governor that  the State will be spending $348.9 billion in the coming fiscal year.

Now, notably, that is a massive increase over what the State spent  just last year, and it is nearly double what the budget was when Gavin  Newsom became Governor in 2019. At the time Newsom was sworn in, our  State budget was $197.5 billion, already quite high. During his tenure,  he has increased the budget to $348.9 billion, in the process putting  the State's finances in dire straits.

A columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle noted that Newsom's gift  to his successor is a $22 billion deficit. The State's nonpartisan  legislative analyst came out with an absolutely scathing report,  calling the State's financial situation and the Governor's budget  ``alarming.'' The report raised ``serious concerns about the State's  fiscal sustainability'' and noted that the Governor's budget does not  materially address those concerns.

This, by the way, isn't even to mention the massive around $1  trillion--shortfall when it comes to funding the State's long-term  liabilities, the unfunded liabilities that we have in the State.

Let's just look at this increase in the size of the budget. Remember,  this wealth tax is being offered on the premise that we need even more  revenue. Over the course of this Governor's tenure, California's budget  has grown by 75.7 percent.

Now, you might say, well, maybe that is what other States are doing,  too. Surely, other States have increased their budget. However, they  have not increased their budget nearly as much as California has.

Florida, for example, has a $78.6 billion budget. That is compared to  $349 billion in California. Over that same period, Florida's budget  grew by 56 percent, Ohio's budget grew by 36 percent.

You might say, well, those are red States, what about comparing  California to other blue States? Well, Massachusetts' budget grew by 44  percent, New York's budget grew by 37 percent, while California's  budget grew by 75.7 percent during that time period.

Now, you might say, okay, we are spending more, but surely the people  of California are getting something worthwhile in return for this  massive increase in tax revenue, this massive  increase in public expenditures. Surely, we are seeing major gains in  the achievement of our students in schools. Surely, we have gotten  beautiful new roads and transit systems. Surely, we are seeing the cost  of living go down and the quality of life go up.

However, no, quite the opposite has happened. Infrastructure in  California remains among the worst in the country. Our roads are  routinely rated among the three worst roads in terms of their condition  anywhere in the country. We pay the highest gas taxes, yet drive over  the deepest potholes.

Despite tens of billions of dollars more being spent every year on  education, educational achievement in California has flatlined, and we  continue to have some of the most glaring achievement gaps of any State  in the country.

Meanwhile, the cost of living in California is the highest anywhere  in the United States. We have the highest taxes. We have the highest  cost of housing of any State other than Hawaii. We have the highest gas  prices. We have the highest electricity prices, including the highest  increase in electricity prices during Newsom's tenure as Governor  compared to any other State. We are among the top two or three in the  country when it comes to water bills. In every single dimension of  affordability, California is the Nation's least affordable State.

Mr. Speaker, the Governor has utterly failed to justify asking our  citizens to pay even more when they receive a historically,  unfathomably low return on that investment. The fact is, the people of  California continue to sacrifice more and more and get less and less in  return.

Now, Mr. Speaker, I will examine one of the reasons why that is the  case. I will take a moment today to look at the vast waste, fraud, and  abuse that exists in the State of California and the proposal that I am  working on to bring the full scale, extent, and breadth of it to light  so that we can work to address it using every tool that we have here at  the Federal level and to compel changes at the State level.

This is the simple reality: Every single time there has been any sort  of independent audit of a program in California, the results have been  the same. There has been mind-boggling waste and fraud identified, and  the causality has been identified as unbelievable negligence and  neglect on the part of the State, its agencies, and its government.

I will list just a few examples. During the COVID years, California  had, at a bare minimum, $32.6 billion in unemployment fraud through our  EDD agency. A State audit that I initially requested, as a member of  the legislature, and that Governor Newsom initially killed, found that  the State spent $24 billion on homelessness over a 5-year span and  failed to track the actual uses of those funds or whether they made any  measurable improvement on the homelessness problem in our State. By the  way, they didn't. The homeless population increased by some 50,000  individuals.

We have already seen charges brought in both San Francisco and  Florida when it comes to fraud in relation to the expenditure of funds  that were earmarked for homelessness. We have also seen convictions in  Orange County in connection, for example, with workers' compensation  fraud.

The State auditor also just came out with a scathing high-risk audit  identifying the agencies in California that qualify as high risk,  meaning they exhibit a serious risk of waste, fraud, abuse, or  mismanagement, and have failed to take corrective steps.

The number of these high-risk agencies is now at an all-time high. It  has doubled during the course of Governor Newsom's tenure. Among the  findings were error rates when it comes to food assistance benefits  that could cost a loss of $2.5 billion in Federal funds.

Billions more are at risk of being lost or are being lost through  improper Medi-Cal determinations and through ongoing EDD fraud, which  continues at staggering levels even after the $32.6 billion lost during  the COVID years.

The audit also found that California has missed six straight  financial reporting deadlines, putting the State's very credit rating  at risk. Then, of course, there is the matter of the high-speed rail,  which was supposed to be completed, a full, functioning, high-speed  rail line from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2020, 6 years ago. Yet,  here we are in 2026, $18 billion spent. The overall cost is now  projected to be $128 billion, and literally nothing has been built. No  track has been laid, and not a single passenger has ridden this  nonexistent train, which raises the question: Where has all of this  money gone?

Even an audit during the Biden administration from President Biden's  Health and Human Services agency found that California improperly  claimed $52.7 million in Medicaid reimbursement for noncitizens, which,  of course, raises many questions about how pervasive these improper  payments might be in our Medi-Cal system more broadly.

Mr. Speaker, this is just a snapshot into certain programs in the  State of California. What we need is a comprehensive review to see just  how staggering the problem is, just how many tens of billions of  dollars our citizens are losing. Maybe that would be a better way to  give Californians a higher return on their investments.

Rather than increasing the budget to $349 billion, rather than  imposing an absolutely ruinous wealth tax that will give our State  government the unprecedented authority to simply confiscate the assets  of anyone they choose, maybe it would be better to make it so  California is no longer the fraud capital of the United States.

Honoring an extraordinary American, Richard ``Dick'' Burbine

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor an  extraordinary American, a man whose life story reflects the very best  of our Nation's character, courage, and commitment to service. Richard  ``Dick'' Burbine represents a generation that answered history's call  with quiet resolve and uncommon bravery.

Dick Burbine was born on January 9, 1926, in Melrose, Massachusetts.  Like so many young Americans of his time, his life was forever changed  by the events of World War II.

In the wake of the attack on Pearl Harbor, while most teenagers were  still in high school, Dick Burbine chose service. At just 16 years old,  he enlisted in the United States Merchant Marine, trained at Gallops  Island in Boston Harbor, and soon found himself at sea, supporting  Allied operations in both the Atlantic and Pacific theaters.

One of the most defining chapters of his service came aboard the  Liberty ship SS Henry Bacon. Dick served during the infamous Murmansk  Run, an Arctic supply route widely regarded as one of the most  dangerous missions of the war. Sailors faced brutal weather, freezing  seas, and constant enemy attack, all to ensure vital supplies reached  those fighting tyranny.

On February 23, 1945, tragedy struck when the Henry Bacon was  attacked by enemy aircraft in the Barents Sea and ultimately sank. Dick  Burbine was only 18 years old when he was thrown into icy, subzero  waters. What he did next defines heroism.

At great personal risk, he righted a capsized lifeboat, pulled fellow  sailors to safety, and helped rescue Norwegian women and children who  were fleeing the war. Despite the loss of 28 crewmembers, every one of  the 19 Norwegian refugees survived, making this a powerful testament to  the courage and selflessness of Dick Burbine and his shipmates.

His service did not end with World War II. Dick continued to serve  during the early Cold War and later enlisted in the United States  Marine Corps. During the Korean war, he served with distinction as a  helicopter mechanic and crew chief, eventually earning the rank of  staff sergeant.

After leaving the military, Dick Burbine remained dedicated to  protecting others. He served in law enforcement with the Contra Costa  Sheriff's Department, the Danville Constable's Office, and the  University of California Police Department at Lawrence Livermore  National Laboratory. In 1987, he retired as a sergeant and watch  commander, concluding yet another chapter of public service.

Even in retirement, Dick did not step away from giving back. He  volunteered with the U.S. Forest Service in the Bridgeport Ranger  District, helping maintain campgrounds for the benefit of residents and  visitors alike.

Remarkably, even as he approaches his 100th birthday, he continues to  harvest and donate firewood each winter to neighbors in need, quiet  acts of kindness that say as much about his character as any medal ever  could.

His legacy of service lives on through his family, including his son,  Joseph, who also served in the United States Marine Corps and in law  enforcement.

On January 9, 2026, just a few days ago, Richard ``Dick'' Burbine  celebrated his centennial birthday, 100 years defined by courage under  fire, unwavering devotion to country, and a lifelong commitment to  community.

On behalf of a grateful nation and with deep respect and admiration,  we thank Dick Burbine for his heroic military service, his  distinguished public safety career, and his enduring example of what it  means to serve others. It is an honor to represent exemplary  individuals like Dick Burbine in Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I offer our heartfelt congratulations and best wishes as  he reaches this remarkable milestone. We say, simply and sincerely,  thank you.