National Oversight for Biological Labs


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699738/national-oversight-for-biological-labs


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to call for  Congress to act with urgency to address the alarming news that we have  just heard from Las Vegas of the discovery of yet another illegal,  dangerous biolab run by Chinese nationals.

In 2023, when the secret lab in Reedley, California, came to light,  thanks to the tremendous efforts of local officials there, I gave  several speeches on this floor calling attention to the danger that  this posed to all Americans. I noted that we don't know how many  similar such labs might be out there.

After I requested an investigation, the House Select Committee on the  Chinese Communist Party reached a similar conclusion that we don't know  what other such labs might be out there.

Unfortunately, it turned out to be true that we had reason for  concern because the lab that was just discovered in Las Vegas is run by  the same individuals under the same sham LLC as the one that was  uncovered in Reedley.

What is more, officials there described materials and equipment that  are consistent with the operation that was going on in Reedley:  commercial-grade freezers and refrigerators, equipment for processing  biological materials, and thousands of vials which are now under  examination by the FBI.

In Reedley, the pathogens that were discovered included E. coli,  Ebola, malaria, HIV, and tuberculosis. We have every reason to believe  that these same dangerous pathogens have been found in this latest Las  Vegas lab.

Mr. Speaker, the question still remains: How many other such labs are  out there?

As my colleague from Fresno, Mr. Costa, just said on this floor, many  local communities simply don't have the ability to uncover these things  on their own. That is why we need a national framework. We need  national resources. We need more national oversight, and that is  precisely what my bipartisan bill, authored together with Mr. Costa,  will do.

Mr. Speaker, I am calling today for an immediate markup of this  legislation so that we can get it passed through the House and signed  into law in order to protect our communities.                      California High-Speed Rail Update

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to provide a brief  update on the California high-speed rail,  which, thankfully, in an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote, this House  just voted to cut funding off for. The President just signed that  legislation into law.

We are also now raising questions about what has happened to the $17  billion that has already been spent and whether, perhaps, there might  be fraud at issue, or at least waste or a lack of diligence in the use  of taxpayer funds.

I don't think it is any coincidence that, as these efforts ramp up,  the legislature is now considering a bill, which the Governor himself  provided language for in a budget trailer bill, seeking to keep records  related to the high-speed rail secret and seeking to make it so that  this particular project has a greater ability to keep information  secret than anything else in the public domain in California.

It just goes to show how desperate the political leaders in  California are, starting with the Governor, to avoid any accountability  here.

Mr. Speaker, the Governor, for his part, held a big ceremony  yesterday with much hoopla about a supposed milestone for high-speed  rail, which is to say the completion of a single railhead in Kern  County.

Mr. Speaker, I will remind the Governor that this is the year 2026.  The high-speed rail project was supposed to be completed, having a  full-fledged, high-speed rail system from Los Angeles to San Francisco,  6 years ago, in 2020. Yet, we are supposed to get excited about the  completion of a single railhead in 2026.

Mr. Speaker, after 17 years and $17 billion, there still has not been  any track laid for this project. The New York Times estimated that it  won't be finished this century at the current pace. Even the rosiest,  most optimistic projections of the authorities are that by 2045, almost  20 years from now, we might have a line that goes from Gilroy to  Palmdale.

That would mean that if you wanted to go from L.A. to San Francisco,  you would have to take one transit system for 2 hours, get off of that,  get on the high-speed rail, then get off of that in Gilroy and take  another transit system for 2 hours to get into San Francisco. That  would be a 6-hour trip with three transit systems in 2045 that you  could do today in 1 hour on Southwest Airlines.

Mr. Speaker, we have cut off Federal funding for this boondoggle. It  is time for the State to do the same and stop wasting the precious  dollars of our hardworking taxpayers.