Prices in California Are Too High


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700217/prices-in-california-are-too-high


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, over the last month, gas prices  in California have risen by about 40 cents. This is very different from  what is going on elsewhere in the country.

In fact, right now, gas prices in California average $4.63 where the  national average is $2.97. California's gas prices are by far the  highest in the country.  They are 23 cents higher than the next highest State, Hawaii, which, of  course, is an island State.

Lest you think this is strictly a matter of red States versus blue  States or Democrat versus Republican policies, take a look at what  folks not far from here in Maryland are paying for gas.

In Maryland, the State average is actually $2.98, $1.65 cents cheaper  than in California. Here are examples of a gas station in California  and a gas station in Maryland.

Now, Maryland is actually a bluer State than California is, and so  the reason our citizens in California have to pay so much is because of  the uniquely bad policies that we have in California, such as the  highest in the Nation gas tax, the so-called cap-and-trade program, and  regulations around the fuel mix that make it incredibly difficult to  source.

All of this has caused two refineries to now leave our State, which  is going to spike gas prices even more. Indeed, it has recently been  reported that California is now importing gasoline from The Bahamas, in  addition to many other places overseas. By the way, this gasoline comes  in on tankers that run on petroleum. The policies of California's  politicians have somehow given us the Nation's most expensive gas and  its most environmentally unfriendly gas.

Mr. Speaker, on top of all of that, while all of these taxes are  supposed to be going toward our roads, we are routinely rated as having  among the very worst roads in the entire country. This is the  extraordinary price that Californians pay for political failure.

Mr. Speaker, to try to provide at least some relief, I have  introduced the Gas Tax Reduction Act here in the House, which would  place a national cap on how much a State can tax its own citizens for  gasoline. This would save Californians at least 21 cents a gallon right  off the bat.

Unsurprisingly, the Governor of California, Gavin Newsom, has come  out against it. I am hopeful that we can get bipartisan support for  this commonsense, much-needed proposition in this House, get  Californians a modicum of relief, and ultimately change the disastrous  policies that have produced this reality for our citizens.              Serial Child Molester Released Early in California

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the  alarming news that in California a serial child molester by the name of  David Funston has been granted early release.

The parole board has granted parole to Mr. Funston, a serial child  molester, who, according to the Sacramento County Sheriff's Office,  used candy and toys to lure children 7 years old and younger. He was  convicted of 16 counts of kidnapping and child molestation. According  to the sheriff, multiple young children were victimized, some as young  as 4 years old.

He was sentenced to more than 20 years in prison, along with three  additional consecutive sentences of 25 years to life, with the judge  describing him as ``the monster parents fear the most.'' Yet the parole  board has now released him or has recommended his release pursuant to a  program known as the Elderly Parole Program that grants eligibility of  parole to individuals over the age of 50.

Now, when this program was expanded to include anyone over 50, even  for these most heinous and vile of crimes, I was a member of the  legislature and voted against it. It, in fact, received broad  bipartisan opposition, yet Governor Gavin Newsom nevertheless signed  that bill into law, putting many Californians and many young  Californians at risk.

Mr. Speaker, this is the outrageous consequence of reckless criminal  laws in California that have removed consequences for criminal activity  and provided for the early release of tens of thousands of serious,  hardened criminals.

We have made some progress in California through a voter initiative  to make crime illegal again, passed overwhelmingly by California voters  in 2024, but we have a long way to go to reverse the reckless laws that  remain on the books and protect Californians from the most heinous of  offenders.                                Cost of Living

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, it is undeniably true that many  Americans continue to struggle with the cost of living in this country,  but what is also true is that those struggles are not felt uniformly  throughout the country, that prices are much higher in certain places  than others.

In my own State of California, we have the highest cost of living in  the country and our Governor, Gavin Newsom, was asked about this  recently on CNN. Why does California have the highest cost of living in  the country?

The Governor had no answer, but the answer is obvious. It is the  State's failed policies that have--through this laboratory of democracy  experiment we have in this country where you can compare the results of  different policies side by side, State by State--driven up the price of  just about everything in California.

We have the highest gas prices in the country, the highest  electricity prices in the country, the second or third highest water  bills in the country, the second or third highest grocery prices in the  country, the highest taxes in the country, and the highest housing  costs in all of the continental United States.

The list goes on, which is why when you look at the Census Bureau's  measure of the real poverty rate, which accounts for the cost of  living, California has the highest poverty rate in the entire country.  By the way, we also have the highest unemployment rate and among the  lowest rates of wage growth, so not only are our residents forced to  pay the highest prices but they are experiencing the smallest boost in  their earning capacity and paychecks.

Now, the policies that have created this unfortunate reality are not  difficult to identify. California taxes its citizens more than any  State. It regulates its businesses more than any State. It has the  worst litigation environment of any State. It has the most onerous  regulations on gas, electricity and energy. It has failed to build  adequate water storage in many decades, although we are, thankfully,  changing that. It places tremendous restrictions and frivolous  litigation on building housing and imposes fees that make it cost tens  of thousands of dollars before you even break ground, which is why  Gavin Newsom claimed he was going to build 3.5 million new homes when  he came into office and has produced less than 20 percent of that  number.

Mr. Speaker, there is a lesson to be learned here. When we talk about  an affordability agenda that we can pursue here in the House to lower  costs and improve the quality of life for folks all across the country,  it is to do the opposite of what States like California have done. It  is to do the opposite of overregulating each and every sector.

Instead, we should look to unleash the extraordinary capacity of the  people of this country to build, to start businesses, to build housing,  to remove the barriers, to be on the side of those who are creating and  making life and providing more opportunities to folks all across this  country.

We passed some measures that are important steps in that direction,  but we certainly have more to do. We should bear in mind the example of  California as we move forward with that agenda and seek to raise the  quality of life for folks across the country.                 No Path Forward for California High-Speed Rail

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the CEO of the California High- Speed Rail Authority was recently arrested and placed on leave, so the  Rail Authority is now on its sixth CEO. That means there have been six  more CEOs than there have been passengers because, of course, there  haven't been any passengers, despite spending $17 million over 17  years. There has been no track laid.

Nevertheless, the Governor recently, with quite a bit of hoopla, held  an event in Kern County to celebrate the fact that a single railhead  has now been completed. The Governor that crowed they are now entering  the track-laying phase, whatever that might mean.

Mr. Speaker, it is time for the Governor to acknowledge what the U.S.  Department of Transportation did in a recent compliance review. This  project has no viable path forward.

Thankfully, in the House of Representatives, following a bill I  introduced to this effect, there was a bipartisan vote to cut off all  further Federal funding for high-speed rail. There is no  viable path forward for the project. I do believe when we have a new  Governor in the State, the project will finally be wound down.

Taxpayers also deserve answers on where all of this money has gone.  Curiously, as we are seeing new scrutiny to answer that question as to  where the money is going, the Governor is pushing a bill in the  legislature to keep records of the project secret and to create new  exceptions to our public records laws that specifically apply to high- speed rail. That raises the question: I wonder what he doesn't want the  public to see.

Mr. Speaker, I will continue to fight to assure that our share of  Federal tax dollars goes toward projects like our roads that will  actually benefit Californians, now that we have cut off funding for  high-speed rail, and in encouraging leadership at the State level to  wind this project down immediately so we don't continue to throw good  money after bad.                     Audit of Next Generation 911 System

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to hear that  there is going to be an investigation, an audit, of the so-called Next  Generation 911 system in California by the nonpartisan State auditor.  At least this is being requested.

For several years, since 2019, Californians were charged extra fees  on their phone bills. This was to build a Next Generation 911 system.  The fees were paid by the taxpayers, and they went into a pot of money  to build out this system. The Newsom administration ultimately spent  $450 million building this new 911 system, which is needed. Our system  is outdated in California.

Yet the Newsom administration has just announced it is scrapping the  entire project because the technology doesn't work. How does that  happen, Mr. Speaker? This is California, by the way. Silicon Valley is  a stone's throw away from the Governor's office. How do we charge  Californians fees for years on their phone bills, spend $450 million,  and get absolutely nothing for it because the technology doesn't work?

Now our taxpayers have lost that money, and we still don't have an  upgraded 911 system. We are looking at ways we can bring some scrutiny  at the Federal level, as well; but we need to get answers why, once  again, Californians have been forced to sacrifice and gotten absolutely  nothing in return.                 Wealth Tax Causing California's Mass Exodus

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, the so-called wealth tax being  proposed in California has now caused individuals worth a combined $1  trillion, by some estimates, to leave the State. The latest are Mark  Zuckerberg and Steven Spielberg. Others include Larry Ellison and the  founders of Google, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, among many others.

The wealth tax would confiscate 5 percent of an individual's net  worth if they are worth more than $1 billion. What is worse is it would  actually go after people who have already left the State if they had  been in California within a year of the measure's enactment.

That is why you are seeing this exodus simply based on the wealth tax  being proposed. If you stick around too long before it goes into  effect, if you miss the deadline, then they will come after you and  seize your assets wherever you might be. I could not think of a more  self-defeating proposition.

Let's start with the fact that a lot of individuals with a high net  worth don't necessarily have 5 percent of their assets that are liquid.  They will be forced to unwind their companies. When they are leaving  the State, they are taking their businesses and investments with them.  They are taking their income taxes with them.

That is why any country that has tried any such wealth tax has  actually repealed it because it has had the opposite of the intended  effect.

I have introduced the Keep Jobs in California Act to preempt the most  blatantly unconstitutional provision of this measure, the one that  would tax former residents. My measure simply says that a State cannot  seize the assets of former residents.

Mr. Speaker, this is a straightforward proposition. If this goes into  effect, then it will stop this mass exodus because people will not need  to leave California simply based on the threat that this could  eventually go into effect.                        Shutting Down Illegal Biolabs

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I have joined with several of  my colleagues, including the cosponsor of legislation I have  introduced, Representative Costa, in calling for immediate  consideration of our bill to find, detect, and shut down illegal  biolabs operating throughout the United States.

A couple of weeks ago, a second illegal biolab run by Chinese  nationals was discovered in Las Vegas. This follows the lab that was  found in Reedley, California, a couple of years ago. It was run by the  same international fugitive with ties to the Chinese Communist Party.

While the samples are being tested now, it looks very similar to what  was found in Reedley, where some of the world's most dangerous  pathogens were being held, pathogens like E. coli, like malaria, like  HIV, like COVID, like AIDS in this facility that no one knew was even  there. They also had genetically modified transgenic mice in this  facility in Reedley.

By the way, they had a freezer that was labeled ``Ebola'' at that  Reedley facility. It should be noted that Ebola has a 50 percent  fatality rate--a 50 percent fatality rate. While it is not especially  transmissible, we know based upon our experience with COVID that in the  Wuhan lab, they conduct gain-of-function research.

Imagine if they produced a strain of Ebola with its 50 percent  fatality rate but at a higher level of transmissibility. I could not  think of a more jarring threat to public health in the United States.

Mr. Speaker, the U.S. Congress needs to act with urgency in  considering and passing this legislation that we have introduced. After  the first lab was discovered, I said that we don't know how many others  are out there. That concern was echoed by a report by the House Select  Committee on the Chinese Communist Party.

We now know that at least one other lab was out there. The question  still remains: How many others are there? We need to get answers to  that very quickly, and we need to make sure we are doing everything we  possibly can to find and shut down any other labs that are indeed out  there.             Congratulating PRIDE Industries' 60 Years of Service

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  and recognize PRIDE Industries on reaching their 60-year anniversary  milestone.

In 1966, PRIDE Industries was founded in the basement of a church in  Auburn, California, by a group of parents of young adults with  developmental disabilities. These parents shared a simple, yet  powerful, goal: To ensure their grown children had purpose and the  opportunity to participate in the workforce.

Now, 60 years later, still based in Placer County, they are the  leading employer in the Nation of people with disabilities. PRIDE has  operations that span across 15 different States, as well as here in  Washington, D.C.

Throughout the past six decades, PRIDE Industries has remained  committed to making direct investments in breaking down barriers to  employment, strengthening our local workforce, driving economic growth,  and delivering a lasting and meaningful social impact.

It is an honor to represent exemplary organizations like Pride  Industries in Congress. As such, I commend Pride Industries for their  ongoing dedication to helping people with disabilities to realize their  full potential and maximize their participation in the workforce.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  join Pride Industries in celebrating 60 years of service, and I look  forward to seeing all that they will continue to accomplish in the  years to come.