Protect Medicaid Benefits for American Citizens


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688154/protect-medicaid-benefits-for-american-citizens


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I am calling on Congress today  to protect Medicaid benefits for American citizens.

There are a number of States that are using taxpayer dollars to  provide Medicaid to those who are in our country illegally. These are  public funds that could have been spent providing care for their own  citizens.

Worst of all is my own State of California, which became the first  State in the Nation, the only State in the Nation, to provide free  Medi-Cal to every single person in our State illegally.

It was recently revealed that this is costing California taxpayers  $9.5 billion this year alone. Right now, we are talking about costs  over a 10-year time horizon, so let's consider what that cost will be  here.

The cost is surely going to grow in terms of the year-over-year cost  given, A, the rising cost of healthcare; and, B, increased enrollment.  When you are the only State that is offering this most generous  benefit, it entices people to come to your State. Indeed, that is why  it went up 46 percent this year.

That is why, last year, the San Diego border sector had the most  illegal border crossings of any border sector in the country for the  first time since the 1990s.

When that $9.5 billion cost is factored in this year and the rate at  which it is going to grow year over year for the next decade, we are  talking about hundreds of billions of dollars that is going to go  toward providing Medicaid benefits to people who are in our country  illegally. These are funds that could have gone toward improving access  to care for the most vulnerable Californians.

Mr. Speaker, I think this is absolutely unacceptable. For all of the  Members who have been giving impassioned speeches about the importance  of protecting Medicaid, joining our efforts to stop this and joining my  bill, the No Medicaid for Illegal Immigrants Act, is an opportunity to  do just that.            In Recognition of Kathryn Mandichak on Her Retirement

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I wish to recognize retiring  Mono County Board of Education member, Kathryn Mandichak, for her years  of devoted service to the people of Mono County.

Kathryn has been a leader in the local community for over four  decades, serving trustee area 1 as a board member for 11 terms.

Kathy was born in Huntington Park, California, later moving to Mono  County with her husband and three children from Whittier.

In 1982, Kathy began her service on the Mono County Board of  Education to fulfill her mission of providing what she described as a  ``good solid education'' to the students of her community.

During her tenure as a board member, Kathy continuously advocated for  the support and services of the Mono County Office of Education and  Mono County Public Libraries.

With the education board also serving as the county's library  authority board, Kathy worked tirelessly to support various local  libraries, including her beloved Coleville Library.

In addition to her work on the Mono County Board of Education, Kathy  also serves as a commissioner of the Antelope Valley Fire District. As  commissioner, Kathy has personified the district's core values of  professionalism, courtesy, and efficiency. She worked to provide fire- prevention services and safety education to the people of Mono County.

Kathy is known by others for her quick wit, thoughtful guidance, and  for her significant contributions to the Mono County Board of  Education. Her leadership and continued devotion to service have been  the hallmark of her career.

It is because of people like Kathryn Mandichak that Mono County is  such a great place to live, to learn, to work, and to recreate. Her  dedicated efforts contributed to the overall academic success of  students of the region, as well as the safety and security of the  people of Mono County.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives,  it is an honor and a privilege to acknowledge Kathryn Mandichak for her  career in public service. I join the people of Mono County in wishing  Kathy the very best in her retirement.