Providing Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Environmental Protection Agency Relating to ``California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control Standards; Advanced Clean Cars Ii; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision''


Mr. KILEY of California. Madam Speaker, today, I am presenting a  resolution I have sponsored under the Congressional Review Act to  reverse California's ban on gas-powered vehicles, to stop a single  individual, Gavin Newsom, from dictating what tens of millions of  Californians and other Americans are allowed to drive.

Madam Speaker, let me tell you where this ban came from. It was  September 23, 2020. California was in the throes of the worst wildfire  recorded in our State's history. There was untold suffering. Our heroic  firefighters were doing everything they possibly could to get the blaze  under control. Governor Newsom came out and announced: Here is what we  are going to do. We are going to ban gas-powered cars. Our cars make  wildfires worse.

It was an absurd, pathetic attempt to deflect responsibility from his  own failures, for an NPR investigation would soon find that Newsom  exaggerated the fire prevention work he had done by a staggering 690  percent and had also slashed the fire prevention budget by $150  million.

Newsom's edict eventually took the form of the regulation that is in  front of us today, and on his way out the door, President Biden gave  him special authority to effectively impose it on the rest of the  country.

Three things about this mandate are undoubtedly true: Number one, it  was never voted on, not in Sacramento, not in Washington. Number two,  it does have a nationwide impact. Number three, it is not just a  problem for the future. The 35 percent mandate goes into effect next  year.

Therefore, we must act with urgency to democratically reverse that  which was unilaterally imposed. It will be one of the most important  things we do in this Congress. It will lower costs and restore common  sense. It will restore the paradigm of consumer choice.

Madam Speaker, I like EVs. I happen to drive an EV myself. It works  well for where I live and for my lifestyle, but I would never think to  use the coercive powers of government to impose my personal preferences  as a consumer on everyone else. Americans should be able to drive a car  of their choice, not one that is chosen for them by the government.

Finally, with this resolution, we can restore a paradigm of dynamic  innovation rather than command and control mandates. It is an odd  approach to innovation that says we are going to force innovation by  banning any and all available alternatives. I believe in the future of  clean energy. I believe that it is upon us now, but that future is  being driven by entrepreneurs and innovators, not by vainglorious  politicians.

Madam Speaker, I look forward to this resolution passing. I hope it  does with bipartisan support, so we can prevent the insanity of  California's politics from infecting the rest of the Nation.