Public Lands Management


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the  important issue of public lands management.

My district is very blessed. From the iconic landscapes of Death  Valley to the ski areas of the High Sierras and the wonder of Lake  Tahoe, we host and steward some of the most magnificent places in the  entire country.

Across millions of acres of public land, seven national forests, and  countless parks, these wild places are the source of clean water and  air for much of the State, while providing jobs for nearly 545,000  Californians and essential tax revenue for our communities and, of  course, recreational opportunities for millions of visitors every year.

That is why it is so important that any decisions made regarding the  acquisition or disposition of these lands be made only after  significant and meaningful local input.

The communities most affected by our decisions must be willing  partners in any plans made by the Federal Government. Local buy-in is  the key to preserving these spaces and guaranteeing that our policies  benefit the people that we represent.

For that reason, I urge my colleagues to oppose any plan that would  supersede the will of our local communities and reject efforts to force  land decisions without prior consultation.                        California Air Resources Board

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in California, we have just  learned that CARB, the California Air Resources Board, is plowing ahead  with the imposition of its new so-called low-carbon fuel standard to  take effect in July.

The board has refused to even say what impact this is going to have  on gas prices, but studies have shown that it could increase gas prices  in California by another 85 cents per gallon.

Let's just consider where we are right now. In California, the price  of gas is nearly $5 a gallon. People get photos from their friends who  are on vacation in other States, showing $2.50 or something like that.  They simply can't believe it.

By far, California already has the highest gas prices in the country.  Second place is Hawaii, an island State, where gas is 39 cents cheaper.

Not only that, the current price does not account for the fact that  two refineries have recently announced that they are closing,  significantly reducing the refining capacity in our State.

A study out of USC estimated that this could increase the price of  gas to $8 per gallon by the end of next year, and then we layer on top  of that this new so-called low carbon fuel standard. It won't be long  before we are paying $9 a gallon for gas or maybe $10 a gallon for gas  in California, which is something our constituents simply cannot  afford.

It is one of the major reasons why the cost of living in our State  has spiraled out of control. It is one of the major reasons why  California has the highest real poverty rate of any State in the  country. It is one of the major reasons why California has led the  Nation in domestic out-migration for 5 years in a row, according to U- Haul's own rankings because folks simply cannot afford to live in our  State.

I am calling on Governor Newsom and the legislature to stop the  imposition of this latest punishment for California drivers, which  could increase the cost of gas 85 cents a gallon.

I am also calling on the Governor and the legislature to revisit our  State's gas tax, the highest in the Nation. I ask him to revisit  onerous regulations like cap-and-trade and to revisit all of the other  regulations involving the fuel mix and all of the other things that  have demonstrably increased the price of gas in our State.

Mr. Speaker, Californians are ready for common sense. They are ready  for some sanity to return. They simply are tired of having to pay far  more for basic commodities than any place else in the country.