Ten Radical Failed Policies of Governor Newsom


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692138/ten-radical-failed-policies-of-governor-newsom


Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, this last week, a local  newspaper published a letter to the editor claiming that by fighting  against Governor Newsom's policies, I was not serving my constituents.

I very strongly disagree with that statement.

The fact is that we have a Governor whose policies have turned the  greatest State in the country into the most popular State to leave.

We have a Governor who believes that because he has a supermajority  in the legislature, he can run roughshod over the rights of  Californians and continue to cause the quality of life in our State to  decline.

Here in Congress, we have tools to fight back. I set out at the  beginning of this year to use whatever tools are available to fight  back against Governor Newsom's most harmful policies, and I believe  that is precisely how I can best serve not only my constituents but all  Californians and, indeed, all Americans because the Governor has  himself said that his failed policies are ``a model for the Nation.''

I will go through the 10 areas, the 10 radical failed policies of  Governor Newsom, which have prevailed in California that we set out to  reverse, to fight to overturn or to, at least where we can, mitigate  the harm.

I will give a progress report on where we are with respect to each of  those 10 items.

Very quickly, the 10 are: Number one, crazy EV mandates; number two,  free Medicaid for illegal immigrants; number three, out-of-control  homelessness; number four, reckless crime policies; number five, the  high-speed rail disaster; number six, the sanctuary State disgrace;  number seven, failing public schools; number eight, manmade water  shortages; number nine, catastrophic wildfires; and number 10, chaotic  elections.

The good news is we have made significant progress when it comes to  each of those 10 items.

When it comes to EV mandates, just about a week and a half ago, the  Senate followed in the House's footsteps and passed my resolution to  overturn Gavin Newsom's ban on gas-powered vehicles.

Any day now, President Trump will sign my resolution into law and  Gavin Newsom's unworkable gas car ban, where he wanted to dictate what  millions of Californians drive, will be reversed and Californians will  be able to drive the car of their choice.

Not only that, we are reversing Newsom's EV mandate when it comes to  trucks, and we have already seen the reversal of his mandates when it  comes to trains, when it comes to buses, when  it comes to lawnmowers, and when it comes to leaf blowers.

Number Two, on free Medi-Cal for illegal immigrants, a policy that no  other State in the country has, a policy that has literally driven our  Medicaid system to the point of insolvency, I introduced the No  Medicaid for Illegal Immigrants Act.

We have been applying pressure in every way we can, and finally Gavin  Newsom has bowed to that pressure. He has announced that he is  sunsetting his own policy, ending it at the conclusion of this year.

Of course, he still has not gone far enough because he wants to keep  it going for those who have already enrolled, but this is a significant  victory in forcing the Governor's hand.

When it comes to homelessness, California has by far the worst  homelessness in the country, where the population of homeless has  skyrocketed during Newsom's tenure as Governor, where he spent $24  billion and a State audit determined that he lost track of the money as  homelessness, again, continued to go up.

What is worse is, we had this decision from the Ninth Circuit Court  of Appeals that said that local communities weren't able to do anything  about homelessness. The decision said you are not allowed to regulate  camping, you are not allowed to regulate homeless encampments in public  spaces, even in front of schools or in parks.

Well, last year, we had a significant victory before the U.S. Supreme  Court, to overturn that lower court decision. Here is the thing: Newsom  wanted to keep the Ninth Circuit decision in place, whereas I advocated  in an amicus brief that we reverse that decision and we restore the  power of local communities to regulate homelessness in a commonsense  way.

Because of that victory before the Supreme Court, you are now seeing,  across California, order returning to our public spaces. Even far left,  very heavily democratic jurisdictions like Fremont and San Francisco  have acted on this new ability provided by the Supreme Court decision  that I advocated for to clean up their streets, and we are starting to  actually see the situation improve.

Number Four, when it comes to crime, we had an enormous victory last  November when it came to Prop 36, an initiative that I helped to lead  and qualify for the ballot that has made crime illegal again in  California by restoring some basic consequences for theft and open drug  use and dealing fentanyl.

Now, of course, Gavin Newsom and the supermajority in California  fought against Prop 36 each and every step of the way. They even  concocted corrupt schemes to take it off the ballot and deny  Californians the opportunity to vote, but each and every one of their  schemes failed.

Despite Governor Newsom leading the opposition to this initiative to  make crime illegal again in California, it passed overwhelmingly. It  passed with a higher percentage than any initiative on the ballot. It  passed in each and every one of California's 58 counties, even Gavin  Newsom's and Kamala Harris' San Francisco.

As a result, you are seeing law enforcement throughout California  that now has a new ability to restore order and arrest people who  commit crimes. We are starting to see real improvements across the  State that we have not seen in a very long time.

Five, when it comes to high-speed rail, the biggest public  infrastructure failure in United States history, which Gavin Newsom has  continued to pour billions and billions of dollars into, at the  beginning of this year, I introduced legislation to say that it shall  receive no more Federal funding.

I then joined Secretary of Transportation Sean Duffy at Union Station  in Los Angeles to announce an investigation, an audit, and a compliance  review by the Federal Department of Transportation into California  High-Speed Rail and the billions it has received in Federal funding.  Just this week, we got the results of that audit, finding that  California is woefully out of compliance and that there is no viable  path forward for the project.

I believe that with this Federal money now stopped, this is the  beginning of the end of the high-speed rail disaster in California.

Six, when it comes to the sanctuary State, we have taken a number of  measures. I introduced a bill, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. I  also introduced the Freedom to Cooperate Act to allow local authorities  to cooperate with Federal immigration enforcement. We have also seen a  number of executive orders making it very clear that sanctuary  jurisdictions are unacceptable and are in defiance of Federal law.

In California, U.S. Attorney Bill Essayli has found a way to  circumvent effectively the sanctuary State using the powers of Federal  law enforcement, so we have come a long way toward ending the disgrace  of the sanctuary State in California.

When it comes to California's failing public schools, which are just  about the worst in the entire country, we have the lowest literacy rate  of any State in the country. We continue to see attacks on high- performing schools from Governor Newsom and his enablers in the  legislature.

We also have some good news on this front. I am chair of the House  Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education,  and we have been fighting to give Americans school choice. In this  reconciliation bill, H.R. 1, there is a provision that would ignite a  school choice revolution across America by providing tax credits that  can then be used to allow students to attend a school of their choice.  We believe this could enable meaningful school choice for 2 million  students across the country.

I am also continuing to advocate for the High-Quality Charter Schools  Act, a bill I have introduced that would enable a similar measure of  school choice for students in the public school system through charter  schools, potentially tripling the number of students attending charter  schools across America.

Eight, when it comes to the absurdity of California's man-made water  crisis, where, for example, when we had heavy storms in California that  caused 20,000 cubic feet of water per second to be cascading out of  Folsom Dam, we at the same time had a drought emergency still in effect  because we don't have adequate water storage to capture the water when  it comes. We don't have the ability to level out these cycles of  wetness and dryness that are utterly predictable in California. On top  of that, we have crazy policies that divert water to the ocean for the  most absurd of reasons.

The good news is that we are starting to see some of this diversion  of water come to an end, and we have secured Federal funding for the  most significant water project in California in decades, Sites  Reservoir, which is now well on its way to substantially expanding  water storage in California. We are also taking steps to raise the  level of Shasta Dam to provide additional water storage there, as well.

Nine, when it comes to the catastrophic wildfires, which have  afflicted my district in searing and tragic ways and which the whole  world saw on tragic display in Los Angeles at the beginning of this  year, we know that California's failures to adequately manage its  forests have precipitated many of these catastrophic fires in addition  to several other policy failures.

The good news is that we are restoring common sense when it comes to  forest management. We just passed on a bipartisan basis a couple of  months ago the Fix Our Forests Act, which will streamline the sort of  environmental regulations that stop us from appropriately managing our  forests. It passed the House with bipartisan support, and I expect to  see it pass the United States Senate very soon.

Finally, when it comes to California's election system, it is much  more chaotic than any other State in the country. We take a month just  to count votes, so the entire country is waiting for California to  finish a process that takes everyone else a matter of hours or a few  days.

We have passed in the House of Representatives the SAVE Act, which  advances a commonsense proposition that you should provide proof of  citizenship in order to register to vote. A recent survey showed that  72 percent of California's Democrats, Republicans, and Independents  support this commonsense policy.

In addition, I have introduced the Election Results Accountability  Act, saying that California has to count its votes in a timely manner.  Finally, I believe that Californians will have a  chance in the next election to vote on a proposition to establish voter  ID in California elections.

On each of these fronts, we have made significant progress, and it is  improving the quality of life for Californians. Once again, this is a  concern for all Americans because by making California sane again, we  will help to bring about and continue this golden age in this country  and chart a future that truly lives up to the founding ideals of our  country.

California has always been at the leading edge of the American Dream.  When California thrives, the rest of the country does, as well.

Responding to California High-Speed Rail Authority Statement

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I want to take a moment to  respond to the statement put out by California's High-Speed Rail  Authority in response to the audit from the Department of  Transportation that came out yesterday.

This audit began a few months ago. I joined Secretary of  Transportation Sean Duffy in Los Angeles to announce the investigation  into California's 17-year-long failure to build anything despite  receiving massive funding at the State and Federal levels.

The audit specifically looked at what happened to the $4 billion in  Federal funds that were provided through recent grants. The result of  the audit showed that the State is woefully out of compliance, that it  has built nothing, and that there is no viable path forward for the  project; therefore, those grants can now be terminated.

The High-Speed Rail Authority came out with this statement, which,  frankly, defies belief. It said: ``The Authority strongly disagrees  with the [Federal Rail Administration's] conclusions, which are  misguided and do not reflect the substantial progress made to deliver  high-speed rail in California.''

Mr. Speaker, I almost cannot believe those words: ``the substantial  progress to deliver high-speed rail in California.'' What progress has  been made, let alone substantial progress? There literally has not been  any track laid in 17 years. There has not been one passenger in 17  years. There have been five CEOs of the rail authority, by the way, so  the CEOs of the rail authority outnumber the passengers 5-0. Mr.  Speaker, $17 billion has been spent already, and literally nothing has  been built.

By the way, the initial projection was that this thing was going to  be done in 2020. That is what we were told when it was proposed in  2008, that by the year 2020, we will have a high-speed rail system,  that you could hop on it in Los Angeles, and it will take you swiftly  to San Francisco. Wouldn't that be nice?

We are now in the year 2025, and nothing has been built. We are 5  years past the deadline for the whole thing to be done. Nothing has  been built, and the rail authority has the audacity to claim that  substantial progress has been made.

By the way, we were also told that, by the year 2030, we would have  100 million riders per year. We now know for a fact that the number of  riders per year by the year 2030 will be 100 million less than  forecast. There will be zero riders still by the year 2030. We are  told, no, no, substantial progress has been made.

Mr. Speaker, how do we know there will be no riders by the year 2030?  The rail authority has said so itself. It has continued to scale back  its initial leg of the system but has continued to push back the  completion date for that initial segment.

The initial segment of the system from Bakersfield to Merced would  span 119 miles. For those who are not from California, these are not  exactly population centers. They have set a deadline to complete that  by 2033. They are now saying that even that deadline will not be met.

Mr. Speaker, in 2033, we will not even have the initial segment of  119 miles from Bakersfield to Merced. By 2020, we were initially  promised we would have the whole thing from L.A. to San Francisco. By  2030, we would have 100 million riders.

The CEO of the rail authority came out recently and said he has a new  and very ambitious plan that by the year 2045, 20 years from now, not  only will we have this Bakersfield to Merced segment done but we will  also have Gilroy to Palmdale.

For those who don't know California geography, where are these  places? Neither is especially close to San Francisco or Los Angeles.

Let's give him the benefit of the doubt. Let's assume this actually  happens. By 2045, we have Palmdale to Gilroy. There is no reason to  believe that will be true since every single other deadline has been  missed and has been pushed back. Let's give him the benefit of the  doubt.

They work hard for 20 years. They continue to spend tens of billions  of dollars. They build Palmdale to Gilroy by 2045. How exactly would we  utilize this system if we wanted to go from L.A. to San Francisco? Here  is what we would have to do.

We would have to get on one rail system. It would take about 2 hours  to get from L.A. to Palmdale. A passenger would then have to get off  and hop onto the high-speed train. They probably have to wait for it.

That would take about 2 hours to then get to Gilroy. At Gilroy, a  person would get off and wait for another train, one that is not a  high-speed one. That would take them from Gilroy into San Francisco.

Overall, the trip at a minimum would take 6 hours and would span  three different transit systems. It wouldn't be doable until 2045 at a  minimum.

Right now, today, for decades, a traveler could take a flight on  Southwest or several other airlines from L.A. to San Francisco in about  an hour.

No, we are told that this vision, this new plan, amounts to  substantial progress such that the results of the audit are--let's see,  what were the words here?--misguided. They do not reflect the  substantial progress that has been made.

By the way, the Governor has hired a gentleman who specifically goes  around on X attacking people like me who criticize anything that the  Governor is for. Newsom is completely for spending billions and  billions on the high-speed rail. In fact, he just doubled the amount  that will be spent this year through the cap-and-trade fund.

This gentleman responded to my criticism of the high-speed rail by  saying that we are creating all these jobs. That is what this is about.

I am all for creating jobs. In fact, it would be great if we had more  jobs in California. As it is, under Governor Newsom, California has the  highest unemployment rate in the country. A recent jobs report showed  literally zero job growth in California. I would love to create more  jobs.

We could create jobs by hiring people to dig a hole and hire more  people to come and fill the dirt back in, which isn't that far from  what is actually happening with the high-speed rail.

It is better to create jobs doing something that actually creates  value, that improves the quality of life of Californians, and that  stimulates economic activity. Then there are actually more jobs because  those are jobs associated with the economic activity that results from  having something useful when it comes to transportation.

I do believe that this compliance review is the beginning of the end  for high-speed rail in California. I am now calling on the House to  pass my bill which provides that not only will Federal funds continue  to be unavailable during this administration but that the project will  be ineligible for any further Federal funding going forward.

Once we eliminate the possibility of future Federal funding, the  State will have no choice but to acknowledge reality and finally wind  down this embarrassing and disastrous project. This is the worst public  infrastructure failure in U.S. history.

They will use those funds where they are truly needed, which is on  our roads, on our other transportation infrastructure, or, frankly, on  literally anything else.                        Grading for Equity Initiative

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, last week, San Francisco  announced a new grading for equity initiative. As the chair of the  Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education,  this caught my eye.

What they are proposing is truly beyond belief. This grading for  equity initiative in San Francisco was in a sense a brilliant solution  to San Francisco's problem of having so many failing schools. It would  simply fiat that kids would not be failed.

Anyone who got an F would just magically be given a C. Even if a  student got a B-minus all the way down to 81 percent, that would  actually be considered an A under this grading for equity initiative.

By the way, there would be no grading on anything--not homework, not  attendance, not midterms, or anything like that. Grades wouldn't be  given at all. The only thing that would actually matter for grades is a  final exam. Even then, a student would get to keep retaking it until  the student got the grade that he or she wanted.

Last week, I raised some concerns about this new initiative. Just for  some context, it should be understood that San Francisco has had among  the very worst student achievement gaps in the State and anywhere  across the country. During COVID, they were just about the last place  in the country to reopen their schools.

Students were attending class every day with no problem throughout  the country and even in other parts of California. Yet, this corrupt  school district refused to open its schools. Instead, what it spent its  time on was creating a commission to rename schools.

They came up with such interesting recommendations as removing the  name of Abraham Lincoln from an elementary school. Lincoln was not woke  enough for this commission. They even went so far as to suggest  removing the name of Dianne Feinstein from a school. All the while,  these schools were closed, and students were continuing to fall behind.

Sadly, it didn't surprise me to see San Francisco come out with this  absolutely preposterous grading for equity initiative.

The good news is that after we focused attention on this and folks  spoke out against it, the district has now reversed course and has said  they are not going to implement this in the coming school year as  planned.

That is good news for all Californians because the crazy ideas that  often start in San Francisco then often spread throughout the rest of  the State and can even spread to the rest of the country.

I am hopeful that this will be a wake-up call that the way to solve  the problem of failing public schools is not simply to lower  expectations, arbitrarily raise grades, and make it so that failure  just simply isn't within the grading system. Rather, it is to raise  expectations and follow the forms of accountability and flexibility and  other education reforms that have elevated student achievement in much  more forward-looking jurisdictions across the country.                 California Students Trapped in Failing Schools

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, yesterday, in my home State of  California, the California State Assembly passed one of the most  despicable education bills that we have seen in a long time. Assembly  Bill 84 is the latest all-out attack on charter school families and  students in California.

It is part of what has been a war against charters since Governor  Gavin Newsom came into office. Indeed, we are seeing that reach a truly  concerning level right now, even before this bill.

Across California, we are seeing new legislation passed by the  supermajority and signed by Newsom used to devastating effect to target  high-performing charter schools and to shut them down or to stop new  charters from starting up, forcing families to return to neighborhood  schools that they had chosen not to attend and that, in many cases, are  failing to teach students the basics.

We have many examples now of high-performing charters in the State  being nonrenewed, but this bill, AB 84, makes things even worse. It  specifically targets independent study and homeschool-based charters,  which are very important for many families throughout California and  which are very important, for example, for students with special needs.

It seeks to defund these schools and force them to shut down, taking  this option away from those families and forcing them to go back into a  system that wasn't working for them. It seeks to further trap students  in failing schools and ensure that California remains as having among  the worst education outcomes in the country, especially for students in  underserved communities.

The bill is so bad and disgraceful that almost 20 Democrats just  didn't even vote at all. They abstained. They knew it was terrible, but  they didn't want to go against their party, the Governor, or special  interests. They simply abstained from the vote.

This is a measure that absolutely cannot be allowed to pass. It still  needs to go through the California State Senate, but I would encourage  folks throughout the State to get in touch with their Senator about it.

The fact that we have this continued assault on students and families  and their schools, this continued attempt to continue educational  inequities in our State to continue our State and country's decline  when it comes to education, this makes it all the more imperative that  we do everything that we can here to provide choice to families and  advance educational excellence.

While California is the worst of the worst when it comes to how our  school system is run and the policies that the Governor has imposed,  across the country, we have seen continued decline when it comes to  student achievement. Spending has continued to go up, and student  achievement has continued to go down. We are falling behind other  countries, and it is putting our country at significant risk for the  future.

Millions of kids in California and throughout the country are not  getting the education that they deserve. As chair of the Early  Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee, I am  committed to reversing these trends.

The good news is that I am sponsoring the Educational Choice for  Children Act. The basic concept of that bill is to enable school choice  for millions of kids across the country. It is now included in the  reconciliation bill, H.R. 1, which I believe is one of the most  important facets of this bill.

I am also strongly advocating for a similar measure, the High-Quality  Charter School Act, to be passed either as a standalone bill or,  perhaps more relevantly, as part of the same reconciliation bill, H.R.  1.

We believe this measure could triple the number of students attending  high-performing charter schools across the country, and it would be a  great help to California families who are being attacked by their own  State government.

If we could ignite this school choice revolution across the country,  then what the data shows is that this will help not only those millions  of families that choose to enroll in a public charter or a private  school, but it will lift all boats. It will advance student achievement  for kids all across the country. It will reverse this decline that we  have continued to see in our education system. It will give families  the opportunities that they deserve and that they are entitled to. It  will put our country on much stronger footing for generations to come.                       congratulating tahoe yacht club

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate  the Tahoe Yacht Club as they celebrate their 100-year anniversary.

In 1925, many San Francisco families discovered and became drawn to  the beauty of Lake Tahoe. A small group of individuals formed the Tahoe  Power Boat Club to organize seasonal boat regattas, which quickly  became a highlight of the Tahoe Basin. In 1938, the organization  officially became the Tahoe Yacht Club, the name it proudly holds  today.

Over the following decades, membership grew exponentially to around  600. The organization later established the Trans-Tahoe Race, the  organization's largest sailing event, which soon became internationally  acclaimed. It attracted people from across the world. This July will  mark the 62nd annual Trans-Tahoe Regatta.

The Tahoe Yacht Club has exhibited endurance and resilience over the  past century, briefly closing over COVID-19 but overcoming the  challenges of that time to reopen to a wave of new members. Today, the  Tahoe Yacht Club boasts a membership of 450 individuals and maintains a  year-round calendar of outdoor activities, environmental cleanup days,  and strong community engagement.

It is an honor to represent exemplary organizations like the Tahoe  Yacht Club in Congress. The Tahoe Yacht  Club contributes to the Tahoe Basin's status as an international  destination, and its contributions have had a positive and lasting  impact on the region.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am honored to recognize the Tahoe Yacht Club for their 100-year  anniversary.               national teacher appreciation week: danna mccoy

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to highlight a  teacher from the Colfax Elementary School District, Danna McCoy, who  has dedicated the past 4 years of her career to educating the young  students of her community.

Mrs. McCoy is an invaluable member of the Colfax Elementary team. She  started as a paraeducator before going back to school to become a  teacher. Now, she has many different roles at Colfax Elementary,  serving as their resource specialist program teacher, working on the  multitiered system of support team, coordinating the tier 2 check-in,  check-out program, and acting as the SST coordinator.

Mrs. McCoy's efforts are critical to ensuring that students'  individualized education plans, IEPs, are being met, and she has built  an educational environment dedicated to helping all students reach  their full potential. She also creates schedules for all of her  school's paraprofessionals to ensure smooth support across the campus.

Mrs. McCoy's efforts do not go unnoticed. She is an exceptional  educator, and she continues to make a strong impact in the educational  journey of her students. She is known by others for her hard work,  determination, strong ability to collaborate with other colleagues and  work in a team, and for the brightness and positivity that she brings  to the school.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers like her in  Congress, and I commend Mrs. McCoy for her exceptional dedication to  education and promoting student success and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mrs. Danna McCoy for her significant  contributions to the Colfax Elementary School District and the young  students of the Colfax community.                           Recognizing Chris Wardlaw

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to recognize a  teacher from the Western Placer Unified School District, Mr. Chris  Wardlaw, who has dedicated 25 years of his career to educating the  students of his community.

Mr. Wardlaw became passionate about teaching when he had the  opportunity to be a teaching assistant in graduate school when he was  studying to become a research biologist. In that capacity, university  students knew him for going above and beyond by holding extra weekly  office hours, meeting with study groups in the library before midterms,  and helping however he could. His true passion for teaching that was  ignited in that role has continued to this day.

His current high school students know him similarly as the teacher  who is always willing to help, no matter the time or the place. He  teaches during lunch, before school, after school, into the evening,  and sometimes over the weekend before an upcoming important test,  dedicating countless hours towards promoting the success of his  students. He even extends himself at times to help students that aren't  specifically in his class. He brings enthusiasm, positivity, and  perseverance to the classroom and uses these traits as tools to help  inspire students to learn and apply math and science to their day-to- day lives.

Additionally, Mr. Wardlaw created a summer bridge course after seeing  a critical need among students transitioning from middle school to high  school, with a goal of closing that gap. The success of the program is  evident as nearly all students in his program are thriving in math for  the first time.

Mr. Wardlaw exemplifies what it means to be a dedicated,  compassionate, selfless, and skilled educator. He is a source of  support for not only his students but also his colleagues in the  school. Mr. Wardlaw is an exceptional educator, and he continues to  make a profound impact on the educational journey of his students.

It is a true honor to represent exemplary teachers like him in  Congress, and I commend Mr. Wardlaw for his dedication to education and  for promoting student success in academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Mr. Chris Wardlaw for his significant  contributions to Western Placer Unified School District and to the  students of the Lincoln community.                      Recognizing Dr. Jennifer Sandfort

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in the spirit of National  Teacher Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to highlight a  teacher from the Folsom Cordova Unified School District, Dr. Jennifer  Sandfort, who has dedicated 25 years of her career to educating the  students in her community.

Beginning her career as a fifth grade teacher in 2000, Dr. Sandfort  later earned her doctorate with a focus on inclusive education for  students with autism. Her research has shaped teaching practices both  in her classroom and across the district. Dr. Sandfort has spent the  last 10 years teaching at Empire Oaks Elementary in Folsom, where she  has become known for her innovative, inclusive approach, and deep  commitment to student growth.

In her teaching style, Dr. Sandfort emphasizes collaboration,  relationships, and the transformative power of learning. Her tireless  devotion to her role has made a meaningful impact in the lives and  learning outcomes of her students. Not only does she empower her  students academically, but she also plays a pivotal role in supporting  her colleagues and fellow educators, reflecting her ongoing commitment  to public service and civic responsibility.

Dr. Sandfort exemplifies the highest standards of educational  excellence and leadership, which led her to be recognized recently by  the Folsom Cordova Unified School District as the 2024-2025 Teacher of  the Year.

I am proud to represent outstanding educators like Dr. Sandfort in  Congress, and I commend her for her more than two decades of dedication  to education and to promoting student success and academic achievement.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Dr. Jennifer Sandfort for her significant  contributions to the Folsom Cordova Unified School District and to the  students of the Folsom community.                       Recognizing Sarah Grimke Taylor

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National Teacher  Appreciation Week, I wish to take a moment to highlight a teacher from  the Eastern Sierra Unified School District, Sarah Grimke Taylor, who  has dedicated 29 years of her career to educating the students of her  community.

Ms. Taylor graduated from Amherst College in 1991, earned her  teaching credential from UC Berkeley, and earned her master's degree in  English from UC Irvine. In 1994, she began teaching English, and in the  last 15 years has taught both English and Drama at Lee Vining High  School. Due to the high standards of her performance, she has received  a number of awards recognizing her exceptional teaching abilities,  including the Outstanding Teachers of America Award from the Carlston  Family Foundation, the Olmsted Prize for Excellence in Secondary School  Teaching from Williams College, and most recently the Teacher of the  Year Award from Mono County.

Ms. Taylor is known for her empathy and attentiveness to the  differing needs of her students, as well as for the high expectations  she sets, and the corresponding support she provides to empower her  students to reach their full potential. She is regarded as a bedrock of  the school and is one that students can turn to for college and career  advice, academic assistance, or just to be a listening ear. Not only is  she an invaluable role model to her students, but she also is a leader  among her colleagues and was instrumental in creating a program that  mentors early career teachers, helping them hone their craft and build  a positive learning environment in their classrooms.

I am proud to represent educators like Ms. Taylor in Congress, and I  commend her for her exceptional dedication to education and to  promoting student success.

Therefore, on behalf of the United States House of Representatives, I  am pleased to recognize Ms. Sarah Grimke Taylor for her significant  contributions to the Eastern Sierra Unified School District and to the  students of the Eastern Sierra community.                       Recognizing Deputy Jeff Bilodeau

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, as part of the California  Congressional District Three Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week 2025, I wish to recognize Deputy Jeff Bilodeau of the  Placer County Sheriff's Office for his unwavering commitment to serving  and protecting the Placer County community.

Deputy Bilodeau serves as the Loomis traffic deputy and is known for  going above and beyond the normal call of duty to serve his community.  He reads books to children at the local library, partners with schools  to improve traffic flow and safety, provides educational presentations  about accident investigations, gives public safety presentations to the  town, and so much more. Through local partnerships, he has assisted in  contributing numerous bicycles and helmets to underprivileged children  in order to ensure that they have safe and reliable transportation  options.

His passion and commitment to mentorship, education, outreach, and  public safety make such a positive impact in our community. As such, he  has received several honors, including the Roseville Elks Lodge Officer  of the Year Award, and the soon to be induction into the United States  Police and Fire Olympics Hall of Fame.

It is an honor to represent such exemplary law enforcement officers  in Congress.

On behalf of California's Third Congressional District and the United  States House of Representatives, I would like to thank and honor Deputy  Jeff Bilodeau for serving and protecting the region as a dedicated  public servant.                        Recognizing Deputy Chad Blair

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, as part of the California  Congressional District Three Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week, I wish to recognize Deputy Chad Blair of the Sacramento  County Sheriff's Office for his unwavering commitment to serving and  protecting the community of Sacramento, California.

Deputy Blair began his career in 2019, working in the Investigation  Service Unit where he collaborated with the California Department of  Corrections and Rehabilitation to gather intelligence from inmates,  analyze trends in violence and narcotics distribution, and monitor gang  activity. Deputy Blair enhanced his training by becoming a jail  training officer and the team leader for the Custody Emergency Response  Team.

Subsequent to his service in corrections, he was assigned to patrol  where he utilizes technologies and community engagement to help prevent  crime and build bridges between the community and law enforcement.  Because of his dedication to community engagement, he was selected for  the Problem-Oriented Policing Team. In addition to his regular duties,  Deputy Blair is also a member of the Sheriff's Critical Incident  Negotiations Team in which he assists with hostage and barricade  situations through the use of negotiation and crisis management skills.  Within these roles, Deputy Blair has continually demonstrated  professionalism and commitment to service and community.

Deputy Blair is known by others for his expertise and highly trained  skill set, as well as for his dedication to enhancing trust between law  enforcement and community members to prevent crime and promote public  safety. He stands out as a daily example of excellence in law  enforcement and is a model to those around him.

Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to represent exemplary individuals like  Deputy Chad Blair. On behalf of California's Third Congressional  District and the United States House of Representatives, I thank and  honor Deputy Blair for serving and protecting the region as a dedicated  public servant.                    Recognizing Lieutenant Jason Doolittle

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, as part of the California Third  Congressional District Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week 2025, I recognize Lieutenant Jason Doolittle for his  unwavering commitment to serving and protecting Placer County.

Lieutenant Doolittle joined the Placer County Sheriff's Office in  2002 after he graduated from the police academy. He started his career  in law enforcement as a reserve deputy and later as an extra help  deputy, which allowed him to obtain experience in both patrol and  corrections. In 2003, Lieutenant Doolittle was brought on as a full- time deputy sheriff and worked in the jail.

In 2005, Lieutenant Doolittle was transferred to patrol. He was  responsible for the I-80 corridor, all the way from Bell Road in Auburn  to Donner Summit. During this time, Lieutenant Doolittle developed  strong self-reliance and proficiency, and his work did not go  unnoticed. He received the Mothers Against Drunk Driving Award in both  2006 and 2008 for the most DUI arrests in the department and was  awarded the Sheriff's Pin by then-Undersheriff D'Arcy.

While on patrol, Lieutenant Doolittle became a field training  officer, which gave him the responsibility of training new deputies in  law, policy, tactics, and procedures. In 2009, he joined the special  enforcement team, which is the equivalent of a SWAT team, and was  selected as the element leader for the chemical agents unit.

That year, Lieutenant Doolittle was also assigned as a detective to  the investigations unit. He handled cases involving burglary, theft,  fraud, stalking, homicides, sexual assaults, and assaults with deadly  weapons. Lieutenant Doolittle was very effective, with nearly all of  his cases resulting in guilty pleas from the defendants, and he was  recognized by the district attorney's office for the thoroughness of  his work.

In 2012, he received a promotion to sergeant. He went on to take such  roles as a team leader for the critical incident response team at the  jail, developing a supervisory training manual for the division, and  working in patrol. He has overseen teams of deputies and supervised  numerous high-risk and tactical incidents.

In 2024, Lieutenant Jason Doolittle was promoted once again, this  time to field operations lieutenant. He currently serves as the  commander of the south Placer substation located in the town of Loomis.  He manages the youth and community services unit, which oversees public  outreach and school resource officers, and works closely with local  government and business leaders.

Lieutenant Jason Doolittle's service does not stop there. He also  serves as an adjunct instructor at Sierra College's modular police  academy and teaches courses in firearms, weaponless defense, chemical  agents, introduction to criminal law, evidence, and professional  policing in the community. On top of this, he serves as a recruit  training officer, a position that allows him to mentor and guide new  recruits.

Lieutenant Jason Doolittle's leadership, commitment to excellence,  and ongoing involvement in our community sets him apart, and it is an  honor to represent exemplary individuals like him in Congress.

Therefore, on behalf of California's Third Congressional District and  the United States House of Representatives, I thank and honor  Lieutenant Doolittle for his ongoing commitment to serving and  protecting Placer County as a dedicated public servant.                       Recognizing Sheriff Mike Fisher

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, as part of the California Third  Congressional District Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week 2025, I recognize Sheriff Mike Fisher of the Sierra County  Sheriff's Office for his unwavering commitment to serving and  protecting the Sierra County community.

Sheriff Fisher has served his community for 25 years, starting his  career as a deputy with the Sierra County Sheriff's Office, then a  detective. Finally, he was elected as Sierra County sheriff in 2018 and  reelected in 2022.

Sheriff Fisher exemplifies what it means to be a dedicated public  servant, consistently prioritizing the needs of Sierra County and  serving as a strong representative of his community.

His passion for championing the rural and ranching communities of  Sierra County sets him apart as a leader,  and his steadfast commitment to safeguarding life, liberty, property,  and Sierra County's community values is unparalleled.

Sheriff Fisher is known for being a trusted leader and has earned the  respect of those who have the privilege to know him. It is an honor to  represent exemplary individuals like Sheriff Mike Fisher. On behalf of  California's Third Congressional District and the United States House  of Representatives, I thank and honor Sheriff Fisher for his nearly  three decades of serving and protecting the region as a dedicated  public servant.                       Recognizing Detective Dan Heaton

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, as part of the California Third  Congressional District Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week 2025, I recognize Detective Dan Heaton of the Sacramento  County Sheriff's Office for his unwavering commitment to serving and  protecting the communities of Sacramento, California.

Detective Heaton began his career with the Sacramento County  Sheriff's Office in 2014. He spent 2 years in corrections before moving  on to become a patrol officer. He eventually became a field training  officer, where he was responsible for training new deputies under his  watch. He was then assigned to the problem-oriented policing team, and  then was promoted to his current rank of detective, being assigned to  the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force.

Throughout Detective Heaton's career and decade of public service, he  has achieved a wide diversity of accomplishments to improve the safety  of our communities.

One accomplishment of particular note occurred last year, in which he  led and implemented a proactive investigation across nine counties,  including close to 30 agencies, that located and served warrants on  more than 21 suspects who were preying on children. This was truly a  heroic effort that spared many young lives from becoming victims.

Detective Heaton is known by others for his strong leadership,  innovative techniques, understanding of the law, and the high standards  by which he holds himself and others. He makes himself available to  assist other law enforcement officers and agencies, sharing the skills  that he has worked so hard to develop. His passion and dedication to  the protection of children is unparalleled, and his tireless efforts  have made a meaningful impact in our communities.

Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to represent exemplary individuals like  Detective Dan Heaton. On behalf of California's Third Congressional  District and the United States House of Representatives, I thank and  honor Detective Heaton for serving and protecting the region as a  dedicated public servant.                  Recognizing Police Officer Brett Schneider

Mr. KILEY of California. Mr. Speaker, in honor of National Police  Week, I recognize and honor Officer Brett Schneider of the Lincoln  Police Department for his unwavering commitment to serving and  protecting the Lincoln community.

Officer Schneider was hired by the Lincoln Police Department in June  2006. Over his last 19 years with the department, Officer Schneider has  held various roles, including EMT, field training officer, corporal,  active-shooter response instructor, UAV coordinator, accident  reconstructionist, department instructor, and he is currently assigned  as a motorcycle officer with the traffic unit.

Throughout Officer Schneider's nearly two decades of public service,  he has achieved a wide diversity of accomplishments to improve the  safety of our communities. One accomplishment of particular note arose  in 2023, when Officer Schneider was assigned to a full-time role to  supervise the traffic unit that was disbanded as a result of the  financial crisis in the mid-2000s.

Officer Schneider was given no funding and was directed to create a  unit that provides the best possible traffic enforcement. Since the  start of this formidable task, Officer Schneider has not only met but  repeatedly exceeded expectations.

Through his efforts within the traffic unit, he has been able to  secure grant funding, allowing the Lincoln Police Department to acquire  essential vehicles and equipment that promote traffic safety, including  traffic motorcycles, a DUI enforcement vehicle, multiple DUI  checkpoints and patrols, specialized equipment for targeted traffic  enforcement operations, and a truck to transport these resources.

Additionally, Officer Schneider secured funding to purchase a  preliminary drug screening device, which is utilized in DUI  investigations involving drugs, making Lincoln the first city in the  region to utilize this type of device.

The funding he has acquired has enhanced accuracy and expanded  capabilities within the department, leveraging innovative and new  technologies. Not only has Officer Schneider secured equipment for the  department, but he also has established the traffic safety committee to  actively engage with the community and to enhance traffic safety.

Officer Schneider has harnessed GIS and drone technology to enable  the department to recreate the scenes of accidents, allowing them to  see accurate depictions of the chain of events.

With his levels of experience and expertise in the field, Officer  Schneider has become the department's subject matter expert on traffic  matters, leading the city to new heights and addressing traffic  concerns through the implementation of positive and advanced solutions.

Officer Brett Schneider is known for his exceptional skill set,  ambition, determination, and tireless devotion to preventing crime and  promoting safety in the city of Lincoln. His efforts have made a  meaningful impact on the Lincoln community.

It is an honor to represent exemplary individuals like Officer Brett  Schneider in Congress.

On behalf of California's Third Congressional District and the United  States House of Representatives, I thank and honor Officer Schneider  for his ongoing commitment to serving and protecting the region as a  dedicated public servant.                      Recognizing Detective Sterling Wolfe

Mr. KILEY of California. Madam Speaker, as part of the California  Third Congressional District Police Honor Roll and in honor of National  Police Week 2025, I wish to recognize Detective Sterling Wolfe of the  Rocklin Police Department for his unwavering commitment to serving and  protecting the Rocklin community.

Detective Wolfe has served as a police officer for over a decade. He  has held numerous specialized roles, including Rapid Containment Team  member, drone pilot, crime scene investigator, and, now, detective.  Throughout every position, he has displayed and exemplified the highest  levels of professionalism, leadership, and service.

During Detective Wolfe's time in public service, he has achieved a  wide diversity of accomplishments to improve the safety of our  communities. Over the past year alone, he has authored more than 35  search warrants, performed numerous arrests, and successfully led  complex investigations.

One particular accomplishment of note was his use of advanced  technology, complex search warrants, social media searches, and  multiple agency coordination to identify key suspects to bring a high- value theft ring spanning across northern California to justice.

Detective Wolfe's commitment to his role and public safety is evident  by the various recognitions he has received. He was recognized by a  deputy district attorney from Placer County and was also honored with a  lifesaving award earned after extinguishing a vehicle fire and  rendering lifesaving aid to the pinned driver while responding to a  solo vehicle collision.

Detective Wolfe embodies the spirit of teamwork by mentoring fellow  officers and fostering collaboration and open communication across the  department. He is proactive and dedicated, and he has become an  invaluable resource for both his peers and the community. As such, he  embodies the core values of the Rocklin Police Department through his  integrity, skill, and dedication.

It is an honor to represent exemplary individuals like Detective  Sterling Wolfe in Congress.

On behalf of California's Third Congressional District and the United  States House of Representatives, I  thank and honor Detective Wolfe for serving and protecting the region  as a dedicated public servant.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.