2027 Presidential Budget Request Will Make Life Harder


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702042/2027-presidential-budget-request-will-make-life-harder


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Garcia and Mr. Neguse for  organizing this Special Order hour about President Trump's budget  request for next year.

The one saving grace of the President's budget is how clearly it  demonstrates the failed policies and misplaced priorities of the White  House and the Republican Congress. While proposing a massive increase  in defense spending to support a reckless war of choice in Iran and  supporting numerous policies to protect the billionaire class, the  Trump budget would slash programs that provide healthcare, education,  and housing to working Americans and would do nothing to lower gas  prices or make groceries more affordable.

While there are too many outrages contained in this budget to mention  all of them, I want to focus on one program in particular that  highlights the senseless cruelty represented by this budget: the  President would completely eliminate support for the Housing  Opportunities for Persons With AIDS, or HOPWA, program.

HOPWA provides critical housing support to hundreds of thousands of  individuals and their families across the country. Housing is one of  the greatest needs for those living with HIV/AIDS, and it is among the  strongest predictors of access to treatment and health outcomes.  Unstable housing or homelessness is linked to late or limited access to  care, higher viral loads, increased hospitalizations, and premature  death.

HOPWA was created in 1990 to respond to the HIV crisis, and it has  enjoyed bipartisan support for decades. It has led to dramatic  improvements in healthcare and reduced mortality for people living with  HIV and AIDS. Yet, this President wants to cut HOPWA to the bone,  leaving people with HIV and AIDS vulnerable to more HIV transmissions  and a spike in homelessness.

Congress established HOPWA--under a Republican President, I might  add--because of illegal discrimination in the private housing market  against people with HIV and AIDS. As for public housing, many  individuals with HIV and AIDS on the waiting list for housing  tragically died while waiting for an open unit. HOPWA changed that.

A study from 2010 found that HOPWA has been tremendously effective in  improving the physical health and housing status of enrollees. These  gains did not come overnight. They came from funding this program year  by year for over 30 years, and Donald Trump wants to gut all of it.

I was proud to lead 107 of my colleagues in supporting HOPWA funding  for fiscal year 2027 appropriations, and I am outraged at the  President's disregard for vulnerable Americans. We must protect HOPWA  and stand up for all Americans in need.