Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700747/holocaust-expropriated-art-recovery-act-of-2025


Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of S. 1884, the Holocaust  Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2025, or the HEAR Act.

As the lead House Democratic sponsor of this bipartisan legislation,  I am proud to have helped bring together my colleagues to ensure this  bill is passed and sent to the President's desk.

During the Holocaust, the Nazis stripped Jewish families of countless  works of art, culture, and heritage. The effects of these atrocities  are still being felt today by survivors and their families.

In 2016, former Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and I  introduced the first HEAR Act, which was a landmark bill that aimed to  aid these victims and their families in recovering their rightful  property, a small act of light in the memory of the darkest period in  human history. I am grateful that Congress passed that measure  unanimously and that President Obama signed it into law.

Unfortunately, time has demonstrated that the original HEAR Act was  not sufficient. In addition to the bill's impending expiration, more  than 100,000 of the over 600,000 works of art looted by the Nazis  remain unrecovered. We must confront this unacceptable and repugnant  reality, which continues to allow entities and individuals to profit  off the Jewish people's pain.

We must reaffirm that, in the United States, every family member with  a credible claim deserves to have their day in court, with their case  heard on the merits alone. Justice must not be denied due to procedural  technicalities and legislative sunset provisions.

While we cannot reverse the horrors of the Holocaust, we can ensure  that in an American courtroom, the truth of a family's legacy carries  more weight than a legal loophole.

Some might have you believe, Mr. Speaker, that this bill addresses a  problem mostly for Europe to resolve, but they would be wrong. In fact,  the September 2025 report from the World Jewish Restitution  Organization found that U.S. museums hold well over 100,000 objects  that were in Europe during the Holocaust, yet only about 10 percent of  those objects have been made publicly accessible online for provenance  research. Additionally, among 160 major museums in the United States,  only 21 percent provide easily accessible object-level Nazi-era  provenance information.

If relevant pieces are not made available for research, how can we  even know the true scope of this problem? What do the holders of these  pieces have to hide?

This is not an issue that is relevant only to decades-old legal cases  or an issue faced only by a few dying survivors and their families.  Nazi-looted art is still being discovered regularly.

Just a few months ago, an online auction was intercepted in Ohio for  two 17th century floral paintings by a famous Dutch still-life painter  with original Nazi inventory numbers, S-16 and S-17, still on the back.  The works had been sitting in an abandoned safe deposit box in Texas  for decades before surfacing.

In 2023, the Manhattan District Attorney's Office seized seven works  by a famous Austrian expressionist painter, valued at nearly $10  million, that had for decades been displayed in a variety of museums  and collections in New York. The DA's office rightfully returned the  pieces to the heirs of Fritz Grunbaum, a Jewish collector murdered at  Dachau concentration camp in 1941.

That is why we must reauthorize and improve the HEAR Act of 2016 by  passing the bill before us today, to ensure that the provenance of  pieces that can be proven are able to be fully litigated on their  merits alone, and to send a clear message from the Halls of Congress to  those who knowingly hold Holocaust-looted art that the United States  will no longer tolerate such barbaric behavior.

It is important for us to be abundantly clear about what this bill  does and does not do.

Fundamentally, this bill seeks to ensure that claims regarding Nazi- looted art are decided on their merits alone, without hiding behind  procedural technicalities.

The bill also eliminates the original HEAR Act sunset provision,  which is scheduled to expire in December 2026. That deadline was  intended to encourage museums and holders to complete provenance  research on the relevant pieces and to resolve any applicable claims.

Unfortunately, this limited time frame has allowed some institutions  to delay, withhold information, and run out the clock. I hope we can  all agree, Mr. Speaker, that justice for victims of the Holocaust and  their families should not come with an expiration date.

Here is what this bill does not do. It does not decide who wins and  loses any case. It does not undermine, in letter or intent, any  agreements made by any entity regarding any Holocaust-related or other  matters. It does not impact or seek to influence any other categories  of Holocaust claims outside of those that are art-related and  specifically described in the legislation.

The issues this legislation seeks to address are not new. In fact, it  even appeared in the early 2000s popular TV show ``The West Wing.'' In  a second-  season episode, a Jewish woman on a White House tour begins screaming  after recognizing a painting that had belonged to her father in France  before it was seized by the Vichy regime during the Holocaust and later  gifted to the White House. In the television show, the painting is  swiftly and voluntarily returned to the woman and her family.

The show is obviously a work of fiction, but if all similar claims  were resolved in such a way in reality, there would be much less need  for this legislation. Unfortunately, like much of ``The West Wing,''  such a resolution is too good to be true.

Finally, there are many individuals and organizations that have  worked hard to draft and promote this legislation. I thank all of them,  and especially the Art Ashes organization. Without their tireless  advocacy, this day would not be possible.

I also thank the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Lee) for her  partnership in introducing this bill in the House.

I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation to ensure  that victims of the Holocaust and their families are able to have their  claims heard on their merits alone.

Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge my colleagues to support  this measure. I yield back the balance of my time.