Recognizing Matt Jansen and His Service to the House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693380/recognizing-matt-jansen-and-his-service-to-the-house-of-representatives


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank Matt Jansen for over  six years of outstanding service in the United States House of  Representatives working with the House Judiciary Committee, the House  Ethics Committee, and my personal office representing constituents  living in the heart of New York City.

I value Matt's hard work, his impressive skill set, and his  friendship. He has been by my side when I faced the toughest primary  challenge of my career, when we fought together to pass the Respect for  Marriage Act into law--ensuring marriage equality for LGBTQ+ families  across the country, and to make the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act the  law of the land.

Matt has worked for the New York Senate Democratic Conference, as a  Legislative Aide in the New York Assembly, and as an intern for New  York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. Matt's journey on the House side of  Capitol Hill began as an intern in my Washington, D.C. office back in  2019. He then moved over to the House Ethics Committee and was promoted  to Advice and Education Clerk where  he helped respond to questions from Members and staff throughout  Capitol Hill. Matt returned to my team as a Staff Assistant and  Legislative Correspondent. From there, he embarked on a remarkable  career with our office, holding nearly every position--from Staff  Assistant to Legislative Correspondent to Legislative Assistant, and  even a brief stint as Scheduler--until he ultimately became Press  Secretary for both my office and the House Judiciary Committee from  2023 to 2025.

Throughout his tenure, Matt brought an impressive blend of  professionalism, creativity, and humor to the role. As Press Secretary,  he worked tirelessly behind the scenes, ensuring that my office's  messages were clear, concise, and timely. He is an excellent writer and  worked quickly to ensure our communications were relevant and far- reaching. He continuously found ways to elevate our communications-- from quick video clips to informative electronic updates, to printed  newsletters. Matt worked to prepare me for appearances on MSNBC, NY1,  and other local New York City television news programs. He worked  closely with reporters to book interviews with major news outlets like  the New York Times and the Washington Post.

Matt's commitment to learning led him to be an active and consistent  participant in the many communications classes offered in the House-- even serving as an instructor from time to time. He routinely briefed  his Democratic press colleagues on the many Judiciary Committee bills  that came to the House floor each week and worked to coordinate the  party message on major legislation facing the Congress.

However, his contributions went far beyond just communications. He  was always ready to go the extra mile for the team--whether it was  accompanying me to events, moderating my town hall, or heading up the  Party Planning Committee. His energy was contagious, and his commitment  never wavered.

In 2022, Matt took a leave of absence from my official office to be  boots on the ground in New York City (NYC) assisting with my re- election campaign. He was a staple at many NYC subway stops, canvasing  and connecting with constituents. His hard work and organizing skill  helped propel me to a 30-point victory over a fellow Democratic  Committee Chair in a tough New York primary.

During his time in my office, Matt made the most of the many  experiences available in D.C. From joining me at the White House bill  signing ceremony for my Respect for Marriage Act, to escorting Former  President Obama during the 2024 Inauguration, Matt was always willing  to seize the opportunity.

A proud University Albany alum and Long Islander, Matt brought the  New York spirit to our office. Given his love for New York, Matt was  always happy to help at events in the district, and I have particularly  found memories of marching with him in the New York Pride.

Like many of my constituents, Matt is a frequent visitor to Fire  Island Pines, but even a day by the beach won't stop him from creating  excellent communications content.

While it's impossible to overstate Matt's loss from my team, I'm glad  to know he's staying on the Hill. I look forward to running into him in  the Longworth Cafeteria and am excited to see where his career takes  him.