Recognizing Daniel Rubin and His Service to the House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693365/recognizing-daniel-rubin-and-his-service-to-the-house-of-representatives


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank Daniel Rubin for his  outstanding service to the House of Representatives, to the House  Judiciary Committee, and to the constituents of New York's 12th  Congressional District.

Daniel Rubin is an exceptional talent, with years of experience  working at the highest levels of Congress on the most crucial legal  issues of the day. He has a razorsharp mind, an inquisitive nature, and  a unique ability to accurately identify the key question that must be  addressed in any given situation.

Daniel Rubin has worked directly on the Judiciary Committee and the  Ways and Means Committee and has worked with Members who served on the  Budget, Oversight, and Education and the Workforce committees. It is  truly rare to find someone with his breadth and depth of experience  working in the House for as long as Daniel has. That is a testament to  his commitment to public service and his ability to gain the trust of  multiple Members of Congress from diverse backgrounds.

Not all positions on the Hill are equal, and Daniel has had perhaps  the toughest assignment. He routinely handles the most challenges  questions put to lawmakers by the Capitol Hill press corps. They are  trained to find vulnerabilities in any argument and expose them to the  public. They are tenacious and intelligent, and Daniel does an  excellent job working with them every day to get them the information  they seek and to do so in a way that is most beneficial to the Members  and Committees he is working for. It is not an easy task, but Daniel  does it with exceptional skill.

While working with us he has maintained excellent relationships  across a broad spectrum of writers, editors, and producers. He reads  voraciously and is always well informed and well prepared for the  challenges presented by his work. He is an excellent writer and a  master communicator.

I enjoyed working closely with Daniel on the House Judiciary  Committee and in my personal office for the past several years.  Together we worked with dozens of Members of Congress to help shape our  strategy, messaging, and legal approach in countless hearings and  markups. We identified the most powerful messages and amplified them in  the press and on social media.

Daniel built the greatest social media operation of any Committee on  Capitol Hill--training and supervising staff that were nimble,  provocative, and engaging. Under his supervision the number of  subscribers and their level of engagement with our content far outpaced  the traditional House committee.

Daniel has been at the epicenter of all of our crisis communications,  tackling difficult questions with a level head, and providing excellent  advice. My senior management team and I have always trusted Daniel's  judgment and strategic thinking. While working separately on my  campaign, Daniel helped propel me to a 30-point victory over a fellow  Democratic Committee Chair in a tough New York primary. He was  essential in debate preparation and worked with me to anticipate  questions and ensure that I was ready to respond in the most powerful  way possible. He led the communications team during the primary and  helped me secure the New York Times endorsement.

I wish Daniel the best of luck as he continues to fight for the  rights and liberties of all people and I thank him for his service.