Recognizing Isabelle Schindler and Her Service to the U.S. House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701552/recognizing-isabelle-schindler-and-her-service-to-the-us-house-of-representatives


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank Isabelle Schindler for  her outstanding service to my office and the constituents of New York's  12th Congressional District.

A native New Yorker, Isabelle graduated from University of Michigan's  Ford School of Public Policy. She has worked for Congressman Eliot  Engel and served as a Senate Page for Senator Charles Schumer from New  York. Isabelle worked on a variety of voter engagement projects in both  New York and Michigan before joining my staff in the House of  Representatives.

In 2023, Isabelle became my Scheduler while I was serving as the  Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee. She did an excellent  job coordinating appointments with constituents, stakeholders, Members  of Congress, House Leadership, and members of the Judiciary Committee  staff She quickly took on more than scheduling and expanded her role in  the office, earning her a promotion to DC Operations Manager.

Isabelle was a team player and was always willing to step up and take  on more responsibilities. She assisted our press operation, held  legislative meetings with constituents and interest groups, and covered  the arts portfolio for our office. She was instrumental in the  introduction of the American Royalties Too (ART) Act and worked with  our team on the Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act (HEAR) Act to  make it easier to recover artwork lost or stolen between 1933 and 1945  because of Nazi persecution. During the annual appropriations process,  she registered my support for hundreds of legislative programs and  initiatives including critical Community Project Funding requests which  brought tens of millions of dollars into our New York district.

After I announced my decision not to seek re-election, Isabelle  worked diligently to organize my vast collection of physical files to  ensure they could be properly reviewed and archived for future  generations.

Isabelle was a fantastic intern coordinator and managed 18 interns  during her time in my office. She took her leadership responsibilities  seriously and went out of her way to provide interesting educational  opportunities for the interns both on Capitol Hill and throughout  Washington, D.C., including tours of the White House and various  government agencies. Several of her former interns have returned on  visits to the office and have gone out of their way to express how  influential Isabelle has been in their career development and how they  still haven't had a supervisor who was as kind, encouraging, and  empowering as she was.

I will miss her cheerful presence, her ability to anticipate the  needs of the office, and her diligence in completing projects on time  or ahead of schedule. She was a trusted, reliable professional member  of my staff, and I deeply appreciate her service.

Isabelle was invaluable to the office in ways that went beyond her  defined role. Each and every staffer she worked with grew to appreciate  how much she contributed to the office culture. She went above and  beyond to make sure everyone felt welcome and supported, birthdays were  celebrated, we showed our appreciation for one another as we hit career  milestones and transitions, and we cared for one another during  stressful times. She did this with grace, positivity, and humility. I  hope she realizes how lucky we all feel to have worked with her and how  jealous we are of the people she will work with in the future.

One cannot speak about Isabelle, without mentioning her sweet dog,  Ginger, who became the unofficial mascot of NY-12.

In her free time, Isabelle enjoys travelling the world with her  family--including trips to Brazil, Japan, Mexico City, Paris, the U.K.  and Thailand. The staff love hearing about her trips and her  perspective on the people, the food, and culture of the places she  visits. She is a joy and an inspiration to us all. I hope she continues  to find opportunities to see the world.

As Isabelle moves on to a new opportunity in another Congressional  office, I wish her the best of luck and lots of future successes. I  thank her for her service and commend her for a job well done.