Recognizing Andrew Heineman and His Service to the United States House of Representatives


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and thank Andrew  Heineman for nearly seven years of outstanding service to the  constituents of New York's 12th Congressional District and to the  United States House of Representatives.

A native of California, Andrew attended California State University,  Northridge, where he graduated cum laude with a degree in Political  Science and International Relations. His early political work included  opposing Proposition 8 in California and later serving as an organizer  on the Obama for President campaign, where he was known for knocking on  even the most difficult doors.

Andrew later moved to Washington, D.C., where he began his  congressional career in the office of Congresswoman Doris Matsui.  There, he worked his way from Staff Assistant to Legislative  Correspondent to Legislative Assistant.

In 2019, I was fortunate to have Andrew join my Washington, D.C.  office, working primarily on Transportation and Infrastructure issues,  before becoming my Legislative Director in 2022. In this role, he  oversaw my entire Legislative agenda, prepared bills, amendments, and  statements, and provided thousands of vote recommendations.

As a key member of my senior staff, Andrew has been at the center of  my legislative work. He was instrumental in helping pass my landmark  legislation, the Respect for Marriage Act, which enshrined marriage  equality into law. Andrew worked tirelessly to ensure its passage in  both the House and the Senate, and it was a privilege to celebrate with  him at the White House for the bill's signing into law.

He was also central to the passage of the Pregnant Workers Fairness  Act, skillfully negotiating with stakeholders in Washington while  simultaneously participating in a meeting with New York elected  officials--demonstrating his knowledge and strong political acumen.

As the head of the legislative team, he has served as a mentor for  countless Legislative Staffers.

Andrew has been a leader on transportation issues in my office,  staffing me on the Committee and advancing critical infrastructure  priorities such as the Cross Harbor Rail Project and the Gateway  Tunnel, helping ensure that New York City remains the public transit  capital of the world. He led our efforts to establish congestion  pricing in Manhattan and fend off attacks by President Trump and  Secretary Duffy.

During his tenure, Andrew held hundreds of meetings with stakeholder  groups from across the district, serving as a trusted representative of  my office. He consistently brought deep knowledge and a strong  understanding of complex issues to every engagement.

He also led numerous New York Delegation letters and served as a  valued resource for staff across the House. His extensive network of  colleagues and friends on Capitol Hill is a testament to the respect he  has earned throughout the institution.

Outside of his official duties, Andrew has remained deeply involved  with the California State University, Northridge Semester in Washington  Program, where he teaches and mentors students pursuing careers in  public service. His commitment to these students reflects dedication to  helping others.

I am glad that Andrew is remaining on the Hill and I am sure that I  will see him around Rayburn. I look forward to seeing where his career  will take him and thank him for his excellent service.