Recognizing Alison Cohen and Her Service to the U.S. House of Representatives


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695684/recognizing-alison-cohen-and-her-service-to-the-us-house-of-representatives


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank Alison Cohen for two  and a half years of outstanding service to the constituents of New  York's 12th Congressional District.

A native of Northern Virginia, Alison attended William & Mary  University, where she received a bachelor's degree in Global Governance  and Community Engagement. After graduating, she joined the Teach for  America program and moved to New Orleans to work as a middle school  math teacher in a public school.

For the next three years, she served as a teacher and mentor for  hundreds of students. I know she keeps in touch with some of her former  pupils who still recognize the impact that she made on their lives.  Alison's skills from her time as a teacher can be seen during the many  meetings that she has with student groups, where she is able to capture  the attention of students and skillfully answer their questions in a  thoughtful and accessible way.

Alison's experience working in public education in Louisiana inspired  her to enter policy work to help address the systemic inequities that  she saw impacting her students' lives. She began working as a  legislative assistant for Louisiana State Representative Aimee  Freedman. During her time working in the State Legislature, she worked  on many issues impacting everyday Louisianans. One of her key  accomplishments was helping shepherd  Representative Freedman's bill to eliminate the ``pink tax'' on diapers  and menstrual products and other goods, which unfairly disadvantages  women and children. This legislation was signed into law in 2021 and is  an example of Alison's longstanding commitment to helping support women  and families through policy.

After working as a policy analyst for the Louisiana Budget Project,  Alison returned to the D.C. area and began working as a Legislative  Assistant for Congresswoman Elaine Luria (D-VA). In 2023, I was lucky  to have her join my Washington, D.C. Office as a Legislative Assistant.

Over her two and a half year career in my office, Alison covered many  issues, including Healthcare, Reproductive Rights, Education, and  Social Security. During her time in my office, Alison held hundreds of  meetings with stakeholder groups from across the district, serving as a  representative for my office in many photos with groups. She always  brought her knowledge and compassion to these meetings and often showed  her unique talent of being able to quickly learn the names of everyone  in her meetings.

Supported by her afternoon Diet Cokes, Alison assisted with many of  my key legislative priorities over the past few years. She worked  diligently to support the implementation of my Pregnant Workers  Fairness Act, working to ensure it was protected in the appropriations  process, and helping to organize an amicus brief supporting the bill.

She has also been a champion of my bill, the Living Donor Protection  Act, which received 225 cosponsors in the 118th Congress due to  Alison's hard work. Her steadfast and compassionate work with members  of the organ transplant community has been inspiring to see.

Alison has also worked on many other health issues, including  supporting my longstanding work to secure funding for the Housing  Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA). She has also worked  closely with stakeholders in the district to support my longstanding  work on the World Trade Center Health Program.

Alison serves as a key bridge between my office and the many  hospitals, health centers, and stakeholders in our district.

While working in my office, Alison completed her master's in Health  Law and Strategy from New York University, helping to expand her  understanding of the healthcare system, especially in the legal  context. Her ability to navigate both school and work demonstrates her  flexibility and willingness to take on new challenges.

Alison has also been an active part of our office culture, helping to  mentor many staff and interns; she was always available to offer  support and feedback. I will miss her positive presence in the office,  especially around birthdays and other celebrations.

As Alison moves to her new position in Federal Affairs at Callen- Lorde Health system in New York, I am glad to know she will continue to  serve the people of the 12th District. I look forward to seeing where  her career will take her and thank her for her excellent service.