Supporting Israeli Security and Palestinian Freedom


Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Israeli security;  Palestinian freedom; a just, peaceful, and swift end to the war in  Gaza; and an eventual, viable, and negotiated two-state solution.

The situation in Gaza today is dire. I want to be clear. The war in  Gaza began with Hamas' brutal attack on innocent Israelis on October 7,  the bloodiest day in Jewish history since the Holocaust. For many in  the Jewish community, in the United States, and around the world, time  stopped on that day and has not yet resumed.

It will resume when all the hostages are home. It will resume when  the war is over and the reservists can return to their families. It  will resume when there is enough food, water, and medicine in Gaza to  alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe. It will resume when families on  both sides of the border can sleep peacefully without the constant fear  of rockets and bombs falling from the sky. It will resume when there is  a lasting, durable, and negotiated cease-fire.

Mr. Speaker, that day need not be far away. Israel achieved its goal  of destroying the military capabilities and existential threat of Hamas  months ago. Now, Prime Minister Netanyahu should be proclaiming victory  and indicating his readiness to withdraw from Gaza contingent on the  return of all the hostages, both living and dead.

He should be signaling his willingness to support an international  security force on an interim basis to ensure law and order and Israel's  support for international investment in the training and equipping of  an eventual Palestinian security force. He should be supporting  confidence-building measures in the West Bank, which empower the  Palestinian Authority contingent on the PA embracing and implementing  real reforms. He should not be enacting an annexationist vision while  the plague of settler violence runs rampant.

The alternative, Mr. Speaker, is a stark and disturbing picture. This  week, Tom Friedman wrote in The New York Times that: If ``Israel goes  ahead with Netanyahu's vow to perpetuate this war indefinitely--to try  to achieve . . . the far right's fantasy of ridding Gaza of  Palestinians and resettling it with Israelis--Jews worldwide better  prepare themselves, their children, and their grandchildren for a  reality they have never known: to be Jewish in a world where the Jewish  state is a pariah state, a source of shame, not of pride.

``Because one day, foreign photographers and reporters will be  allowed to go into Gaza unescorted by the Israeli Army.'' And when they  do, the full horror of the destruction there will become clear to all.

Friedman continued, Mr. Speaker, writing: ``Israel, instead of being  seen by Jews as a safe haven from anti-Semitism, will be seen as a new  engine generating it; sane Israelis will line up to immigrate to  Australia and America rather than beckon their fellow Jews to come  Israel's way. That dystopian future is not here yet, but if you don't  see its outlines gathering, you are deluding yourself.''

Mr. Friedman is not alone in this analysis. Indeed, Mr. Speaker,  former Israeli security officials have been speaking out. Last week,  two former Israeli Air Force pilots, Brigadier General Asaf Agmon and  Colonel Uri Arad, published a letter in Hebrew in the Israeli newspaper  Haaretz. They wrote: ``As the war in Gaza dragged on, it became clear  that it was losing its strategic and security purposes and instead  served primarily the political and personal interests of the  government. It thus became an unmistakably immoral war, and  increasingly appeared to be a war of revenge.''

I agree with these distinguished former officials. It is clear to me  that we long ago reached the point where victory is no longer the goal,  and the main obstacle to bringing the hostages home and ending the war  is the politics of one man: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

General Agmon and Colonel Arad are not peace activists, Mr. Speaker.  They are former top Israeli Air Force pilots and high-ranking officers.  We must heed their calls.

They are not alone, Mr. Speaker. Commanders for Israel's Security is  a movement of over 550 retired senior officials from Israel's defense,  security and diplomatic services. The ``Commanders,'' as they are often  referred to, recently published a letter urging Jewish diaspora voices  to speak out in favor of ending the violence in Gaza.

They wrote: ``Accused of weakening Israel or betraying their  connection to the Jewish state, they are told that those who live  abroad or do not serve in the IDF must keep silent. We categorically  reject the notion that Jews in the diaspora must remain silent on  matters concerning Israel. . . . To those who fear that public  criticism undermines Israel, we say that open, honest dialogue only  reinforces our democracy and security.''

This is true for this body, too, Mr. Speaker. We all must speak up.  If our voices contribute to preventing one  more ounce of bloodshed or to the return home of a hostage 1 minute  sooner or gets one more piece of bread into the hands of a starving  Gazan or helps redeem the moral position of the State of Israel, our  words are worth it.

Jewish tradition teaches in Mishnah Sanhedrin that saving one life is  like saving the whole world. I hope that we can come together to heed  the voices that are speaking out at this moment, and that together we  can work to save as many worlds as we can.