-9999


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to acknowledge the celebration of  the Reverend Troy DeCohen, senior pastor of the Mount Vernon Heights  Congregational Church, in this year completing his 25th year of  pastoral leadership.

Reverend DeCohen has a distinguished clerical career. He was called  to the ministry in 1988, was active in churches in New Jersey and New  York, and is now approaching his fourth decade.

He holds master's degrees from Fordham University and Mercy  University, and he has shown a skill and achievement in dealing with  real-world congregational problems: substance abuse issues, conflict  resolution, homelessness, HIV and AIDS, and mental illness.

Complementing his pastoral service, he serves as director of housing  operations for the Westchester County Department of Social Services. He  has been recognized with awards by Governors, county executives, State  and Federal legislators, and organizations across the spectrum.

Along with his wife, Reverend Viviana DeCohen, he has led his home  congregation in worship, Bible study, and community outreach to those  in need in the Mount Vernon and surrounding communities. He serves as  president and chair of the United Black Clergy of Westchester County.

He is living Matthew 25's spiritual direction every day to show faith  in the Lord by doing good for his people, including for the least of  his brothers.

I congratulate Reverend DeCohen.              Raising Concern for HUD Continuum of Care Program

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great concern over recent  changes to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Continuum  of Care Program.

This program is one of the largest sources of resources, including  900 units of housing in my district, that is involved with funding to  combat homelessness, especially for seniors, domestic violence victims,  and people with disabilities. There are nearly 700 units of permanent  housing involved in this program.

In 2024, Congress approved a 2-year funding cycle to promote greater  program stability. However, last week, HUD announced a new funding  competition with substantial changes that could delay funding awards  for months. The announcement also slashes how much funding may be used  for permanent housing.

Such drastic changes could result in a significant reduction in  services, forcing local partners to cease operations and reexpose  hundreds of my constituents to homelessness.

As this majority continues to pursue drastic cuts to affordable food  and healthcare, it is critical that we protect access to housing.

I urge the administration to immediately reconsider this decision and  prevent a new wave of homelessness across the counties of Westchester,  the Bronx, and elsewhere.