Amani Public Charter School


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696952/amani-public-charter-school


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I recognize and celebrate the 15th year  anniversary of the Amani Public Charter School in Mount Vernon, New  York.

I grew up in Mount Vernon in an apartment one block away from what  was once the Edison Technical and Vocational High School, but it was  reborn in 2011 as Amani Public Charter School to advance the  educational opportunities for all children, especially children of  color on the south side of Mount Vernon and elsewhere.

This school serves all students grades K-8 with free breakfast and  lunch. They place a strong emphasis on core subjects, notably English  and math, foreign languages, enrichment classes, ELL, special ed  services, music, arts, after-school, and athletics.

Amani honored four outstanding individuals at their recent gala: John  Howard, Stephanie McCaine, Charles Stern, and Johnayia White. The  executive director, Debra Stern, who was founder of the Friends of the  Mount Vernon Public Library and president of the Mount Vernon PTA  Council, leads the school as executive director with exceptional  experience and vigor.

Jennifer Ciavirella is school principal, leading a talented team of  professionals. We salute Amani Charter Public School on its 15th  anniversary. May there be many more years to come.                   Saluting the Life of Mayo Peter Bartlett

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute the life of Mayo  Peter Bartlett, who passed away in September at the age of 86.

Mr. Bartlett was born in 1939 in Rye, attended North Carolina Central  University, graduated with a degree in accounting, and membership  during college of the Alpha Kappa Chapter of the Kappa Alpha Psi  fraternity. Mr. Bartlett turned his degree into a career as a Treasury  agent and as an auditor for the IRS.

Mayo Peter Bartlett was an outstanding basketball player who played  in Europe and loved coaching young people in basketball. He was a jazz  enthusiast with an extensive collection of LPs. He has been a good  friend to many. For over 50 years, he and his wife, Ernestine ``Tina''  Conner, were parents of three children and five grandchildren.

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Bartlett has left us for his eternal reward, but he  has left behind a legacy of love, faith, and warmth to the people of  his community. We will miss him forever.