America Needs Unity


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697353/america-needs-unity


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, in today's edition of Politico, there is a  story about Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman setting up systems  on the border between Nassau County and neighboring New York City,  ostensibly to protect Nassau residents from the criminal element coming  from their city neighbors.

That is one way for a suburb to act toward the city next door,  although it may make it more difficult for the Long Island Mets fans to  get to Citi Field or the Queens fans of the New York Islanders to get  to UBS Arena. There is another way.

North of New York City, Westchester County and its border  communities--Yonkers, Mt. Vernon, Pelham, and New Rochelle--work  cooperatively and in harmony with the Bronx. New York City Bronx  residents routinely visit New Roc City and Cross-County Shopping  Center, and Westchester residents visit and work in Bay Plaza in the  Bronx. The Woodlawn neighborhood, with associations and clubs, spans  the line between the Bronx and Westchester. The Westchester Bee-Line  public bus system takes passengers down to Fordham Road in the Bronx  and back. The Montefiore Health System has hospitals in the Bronx and  in Westchester and serves clients in between both.

State senators Jamaal Bailey and Nathalia Fernandez join me in  representing both sides of the city/county border between the Bronx,  New York City, and Westchester County. The brave men and women of the  NYPD in the 45th and the 47th precincts work together cooperatively  with police from Westchester County and its cities to deter and prevent  crime and apprehend criminals when crimes do occur.

Bronx Borough President Vanessa Gibson and Westchester County  Executive Ken Jenkins work together to advocate for the Penn Access  project that benefits commuters from both counties. We don't need Big  Brother intrusive facial recognition checkpoints. We have mutual  respect and civic cooperation.

Bruce Blakeman, in his quest for higher office, thinks that turning  us into fearful suburbs that resent their urban neighbors is a way to  win votes. I grew up in Mt. Vernon in Westchester County a half a block  from the border with the Bronx.

My whole life, not just my time in public service, has been about  finding and working the common ground that unites us rather than  feeding the anger and resentments that divide us. Politicians on the  far fringes of each side desire divisions that they believe can lead to  elective office, power, and status. It is a false and dangerous path.

The dotted line that divides the city from the suburb is man-made.  What we do on the Westchester/Bronx border and at any border anywhere  is work together, and that is the prototype for the America that surely  needs unity.

Think about how much we are going to need that unity, all Americans  working together, when we face the next existential threat to our  freedom and democracy, as we did with Nazi Germany and militarized  Japan. It is coming, and you know it.

In the Bronx and Westchester, we will be ready. We encourage the  Bruce Blakemans of the world to stop pandering and start building the  cooperation we will need in the days to come.