Greenland


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698929/greenland


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, in the Holy Bible's Book of Exodus, a book  which is sacred to both Christians and Jews, it is written that  Almighty God hands down, through Moses, Ten Commandments that represent  the bedrock of ethical behavior and rules that govern human conduct.

My colleagues in Texas and Louisiana have State laws that post them  inside public facilities. In one form or another, secular laws are  written with these commandments in mind to provide civil sanctions  against those who would commit murder or lie in a court proceeding  under oath. Such laws govern against stealing what others legitimately  own, their property and possessions.

We now face one of the most important tests of our democracy in over  150 years: Whether the Federal Government will blatantly steal the  assets of an independent sovereign nation, who is our ally, for no  legitimate reason other than lust for land.

In the rhetoric of coveting thy neighbor's goods, the President of  the United States is fixed on coveting the sovereign land of the  kingdom of Denmark, the island of Greenland. The President has spoken  about it in his frequent public ruminations, and we have learned he has  tasked our military to plan how he might take Greenland by force  without the consent of Denmark.

This would open a shameful chapter, as we celebrate the 250th year of  our own independence, that we would turn our backs on the principles  established by the Founding Fathers and act as if we are one of the  thug nations of the world ourselves.

Saddam Hussein's Iraq seized Kuwait. Vladimir Putin's Russia launched  war to take over Ukraine. Adolf Hitler grabbed Poland and  Czechoslovakia and, for a while, all of continental Europe. Mussolini  took Ethiopia, and Chairman Xi has long coveted Taiwan. Each presented  their flimsy reasons for their actions, justifications that fooled no  one.

Is this who America wants to emulate? Putin, Hitler, Hussein?

The flimsy reason offered by the President and his minions, notably  Stephen Miller, references our ability to protect America from an  Arctic region threat.

With that very thought in mind, in 1951, we signed an agreement with  Denmark that allows us to place military assets in Greenland that we  feel we need with the support and agreement of Denmark. They have not  reneged on that deal or thrown up roadblocks to American defense needs.  We are trying to burst into a room by force when the door is set wide  open and the welcome mat is displayed.

Denmark, a NATO ally, owns Greenland legally. If it doesn't choose to  sell it, it remains legally theirs. Thy neighbor's ox and house, not  ours.

Any U.S. military action against Greenland breaks the NATO rule and  puts us at odds with our allies, allies that in the post-World War II  era have helped us restrain Russian aggression for nearly a century.  Denmark, as an ally, responded to our action in Afghanistan. They lost  43 men there simply because they honored their NATO commitment and  stood by their friend, the United States of America.

Perhaps this President hates NATO so much that he has rallied against  elements of it before, and in that he supports the wishes of Vladimir  Putin that sees NATO as an impediment to his empire building, the  desire for retaking Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Ukraine.

We have, as of late, decided that it is okay to insult European  leaders at the U.N., threaten the countries of Latin America,  disrespect our closest friend, Canada, and generally act with an  arrogant swagger. We have the world's greatest military, but it is not  a toy to be used to glorify any one man's lust for an expanded control  of land. It is not the Department of War. It is the Department of  Defense. That is how Americans view our role in the world, to defend  ourselves and to defend freedom in a world with dictators and thugs who  would subjugate us all if they could.

God stop us if we become the thug, if we become the dictatorship that  uses our economic and military strength to bully this world.

The power of any President is not about what one man thinks is moral.  It is guided by constitutional limitations, including three branches of  government, not a dominant dictator and a subservient politburo and  judiciary.

Harry Truman understood this. Dwight Eisenhower understood this. John  F. Kennedy understood this, and so did Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon,  Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Bill  Clinton, George W. Bush, Barack Obama, and Joe Biden. These men,  whether you deem their Presidencies good or bad, understood what it is  to have allies across the globe and how to keep America as the shining  light to guide this planet.

Attacking Greenland for no strategic benefit that they don't already  have puts us in a league with Russia and China. We will regret such a  decision every day that we live thereafter.

Let this Congress make a strong, unambiguous statement that America  does not take land for some trumped up reason.

We stand for the rule of law and for freedom and respect for others.  That is what sets our Nation apart. If we snatch Greenland as a show of  power, we give no reason for the people of the world to side with us  when some other nation confronts us in a future year.