Recognizing Greenburgh Nature Center


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700581/recognizing-greenburgh-nature-center


Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise to salute the outstanding work of  the Greenburgh Nature Center, its professional staff, and its volunteer  leadership for providing an environmental oasis for all to enjoy in the  middle of a bustling suburb.

The nature center is a 33-acre preserve just steps away from busy  Central Avenue that offers hiking trails, demonstration gardens, and a  live animal museum with barnyard animals and other wildlife. It  provides educational programs, youth camps for kids, and an annual  environmental set of events that welcomes the whole community.

The professional team is led by Executive Director Alix Dunn. She had  spent decades in environmental work with nonprofits in California  before returning home to Westchester.

Alix is aided by Marybeth Cagney, Chloe Digianni, Rosa Van Zandt,  Elisabeth Mulder, Greg Wechgelaer, Andrew Michalski, and many others.

The board of directors provides volunteer and community-based support  and direction, led by President Dolya Fleck and other leaders: Jackie  Feffer, Melissa Jones, Naomi Haber, Jim Blann, and former Town  Councilwoman Diana Juettner.

Madam Speaker, from the floor of the House of Representatives, we  salute the team at the Greenburgh Nature Center for its constant  advancement of this valued community asset.               Recognizing Sound Shore St. Patrick's Day Parade

Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, the month of March, with St. Patrick's  Day to be celebrated on March 17, is a time to honor those of us of  Irish-American heritage.

Across the Nation, much less in Westchester and in the Bronx, there  will be parades and festive dinners to salute the Irish experience and  accomplishments here in America.

One such event is the 14th annual Sound Shore St. Patrick's Day  Parade, scheduled for Sunday, March 22, in Mamaroneck. This loops  together the Irish in communities from Larchmont to Rye and Port  Chester to New Rochelle.

Tonight, there is the annual Hearts & Shamrocks dinner, which was,  for many, the annual scholarship fundraising effort for deserving  students. At the dinner, the parade's 2025 grand marshal, Matt  McCauley, will turn over his sash to the parade's 2026 grand marshal,  Joe Carvin.

Joe is a resident of Port Chester and a former resident of Rye Brook.  He is an accomplished business executive, and yet he finds time to work  with high school students, a voluntary action. He served as village  trustee of Port Chester and as Rye town supervisor.

I regret being unable to join them tonight, but we salute Matt, Joe,  and parade leaders Joe Mauro and Michael Murphy as they celebrate  together.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, this grandson of  Enniskillen in County Fermanagh sends our very best.                           Recognizing Ronald Hicks

Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise to salute the newly installed  archbishop for the Archdiocese of New York, His Excellency, the Most  Reverend Ronald Hicks.

Archbishop Hicks has assumed the spiritual leadership of the 2.8  million-member Catholic community that includes Westchester and the  Bronx, succeeding the much-loved Timothy Cardinal Dolan, who served for  16 years.

Archbishop Hicks was most recently in charge of the diocese of  Joliet, Illinois, and is well known by Pope Leo, also an Illinois  native, who made this key assignment.

The New York Archdiocese has 300 parishes and also runs 153 schools  with an aggregate enrollment of 49,000 students. It runs a seminary,  cemeteries, and links with various Catholic charitable organizations.

A native of Illinois, Archbishop Hicks was ordained to the priesthood  in 1994, served in local parishes as a seminary dean, and in an  important assignment in Latin America before becoming a bishop.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we welcome Archbishop  Ronald Hicks to New York, and we wish him great success in his pastoral  services and in his church leadership.