Recognizing Emelin Theatre


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700472/recognizing-emelin-theatre


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute the magnificent  jewel located in the heart of the village of Mamaroneck, the Emelin  Theatre.

The Emelin is a nonprofit organization that brings world-class  performing arts to all of Westchester, as well as nearby Connecticut.  The events at the Emelin cover all genres of music, comedy, dance,  family theater, and film. In the next few weeks alone, there will be  performances highlighting Motown, flamenco dance, southern rock, jazz,  cabaret standards, and numerous community events that will be hosted in  their spacious environment.

The professional staff, led by Taryn Sacramone, ably directs and  manages all of the component parts of the Emelin's mission, and  community commitment to the Emelin is exceptional, led by Mark  Ettenger, board president.

The generosity of the board of directors and the Friends of the  Emelin provide the additional resources needed to keep this asset  thriving decades after its inception.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we recognize the  tremendous presence of the Emelin in our Westchester world.                   Recognizing New Rochelle Bar Association

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, in this Chamber, we speak of this American  experiment in democracy that is 250 years in the making under  principles forged in our Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and the laws  of the judicial rulings that have followed. Yet, these principles will  die on the vine of history if they aren't taught and absorbed by each  new generation of Americans.

One effort to keep those ideas alive is found in the New Rochelle Bar  Association's unique outreach in the New Rochelle school system, the  Lawyers in the Classroom program.

The New Rochelle Bar has signed up members skilled in all elements of  the law to speak to elementary and middle school students in the nearly  10 schools in the district and make constitutional principles come  alive--amendments with numbers that represent important principles: the  First Amendment, the Second Amendment, the Fourth Amendment, and the  10th Amendment--helping young people understand, in everyday language,  what these principles mean in everyday life.

In addition to the educators at the schools of Trinity, Jefferson,  Columbus, Barnard, Webster, Davis, Ward, Albert Leonard, and Isaac  Young, let me recognize some of the long list of lawyers who have  dedicated time for this project: Mayor Yadira Ramos-Herbert, Andy  Spatz, Suzanne Berger, Jennifer Pasquantonio, Regina Matos, David  Lacher, Artem Djukic, Adam Sattler, Laurie Korngold, Jeffrey Levin,  Michele Tombini, Barry Salman, Stephanie Vetch, Susan Kettner, Frank  D'Onofrio, Michael Schiffer, Julie Kattan, Christina Hall, Milton  Kreppel, and so many more--a real all-star lineup on the frontline team  for democracy.                   Congratulating Barry and Barbara Reiter

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to congratulate a dynamic couple,  Barry and Barbara Reiter, as they plan to celebrate their 70th  birthdays together later this month.

Barry and I were in Mount Vernon High School together all those years  ago. He is a tad younger than I am, but he and Barbara have given years  of community service over and above their professional careers and in  raising their family. Their service in volunteer emergency services for  their town and Barry's service on the town council are just two  examples.

Mr. Speaker, take it from one who knows that age 70 is an achievement  in life and an opportunity to continue to serve, and Barry and Barbara  will.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, happy birthday to  Barbara and Barry Reiter.