Recognizing Derrick Thompson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699911/recognizing-derrick-thompson


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize a milestone in the life  of Derrick Thompson, city council president of the city of Mount Vernon  on his 50th birthday celebrated this week. He will be doing the  celebrating on Saturday night of his journey so far. He is a graduate  of the Mount Vernon Public School System and now a professional in  education in that very same school system. Twice-elected to the Mount  Vernon City Council, he is serving for the second time as its presiding  officer.

Happy Birthday to Derrick. There is much more ahead for him and the  people he serves. We salute Derrick from the floor of the House of  Representatives.                    Saluting the Community of White Plains

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, the city of White Plains, Westchester  County's seat of government, is a dynamic city of over 60,000 people,  with major corporations headquartered there, such as Heineken USA,  Atlas Air, and Danone North America; a shopping mecca with major  regional businesses; as well as small businesses and large national  stores such as Neiman Marcus, Bloomingdale's, and Nordstrom's. There is  a vibrant community with restaurants, entertainment, and more.

There is also a vibrant network of neighborhoods that link the  residents of the community: Battle Hill, Fisher Hill, Gedney Farms,  Rosedale, Reynal Park, Highlands, North Street, Carhartt, Gedney  Meadows, and more. They are linked by an organization that is the envy  of other communities in Westchester: the White Plains Council of  Neighborhood Associations. The group meets monthly to discuss the  concerns of each of the diverse neighborhoods, and they meet with local  elected officials to address the issues that arise. They link together  for the active and festive elements of community life, and it reaches  into the larger whole.

Let me salute the current leaders of the association: President  Michael Dalton, Vice President Sharon Woodford, Treasurer Tom Osbeck,  and Secretary Michael Sanchez, along many other active local  association presidents.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we salute their  community-minded activism.                          Recognizing Tajian Nelson

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I want to salute and recognize Ms. Tajian  Nelson, who is Westchester's first African-American female commissioner  of the County Board of Elections as she celebrate her 50th birthday  this week. Tajian has been long active in government and the public  arena in various leadership positions, and at her tender age she has  many more years of advancement and achievement in success ahead of her.

Congratulations to Tajian. We are all part of her fan club right here  on the floor of the House of Representatives.