Recognizing National Blood Donor Month


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698776/recognizing-national-blood-donor-month


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize National Blood  Donor Month, which takes place each January, and to thank our fellow  Americans who voluntarily donate blood.

As a proud blood donor myself, I commend the New York Blood Center  and all the community blood centers across the United States that  provide a lifeline to people and patients in our hospitals.

This week the center declared a blood emergency.

A single blood donation can save up to three lives, making the work  of our community blood centers and the generosity of the employees and  the volunteer blood donors who contribute their work extremely  important.

NYBC has been serving New Yorkers with lifesaving blood products  since 1964. Today, as part of the New York Blood Center Enterprises,  that mission extends far beyond New York. Together, they serve 75  million people and provide 1 million blood products annually to over  400 hospitals.

From newborns and their mothers to cancer patients and trauma  victims, community blood centers provide patients with the blood that  keeps them alive. This month and always, I thank them.             Saluting the Work of Port Chester Historical Society

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to salute the work of those who are  leaders and members of the Port Chester Historical Society. Their  volunteer efforts have kept alive the memories and stories of the years  past that represent the foundation of the village of Port Chester  today.

Led by president Jordan Allen, the society has maintained the  historic Bush-Lyon Homestead and has been able to follow through with a  host of different items for this building that was built in 1760,  involving the community and activities at that site: celebration of  historic dates, fairs and festivals, and important seminars.

This month, in concert with the Village of Port Chester and  Westchester's Revolution 250, the society cosponsors An Evening With  Benjamin Franklin. The society cosponsors that evening, and he will  visit us in the 21st century to tell us a little bit about the 18th  century.

Also this month, the historical society holds a workshop on research  and genealogy for interested adults who want to do their own family  research. The energy and resources activated by those in the society,  Kikki Short, Toni Sacco, Carolee Brakewood, Mike DeVittorio, Lou Russo,  Joanne Bellantoni, and others, is one more example of everyday  Americans doing their part to advance the story of America.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, I salute the Port  Chester Historical Society.       Protecting Drivers From Dangerous Electric Vehicle Battery Fires

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today because this week I am proud  to introduce new legislation to protect drivers from dangerous electric  vehicle battery fires with my colleague Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick  of Pennsylvania.

This bill called the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Battery Safety Act  of 2026, H.R. 6948, comes in response to several fatal EV accidents  which occurred in my district. The accidents involved extremely hot and  difficult-to-fight chemical battery blazes and have led to loss of  multiple lives.

I became aware of the lack of standards governing EV battery design  and heightened risks to passengers in EV accidents, including  electrical door releases becoming disabled and lack of information on  EV firefighting techniques and exposure to chemical toxins from those  fires.

This bipartisan bill addresses all of those issues, requiring the  U.S. Department of Transportation standards for battery safety,  mandates for mechanical door releases, disseminating best practices for  firefighters to tackle these runaway blazes, and requiring a study by  HHS on the health risks to firefighters.

These new standards will help assure Americans that they are not  taking unnecessary risks every time they get behind the wheel of an  electric vehicle and ensure our firefighters have the most current  knowledge and protection to handle the latest in automotive technology.