Recognizing Our Interns


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701986/recognizing-our-interns


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, as I have recognized the excellent staff  members who are working with me in this, my freshman term, may I also  recognize and thank the young people, college students and recent  college grads, who have labored in the inglorious role of intern doing  day-to-day grunt work necessary but often boring. They have given  months of their young lives on my behalf, and I am grateful.

They include Pearl Vinard, Emma Balber, Annie O'Connell, Marion Karp,  Jacob Niedzielski, Reese Chamberlain, Cheyenne Etemadi, Lauren Flum,  and Zachary Couzens.

I trust this experience was a good one for each of them and that in  the years to come they will achieve great professional and personal  success.                                 Project 2027

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, we have spent 1\1/2\ years watching this  majority implement Project 2025. I think it is time for us to discuss  Project 2027, the things that this House can and should do under new  leadership.

Let me highlight a priority for 2027: Stop insider trading by Members  of Congress, the Cabinet, the President and Vice President, and their  families. We will never gain the faith of the American people  proclaiming that we have their best common interest at heart when they  see examples of elected and appointed officials putting their own  personal economic interests at heart.

My hometown in New York's 16th Congressional District includes many  of the most successful financial minds on Wall Street, but it also  includes everyday, hardworking people who don't have any holdings on  Wall Street. Let's make sure the playing field is fair, not stilted in  favor of those who have access to information not available to all.

Let's prove we mean what we say. If this majority in 2026 won't act,  then let a new majority act in 2027.                                    Canada

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, permit me to jump forward and to provide  unsolicited advice to a person I do not know. On January 22, 2027, that  will be the third day of the Presidency of the 48th President of the  United States.

I encourage that person to fire up Air Force One and fly to Ottawa;  invite Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney to meet them on the tarmac  and give them a big public hug; motor together to the Canadian  Parliament, address the collective legislature, and tell them: America,  your friend, has come home; announce the end of Canadian tariffs and  open up a dialogue on the issues between us.

In so doing, you will not only be sending a message to Canada, but  you will be sending a message to England, to France, to Germany, and to  Japan. We will begin to restore the respect that we have lost in the  capitals of the free world.