Recognizing Omayra Andino


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the public service and  accomplishments of Omayra Andino, who this week completed two terms, or  and 4 years, as mayor of the village of Tuckahoe, with prior service on  the village board as trustee.

Mayor Andino, in her professional career, has shown executive skill  and leadership as CEO of the Institute for Applied Human Dynamics, an  organization that supports people with intellectual and developmental  disabilities, helping them to live their lives on their own terms.

Managing that team and its mission across Westchester would be a task  enough for anyone, but Mayor Andino added the responsibilities of  elected office in Tuckahoe, a village of over 6,000 people in one  compact square mile.

Tuckahoe local government has all of the responsibilities of any  municipal entity: police protection, sanitation, parks and recreation,  planning and land use functions, and more. Her leadership as mayor,  chairing the village and the board, and providing policy direction and  oversight to the professional village staff brought Tuckahoe into a new  era, an era of capital improvement and better service delivery.

Her achievements come as she was the first woman and, as a Latina,  the first person of color to lead the village government. She did not  seek a third term and has left Tuckahoe in the capable hands of her  colleague, new Mayor Cara Kronen, who was sworn in this past Monday.

Omayra has earned the respect of all of us, and we salute her as she  completes her exemplary service to the people of Tuckahoe.                              Fair Pay for Ellie

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the  Transformation to Competitive Integrated Employment Act, which was  recently reintroduced by Congressmen  Bobby Scott and Pete Sessions.

This bill is a long, overdue modernization of the Fair Labor  Standards  Act of 1938. In it, section 14(c) permitted people with disabilities to  be paid less than Federal minimum wage with little hope of advancement.

Today, those employed under 14(c) waivers make an average of $3.50  per hour. While originally well-intended, section 14(c) has not lived  up to its promise, and it needs to change.

Two of my constituents recognized this injustice as it relates to  their loved one, a high schooler, Ellie, who wants to be paid fairly.

Over 10 days, the father-son duo ran 260 miles from New York City to  Washington, D.C., to raise awareness for the bill.

Their run raised national awareness, and it is now up to us to act.  Together, we can support those workers by ensuring that they earn the  fair pay that they deserve.              Recognizing Rye High School Garnets Football Team

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to salute the Rye High School  Garnets football team as they head to Syracuse to compete in the New  York State Athletic Championship for Class A under the JMA Wireless  Dome, previously the Carrier Dome.

This Class A State championship game is much watched across the State  of New York. Under the legendary 50-year leadership of Coach Dino Garr,  Rye High School football teams have won four State championships and  are now competing against Brighton for their fifth State championship.

This year's squad is led by quarterback Carson Miller; wide receiver  Henry Shoemaker; running back Jagger Fenton; and the aptly named  Charlie Garnet, Garnet being the school mascot.

Their strong offense mowed down all of the competitors in section 1  football and through five post-season games with huge margins, winning  over Minisink Valley and Cornwall in the earlier games.

We salute the players and the coaches that have made the city of Rye  proud. Go Garnets.