Recognizing the Scarsdale Forum


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699265/recognizing-the-scarsdale-forum


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the civic commitment of  an organization of active and concerned citizens in Scarsdale who labor  to involve everyday residents in the important issues of the day, the  Scarsdale Forum.

The organization traces its roots back over 120 years to 1904, with a  charitable and educational mission at its core. The forum sponsors  events and seminars addressing the issues, choices, and solutions that  directly impact the community. The floor committees study substantive  issues, produce reports for discussion, and interact directly with  elected officials.

The leadership team, President Jill Spielberg, Vice President Karen  Brew, along with Elaine Weir, Madelaine Eppenstein, and a large cadre  of talented neighbors in key roles, provide a strong base of abilities  all committed to the benefit of Scarsdale.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, we salute the men and  women of the Scarsdale Forum who have made the level of voluntary,  active citizenship envisioned by our Founding Fathers come to life in  the village of Scarsdale.                  Trump Administration's Attacks on Families

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to condemn the Trump  administration's recent attack on childcare and family assistance. This  administration has decided to freeze funding for three critical  programs in New York and four other Democratic States. As usual, they  are putting their politically motivated agenda on full display.

The targeted programs include Temporary Assistance for Needy  Families, the Child Care and Development Fund, and the Social Services  Block Grant program. This move threatens over $3.4 billion in annual  funds that New York depends upon to provide critical resources,  including childcare, public assistance, domestic violence services,  homeless shelters, and emergency payments for families and children.

This action only serves to intensify the massive affordability crisis  that New York and the rest of the country continue to face. Playing  politics with people's lives, let alone vulnerable children and  families, is unacceptable.

While this administration continues its cruel and vengeful behavior,  my Democratic colleagues and I remain committed to protecting  vulnerable children and families.                         Polio Resurgence and Rotary

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I address this Chamber today as a longtime  member of Rotary International. Rotary's top priority is eradication of  the deadly disease, polio. Its members have invested billions of  dollars and countless volunteer hours in polio vaccination campaigns in  countries around the world.

In 1988, Rotary helped to create the Global Polio Eradication  Initiative, a partnership with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and  Prevention, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the Gates  Foundation, and the vaccine alliance, Gavi, with additional critical  funding from the U.S. Agency for International Development, which no  longer exists. Yet the entire effort is threatened by the  administration's plan to defund key GPEI partners.

Just at the time when this disease is closer than ever to being  eradicated, the risk of outbreaks is greatly increased. We must do all  in our power to protect the gains already made, and finish the job,  including appropriating the funds required.

People from my generation remember the terrible consequences of  polio, often paralysis and even death for those with this highly  contagious disease. Many Americans still live with long-term post-polio  syndrome.

Still, outbreaks continue around the world and other countries that  are just a plane ride away. Complete eradication depends on continued  vaccination of children everywhere and constant surveillance.

Founded in Chicago in 1905 with the motto of Service Above Self,  Rotary International is the headquarters organization for a vast number  of Rotary Clubs. It is one of the largest nonreligious and nonpolitical  civil society membership organizations. It provides people-to-people  assistance reaching the community level with vital programs.

Rotarians have a wide range of political and partisan leanings, but  they are united in their commitment to serve their communities and they  share a common determination to end polio. We must hear their voices,  and we must not let them down.