Recognizing Greater Centennial A.M.E. Zion Church


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701331/recognizing-greater-centennial-ame-zion-church


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to salute the community  presence of Greater Centennial A.M.E. Zion Church, a beacon of faith  and service in the city of Mount Vernon, New York.

Under the spiritual leadership of the Rev. Dr. Stephen Pogue, Greater  Centennial traces its founding to 1896, 130 years ago. Those founders'  vision has been realized in today's Greater Centennial: dynamic weekly  worship services, Bible study classes, weekly prayer call, Sunday  school and programs for young people, Wellness Wednesday programs, and  in the outreach to assist those of the community in need with food and  clothing, as well as seniors in need of companionship and care.

Dr. Pogue has led Greater Centennial for over a decade, having served  in the ministry previously from Harlem to Oakland, California. He holds  master's and doctoral degrees in divinity studies. His service extends  beyond the congregation as a chaplain for the Mount Vernon Police  Department, vice chair of the Westchester County Human Rights  Commission, and membership in prominent African-American organizations,  including president of the United Black Clergy.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, we salute the  Rev. Dr. Stephen Pogue and the church that he shepherds, Greater  Centennial A.M.E. Zion Church in Mount Vernon.                               Recognizing Chance Mullen

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, permit me to extend happy birthday wishes  on April 4 to Pelham Mayor Chance Mullen, who is showing talent and  leadership in the public sector, as well as in the private nonprofit  world.

Chance was elected as mayor of the village of Pelham in 2019 and is  serving in his fourth term. He served previously as a trustee on the  village board.

Chance is the chief elected official for Pelham Village, a community  of 7,000 people, with all the municipal responsibilities and headaches  that come with the position of mayor: the responsibilities for police,  fire, sanitation, and the like.

Through all of that, Mayor Mullen has done an exemplary job, but that  is not his only job. In his professional life, Chance serves as the  executive director of the Housing Action Council, a regional nonprofit  organization dedicated to expanding housing opportunities for low- and  moderate-income households.

Finally, Chance Mullen is an active Pelham volunteer: Cub Scouts,  Little League baseball, the Picture House, Pelham Civic Association,  and more.

From the floor of the House of Representatives, I wish a happy  birthday to Mayor Chance Mullen and encourage him to take a break for  at least one day.                   Recognizing Election Winners in New York

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, last Wednesday, March 18, was a day for  democracy in New York State.

Voters in many of our villages went to the polls to elect leaders to  serve their home communities, running the village governments that  provide basic services in their area: police, fire, sanitation,  recreation, snow removal, land use authority, and the like.

In Westchester's 16th Congressional District, let me salute those who  have won.

In the village of Bronxville, Helen Knapp and Vanessa O'Friel were  elected as trustees to the Bronxville Village Board. William Prince was  elected village justice.

In the village of Elmsford, Nelson Lopez and David Signor were  elected as trustees to the Elmsford Village Board.

In the village of Scarsdale, Tim Foley, Ron Schulhof, and Scott  Silberfein were elected as trustees to the Scarsdale Village Board.

These elections were held without controversy or incident. There were  no claims of illegal voting or stolen elections but just simply  democracy at work.

I congratulate the winners and thank all who competed in their  service to the communities.