Recognizing Co-Op City Naacp


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701368/recognizing-co-op-city-naacp


Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, let me recognize the outstanding work of  the Co-op City branch of the NAACP for its many contributions to the  life of African Americans in their area.

The branch is ably led by president Leslie Peterson, and she is aided  by Tracy Edwards, Brenda Brown, and Anika Green-Watson and has been  connected and involved in numerous programs in their community.

The branch meets on the fourth Sunday of each month in their offices  in the Einstein, room 36, with interesting programs and speakers.

The branch has also hosted and sponsored major events during  February's Black History Month, the January celebration of the life of  the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King and in June for Juneteenth.

The group joins other NAACP branches, notably the next-door  Williamsbridge NAACP, for events like Know Your Rights seminars. Their  advocacy of national NAACP legislative priorities bring them to lobby  their elected officials on matters promoting education, healthcare, and  antidiscrimination policies.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, I salute the Co- op City branch of the NAACP for their persistence and their moral  leadership at a time when it is needed the most.

Saluting Senior Citizen Council of Tuckahoe and Bronxville

Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise to salute the outstanding work of  the Senior Citizen Council of Tuckahoe and Bronxville and the services  that they provide to address the issues of isolation and loneliness to  seniors in both villages.

Their programs include a host of different activities, social and  recreational programs, health and wellness, arts and crafts, musical  programs, guest lectures, luncheons, and day trips.

The council is led by chair Eleanor Gustavson, along with Sarah  Belair, Maryann Dennen, Barbara McGraw, Jean Murrer, and a host of  other active board members.

The weekly senior programs are offered at both the Father Fata Hall  in Tuckahoe and the Reformed Church of Bronxville. They are sponsored  and supervised by Tuckahoe senior director Michelle Oliva and  Bronxville senior director Lisa McGovern.

The council is also helped by a community advisory board of prominent  Tuckahoe and Bronxville leaders who give assistance and counsel to the  council.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, I salute the  Senior Citizen Council of Tuckahoe and Bronxville and will tell both of  those senior groups I will be stopping by sometime soon with the  cookies.                                 Staff Salute

Mr. LATIMER. Madam Speaker, every freshman member comes into this  institution with much to learn, and it is impossible to do that and  function every day to represent the people of your district without the  help of a committed, talented staff.

Let me publicly express my gratitude for the hard work of the staff  that I have had the pleasure of working with in this first term: chief  of staff, Rich Orsillo; senior adviser on policy, Rob Hoch. My D.C.  team is led by Jessica Merritt, deputy chief of staff and legislative  director; along with Ryan Reed; Sidd Gannu; Jeremy Hoffner; Samantha  Kirschner; and Ellie Lockhart. My Westchester team is led by Ellen  Hendrickx, the district director; Michelle Gewanter, Edili Espaillat,  Daphney Sintyl, Tara Conte, and Chanah Haigh. My Bronx team is led by  Tremaine O'Garro, Bronx director, and Kelly Saunders. I owe a debt of  gratitude to each and every one of them.