Recognizing the Life of Millie Ortiz Sheehan


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695505/recognizing-the-life-of-millie-ortiz-sheehan


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remember the life and times  of Millie Ortiz Sheehan. Today, we are naming a street after her in the  town of Greenburgh where she did so much to help her community and her  people.

Millie was born in New York City, the daughter of Miguel and Cruz  Ortiz. She graduated from Baruch College where she met her husband,  Francis. Together, they spent over 40 years married, with two children  and four grandchildren.

Millie was a school psychologist with over 30 years of experience in  the Greenburgh Central School District and still had time to be active  in numerous community groups and worthwhile projects that helped her  neighbors, particularly the youth of her town. She was a spectacular  cook to boot.

Millie's loss came unexpectedly and tragically, but we remember her  and her life, and we join the community in valuing her life spent  caring about others. Her name on that street sign will ensure that  Greenburgh will never ever forget her.                  Honoring the Life of Lynne Trotter Wagstaff

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, every now and then, there are people born  who personify the essence of love in action. On November 2, 1946, Lynne  Louise Trotter, later Lynne Louise Trotter Wagstaff, was born in  Harlem, New York. She was one of those people.

Lynne attended St. Catherine of Siena and graduated from St. Pascal  Baylon High School. She loved to dance and attended Johnson Dance  Studio during her youth. Her summers were enriched, and she formed  lifelong bonds at Camp Minisink, a camp for African-American youth in  New York City.

Lynne met her husband of 47 years, William O. Wagstaff, Jr., at  Central State. He was a Kappa and a football player, two criteria she  later joked were on her checklist for potential mates in college. They  were married on August 5, 1978, and purchased their first home in Mount  Vernon, New York.

Although her childhood dream was to become an actress, she decided to  pursue a career as an educator. Over the years, she was an elementary  school teacher, a reading teacher, an assistant principal, and retired  as the principal of P.S. 112, located in the Edenwald neighborhood of  the Bronx.

Lynne spent her entire career in public education and felt it was her  responsibility not only to educate but to provide care and safety for  children who were often underserved and overlooked, either due to their  race or economic status.

Lynne's love for her family was her foundation, and she poured into  her family, always being a reliable supporter. Even when a relative  might have felt that life's challenges left them fighting alone, she  was always there.

Lynne leaves to carry on her legacy William O. Wagstaff, Jr.; William  O. Wagstaff, III; William O. Wagstaff, IV; her daughter-in-law,  Christina; and bonus children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren,  cousins, and friends who have become family.

It is an honor to recognize Lynne on the House floor today.