Saluting Macedonia Baptist Church


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700889/saluting-macedonia-baptist-church


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to salute the outstanding presence  in the city of Mount Vernon of Macedonia Baptist Church. Founded 113  years ago, Macedonia has been a bedrock of faith and community service  in the African-American community on the south side of Mount Vernon,  where I grew up.

The church is led by Pastor Rev. Dr. Darren Morton, also a local  Mount Vernon boy, who holds a degree in business administration and a  doctorate in education and is a graduate of the Tabernacle Bible  Institute and the Manhattan Bible Institute.

The Macedonia family holds weekly Sunday services, Sunday school for  young people, Wednesday Bible study every week at 7 p.m., and midweek  Lunch with Jesus fellowship discussion over lunch.

As they approach the solemn Christian season of Good Friday and  Easter, Macedonia provides a daily 40 Day Lenten Journey series.

Macedonia's outreach into the community as well--feeding those in  need, clothing those in need, providing positive outlets for young  people, and attention and care for our seniors--helps put their  Christian values on display every day to the people of Mount Vernon.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, we salute  Macedonia Baptist Church, its lay leaders, and its spiritual leaders  for its vibrant presence in Mount Vernon.                           Hastings Farmers' Market

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, along the Hudson River in Westchester  County, there is a place to go on a Saturday morning where you can find  farm-fresh produce and goods from the Hudson Valley, the Hastings  Farmers' Market.

The market supports regional agriculture by bringing these products  close to home on alternate Saturday mornings in the winter season and  every Saturday throughout the spring and summer seasons, in the winter  season from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.

The Hastings Farmers' Market opened the summer of 1998. Now, under  the leadership of Ms. Pascale Le Draoulec, it features dozens of  vendors with a wide variety of offerings in the strategic location  across from the Hastings-on-Hudson Metro-North Railroad station.

The market, along with its sister market in Irvington, the Irvington  Farmers Market, which is on Sundays, is convenient to all the  Rivertowns residents and the city of Yonkers residents.

The market's mission also includes educating and inspiring the market  community about the benefits of local farming and sustainable  practices. They invite charitable nonprofits and organizations to  participate in the farmers' market, groups from the Girl Scouts of  Hastings to the local volunteer fire department.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, we salute the  Hastings Farmers' Market as a valuable and estimable community asset.        Saluting Knights of Columbus Father John M. Grady Council 503

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I would like to salute the leadership and  the membership of the Knights of Columbus Father John M. Grady Council  503 located in Port Chester, New York, for their service to the  community.

The Knights, an organization of Catholic men nationwide, are  organized into local councils and draw their membership in Council 503  from the parishes of St. John Bosco and the churches within the parish,  including Corpus Christi-Holy Rosary, and formerly named Our Lady of  Mercy.

The Knights of Council 503, led by Grand Knight Mark Scocchera and  Deputy Grand Knight Phil Dorazio, have an active program that works to  support the parish with local dinners and fundraising events, programs  for the seniors and the veterans of the Port Chester community and the  Rye Brook community, and programs for young people, especially through  the Scouting troop programs.

They maintain an active Knights of Columbus hall that hosts their  events and other events in the village with the ever-present chef, past  Grand Knight Charlie Sacco, and his wife, the head of the Ladies  Auxiliary, Toni Sacco, in charge. You can join them for Pasta Fridays  every Friday night during Lent. It is very affordable.

From the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, we salute the  Knights of Columbus Father John M. Grady Council 503 for their service  to Catholic values and their service to the local Port Chester and Rye  Brook communities.