Save Sba From Sanctuary Cities Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692104/save-sba-from-sanctuary-cities-act-of-2025


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking member for yielding me  time.

Mr. Speaker, my district has over 30,000 small businesses, from  restaurants and small grocery stores in New Rochelle to construction  companies in Yonkers.

Every day, I hear from businessowners that they need certainty to run  their businesses. They rely on an immigration system that ensures that  their employees won't be targeted and unjustly detained on their way to  work. They rely on trade policies that keep the cost of their products  stable, and they rely on Federal partners who will be there when they  need assistance.

Since taking office, President Trump and SBA Administrator Loeffler  have outlined an agenda that will harm small businesses. Proposals such  as cutting the SBA workforce by 43 percent; relocating SBA offices away  from New York City, the center of that region; and firing an  independent inspector general do not represent anything that looks like  America First. It is an ideological agenda, and it is imposed upon the  majority of this country that functions differently and requires  tailored policies.

In addition, last week, my home county of Westchester was branded a  sanctuary jurisdiction by the Department of Homeland Security,  completely inaccurately. Westchester is not and has never been a  sanctuary jurisdiction. In the last 7 years, we have reduced violent  crime, and we have brought economic strength over a period of time that  rivals any county in this Nation.

Westchester County cooperates with Federal immigration law. County  law, however, requires that no administrative police can circumvent due  process. We do this to ensure that all residents will cooperate with  local law enforcement.

Westchester rejects the deep state police that appear masked and  without badges and proper identification. This bill represents an  attempt by House Republicans to enact retribution on places because  this administration wants to impose its view of law enforcement: deep  state authority not subject to judicial review.

The result of petty and punitive motives of this bill is that small  businesses will suffer. You would think that, when you offer support  for this President's tariff strategy, reckless as it is, which is  damaging small businesses that rely on international goods, components,  and supplies, they would instead be working to stimulate that. Yet,  this bill could not be further from that goal.

If this bill is passed, SBA offices will be relocated as political  payback, away from public access in major cities. In fact, that is the  point: to reduce programs that help small businesses gain access to  capital, professional services, and predictable tariff policies.

That is why I introduced an amendment to prohibit SBA from relocating  an office if the next closest office is more than 50 miles from the  communities that were relocated. We should be debating legislation that  will help small businesses tackle what they identify as their biggest  needs: workforce development, stability, and access to capital. That is  not what we are doing.

If we continue on this irrational path, American businesses will  suffer.

Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, the mistakes we are making in this  Congress, bill after bill after bill, will damage this Nation's  strength at a time when we need unity and strength more than ever  before.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill.