Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691761/transparency-and-predictability-in-small-business-opportunities-act


Mr. LATIMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. McGarvey for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I recognize the colleagues who have joined me in leading  this bill, Congressman Alford of Missouri, Congressman Mfume of  Maryland, and Congresswoman Goodlander of New Hampshire. I appreciate  the opportunity to work together and to highlight why this important  legislation is needed.

Small business owners are often resource constrained. Every day,  these individuals play the role of salesman, compliance officer,  marketing professional, and more, often juggling a variety of business- related activities to support their business.

When a small business owner submits a proposal to work with the  Federal Government, they invest considerable time and resources into  making their submission the best it can be. They are also forced to  navigate a complex and time-consuming contracting process while  balancing their other important responsibilities.

Last year, the Small Business Committee heard testimony from a small  business owner who said that solicitation proposals can cost a small  business upward of $10,000 worth of labor to draft, develop, review,  and execute.

With that in mind, it can be rightfully frustrating for a small  business owner if a Federal agency decides to cancel a solicitation  without transparency into why that decision has been made. Without  insight into how the decision was made, it can feel as though their  hard work and considerable investment to submit a proposal was made in  vain.

If we are serious about bringing more small businesses into Federal  contracting, then we must ensure that businessowners have confidence  and trust in their Federal partners. This bipartisan bill, the  Transparency and Predictability in Small Business Opportunities Act,  would improve accountability in the Federal contracting process for  small businesses.

The bill would require SBA to issue rules requiring that when an  agency cancels a solicitation, they must share a justification for why  they are canceling the solicitation and provide information about any  plans to reissue it. If an agency does not plan to reissue the  solicitation, then the bill would create procedures for a small  business to receive assistance in identifying similar contracting  opportunities.

This bill passed the Small Business Committee unanimously in March  and passed the House by voice vote in the last Congress. It is a  bipartisan and commonsense solution to help our small businesses more  successfully navigate the Federal contracting process.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues here to support this  important bill.