Notice of Intention to Offer Resolution Raising A Question of the Privileges of the House


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Norman for raising  this issue.

To me, this is an interesting issue because I am hearing the argument  that is coming at us, and it says, well, there is no due process.

Well, debate is a part of due process. A part of due process is to  have this debate. You get to stand up and defend, and you get to raise  your issues. The Democrats chose to take it back to committee, which as  Mr. Roy said, that kind of indicates that maybe you know that there is  something that is not great about this.

I am looking at this, and here is at least one of the exchanges that  seems to have taken place. Maybe we will hear some comment about it.  That would be good. They can make some comment about it.

In this exchange, Mr. Epstein sent a text message to the gentlewoman  from the Virgin Islands. This is the quote: He brings up Rhona, keeper  of the secrets.

Who is he referring to? Rhona Graff. That is a Trump assistant.

Plaskett responds: Rhona? Quick, I am up next. Is that an acronym?

She wants to know what Mr. Epstein wants her to talk about. Don't you  find that interesting? I find that really intriguing, especially since  we know what Mr. Epstein was.

Mr. Epstein responds: That is his assistant.

He doesn't really say much more than that.

Then Plaskett starts questioning Mr. Cohen and asks about Graff. Not  only was she texting, having this communication with Mr. Epstein, she  is asking Mr. Cohen what Mr. Epstein wants her to ask.

Another text from Epstein says: Good work.

That is after she wraps it up.

All of this seems to be very interesting. I am sorry that I don't  breathe the rarefied air of the Intelligence Committee. I don't. I am  just a regular guy and a Member of the House, that is all, so I don't  know about that rarefied air.

I guess I am part of the sewage that Mr. Himes said. Yeah. Thanks for  agreeing with me, Ms. Plaskett. She has got us down. Unless you are in  the Intelligence Committee, you are crap. That is what the Intel  Committee says.

But here is the deal: When you are sitting there in a sitting  committee, and you are having communications with a convicted sex  offender, and you are taking their advice on how to ask questions,  maybe you have a problem. Maybe your problem is that you brought  disrepute on the House.

This isn't from the articles. This is from the 10,000 pages or so  released last week from the Oversight Committee that they received from  the Epstein estate. This isn't fishing around. This is coming from real  evidence.

Mr. Speaker, I sit here, and I listen: Oh, she is the finest Member  that ever walked the planet.

That is what we heard. The bottom line is she is sitting there,  seeking advice and counsel on how to ask questions from Jeffrey  Epstein, who this entire body, save one, just condemned. We want all of  the evidence. It is a shame to be here but for one thing, which is: She  made the choice.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage everyone in this body to support Mr.  Norman's resolution.