Proposing An Amendment to the Constitution of the United States Requiring A Balanced Budget for the Federal Government


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700933/proposing-an-amendment-to-the-constitution-of-the-united-states-requiring-a-balanced-budget-for-the-federal-government


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and  pass the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 139) proposing an amendment to the  Constitution of the United States requiring a balanced budget for the  Federal Government.

The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.

The text of the joint resolution is as follows:                               H.J. Res. 139

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the       United States of America in       Congress assembled   (two-thirds of each House concurring       therein), That the following article is proposed as an       amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which       shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the       Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of three-      fourths of the several States:                                ``Article --

``Section 1. Total expenditures for a year shall not exceed       the average annual receipts collected in the three prior       years, adjusted in proportion to the changes in the       population of citizens of the United States and inflation.       Total expenditures shall include all expenditures of the       United States except those for payment of debt, and receipts       shall include all receipts of the United States except those       derived from borrowing.

``Section 2. Congress may by a roll call vote of two-thirds       of each House provide by law for specific expenditures in       excess of the limit in section 1.

``Section 3. Congress may by a roll call vote provide by       law for specific expenditures in excess of the limit in       section 1 for any year in which a declaration of war is in       effect.

``Section 4. Any bill to levy a new tax or to increase the       rate of any tax shall not become law unless approved by two-      thirds of the whole number of each House of Congress by a       roll call vote.

``Section 5. Congress shall enforce and implement this       article by appropriate legislation.

``Section 6. This article shall take effect with the fifth       year beginning after ratification.''.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona.  Res. 139.

Mr. Speaker, today our national debt exceeds $38 trillion and grows  second by second. On a per-person basis, the national debt amounts to  $113,000 for every person living in the United States.

For generations, Congress has chosen to max out our national credit  card and leave the bill to the next generation instead of having hard  conversations about spending.

Families across our Nation have had these hard conversations, and  they balance their budgets. The leaders of this Nation should do the  same.

Americans know that debt comes with strings attached. Every dollar we  spend beyond our means today is a dollar and change we must repay  tomorrow. It is no different for government. The more America borrows,  the more expensive every next borrowed dollar becomes.

Indeed, annual Federal spending on interest is now one of the largest  line items we have. We spend more on interest than we do on Medicare.  We spend more on interest than we do on national defense.

Republicans and Democrats may have different policy ideas and  priorities, but surely we can all agree that a budget hamstrung by huge  interest payments benefits nobody.

Our fiscal trajectory is alarming and unsustainable. Higher-than- expected interest rates or other challenges could trigger a debt  spiral. It has happened to other countries throughout history.

Without changes, it will happen to us. The day of reckoning will  come, and it will not be big and beautiful. It will be big and ugly.

There are two choices: spend a lot less on the future or spend a  little less starting today. I choose the second option. That is why I  support the balanced budget amendment. It is the only way to cement our  commitment to long-term fiscal stability.

A 5-year path to balance will allow us to make prudent spending  choices to gradually balance the budget and wean us from our reliance  on deficit spending.

It is simple. The balanced budget amendment will restore fiscal  sanity and take us off the path to an economic calamity.

But the balanced budget amendment will not merely beat back a future  fiscal crisis. It will also reduce the cost of living here and now. The  enormous Federal debt is currently driving up borrowing costs for all  Americans. Mortgages, car payments, and student loans are all more  expensive because of Congress' profligacy and irresponsibility.

We saw the disastrous effects of budget-busting deficit spending  during the catastrophic 4 years of Biden-Harris rule. With the eager  support of Democrats in Congress, the Biden-Harris administration  approved $4.7 trillion in new deficit spending, ultimately racking up  $8.5 trillion in new debt.

What did the average American get? The worst inflation in 40 years.

When Biden-Harris took over in January of 2021, inflation was just at  1.4 percent per annum. By the middle of the term, it exceeded 9 percent  per annum.

Inflation is a tax on everyone, but we all know who it hurts the  most: the poor, the working class, seniors on fixed incomes, and  American families, who saw their expenses explode and their salaries  stay flat.

Mr. Speaker, histrionics and misdirection won't cover the historical  hypocrisy of the reckless spending of Democrats who now even choose to  keep parts of the government shut down.

Under the Biden administration, the national debt grew by an  unprecedented--unprecedented--$8.5 trillion.

By the way, this used to be a bipartisan issue. When the gentleman  mentioned Bill Clinton, I think: Yeah, that is the last time everybody  came together from both parties that actually produced a balanced  budget.

The gentleman asks: Well, why don't Republicans do it now?

It is because we would like to invite the other side to do it with  us. We would like to invite the other side to do it with us, but they  don't want to do it with us.

In fact, the gentleman just basically announced that he would like to  repeal the tax act and give us the largest tax increase in national  history.

What did we get from the runaway spending of Joe Biden?

When Biden-Harris took over in January, inflation was at 1.4 percent.  By the middle of the term it was over 9 percent. The One Big Beautiful  Bill Act will reduce debt to GDP, flip primary deficits into surpluses  by 2034, and reduce the deficit by about $4.5 trillion relative to the  policy baseline prior to enactment, all of this while averting the  largest tax hike in American history that my colleague across the aisle  basically just announced they are going to enact upon the American  people if they become the majority.

Democrats have proposed radical bills that far exceed the alleged  cost of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. Let us see what they have done.  The Green New Deal will cost $93 trillion over 10 years. That is  theirs. Their Medicare for All proposal will cost $32 trillion over 10  years.

Mr. Speaker, forgive me if I think they are projecting a bit on this  one here. The simple truth is a balanced budget amendment would hold  both parties accountable.

Mr. HARRIS of North Carolina. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for  yielding.

Mr. Speaker, all Americans understand something very clear. We don't  have a revenue problem with the Federal Government. We have a spending  problem.

Congress has the power of the purse, but we have failed to exercise  such authority responsibly. Our national debt currently stands as of  this morning I understand at $39 trillion, which equals over $113,000  per citizen. This number grows as I speak and will not stop without  radical action from Congress.

We have borrowed our children's futures to pay for programs we cannot  afford, putting this country on the path to financial ruin. The only  way forward is to set guardrails to ensure Congress can no longer spend  money it does not have.

This balanced budget amendment to our Constitution simply prohibits  total spending from exceeding the average  tax revenue collected in the 3 years prior.

While critics may argue that reducing spending will somehow harm the  economy, this amendment allows Congress 5 years to adapt to the new  requirements. The amendment also sets a two-third majority voting  requirement for any new taxes to prevent politicians from taking more  of your money to spend rather than doing the hard work of fine-tuning  our budget. Despite what some opponents might say, there is no way to  tax our way out of this situation.

As I said at the beginning, all of America knows: There is a spending  problem, not a revenue problem.

Mr. Speaker, I urge full support of this amendment. It is past time  to balance our budget.

Mr. Speaker, I find that the argument that is presented by the  gentleman from Maryland seems delusional at best--delusional at best.

This amendment doesn't target programs. It targets overspending.  Congress must live within the revenue Americans already provide, and  that is about $5.5 trillion a year. The two-thirds threshold applies to  tax hikes, not program cuts. Receipts have been stable for decades.  Spending is what is out of control. Spending is what is out of control,  and they fail to acknowledge it.

What is delusional is for the Democrats to have the audacity to say  that they are the party of fiscal responsibility when they are trying  to impose the Green New Deal, $93 trillion over 10 years.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Mr. Speaker, during the gentleman from Texas'  recent comments, so recently given, the national debt rose by $125,000.  Just keep that in mind.

Mr. Speaker, I will set the record straight on that history. It was  very colorful but a little bit inaccurate. If you remember, it was the  '96 budget that was balanced. It was balanced with all the Republicans  and a plurality of Democrats. It would have been nice if it would have  been unanimous, wouldn't it? It would have been nice, but we couldn't  get there.

Perhaps all the rhetoric you have heard today is political  partisanship. It is posturing from that side of the aisle over there  and maybe some from us because it is a bipartisan problem.

I think the previous speaker just said what are the odds of us ever  just doing it on our own. That is right. Hell froze over once about 30  years ago. Are we going to wait 30 years again until the structural  deficit exceeds $5 trillion a year when we actually have a national  debt that is somewhere north of $100 trillion?

We are not going to last that long. We need to do this now.

Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman's comments. I think in one  sense he is right on the money. Both parties can share in the blame of  this massive, structural national debt we have, but I will point out  that in 2001 when taxes were cut, something happened in 2001 which  changed the trajectory of the entire Nation, and we are still dealing  with the fallout.

You will remember it. We called that 9/11, right? Some things  happened in 2001, which changed our spending. That is important to  recall.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my  time.

Madam Speaker, hyperbole and sophistry right here on the floor of the  House from politicians, who would have thunk it? Really, who would have  thunk it? I get a big kick out of that.

Do you know what the national debt was when Barack Obama became  President? It was $8 trillion. Do you know what it was when he left? It  was $20 trillion.

Do you know what the gentleman from Maryland did? He defended every  wild-eyed, anticonstitutional program and every abuse of the First  Amendment under the Biden administration. When you had reporters being  castigated, investigated, and prosecuted, not a peep from him. Not a  peep, but, boy golly, he is going to come up here and attack President  Trump. That is what he is going to do, and then he has the audacity to  talk about abasement--abasement of this body, and to say that we have  absolute control over all three bodies.

I wish we did. That would mean that we had 60 Republican Senators in  the Senate. Quite frankly, I have a major problem with that because  that is a supermajoritarian body under the cloture rule. That wasn't  contemplated by the Founders either. They thought it would be a simple  majority.

The rationale for his argument is that James Madison and Alexander  Hamilton wouldn't have said it, but do you know what? James Madison and  Alexander Hamilton would have said that we are not going to have direct  elections of Senators. They are going to be elected by their State  legislature.

That rationale doesn't make sense in this argument. It is specious  and weak. That is the rationale that my colleagues on the other side of  the aisle are throwing at us today.

The gentleman said that we have never needed a balanced budget  amendment before. Perhaps he is correct, but we sure have a massive  structural deficit today. We have a structural deficit because, even  though we bring in a record amount--a record amount--of revenue, we  keep spending more. This body doesn't have the political will.

That is the point that our side has been making. We don't have the  political will, not on our side or the minority's side. My colleagues  on the other side of the aisle want to turn this constantly into a  partisan affair. I am saying that both sides have recklessly spent too  much--both sides.

Madam Speaker, do you know who is punished by it? It is not us. It is  not us. It is the American people. It is the American people who are  taking the burden of feckless, blind spending and reckless spending.

Even if you get the record amount of revenue, this body is not going  to make a concomitant amount of spending. It is going to spend more. It  will always spend more. We will always spend more. Only if we have a  balanced budget amendment, which, by the way, used to be a bipartisan  issue.

It used to be a bipartisan issue on the national debt and deficit.  Both parties' national security leaders used to say that that is our  number one security threat. I mean for 25 years, a generation or more.

Madam Speaker, we don't hear that today from my colleagues. It is too  bad. I wish we did. Man, I wish we did. I wish we could both say: Let's  put this together. It is delusional. It is delusional. The fact of the  matter is that what was spent during COVID--massive amounts, literally  trillions of dollars--without any productive capacity to go with it  fueled the Biden-era inflation, and we are dealing with that today.

Oddly enough, the inflation rate under President Trump is back down  to almost what it was when he left. That is the reality.

How about my Democratic colleagues saying that we are going to put in  the Green New Deal program. Remember that one? Yes. It was $93 trillion  worth of spending with no pay-for over a 10-year period. It was $93  trillion.

Medicare for all, $33 trillion over a 10-year period, no pay-for.

Madam Speaker, do you know what the pay-for is? We are going to print  more money. We are going to print more money, and do you know what that  does? It devalues your currency. By the way, the valuation of currency  is the classic definition of ``inflation'' because you can't buy as  much with the same dollar. You are always going to need more.

People think that we have seen hyperinflation. We haven't seen  hyperinflation. Do you know when we are going to see hyperinflation? We  are going to see hyperinflation when the bond markets start saying:  Guess what. You guys are effectively bankrupt, and we are not lending  you any more money.

That is when the big calamity hits. When that hits, there won't be  anybody here who can say that this is a partisan issue. Both parties  will be at fault.

I pray to God that both sides here today will vote for this  amendment. Get it to the people. Let the people actually impose upon us  what 49 States have, and that is a requirement for a balanced budget.  If we couldn't print our own money, we would have already collapsed.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.