Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026


Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Madam Chair, our brave servicemen and  servicewomen stand ready to defend this Nation against any threat; but  they cannot prepare for tomorrow's battles if today's training grounds  are shackled by outdated and overreaching regulations.

The Endangered Species Act, once intended as a shield for vulnerable  wildlife, has morphed into a weapon wielded by radical activists and  unelected bureaucrats that cripple our military's readiness and drain  billions from our defense budget.

Madam Chair, consider this. The War Department manages nearly 27  million acres of land, waters, and airspace, which are vital for  testing cutting-edge technologies, honing combat skills, and ensuring  our Forces remain the world's finest.

Yet as many as 550 threatened or endangered species call these areas  home, which triggers endless ESA restrictions that hamstring essential  training and operations.

At Fort Huachuca in Arizona, for example, the Sonoran tiger  salamanders' designated critical wetland habitat requires strict  protection measures. That means environmental reviews and limits on  land use, construction, and water management. All those delay vital  infrastructure projects and constrain training exercises during  breeding seasons.

On top of that, Fort Huachuca must carry out ongoing monitoring,  predator control, and habitat management, all under ESA guidelines,  which impose onerous constraints on our ability to train and be ready  for our warriors. The same could be said about the Barry M. Goldwater  Range, also in Arizona.

It is not just Arizona. This happens to Guam, as well, for instance.  Guam's military installations face extreme challenges related to ESA  from the invasive brown tree snake, which has devastated native  wildlife and forced costly and elaborate mitigation programs.

On Guam, the military must deploy snake-proof fencing, trap-and-bait  programs, and train detection dogs to prevent brown tree snake  incursions on military equipment and cargo, significantly complicating  logistics, readiness, and training activities.

This forces the Department of War to divert funds to wildlife  management, while mission-critical activities grind to a halt.

Activist groups exploit the ESA through relentless litigation and red  tape, imposing critical habitat designations that do precious little to  recover species but everything to block land use and weaken our  defenses. They are a direct assault on our national security.

After more than 50 years since its enactment in 1973, the ESA's track  record is abysmal. Fewer than 2 percent of listed species have been  delisted. That isn't a success story. That is proof of a flawed  perpetual regulatory machine that prioritizes special interest agendas  over sound science and our soldiers' needs.

Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Madam Chair, let me reiterate: Activist groups  exploit the ESA through relentless litigation and red tape, curtailing  and preventing full training and preparation by our military.

This amendment is nonnegotiable. It draws a clear line: Military and  National Guard lands cannot be arbitrarily designated as critical  habitat if the Department of War deems them essential for national  defense.

I want to take the same argument that was used on the last bill when  Mr. Cisneros of California said, good grief, our adversaries don't care  about this question of censorship. I am telling you, Madam Chair, our  adversaries don't care about this question of the environment and the  ESA.

It exempts our personnel from ESA prohibitions during defense-related  operations. That is what is happening, even if incidental harm occurs,  because in the heat of preparation for real-world threats, we cannot  afford to pause for paperwork.

The ESA was not meant to become a tool for endless lawsuits,  environmental extremism, or regulatory overreach that jeopardizes our  ability to deter adversaries.

Madam Chair, now is the moment for bold action and clarity. National  defense must eclipse this misguided focus on the ESA. The ESA has only  delisted 2 percent of the hundreds and thousands of species that it has  listed.

We cannot handcuff America's military. Our enemies are not waiting  for environmental impact studies. They are advancing relentlessly.

If we vote against this, we are choosing endangered species over war  preparedness and defending this country. This is essential, and it is a  lifeline for security.

Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to stand up for our troops and pass  the measure today, and I yield back the balance of my time.