Providing for Consideration of H.R. Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Miles City Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``North Dakota Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Central Yukon Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan''; and for Other Purposes


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I am just returning from hearing the  survivors tell their stories, and I was so deeply moved. This is not a  political issue. This is an issue of 14-year-olds and 15-year-olds who  told the stories of how they were solicited by Jeffrey Epstein and  raped and assaulted. Then they went to the police and the police didn't  do anything because Jeffrey Epstein knew rich people, because he knew  Presidents, because he knew donors.

This is not a Republican issue. This is not a Democratic issue.  Marjorie Taylor Greene was there speaking out for the survivors. Nancy  Mace was in tears, because she is a survivor, when she heard their  stories. Lauren Boebert has said we need to speak up for the survivors.

This is an issue that could actually bring this country together to  say that a Nation in which rich and powerful men can rape young girls  without consequence is a nation that has lost its moral and spiritual  soul.

We can fight about a lot of things. We shouldn't fight about this. We  need two more Republicans to sign the discharge petition. I have a  pretty simple rule. Most people don't understand all the jargon of  Congress, but the survivors very clearly said they want the Massie- Khanna bill. They want it for closure. They want it for the release of  the files. You know what the irony here is? President Trump could  actually be the person who does good in this. He can still change his  mind.

Speaker Johnson is a true Christian. I know him. I know his family.  He is a good Christian man. He can be for bringing justice. I really  don't understand why we are fighting over this. Why don't we do  something good for this country? Why don't we stand with these  survivors and show this Nation we are still capable of coming together  when it matters for truth and justice?