Providing for Consideration of S.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Buffalo Field Office Record of Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan Amendment''; Providing for Consideration of H.J. Res. Providing for Congressional Disapproval of the Rule Submitted By the Bureau of Land Management Relating to ``Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision''; Providing for Consideration of H. Con. Res. Denouncing the Horrors of Socialism; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Unlocking Our Domestic Lng Potential Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Researching Efficient Federal Improvements for Necessary Energy Refining Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of and for Other Purposes


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for his leadership over  the last 5 months to make sure that this bill came to the floor. I  thank also Don Sisson for his leadership and understanding of all the  rules to make this possible.

As we are here today, I saw on CNN that the President is meeting with  the Saudi prince. What does America First mean to me? How about meeting  with the survivors? How about making sure that America's girls are not  being raped? That is what it means to be America First. It doesn't mean  going and meeting with Saudi princes.

I am so honored to be here and to work together with Congressman    Thomas Massie, who has shown so much courage and principle. I am so  honored to be here next to Congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene and  Congresswoman Nancy Mace.

Someone ask me what I learned through this process. I said that  sometimes we have to see people not just through their caricature. I  had caricatures of Representative Greene, Representative Massie, and  Representative Mace.

What I saw was they cared as Americans and human beings. They stood  with courage. They looked at this not from politics, but they looked at  this as what is right. I am proud today to be a Member of Congress. I  am proud to work with them. I am proud of what we are showing this  country is possible.

If we actually care about American values, maybe we can overcome some  of the bitter divides in this country. If we didn't care about just  getting the credit and maybe worked together, we could actually care  about forgotten and abandoned Americans like the survivors that  testified today. I was so moved by their testimony.

How can we hear their testimony, as all of us have heard, see their  tears, see them hold up photos at the age of 14, and think they are not  telling the truth? This is not politics. This is humanity.

Sometimes we get into these Chambers, and we forget what happened. We  forget how we grew up. When most of us grew up, we went to barbecues.  We went to Little League games. We went to church or temple. We didn't  fly around in private jets and go to a rape island. We didn't buy off  politicians and tell them to keep quiet. We didn't think that it was  normal to abuse or rape young girls.

Then they say they don't know if they were 18 or 22. Come on. It is  rotten. Then they say to just care about the price of eggs. Care about  the price of healthcare. What is more important than that? American  values are more important. These rich, greedy men abused American  values. They abused what is sacred about this country. They abused what  built this country.

Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, it is time. They are going to have a  reckoning. The Epstein class is going to go. The reason they are going  to go is because the progressive left and the MAGA right and everyone  in between is finally waking up against this rotten system.

When people are united and when people work across the aisle, amazing  things can happen because the American people are kind and good and  decent.

Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to have worked with Congressman Massie. I  particularly salute the courage of Representatives Marjorie Taylor  Greene, Lauren Boebert, and Nancy Mace. None of this would have been  possible without their courage in standing up on the petition and for  what they did.