Providing for Consideration of H.R. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, Providing for Consideration of H.R. Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of Providing for Consideration of H.R. Anti-Cbdc Surveillance State Act; Providing for Consideration of S. Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins Act; and Waiving A Requirement of Clause 6(A) of Rule Xiii with Respect to Consideration of Certain Resolutions Reported From the Committee on Rules


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, last night, the Speaker's Rules Committee  voted to block my amendment that called for the full release of the  Epstein files while protecting the victims' identity.

Let's just be clear. They voted to protect rich and powerful men who  were abusing, assaulting, and abandoning young women. That is what this  vote is about.

A nation that chooses impunity for the rich and the powerful at the  expense of children is a nation that has lost its moral purpose.

You ask why did they vote this way? Let's speak plainly. It is  because these rich and powerful men donate to the politicians in  Washington, D.C., and play golf with the elites in Washington, D.C.  They are foreign leaders who we don't want to offend. They interact  with our intelligence agencies that we don't want to disobey. There is  something rotten in Washington.

This is a question of whose side are you on. Are you on the side of  the people? Are you on the side of America's children? Or are you on  the side of the rich and powerful who have had their thumb on the  scales and shafted Americans for decades?

We are going to get a vote again this afternoon. I hope people will  find the courage of a Republican like Ralph Norman or a Republican like  Marjorie Taylor Greene or a Republican like   Thomas Massie or the many  MAGA Republicans who are demanding the full release of the Epstein  files. It is not a question just of Epstein. It is a question of trust  in our democracy. It is a question of restoring a government of the  people, by the people, and for the people.

Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, it is a question of the rebirth of a nation  that stands for our children. I hope everyone in this up-or-down vote  will vote to make sure that the Epstein files are released while  protecting victims' identity.