Relating to Consideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. Rescissions Act of 2025


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, the American people, Republicans,  Independents, and Democrats want the Epstein files released with the  victims' identity protected.

Now most people don't understand how this town works, so I am going  to try to explain this really simply.

Congressman Massie and I introduced a bipartisan bill to release all  the Epstein files and to make sure victims were protected. There are 10  Republican cosponsors of that bill, including MAGA stalwarts like  Representatives Marjorie Taylor Greene, Lauren Boebert, and Tim  Burchett. We have the votes tonight to pass it, but what happened in  the Rules Committee is they don't want to have this vote tonight  because they know they are going to lose because they know their own  Members want to vote for it.

What is even sillier is they had this nonbinding resolution, so I  thought surely we would vote on a nonbinding resolution. They don't  even want to vote on the nonbinding resolution in case Donald Trump  gets slightly offended. They don't even want the vote on the nonbinding  resolution tonight.

Now, the President is paying attention--not just because his favorite  Congressman   Thomas Massie is involved--and he directs the Attorney  General Pam Bondi to ask the courts to release the grand jury  testimony.

Here is the problem: The grand jury testimony is largely about  Epstein and Maxwell, not about all the rich and powerful men who  abused, assaulted, and abandoned young women. Those people are still  being protected.

By the way, the courts usually don't release grand jury testimony.  The President is hearing the American people, and the President knows  that if there is a vote tonight, this body overwhelmingly would vote  for the release of the files.

Mr. KHANNA. I don't need more than 30 seconds. I need 10 seconds.  This question is: Whose side are you on?

Today, the Democrats are on the side of the people. The Democrats are  on the side of the children. There are 10 Republicans who are on the  side of the people and the children, but the entire Democratic Party is  on that side and the Republicans have chosen to protect the rich and  powerful men who have abused our children. It is wrong, and that is the  clear difference tonight.