Tax Cuts


Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the fiscally  irresponsible one big, beautiful bill that simply gives tax breaks for  the richest Americans and takes away services for working- and middle- class families.

Here are the facts: We currently have about a $36 trillion debt, and  we are spending right now $2 trillion more every year than we take in.  The Republican budget would add $3.8 trillion to that deficit. It will  do that over 10 years.

How are they going to get those $3.8 trillion of tax breaks? Let me  just outline who those tax breaks are going to go to: $96 billion a  year are going to go to people who make over a million dollars a year.  If you are a millionaire in America, you are going to get about $82,000  a year in tax breaks. If you are making under $100,000, you get about  $750 in tax breaks. That is $82,000 of tax breaks for the millionaires,  and $750 to working- and middle-class families. That is not a fair  deal.

Democrats believe that we need to raise taxes on people who are  making over a million dollars, not give them $82,000 a year in tax  breaks.

By the way, the tax breaks for those millionaires and billionaires  are permanent over 10 years. The tax breaks the Democrats support for  working-class families, like no tax on tips, they only want them for 4  years. Democrats have been fighting to get the no tax on tips for 10  years. Republicans say: No, for working families, we only want 4 years.  Tax breaks for the billionaires in my district in Silicon Valley, for  those we want 10 years.

Then what are they cutting? They are cutting $750 billion in Medicaid  benefits. That is just a fact. Go Google it. You will see the cuts.  They claim that people aren't going to lose their healthcare, but the  independent CBO says that up to 14 million Americans may lose their  healthcare. Up to a million of American children, kids born in the  United States, may lose their healthcare. It is the largest cut to  Medicaid in the history of this country, all to finance $96 billion a  year of tax breaks to the millionaires and billionaires. Those are the  facts.

Look, CBO did an analysis, and they said that the top 10 percent in  America are going to benefit enormously from this bill. If you are in  the top 10 percent, if you make over a million dollars, over a half a  million dollars, you should applaud.

The bottom 10 percent, the folks who are working hard, struggling to  make ends meet, the truck drivers, people who work at Walmart, nurses,  HVAC technicians are going to lose 4 percent.

This bill benefits those who are already doing well and ignores those  who are working hard and struggling the most. It is the exact opposite  of what we should be doing.

Even Donald Trump challenged the Congress to say: Raise taxes a bit  on the rich. I am fine with it. Did the Republicans do that? No. They  cut them further for the wealthy.

People ask what do Democrats believe? Democrats believe that the tax  breaks and the tax cuts should be going to the working and middle class  in this country. Democrats believe we should be taxing more the people  who are making a million and a billion dollars a year. We believe we  should not be cutting Medicaid, essential healthcare services that help  families, that support hospitals, and that support the health of so  many seniors in this country.

This debate is about whose side are Members on. Are my colleagues for  those who already benefited from the income divide, or for the working  and middle class? I hope enough Republicans on the other side will say  ``no'' to these cuts of working-class benefits.

I hope enough Republicans will say ``no'' to the tax breaks for the  millionaires and billionaires, and will say ``no'' to piling on more  debt which will raise interest rates, hurting our economic growth,  exploding our trade deficit because of our reliance on foreign firms  and foreign investment, and crippling ordinary Americans' ability to  get loans.

It is bad economics. We need a new approach.