Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693790/digital-asset-market-clarity-act-of-2025


Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, the United States stands at the forefront of  the next digital renaissance, a transformative shift toward a  decentralized peer-to-peer digital economy.

For many years, innovators and investors were forced to operate in a  legal gray zone while agencies jostled for regulatory superiority over  the digital asset ecosystem, leaving blockchain developers to pack up  and move abroad.

The CLARITY Act fixes this by creating regulatory guardrails tailored  to the unique attributes of blockchain technology while giving users  and developers the confidence to engage and innovate in this ecosystem.

Gone are the days of arbitrary enforcement actions and regulatory  turf wars that only hindered the development of this groundbreaking  technology and drove capital overseas.

This bill gives market participants the confidence to build, invest,  and grow right here in the United States of America.

We are proud to have the Securities Clarity Act included in this  legislation. This provision provides market certainty for innovators  and clear jurisdictional boundaries for regulators.

Subsequently, elements of the Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act  were included, clarifying, once and for all, that digital asset  developers and service providers who do not custody consumer funds are  not considered money transmitters.

Importantly, the CLARITY Act will help further decentralize our  financial system so that Americans can forgo intermediaries and  transact directly with each other.

Having this choice will fundamentally transform the digital economy  and unlock new opportunities for innovators, investors, and consumers  around the globe.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Hill and Chairman Thompson for their  leadership and for working with us to include our two bills in the  CLARITY Act.

The United States has the opportunity to lead and deliver on  President Trump's promise to make America the crypto capital of the  world. We cannot and will not fail.