Recognizing St. Paul, Minnesota Immigration and Customs Enforcement Field Office Director Peter Berg


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692698/recognizing-st-paul-minnesota-immigration-and-customs-enforcement-field-office-director-peter-berg


Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding  Minnesotan, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Enforcement and  Removal Operations Field Office Director, Peter Berg. Peter is retiring  later this month after nearly 30 years in federal law enforcement.

After graduating from the University of Illinois, Director Berg began  his career in 1996 as an Immigration Inspector with the former U.S.  Immigration and Naturalization Service at Chicago's O'Hare  International Airport.

Peter's long career in federal law enforcement has taken him across  the country, where he faced some of the world's most dangerous, and  hardened criminals. As the Acting Deputy Executive Associate Director,  he was appointed the Deputy Senior Coordinating Official for the  Department of Homeland Security Southwest Border Coordination Center,  where he served as the liaison between numerous federal agencies,  managing the complex challenges of our Southwest Border.

As the current Field Office Director for the St. Paul Area of  Responsibility, Director Berg manages all ICE officers assigned to  Minnesota, North and South Dakota, Iowa, and Nebraska. This area spans  over 350,000 square miles, includes nearly 12.5 million people, and  includes one field office, nine sub-offices, and 2 resident officer  locations.

I recently met with Director Berg and his team at their St. Paul  field office to learn about their efforts to keep our communities safe  and to discuss how we can continue to support them at the federal  level. After meeting with them, I can tell you firsthand just how  important their work is to keeping Minnesotans safe. In the past few  months, Director Berg's officers have removed dozens of dangerous  criminal illegal aliens from Minnesota, including known terrorists,  gang members, child predators, and murderers. After nearly 30 years in  federal law enforcement, Director Berg has had an incredible impact on  his Area of Responsibility. While we will certainly miss his leadership  across the Midwest, we are eternally grateful for his dedication to our  communities, states, and Nation.

I thank Director Berg. We wish him all the best in his well-deserved  retirement.