Recognizing the Retirement of Dennis Eugene ``denny'' Butcher of Watertown, Minnesota


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698267/recognizing-the-retirement-of-dennis-eugene-denny-butcher-of-watertown-minnesota


Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dennis Eugene  ``Denny'' Butcher of Watertown, Minnesota, for his retirement after 53  years as the town's beloved Master Barber. Denny's impact reaches far  beyond the barber chair through the many other ways he sewed  Watertown's community.

Known for his generosity and compassion, he routinely traveled from  his barbershop to provide haircuts for residents of Elim Home and  Westwood Place, as well as those confined to their homes due to  illness. Additionally, Denny served his community as a volunteer  firefighter and as an Emergency Medical Technician at the Watertown  Hospital until its closure in 1971.

He contributed to the cultural life of Watertown in many ways. For  five years, Denny played with the Highliners Polka Band and later  played with John Exklund and the Midwesterners, sharing joy and  tradition with audiences across Minnesota and the region. And, for more  than 25 years, Denny brought magic and delight to children, and  families each holiday season playing the role of Santa Claus. Together  with his wife, Mary, he has shown tremendous love for the community's  elderly through their shared ministry of offering comfort,  companionship, and care to those who need it most.

Denny has become known for his signature style and personality--the  man who wears shorts all year long, the scooter man, a tender-hearted  jokester, who is always ready to laugh, and someone who truly embodies  his well-known motto, ``I'm living the dream.''

Denny's love for Watertown, his decades of service, and his heart of  gold have made him a pillar of the community. As he completes his final  day behind the barber chair on December 19, 2025, we honor his lifetime  of contributions and celebrate the legacy he leaves behind.

On behalf of Minnesota's 6th District, I extend my deepest gratitude  to Dennis Eugene Butcher for his 53 years of dedication to the people  of Watertown, Minnesota. His kindness, service, and joy have left a  mark that will be remembered for generations.