Recognizing Carver Fire Chief Cally Trimbo After 22 Years of Service


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696511/recognizing-carver-fire-chief-cally-trimbo-after-22-years-of-service


Mr. EMMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an outstanding  public servant from my district, Carver Fire Chief Cally Trimbo. Chief  Trimbo retired earlier this year after 22 years of service to the City  of Carver and surrounding areas.

Founded in the late 1800's, the Carver Fire Department provides fire  safety and prevention services to an area of 32 square miles, including  the City of Carver and Dahlgren and San Francisco townships, and  employs 32 paid on-call firefighters who respond to nearly 300 calls  per year.

Chief Trimbo led the department through many major changes and  challenges during his 22 years of service, including the construction  and completion of Carver's new fire station. Completed in 2005, the new  fire station replaced the Old Carver Fire Hall, which originally opened  for service around 1880.

The Old Carver Fire Hall stored the volunteer Carver Fire  Department's one horse-drawn hook and ladder wagon and one horse cart.  Now, the department serves the community with three fire engines, one  rescue truck, one tanker, one brush utility vehicle, one command  vehicle, and one boat for water rescue operations--all based out of the  new fire station Chief Trimbo helped envision.

Chief Trimbo has also made connecting with the community a priority.  Throughout the year, the Carver Fire Department hosts and participates  in numerous community events including National Night Out, Touch a  Truck, an Open House, and a Trunk or Treat event.

Throughout his career at the Carver Fire Department, Chief Trimbo has  served with a community-first mindset and led the department with the  values of respect and hard work. I thank Chief Trimbo for his years of  service to Carver and the surrounding community. We wish him all the  best in his well deserved retirement.