-9999


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the service of  Orange City Fire Chief Sean deMetropolis, who is retiring from the city  of Orange after 30 years of stellar service.

Chief deMetropolis began his career in 1995 and worked his way up to  be fire chief. In addition to serving our community, Chief deMetropolis  also stepped up to serve our great country by serving on FEMA's Task  Force 5, which included a 20-day deployment to support Hurricane  Katrina victims.

Chief deMetropolis has always led by example by dedicating his life  to keeping the city of Orange safe.

Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Sean on his well-deserved retirement, and  I thank Sean for his service.                          Recognizing Otoniel Gomez

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the heroic actions  of my neighbor, Otoniel Gomez.

Mr. Gomez lives in Santa Ana with his family. On December 5, tragedy  struck. The Gomez family woke up to the smell of smoke.

Otoniel jumped out of a second-story window to escape the fire. Then,  without missing a beat, he grabbed ladders to help his wife and  children climb to safety.

Thanks to his bravery and quick thinking, the entire Gomez family,  including their dog, Lyka, escaped without injury. That night, Mr.  Gomez did show us what true bravery is all about.

Mr. Speaker, I pray that Otoniel's family continues to recover from  the loss of their home.           Honoring the Life and Legacy of Doris Ann Derleth Hirota

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the legacy of Doris  Ann Derleth Hirota.

Doris was a Santa Ana resident, the youngest of seven, and she was  born at the beginning of the Great Depression in Rochester, New York,  in 1932.

Doris went on to attend nursing school in Chicago, where she met her  husband, Tomio, when they both began their life of service to others.

In 1965, Doris and Tomio bought their home in Santa Ana, California,  where they raised eight children and countless grandchildren and great- grandchildren. It was in this same house, on January 14, 2026, that  Doris passed away at the age of 93.

Doris was surrounded by her family, sending her back to Heaven, where  they all know she came from.

Mr. Speaker, Doris' legacy and memory will live on in her family.                 Honoring the Life and Legacy of Howard Koch

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the legacy of World  War II and Korean war veteran Howard Koch.

During World War II, Howard served in the Army's elite 10th Mountain  Division, America's only mountain and winter warfare fighting unit.

This unit, the elite 10th Mountain Division, was formed to defeat the  Nazis who were entrenched high up in the snowy mountains of Italy.

This unit was made up of champion skiers, mountain climbers, and  European mountaineers. After intensive training atop the Colorado  Rockies, they climbed Italy's Riva Ridge and defeated the Nazi troops  in a surprise attack.

That was not without paying a heavy price. Nearly 1,000 soldiers from  the 10th Mountain Division were killed, and some 4,000 were wounded in  4 months of fighting the Germans. They were successful, and the Germans  surrendered.

Howard lived to be 101 years old, making his final journey to Heaven  just last month.

Mr. Speaker, the memory of my very good friend, Howard, will live on,  and his heroism will continue to inspire all of us.