Condemning the Violent June 2025 Riots in Los Angeles, California


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I ask, what happened? My hometown, Santa  Ana, California, is predominantly Hispanic Latino. Factory workers live  there. Remember, we are the biggest manufacturing State in the Union.  Nearshoring, guess where it is happening?

California is the largest ag State in the Union. There are a lot of  farmworkers in my district. What happened? One day, we are going about  our business in Santa Ana, Orange County, masked Federal agents start  going into our neighborhoods, picking up hardworking neighbors. Oh,  yeah, you bet, people were concerned, scared, and nervous.

A lot of people expressed their First Amendment rights. We got the  National Guard. Orange County Sheriff Don Barnes did not call for the  National Guard. Local police chiefs did not call for the National  Guard. We get the National Guard.

President Trump promised to deport criminals, those with deportation  orders, those here less than 2 years, but now it is hard workers,  people who pay taxes that are being picked up. Mr. Speaker, 60 percent  of those being picked up are now people without criminal records.

Orange County didn't have any violence. We had masked officers coming  into our neighborhoods.

I bet President Trump would want to know what is going on on Main  Street. One of the constituents that just got picked up I talked about  a minute ago, Narciso Barranco. He has been in the U.S. for 25 years.  He is a gardener and a father of three marines. We make movies of  people like this. This gentleman is a hero. His family are heroes.  Instead, he is in an ICE holding facility in Los Angeles.

I am hearing more stories coming, more Barranco-type families being  broken up, military families being separated from their loved ones by  ICE. I do not believe President Trump would want his legacy to be that  he deported military family members like Mr. Barranco.

Let's use common sense here. This resolution is not prime time for a  vote. There are a lot of inaccuracies. I am going to ask my colleagues  to vote ``no'' on this measure.