Recognizing Diana Anahi Barrios


Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor Diana Barrios, a  homegrown, passionate leader.

Diana graduated from Oxford Academy at the young age of 16 after  finishing her sophomore year. She then earned a bachelor's degree in  political science and sociology from UCLA with high honors and  completed a master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.

Diana's commitment to public service continues to be unwavering, and  I was honored to name her as one of my 2025 Women of the Year.                            Honoring Denise Osorio

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor Coach Denise Osorio, a  youth mentor, mother, and community leader who calls the city of  Anaheim home.

Denise is the head coach of the Anaheim High School boys' and girls'  water polo teams.

Denise took on the challenge to rebuild Anaheim High School's aquatic  program after 20 years with no swimming pool and no swimming program.  Under her leadership, the girls' water polo team captured the first- ever CIF division title in women's sports in the school's history.

Beyond that, Denise is a devoted mother of three, Nicholas,  Rosemarie, and Emma. I am honored to name her one of my 2025 Women of  the Year.                           Honoring Beverly McNeff

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor Beverly McNeff, the  co-founder of KidSingers, an after-school youth chorus program for kids  in Santa Ana.

Beverly is known as ``Mrs. Cool''. Why? Because she teaches kids that  it is cool to sing together in harmony.

Beverly is a former actress, broadcaster, and talent agent in  Hollywood. She is married to KidSingers' founder and director, Paul  McNeff, and they live in Anaheim with their son, Jeffrey.

I was honored to name her as one of my 2025 Women of the Year. I know  Beverly will keep up the good work.                           Honoring Ana A. Gonzalez

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to honor a mother and  community leader who calls California's 46th District her home.

She serves as district director to Senator Tom Umberg where she  advocates for 1 million constituents, making sure that their voices are  heard in Sacramento.

Ana received her bachelor's degree in legal studies from Chapman  University and is a graduate of HOPE. Ana is also the mother of  Victoria and Cyrus.

I was honored to honor her by naming her as one of my 2025 Women of  the Year.                            Honoring Alicia Garcia

Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor Alicia Garcia, a  mother and community leader who embodies the American Dream.

Alicia was born in 1961 in Durango, Mexico, and made the brave  decision to immigrate to the United States in search of the American  Dream.

In the early 1990s, Alicia earned her certification as a certified  nurse assistant.

Today, 30 years later, Alicia continues to serve her community at  French Park Care Center, where her impact is felt by her patients, her  colleagues, and the families she touches and supports on an everyday  basis. I was honored to name her as one of my 2025 Women of the Year.