Miracle on Ice Congressional Gold Medal Act


Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the  bill (H.R. 452) to award 3 Congressional Gold Medals to the members of  the 1980 U.S. Olympic Men's Ice Hockey Team, in recognition of their  extraordinary achievement at the 1980 Winter Olympics where, being  comprised of amateur collegiate players, they defeated the dominant  Soviet hockey team in the historic ``Miracle on Ice'', revitalizing  American morale at the height of the Cold War, inspiring generations  and transforming the sport of hockey in the United States.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                  H.R. 452

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Miracle on Ice Congressional       Gold Medal Act''.       SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

Congress finds the following:

(1) The USA Olympic men's ice hockey team competed at the       1980 Winter Olympics, officially the XIII Olympic Winter       Games and known as the 1980 Lake Placid games, from February       13 to 24, 1980, in Lake Placid, New York.

(2) Team USA, comprised of collegiate players, defeated the       defending Olympic champion the Soviet Union 4-3 on February       22, 1980, in the final round of the 1980 Winter Olympics       men's hockey tournament.

(3) The 1980 USA Olympic men's hockey team roster       included--

(A) Bill Baker (Grand Rapids, MN);

(B) Neal Broten (Roseau, MN);

(C) Dave Christian (Warroad, MN);

(D) Steve Christoff (Richfield, MN);

(E) Jim Craig (North Easton, MA);

(F) Mike Eruzione (Winthrop, MA);

(G) John Harrington (Virginia, MN);

(H) Steve Janaszak (Saint Paul, MN);

(I) Mark Johnson (Madison, WI);

(J) Rob McClanahan (Saint Paul, MN);

(K) Ken Morrow (Flint, MI);

(L) Jack O'Callahan (Charlestown, MA);

(M) Mark Pavelich (Eveleth, MN);

(N) Mike Ramsey (Minneapolis, MN);

(O) Buzz Schneider (Grand Rapids, MN);

(P) Dave Silk (Scituate, MA);

(Q) Eric Strobel (Rochester, MN);

(R) Bob Suter (Madison, WI);

(S) Mark Wells (St. Clair Shores, MI); and

(T) Phil Verchota (Duluth, MN).

(4) The ``Miracle on Ice'' USA-Soviet Union final round       game aired on tape delay on February 22, 1980, from the Lake       Placid Games and drew 34,200,000 average viewers. The match       is remembered as a ``miracle'' as collegiate hockey players       defied expectations in defeating a Soviet team that won 4       consecutive gold medals dating back to 1964.

(5) Team USA defeated Finland 4-1 in its final game to win       the gold medal, its first gold medal since 1960 in men's       hockey.

(6) Herb Brooks, the last player cut from the 1960 U.S.       Olympic team that won gold at Squaw Valley, guided the 1980       team to its historic gold medal. Known as a motivator, Brooks       molded a team built around hard work, belief in oneself and       belief in teammates. He reminded his team when they played       the Soviets, ``you were born to be hockey players, everyone       one of you . . . and you were meant to be here''.

(7) The tournament occurred at a time when the United       States was struggling with rampant stagflation, high gas       prices, hostages held in Iran, and increased tensions with       the Soviet Union whose invasion of Afghanistan led to the       boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics.

(8) The Miracle on Ice was a turning point for American       hockey. The game was named the greatest sports moment of the       20th century by Sports Illustrated.

(9) The historic win brought hockey to the front-page of       newspapers everywhere, and forever opened the door to the       National Hockey League for American-born players. The impact       of the event was far-reaching and is still being felt today.

(10) Since 1980 American interest in the sport of hockey       has increased exponentially. Registrations with USA Hockey       have increased by nearly 400 percent since 1980 from 136,000       to over 564,000, and the number of National Hockey League       players from the United States has increased from 72 in 1980       to 245 in 2024.       SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDALS.

(a) Award Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of       Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate       shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on       behalf of the Congress, of 3 gold medals of appropriate       design to the members of the 1980 U.S. Olympic Men's Ice       Hockey Team, in recognition of their extraordinary       achievement at the 1980 Olympic Winter Games where, being       comprised of amateur collegiate players, they defeated the       dominant Soviet hockey team in the historic ``Miracle on       Ice'', revitalizing American morale at the height of the Cold       War, inspiring generations and transforming the sport of       hockey in the United States.

(b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the award       referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury       (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike       gold medals with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions       to be determined by the Secretary.

(c) Disposition of Medals.--Following the award of the gold       medals under subsection (a)--

(1) one gold medal shall be given to the Lake Placid       Olympic Center in Lake Placid, NY, where it shall be       displayed as appropriate and made available for research;

(2) one gold medal shall be given to the United States       Hockey Hall of Fame in Eveleth, MN, where it shall be       displayed as appropriate and made available for research; and

(3) one gold medal shall be given to the U.S. Olympic and       Paralympic Museum in Colorado Springs, CO, where it shall be       displayed as appropriate and made available for research.       SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of       the gold medals struck under section 3, at a price sufficient       to cover the costs thereof, including labor, materials, dies,       use of machinery, and overhead expenses.            SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

(a) National Medals.--The medals struck under this Act are       national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31,       United States Code.

(b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and       5136 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under       this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items.       SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

(a) Authority To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to       be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise       Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of       the medals struck pursuant to this Act.

(b) Proceeds of Sale.--The amounts received from the sale       of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 4 shall       be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise       Fund.

Mr. DAVIDSON.  452.

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, no one has done more work on this than its originator,  our esteemed colleague from the great State of Minnesota, Pete Stauber.

I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from Minnesota  (Mr. Stauber).

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may  consume.

Madam Speaker, I rise to support H.R. 452. The bill awards  Congressional Gold Medals to honor the 1980 U.S. Olympic men's hockey  team.

Madam Speaker, it can't be stated any better than Mr. Stauber did. It  was such a beautiful, impassioned speech from someone who has lived so  much of hockey.

Yet, the quote from Coach Herb Brooks that sticks out to me is:  ``Great moments are born from great opportunity.''

We all know the line. It is an unforgettable one. They seized the  moment at a time when I was too young to really comprehend what it  meant. When you watch it later in life, as a guy who enlisted in the  Army during the Cold War, to see moments like that that move the Nation  and unite us, you see what sports can do.

At the same time, the Soviet Union had a hockey team that was  dominant on the ice. They seemed insurmountable, but our American  athletes showed that they were not. It showed the hope and optimism  that it was possible within our country that we could defeat  insurmountable odds. The coach and that team deserve the credit.

Madam Speaker, I am glad that we are taking this opportunity to honor  them with a Congressional Gold Medal. These 20 men played with  everything they had. They outskated, outplayed, and just fought harder,  leaving everything on the ice to win that victory.

Madam Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support the bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.

Madam Speaker, in closing, I reiterate the importance of the 1980  Olympic men's ice hockey team uniting during such a challenging and  turbulent period in American history. Their unforgettable victory  solidified the Nation's legacy of excellence, both on the ice and on  the global stage.

We owe these men a great debt of gratitude for transforming and  shaping the landscape of American hockey and, broadly, sport itself  over these past four decades.

Madam Speaker, I thank Congressman Stauber for his leadership and all  of my colleagues for helping advance this important measure.

Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.