Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez Post Office Building


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass  the bill (H.R. 2175) to designate the facility of the United States  Postal Service located at 130 South Patterson Avenue in Santa Barbara,  California, as the ``Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez Post Office  Building''.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 2175

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. BRIGADIER GENERAL FREDERICK R. LOPEZ POST OFFICE                     BUILDING.

(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal       Service located at 130 South Patterson Avenue in Santa       Barbara, California, shall be known and designated as the       ``Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez Post Office       Building''.

(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,       document, paper, or other record of the United States to the       facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be       a reference to the ``Brigadier General Frederick R. Lopez       Post Office Building''.

Mr. GILL of Texas. I yield myself such time as I may consume.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this bill, which would rename a  post office in Santa Barbara, California, for Brigadier General  Frederick R. Lopez.

Brigadier General Frederick Lopez served in the U.S. Marine Corps for  31 years, both in Active Duty and in the Marine Corps Reserve. As a  result of his service, he has been awarded numerous decorations and  medals.

Beyond his military service, Lopez served 7 years for McDonnell  Douglas Aircraft Company as a flight test engineer and 29 years for  Raytheon as an electronic warfare engineer and director of engineering.

Lopez has been an active member for his community, serving on the  board of directors at the Pierre Claeyssens Veterans Foundation in  Santa Barbara and has served with the National Academies of Science and  Engineering.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, I encourage my House colleagues to support this bill,  naming the post office for Brigadier General Frederick Lopez, a highly  decorated U.S. Marine Corps veteran.