Protect America's Workforce Act


Mr. GILL of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding me  time on this important issue.

I strongly oppose this bill because it would jeopardize our national  security, and it locks in harmful last-minute agreements from the Biden  administration.

Union bosses love this bill for one reason: It protects their  telework perk. It also shields them from accountability and gives them  effective veto power over a duly elected President with a mandate to  clean up a bloated Federal bureaucracy.

Specifically, this legislation would nullify President Trump's  executive order titled ``Exclusions From Federal Labor-Management  Relations Programs.'' The executive order wisely designated various  agencies as having a national security focus as their primary functions  and exempts them from collective bargaining.

Union officials do not and should not have the right to use their  collective bargaining power to undermine President Trump and jeopardize  our national security.

One example of this just fairly recently is ICE not being able to  modify cybersecurity policies without giving its union bosses an  opportunity to negotiate, delaying needed cybersecurity updates.

In another example, union bosses threatened to block the Office of  Personnel Management from implementing basic IT security controls.

There is a troubling pattern where union bosses block measures that  they don't like, forgetting that they work for the American people and  not the other way around.

The President's executive order also improves care for veterans. On  August 6, 2025, the VA announced that it is terminating most union  contracts to comply with the executive order.

Employees at the VA currently spend 750,000 hours engaging not in  care for veterans but in union activities. That is every single year.  The President's executive order will lead VA employees to spend more  time helping veterans and less time in union activities.

It goes even further. This bill forbids the Trump administration from  unwinding any collective bargaining agreement signed before March 26,  2025.

After Democrats lost the 2024 elections, the Biden administration  hurried to ink multiyear deals that they knew they would never have to  enforce, deliberately tying the hands of their successors and rewarding  union leadership on their way out.

One example is especially egregious: the Social Security  Administration deal that allows maximum telework, prohibits management  from reducing it, and applies to 98.5 percent of the agency's  workforce.

Mr. GILL of Texas. The Protect America's Workforce Act is nothing  short of an attempt to prevent President Trump from reforming the  Federal bureaucracy. It undermines national security and rewards union  bosses who think that they run the government. I urge opposition.