Recognizing His All-Holiness Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and Ecumenical Patriarch


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695550/recognizing-his-all-holiness-bartholomew-archbishop-of-constantinople-and-ecumenical-patriarch


Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of His All-Holiness  Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and Ecumenical Patriarch, as  he visits the United States to receive the Templeton Prize.

Born Demetrios Arhondonis on the island of Imvros, known today as  Gokceada, Turkey, Patriarch Bartholomew was elected the 270th  Archbishop of Constantinople and Ecumenical Patriarch in October 1991.  Today he leads a community of 300 million Orthodox Christians and is  the longest serving archbishop in the church's 2,000-year history.  Patriarch Bartholomew pursued theological studies in Istanbul, Rome,  Switzerland, Germany, and Greece, earning a doctorate in Canon law.  Recognized for his scholarship and global perspective, he has received  honorary doctorates from leading institutions across the world.

Throughout his time as Ecumenical Patriarch, Bartholomew has worked  to build unity among the Christian churches and foster meaningful  dialogue between world religions. He has convened many international  conferences, bringing together religious leaders from across the globe  to promote coexistence and tolerance. Known as the ``Green Patriarch,''  Patriarch Bartholomew has brought significant attention to ecological  concerns, organizing global, interfaith symposia on climate change and  ecological responsibility. For his environmental leadership, he has  received numerous awards and international recognition.

Patriarch Bartholomew has addressed the United Nations, the European  Parliament, and the World Economic Forum, earning accolades from around  the world. In recognition of his global contributions, he received the  Congressional Gold Medal in 1997. In September 2025, Patriarch  Bartholomew will travel to the U.S. to receive the Templeton Prize, one  the most prestigious awards recognizing those who use the power of  science to explore the deepest questions of the universe and  humankind's place and purpose within it. Previous recipients include  St. Teresa of Kolkata and the Dalai Lama.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to celebrate the work of His All-Holiness  Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and Ecumenical Patriarch, and  I ask that my colleagues join me in welcoming him to Washington, D.C.  and thanking him for his ongoing commitment to advancing peace and  religious freedom.