Recognizing Freeman Johnson


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696706/recognizing-freeman-johnson


Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of Freeman Johnson, a  resident of Centerville, Massachusetts and the oldest survivor of the  attack on Pearl Harbor.

Born on March 11, 1920, Johnson was raised in Waltham, Massachusetts.  After graduating high school, Johnson attended Massachusetts Nautical  School in Boston, presently Massachusetts Maritime Academy in Buzzards  Bay. He then went on to enlist in the United States Navy in December  1939. After completing training in Newport, Rhode Island, Johnson was  assigned to serve aboard the USS St. Louis as a Machinist First Class.

On the morning of December 7, 1941, the USS St. Louis was docked at  Pearl Harbor awaiting repairs to its boiler. Johnson was working at the  bottom of the ship in the boiler room when the attacks began. Although  he could not see the strikes, he could feel and hear the vibrations as  the USS Arizona and USS Oklahoma were struck. Understanding the urgency  of the situation, Johnson and his fellow shipmates quickly got to work  to repair the boiler. In less than 40 minutes the USS St. Louis was up  and underway, earning the nickname ``the Lucky Lou.''

After Pearl Harbor, Johnson was transferred to the USS Iowa to help  commission the ship that would bring President Franklin D. Roosevelt  across the Atlantic Ocean for the Tehran Conference with Winston  Churchill and Joseph Stalin in November 1943. It was also on the USS  Iowa in Tokyo Bay, where Johnson would watch the Japanese sign the  Instrument of Surrender on the USS Missouri.

After the war, Johnson returned home to Waltham and married Ruth  Hills. Together they raised three daughters, Diane, Edie, and Cindy.  For many years, Johnson worked as a machinist at W.H. Nichols. Known  for his steadfast work ethic, he retired at age 90 from Meals on  Wheels.

Mr. Speaker, I am proud to recognize Freeman Johnson, and I ask that  my colleagues join me this Veterans Day in thanking him and the  millions of veterans and service members who have bravely dedicated  their lives to protecting our country.