Release of Epstein Files


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696954/release-of-epstein-files


Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, the House and now our Senate have finally  acted to release the files and all the information regarding the  criminal activities of Jeffrey Epstein and all who enabled, all who  knew and did nothing, and all who participated in some of the worst  sexual abuse and trafficking crimes our country has experienced.

This will expose the rich, the powerful, and the self-entitled who  were involved in these crimes and who did it for the worst possible  reason, because they thought they could.

This necessary legislation should not have been necessary because  this White House, this administration, this President could have merely  released these files. Instead, they withheld, dismissed, and covered  up. They even had their Justice Department's two highest officials try  to coerce a House Member to take their name off the discharge petition  that finally triggered the approval of this legislation.

It was only because of the actions of courageous survivors coming  forward, coming to the Capitol, and speaking truth to power that we are  able to advance this legislation.

As a Massachusetts district attorney, I oversaw specialized sexual  assault police units, specialized sexual assault prosecutors, and  specialized sexual assault victim-witness assistance units. I founded a  child advocacy center to treat and reduce trauma for child victims of  sexual assault.

I know from this one thing. The survivors want one thing and one  thing only: that no child, no young girl, will ever have to go through  the trauma that they went through, a trauma so great that one survivor  took her own life.

Now, a warning to this White House, this administration, and this  President. Never again say these crimes did not occur. Never call them  a hoax, and don't attempt to abuse and pervert what this legislation  does by invoking a sham active investigation as a disingenuous excuse  to withhold a complete release of the Epstein files. Don't do this  because the brave survivors will not stand for it, and they will not  stand alone. The majority of this House will stand with them. The  majority of our Senate will stand with them. Most importantly, the  American people will stand with them.