Economic Populism


Ms. GOODLANDER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague from Pennsylvania  (Mr. Deluzio) for bringing us together this afternoon.

Economic patriotism--we are coming from all across the country. We  are coming from different backgrounds with different ideas, but we are  united by things that are really powerful. We are united by a love of  our country, by a belief in our country, and by a belief fundamentally  in the American people.

Mr. Speaker, I was born and raised in the greatest State in the  Nation, the State of New Hampshire, the State that made the Nation. We  were the ninth to ratify the Constitution.

I was born and raised down the road from the family farm that my  great-grandfather built when he came to this country. He was 16 years  old. He didn't speak a word of English, but he believed in the American  Dream. He raised my grandfather, Sam, on that farm.

My grandfather, Sam, was an economic patriot. He really believed that  your word is your bond. He believed that hustle was the name of the  game. He milked cows, bailed hay, and got his start as a businessman  selling airplane rides at the Nashua Airport. His slogan was: ``A $1  million thrill for a $1 bill.''

He went on to become a door-to-door salesman for Electrolux vacuum  cleaners. He worked hard because he believed in the American Dream. He  was a lifelong Republican who loved one of our great Presidents with  his whole heart, I think maybe the greatest economic patriot we have  seen in the White House, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.

I was reminded today of a great speech that President Roosevelt gave  81 years ago. ``The Economic Bill of Rights,'' it has been called. He  talked about economic rights that are self-evident, but, as with all  self-evident rights that we know in this great document, our  Constitution, they aren't self-executing.

I want to focus for a moment on one of the rights that President  Roosevelt talked about. He said that there is a right of every  businessman--businesswoman, too--large and small, to trade in an  atmosphere of freedom from unfair competition and domination by  monopolies at home or abroad.

It has been said on the floor of this House and on the floor of the  United States Senate that monopolies are inconsistent with our form of  government. It is true.

The antimonopoly spirit is as old as America. It is rooted in the  simple idea that power has to be checked. Just like political power,  economic power has to be checked, too, but the fact is that big  corporations and monopolies have too much power in America today. I see  it everywhere I go.

I come to Congress having worked in the Department of Justice in the  Antitrust Division. It is a division full of patriotic men and women,  many of them nonpartisan, who come to this work with the basic belief  in this country and in the power that must be checked by government.

What do we mean? What kind of power are we checking?

Every day on this job, as I have traveled around the State of New  Hampshire, I hear about how big agricultural corporations are screwing  family farmers like the family farm I grew up down the road from. I  hear about big health insurers who are charging people more for less,  big health insurers who are rolling up the entire industry, from  providers to hospital beds and to the prescription drugs that people  rely on for their lives. I hear about big tech companies that are using  your valuable data for their own gain. The list goes on.

As we look across our consolidated economy, we see that corporate  power has reached its apex in industries big and small, from door locks  to the defense industrial base.

We have always found common ground in this country around the basic  idea that, just like political  power has to be checked, economic power has to be checked, too.

Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful to my colleague from Pennsylvania (Mr.  Deluzio) for bringing us together today.

Our antitrust laws are alive and well, but they could use an update,  and I look forward to working with everyone here today and in the days  ahead to make that dream a reality because it is core to the American  Dream.