-9999


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696070/9999


Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today, the Senate will vote to proceed to  my joint resolution to congressionally disapprove and officially roll  back President Biden's anti-coal rule in Montana.

H.J. Res. 104 is supported by the entire Montana delegation, and I  want to thank Congressman Downing and Congressman Zinke for leading  this resolution in the House and Senator Sheehy for joining me in the  Senate.

This resolution is supported by many Montanans, starting with the  Governor of Montana, Governor Gianforte; the mayor of Colstrip, MT; the  Montana Coal Council; the Montana electric co-ops; Northwestern Energy;  local counties; both of the affected coal mines; and many, many more  and, I will tell you, many, many more coal miners.

I want to explain quickly what we are doing here today. Today, we  will take the first step in overturning the Miles City Resource  Management Plan Amendment that prohibits--prohibits--any new coal  leasing in Eastern Montana.

Let me be very clear. This resolution only overturns the anti-coal  amendment that was issued by the Biden administration after the last  election, in the final days of their term.

None of the actions taken today affect the underlying Miles City  Resource Management Plan or how the BLM manages recreation,  conservation, and other energy developments in the State. Future coal  development will be managed under the existing resource management  plan, as it had for years before Biden slipped in, at the last hour,  this amendment.

Now, why is this important to Montana? The Biden amendment prohibits  all new coal leasing across all of Eastern Montana.

Eastern Montana and Wyoming are home to the Powder River Basin. These  are the largest coal reserves in the United States.

Many who are watching, when you think about Montana, you think about  our amazing fly-fishing streams, our national parks, our beautiful  mountains, our wilderness areas, the tremendous hunting and hiking  opportunities we provide, but many don't know that Montana has more  recoverable coal than any State in the United States.

Think about this: The Biden administration prohibited new coal  development in America's largest coal reserve.

BLM's resource management plans are meant to be a bipartisan process,  taking in feedback from people on the ground and implementing the  multiple-use mission of the BLM, but, sadly, the Biden administration  tried to pull a fast one. They took this process, flipped it on its  face, and they disregarded the voices of Montana.

Well, I can tell you here this afternoon, the voices of Montana are  speaking loudly with the united Montana delegation both here in  Washington as well as Montanans back home in the State, and we are  going to right that wrong today. We are going to give Montana a voice  in the process.

Overturning this partisan rule will grow Montana energy jobs and help  our rural communities. In fact, according to the Montana Coal Council,  coal supports nearly 900 high-paying jobs in Montana and has provided  $2.7 billion in Federal, State, private, and Tribal royalties.

In a letter from Montana's Governor Greg Gianforte, he states that  this Biden rule ``amounts to a loss of $4.3 billion in future revenue  to the State trust land beneficiaries, which includes K-12 public  education.''

This is a monumental moment for the State of Montana. I am thrilled  this is being considered today on the floor of the U.S. Senate, and I  urge my colleagues to support Montana jobs, Montana communities,  reliable and low-cost energy, and to vote yes on today's motion.