Daines Statement on Public Health Emergency at Malmstrom Due to Coronavirus


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today issued the following statement on Malmstrom Air Force Base declaring a public health emergency due to coronavirus.

"Cindy's and my prayers are with all of those at Malmstrom and handling this situation. We've overcome many challenges and difficult times in our nation before, just like we will overcome this one. I've been in contact with several personnel on the ground including Colonel Reeves and understand they are taking all the right precautions. Now is a time we must come together and take necessary and bold actions to protect Montanans, especially the elderly and those that are at high-risk for the virus," Daines said.  

Daines has been in contact with several personnel at Malmstrom and Great Falls following the news.

Background:

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.  

Two weeks ago, Daines brought his proposal and ideas to President Trump at a meeting in the White House. 

Earlier today, Daines a released a statement after President Trump declared a national emergency on the coronavirus outbreak.

Yesterday, Daines introduced bipartisan legislation to provide disaster unemployment assistance to people who are unable to work due to the current coronavirus outbreak. Assistance would be available to individuals, including self-employed individuals and independent contractors, who are sick, quarantined, furloughed, or whose family circumstances keep them from working or reduce their pay as a result of the coronavirus outbreak or government containment efforts.

Earlier in the week, Daines sent a letter urging the Trump administration to take swift action to make testing for the coronavirus affordable.

The following day the IRS immediately announced it would adopt Daines' proposal to remove financial barriers to testing and treatment for the Coronavirus by allowing high deductible health plans to cover coronavirus-related testing and treatment before a patient has met their deductible. 

At the beginning of the week, Daines unveiled a slate of proposals and priorities he's working to advance that will help protect Montana families and their finances during the coronavirus outbreak including paid leave, temporarily waiving payroll taxes, providing relief from tariffs, and ensuring access to affordable testing.