Daines Statement on President Trump's State of the Union Address


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today released the following video statement after President Donald Trump's State of the Union (SOTU) Address.   

Daines' special guest for this year's SOTU was his wife of 33 years, Cindy. Click HERE to download a video of the two previewing President Trump's address.

Daines' remarks as prepared for delivery:

"Tonight, President Trump sent a clear message to Montanans, and all Americans. The state of our union is strong.

"Our economy is booming.

"We have the lowest unemployment in over 50 years. Middle class wages are at an all-time high.

"We ae delivering on our promise of less government and more jobs.

"We are on a trade winning streak. Over the last 120 days, President Trump has secured trade deals with our four largest trading partners--Canada, Mexico, China, and Japan.

"This is a big win for Montana's farmers and ranchers.

"Under President Trump, we are cutting burdensome regulations that hurt Montana jobs.

"We are securing American energy dominance.

"We're confirming conservative judges to the bench at a historic pace  we've already confirmed over 180 judges appointed by President Trump.

"These are lifetime appointments, shaping our courts and protecting our Montana way of life for generations to come.

"We are supporting our veterans.

"And we are working to lower the cost of prescription drugs.

"We are prioritizing paid family leave which would help over 13,000 Montanans.

"President Trump isn't afraid to put America first.

"We are securing our southern border and stopping the flow of Mexican meth devastating our Montana communities.

"We are giving our law enforcement the tools they need to protect Montana families.

"We are giving our troops the pay raises they deserve, and our military is stronger than ever.

"America is winning under President Trump.

"I applaud President Trump for delivering for Montanans and the American people, and I commend him for a strong State of the Union Address tonight."