Daines Secures Passage of USMCA out of U.S. Senate


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today voted for a critical trade agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, called the "USMCA," out of the U.S. Senate. The trade agreement now heads to President Trump's desk to be signed into law.

"This trade deal is a big win for our farmers, ranchers, and small businesses across Montana and the country," Daines said. "This deal provides certainty for Montana ag and protects critical access to our two biggest trading partners. I'm thankful for President Trump's leadership getting this done, and look forward to it being signed into law."

USMCA passed by a vote of 89-10.

Daines serves as Montana's lone voice on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade, and has been a strong proponent of advancing this trade agreement.

USMCA Details: 

-Protect critical market access for Montana farmers, ranchers, and businesses -Help level the playing field for Montana's grain growers in Canada-Modernize the agreement for digital trade

USMCA's Impact:

-USMCA is expected to create over 180,000 new American jobs-USMCA is forecasted to boost our nation's GDP by $70 Billion -In 2018 alone, Montana had $731 million dollars in total exports to Canada and Mexico  

Background:   

Yesterday, Daines voted to advance the USMCA out of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee.  

Last week, Daines voted to advance the USMCA out of the U.S. Senate Finance Committee. 

In late October, Daines spoke on the floor of the U.S. Senate urging Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats to act and advance the USMCA.

On June 18, 2019 Daines raised the importance of advancing USMCA in a U.S. Senate Finance hearing with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.

On November 21, 2018, Daines sent a letter to President Trump showing support for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and to urge passage of the trade deal.

On January 30, 2018, Daines sent a letter to President Trump, reaffirming the benefits on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and urging him to modernize it to reflect the 21st century economy.

On November 20, 2017, Daines sent a letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging him to consider the critical role agriculture plays in the U.S, economy and its dependence on trade.

On June 28, 2017, Daines sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Lighthizer, urging him to consider the impact of trade with Mexico and Canada on the U.S. agricultural industry while renegotiating NAFTA.