Daines Secures $5.5 Million to Support Montana Seniors, Montanans with Disabilities Amid the Coronavirus Pandemic


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today announced that $5,524,715 will be directed to Montana to fund programs that provide home-delivered meals, care services in the home, respite care and other support services to help meet the needs of older Montanans and individuals with disabilities during the COVID-19 emergency.

"This is about ensuring we get the folks most at risk during this Coronavirus pandemic the help and support they need," Daines said. "I fought to ensure our Montana seniors and those with disabilities have access to vital services like home delivered meals and in-home care services so we can continue to protect public health and our most vulnerable during this crisis."   

The following funding has been awarded to Montana:

-$1,00,000 for OAA Supportive Services-$2,400,000 for OAA Home Delivered Meals-$500,000 for OAA Caregiver Support-$100,000 for OAA Ombudsman   -$583,420 for OAA Title VI Tribes-$941,295 Centers for Independent Living

Daines fought to secure critical funding for these programs authorized by the Older Americans Act (OAA) in the Phase Three Coronavirus Economic Recovery Package.

Daines has been a strong advocate for the OAA, which supports community-based and nutrition services for older adults and their caregivers and helps improve the lives of seniors.  Daines was an author of the Supporting Older Americans Act, which was signed into law by the President on March 25, 2020, to reauthorize and strengthen the OAA. The Supporting Older Americans Act also included Daines' legislation, the Younger Onset Alzheimer's Disease Act, to ensure all Americans living with Alzheimer's have access to high-quality care and support services, regardless of age.

Administered by the Administration for Community Living (ACL), the OAA authorizes services through a network of 56 State Units on Aging and more than 600 Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs) serving older Americans throughout the nation. Montana's AAAs, Centers for Independent Living, senior centers, faith-based organizations, and other nonprofits are hard at work implementing ways to provide services while protecting the most vulnerable during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Background:

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.