Daines Calls for Sanctions Against China in Response to Coronavirus Cover Up


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today introduced legislation that would authorize the president to sanction foreign officials who suppress or distort information about international public health crises, including China for the cover up of the coronavirus pandemic.

"China must be held accountable for its cover up of the coronavirus outbreak which led to American lives lost and the devastation of our booming economy," Daines said. "The Chinese Communist regime withheld information and put the world at risk. Such reckless actions cannot continue to go on without consequences."

Background: 

It was reported by U.S. intelligence over the weekend that China covered up the extent of the Coronavirus outbreak to stock up on medical supplies.

Daines has been pushing to hold China accountable for its role in the COVID-19 outbreak and promoting Made in America drug manufacturing. 

On May 4th, 2020, Daines pushed for legislation to end the United States' reliance on China for drug and medical equipment manufacturing and bring those jobs back to the United States.

On April 23rd, 2020, Daines visited the University of Montana where he announced $2.5 million would be directed to the university to begin work on a developing a Montana made COVID-19 vaccine.

On April 13th, 2020, Daines sent a letter to President Trump urging him to end the U.S. government's reliance on medical supplies and equipment from China and bring back drug manufacturing jobs to America in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

On April 6th, 2020, Daines sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urging him to work with our allies around the world and fully investigate China's response to the emergence of the virus causing COVID-19.

On March 22nd, 2020, Daines announced a plan and over $10 billion in funding for accelerated drug development and manufacturing to treat and prevent the Coronavirus.   

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.