Daines Statement on President Trump Declaring a National Emergency for Coronavirus


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today issued the following statement after President Trump declared a national emergency on the coronavirus outbreak.

"President Trump's national emergency declaration is critical during the coronavirus outbreak and will open up federal dollars and resources to help combat this pandemic. I will continue working closely with state and local officials to monitor the situation on the ground and ensure we have the resources we need to stay safe and protect the most vulnerable. Cindy and I are praying for all Montanans right now and we are confident that as a nation and state we will overcome this national emergency together," Daines said.

Background:

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.  

Two weeks ago, Daines brought his proposal and ideas to President Trump at a meeting in the White House.

Yesterday, Daines introduced bipartisan legislation to provide disaster unemployment assistance to people who are unable to work due to the current coronavirus outbreak. Assistance would be available to individuals, including self-employed individuals and independent contractors, who are sick, quarantined, furloughed, or whose family circumstances keep them from working or reduce their pay as a result of the coronavirus outbreak or government containment efforts.

Earlier in the week, Daines sent a letter urging the Trump administration to take swift action to make testing for the coronavirus affordable.

The following day the IRS immediately announced it would adopt Daines' proposal to remove financial barriers to testing and treatment for the Coronavirus by allowing high deductible health plans to cover coronavirus-related testing and treatment before a patient has met their deductible. 

At the beginning of the week, Daines unveiled a slate of proposals and priorities he's working to advance that will help protect Montana families and their finances during the coronavirus outbreak including paid leave, temporarily waiving payroll taxes, providing relief from tariffs, and ensuring access to affordable testing.