Daines Celebrates Phase One U.S.-China Trade Agreement Signing at the White House


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today joined President Trump at the White House for the official signing ceremony of the Phase One U.S. -- China Trade Agreement. Daines was joined by Cascade County Commissioner Joe Briggs for the White House event.

"What an honor to be here with Commissioner Joe Briggs of Cascade County, Great Falls Montana, for this historic U.S.-China trade signing ceremony," Daines said. "I'll tell you what, it means billions of dollars for our ag industry which is a big deal for Montanans, so big shout out to President Trump and his team here."

"I sure appreciate the opportunity to be here Steve and spend some time with you this morning," Briggs said. "It's incredible to have been at a ceremony like this. This is such an historic trade agreement. It has far reaching ramifications economically, militarily and overall for the security of the world."

In September 2019, Daines traveled to Beijing, China to conduct a series of high-level meetings with senior Chinese government officials to reinforce President Trump's efforts to come to a trade deal.

As Montana's lone voice on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade, and as a member of the U.S. Senate China Working Group, Daines is a strong voice for Montana's ag priorities in international trade. Moving forward, Daines will work with the Administration and the Finance Committee to ensure that China is held accountable and fulfills its commitments in this agreement.

Background: 

The Phase One U.S.-China Trade Agreement includes:

-Commitments by China to increase purchases of U.S. agriculture, manufactured goods, energy, and services by $200 billion over two years, including $40 billion in agriculture commodities-Includes important structural reforms related to intellectual property, technology transfer, financial services, and others to help level the playing field for the U.S. in China's market

Daines has been an active voice for Montana's ag priorities with China and Asia. 

In early October, Daines celebrated the official signing of a trade agreement between Japan and the United States by President Trump and Prime Minster Abe that would level the playing field for Montana's farmers and ranchers in that critical market. This agreement went into effect on January 1st.

In mid-June, Daines questioned U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer during a U.S. Senate Finance Committee hearing on U.S. agriculture exports to Japan.

In early March, Daines urged United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in a U.S. Senate Finance Committee hearing to advance and finalize trade agreements with Japan and China to put Montana farmers and ranchers on a level playing field in the global stage.

On April 24, 2018, U.S. Senator Steve Daines pressed USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue to support reconsidering the Trans-Pacific Partnership and that the TPP would benefit U.S. and Montana agriculture. Secretary Perdue agreed and has urged the President to reconsider TPP.

On April 12, 2018, at a White House meeting with President Donald Trump, U.S. Senator Steve Daines voiced the concerns of Montana farmers and ranchers to the President by urging the President to expand access to markets critical to the agriculture community.

On February 16, 2018, Daines led 25 senators in sending a letter to President Trump urging the President to act on his recent statements expressing interest in considering an improved TPP.