Daines, Tester Bipartisan B-47 Bill Passes U.S. Senate


U.S. Senators Steve Daines and Jon Tester today celebrated Senate passage of their bipartisan bill renaming the B-47 Ridge in honor of four fallen servicemen.

"After almost six decades, we are one step closer to getting these brave men who tragically died in the B-47 Bomber crash the memorial and recognition they deserve," Daines said. "I look forward to the bill passing out of the U.S. House and getting this important recognition signed into law."

 "Today, we are one step closer to honoring the brave men whose lives were cut short on that tragic night," said Tester. "Commemorating this ridge in honor of the servicemen who died there will help them live on in our memories for generations to come."

Congressman Gianforte introduced the bill in the U.S. House.  

"Capt. Faulconer, Lt. Hixenbaugh, Lt. Sawyers, and Lt. Sutton tragically lost their lives in service to our country," Gianforte said. "Their sacrifice will be honored and remembered forever with the naming of this ridge. I appreciate Senators Daines and Tester getting this bill through the Senate, and I'll continue working to move it forward in the House."

On July 23, 1962, a B-47 Bomber originating from Dyess Air Force Base in Texas carrying four men on a routine training mission crashed into the southwestern slope of Emigrant Peak, killing all on board. Capt. Bill Faulconer, Lt. Lloyd Sawyers, Lt. David Sutton, and Lt. Fred Hixenbaugh all tragically lost their lives serving our country.

Background:  

On December 12th, 2019, Daines voted to advance his bipartisan bill to name the B-47 Ridge in honor of the four servicemen who lost their lives in an Air Force B-47 Bomber crash in Montana out of the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.

On May 14th, 2019, Daines urged lawmakers for swift passage of the B-47 Ridge Designation Act in a U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing

On February 2nd, 2019, Daines, Tester and Gianforte reintroduced the B-47 Ridge Designation Act.

On June 8th, 2018, Daines, Tester and Gianforte first introduced the B--47 Ridge Designation Act.