Daines, Gianforte: All MT Bars and Taverns Now Eligible for PPP Loans


U.S. Senator Steve Daines and Congressman Greg Gianforte today announced that Montana's 2,400 bars and taverns which employ 40,000 Montanans are now eligible for the Paycheck Protection Program, which provides $350 billion in 100 percent forgivable loans (grants) to small businesses impacted by the Coronavirus pandemic if they maintain or rehire their employees.

"Montana's 2,400 taverns and bars have been hit hard by the Coronavirus pandemic which has impacted over 40,000 Montana jobs," Daines said. "I fought hard to ensure Montana's taverns and bars are eligible for the same relief as other small businesses across the state to keep their workers employed. I'm glad the Small Business Administration acted on my request to help Montana workers."

"Small businesses across Montana have been shut down as we confront the coronavirus outbreak, and the Paycheck Protection Program has been a critical lifeline to Montana workers and small businesses," Gianforte said. "Today's announcement ensures that all bars and taverns in Montana have access to the resources they need to pay workers now and reopen their doors open when this crisis passes."

The news follows the Small Business Administration revising their PPP Interim Final Rule.

Montana bars and restaurants with on-site video game machines (VGMs) were blocked from participating in the SBA Paycheck Protection Program due to a requirement excluding any business receiving more than 1/3 of its revenue from gaming. 

On March 30th, 2020, Daines' requested the Small Business Administration to update their policy to include Montana bars and restaurants with on premise video game machines (VGMs).

On March 31st, 2020 Gianforte urged President Trump to ensure Small Business Administration regulations provide emergency relief to all Montana small businesses, including bars, restaurants, and taverns which earn revenue from gaming.

Background:   

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.