Daines Works with Trump to Secure & Deliver Critical PPE, Testing Supplies for Montana During Coronavirus Pandemic


U.S. Senator Steve Daines today shared updated numbers from the White House on the amount of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and testing supplies Montana has received during the coronavirus pandemic. Daines specifically worked with the Trump administration to ensure Montana received this support.

"Working with President Trump, I've helped secure critical PPE and testing supplies for Montana to help keep our communities, families and healthcare professionals safe and healthy," Daines said. "I am grateful for President Trump's support and I will continue fighting to ensure the needs of Montanans are met and we prioritize public health as we work to safely reopen the economy."

Testing, Resource & Logistics Support: FEMA is working with the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), other Federal agencies, and private sector partners, to produce, allocate, and distribute key resources to Montana. Most notably, these include PPE, testing supplies, ventilators, and the expedition of critical supplies from overseas to various U.S. locations.

-The Trump Administration is coordinating Project Air Bridge, a coordinated public-private partnership designed to expedite the movement of critical supplies from other countries to the United States. The below table shows recently delivered supplies to Montana through various sources, including Project Air Bridge efforts, to bolster private sector supply chains.-In addition to the Project Air Bridge efforts, as of April 28, FEMA delivered 147,486 N-95 masks, 188,859 surgical masks, 33,448 medical gowns, 1,801 coveralls, 40,610 face shields, and 224,326 gloves from the Strategic National Stockpile to Montana.-As of April 29, FEMA obligated $13.7 M for COVID-19 response efforts in Montana and will continue to obligate additional dollars per validated State requests.-The Defense Logistics Agency awarded a contract to Battelle Critical Care Decontamination Systems for 60 N95 decontamination system units for the sanitation and reuse of N95 respirators. A system is en route to Montana.

Background:   

Daines has been leading the efforts in Congress to respond to the coronavirus outbreak impacting the country.