Gardner, Daines Secure President Trump's Support for Full and Permanent LWCF Funding


U.S. Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Steve Daines (R-MT) announced today they secured President Donald Trump's support for legislation to provide full and permanent funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) and address the $12 billion maintenance backlog in our national parks.

"This is a great day for the future of public lands in Colorado and the country -- we are proud to announce that we have secured the President's support to provide full and permanent funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund and address the maintenance backlog at our national parks," said Senator Gardner. "Last year we were successful in permanently reauthorizing the LWCF, the crown jewel of conservation programs, and I have been fighting ever since to make funding permanent. The LWCF supports projects in Colorado and all across our country at no cost to the taxpayer, and fighting every year to figure out how much money the program will receive doesn't provide the long-term planning certainty that our outdoor and conservation community deserves. I thank the President for his support, and I encourage all my colleagues in Congress to support full and permanent funding of the LWCF so future generations will have access to our great outdoors."

"The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a critical conservation program that protects public access to public lands and our Montana way of life,"said Senator Daines. "We united a divided Congress last year when we got permanent authorization of the program signed into law. Now, we must provide full, mandatory funding for this important, bipartisan program. We also need to come together and restore our national parks by addressing the growing maintenance backlog. I'm thankful to have President Trump's support and look forward to getting these major conservation priorities signed into law for future generations of Montanans."

Earlier today President Trump tweeted his support for Gardner and Daines' work to secure permanent funding for the LWCF and called on Congress to send him a bill providing full and permanent funding for the LWCF.