Gianforte, Daines Celebrate President Trump Signing the United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement


Congressman Greg Gianforte and U.S. Senator Steve Daines today celebrated President Trump signing the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), a trade deal between the three countries. Gianforte and Daines were joined by Montana State Senator Mike Cuffe (SD-1, Eureka) for the signing ceremony.

"What an honor to be here at the White House watching President Trump sign the USMCA," Gianforte said. "This is a great day for Montana ag."

"Just finished watching President Trump sign the historic US-Mexico-Canada trade agreement at the White House," Daines said. "Great to be here with Greg Gianforte and Mike Cuffe, and it's a great day for Montana's farmers and ranchers."  

"I'm proud to be here with my friends who have travelled up and through the northwest corner where we have a lot of trade going on with Canada," Cuffe said. "And thank you to Senator Daines and Congressman Gianforte and thank you Donald Trump for the good job again."

USMCA's Impact:

Protect critical market access for Montana farmers, ranchers, and businesses Help level the playing field for Montana's grain growers in CanadaModernize the agreement for digital tradeExpected to create over 180,000 new American jobsForecasted to boost our nation's GDP by $70 billion In 2018 alone, Montana had $731 million in total exports to Canada and Mexico 

Background: 

Gianforte and Daines have been vocal proponents of the USCMA.

On January 16, 2020, Daines voted for the USMCA out of the U.S. Senate.  

On December 19, 2019 Gianforte voted for the USMCA out of the U.S. House.

On December 9, 2019, Gianforte and 158 other lawmakers pressed Pelosi to "stop dithering" and bring up USMCA for a vote in the U.S. House by the end of the year.

In November, Daines and Gianforte took to the floor of their respective chambers to urge immediate action on USMCA, citing the trade deal's benefits to Montana.

In late October, Daines spoke on the floor of the U.S. Senate urging Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats to act and advance the USMCA.

On September 24, 2019, Gianforte spoke on the House floor urging Pelosi to work with the White House to get USMCA passed. He noted that it had been a full year since the U.S., Mexico, and Canada concluded negotiations and announced the agreement.

On June 18, 2019, Daines raised the importance of advancing USMCA in a U.S. Senate Finance hearing with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.

On May 24, 2019, Gianforte asked Pelosi to drop her opposition to USMCA and work with the White House to move the trade deal forward, noting the requirements set by both Democrats and Republicans had been met.

On November 21, 2018, Daines sent a letter to President Trump showing support for the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and to urge passage of the trade deal.

On November 20, 2017, Daines sent a letter to U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging him to consider the critical role agriculture plays in the U.S, economy and its dependence on trade.

On June 28, 2017, Daines sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Lighthizer, urging him to consider the impact of trade with Mexico and Canada on the U.S. agricultural industry while renegotiating NAFTA.

Media CenterPress ReleasesIn the News