MIDDLE CLASS HEALTH BENEFITS TAX REPEAL ACT OF 2019--Motion to Proceed


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Madam President, the health and livelihoods of the  American people are at risk; they are in danger. We cannot afford to  keep squabbling and arguing in the U.S. Senate. Time is not on our  side. Each day matters. In fact, every hour matters. 

  As we look at the stats coming in terms of those who have been  infected with COVID-19, it is literally hour by hour. This is a  logarithmic kind of scale. This is a doubling-every-day kind of scale  that is going on. Hours matter; minutes matter. 

  Like many of my colleagues in the U.S. Senate, I have been talking to  Montanans around the clock to get their feedback--hospital leaders, ag  groups, Tribal leaders, small business leaders, construction workers. 

  We are in a public health and an economic crisis. I have not sensed  fear like this from the American people anytime in my life. I remember  9/11. I remember the crisis of 2008. I remember the 1987 crash. Those  pale in comparison to what we are seeing today at this very moment in  our country. 

  This is a time that we need to come together. This is a time we must  get this done for the good of our country. Neither side is going to be  happy with the final product. That is part of negotiations. It is give,  and it is get. The Senate bill before us provides relief for workers,  for families, for small businesses, and for healthcare professionals. 

  I have heard some things said today on the U.S. Senate that are  flatout not true. Let me set some of the facts straight--what this bill  before us does do. It provides $250 billion of unemployment insurance  for those who have lost their jobs during the coronavirus outbreak-- $250 billion. What that means in Montana is $600 a week. That is twice  as big as what is currently paid per week. It is $4 billion for masks,  for gowns, for gloves, ventilators. It is the PPE discussion I just had  a couple of hours ago with some of my hospital leaders and doctors and  medical leaders across Montana. They are scared. There is a shortage of  PPE. This bill provides $4 billion to CDC to address that. I will tell  you what: By dinking around here over this today, we lost another day  when we could be moving forward to get it in the hands of our  healthcare professionals. 

  It provides $350 billion to allow our small businesses survive and  rebound. We have had some very healthy, prosperous, good small  businesses employ a lot of people in Montana. These are good jobs. Now  they are not just worried about liquidity; they are worried about  insolvency. These are ranchers. These are restaurant owners. 

  It provides $10.5 billion for drug development to treat and prevent  the virus. Listen, we will not stop the panic we see right now in our  country until we stop the pandemic. We will not stop this pandemic  until we have drugs available for the American people that will provide  immunity to them. 

  There is great hope on the horizon. There are amazing vaccines. There  are amazing monoclonal antibodies through incredible ingenuity and  innovation that we can provide to the American people before the second  wave hits this fall. 

  You talk to the doctors, our best leaders at NIH, at the FDA, at the  CDC; they are telling us there is probably a second wave pandemic  coming in the fall of 2020 if we don't act now because, as is true with  most of the world, we don't have the immune systems here to combat this  virus--this coronavirus--that produces COVID-19. You either get the  immunity from catching the disease or getting a vaccine or these other  drugs that can provide the antibodies. 

  There is good news on the horizon. What did we do in this bill? We  are going to allow the acceleration of manufacturing so we can get this  into a widespread distribution for the American people to protect them  in the next flu season when most scientists believe we will probably  get hit with this again. 

  We just lost another day here in the U.S. Senate. Every day matters.  We have vaccine trials going on, as we speak, in Seattle. They started  on Monday. There are 45 individuals who received a vaccine that we  believe can protect you from the coronavirus. Can you imagine the good  news for the American people if we found out we have a vaccine that  will protect us; we have a drug that will protect us; we have  therapeutics that will help us if we contract the coronavirus. We just  lost another day that could be a day we could have been closer to  getting that into the hands of the American people. 

  We are in a race for time. We are now into the end of March. We have  to get this available by September to the American people. This is  literally an all-of-government, Manhattan Project kind of approach. And  we just lost another day here because we couldn't get this passed in  the U.S. Senate. 

  This also provides $75 billion for our hospitals and our healthcare  providers. Those are the men and women on the frontlines right now,  saving lives. God bless them--$75 billion for them. 

  If you heard the Democrats talk about this bill, you would think  there is nothing here for the average, hard-working person in this  country. That is absolutely false, and we can lay it all out. 

  There are parts of the bill that I don't like. There are parts of  this bill  that I would change. But we have to be satisfied now with a good 80 for  20 because speed matters. It matters to get something done. The  American people are looking here. The dysfunction in Washington they  don't understand. Frankly, I don't either. 

  This bill before us was written by Republicans and Democrats. I will  tell you why I know that--because I was part of helping negotiate to  get $10 billion for this acceleration of vaccines and drug program. I  went in this weekend. We were sitting, looking at spreadsheets that  said here is the Republican ask; here is the Democrat ask. There are  spreadsheets. We can show them to you. We were going back and forth in  a bipartisan way to try to craft a bill that we could pass in the  Senate last night. 

  In fact, the American people are watching, both sides, in this ping  pong match where one side says one thing, and the other side says the  other. 

  Sometimes I look to people like Susan Collins and Lamar Alexander at  moments like this. I think few Americans, few Senators, would claim  that either Lamar or Susan are hyperpartisan Senators. They have a  pretty good temperature of the Senate. They have a good sense of  finding ways to make things work. When you hear Senator Susan Collins  outraged at what happened when Senator Schumer and Speaker Pelosi  basically put the brakes on the discussions, we lost another day--maybe  two--by demanding that this bill include an ideological wish list.  Susan Collins is outraged. Lamar Alexander was shocked. 

  Let me tell you something: When Susan Collins is outraged and Lamar  Alexander is shocked about what is going on around here, that tells you  something. You can discount what I am saying here--and many Republican  Senators and Democratic Senators--but those two Senators are viewed as  some of the most bipartisan Senators here, and when they are outraged  and shocked, that tells you what is going on in terms of one of the low  levels of partisanship we have achieved in the U.S. Senate over the  course of the last couple of days. This obstruction will create a  devastating impact on American workers, on families, and small  businesses. They are pushing for things that have nothing to do with  the public health and economic crisis we are facing today. The issues  they are pushing have nothing to do with overcoming this pandemic.  

  In a global pandemic, some have tossed aside bipartisanship to push  for airline emissions standards. 

  I was told there is no such thing as a House bill. That is false.  Here is Nancy Pelosi's House bill. She is part of the discussions. Why?  Because we need something that can pass the Senate quickly now and then  go to the House even more quickly. 

  Let me tell the American people something else. The House is not here  this week. I was just speaking with a Montanan on the phone off the  floor of the Senate a few minutes ago. I was describing what is going  on. He was despondent, by the way, fearing both the pandemic and also  the economic panic because he is losing his business. 

  I said: Do you realize the U.S. House is not even in town right now? 

  He said: I didn't know that. 

  They are not. They left town last week. They are not here. At a  moment when the country needs us, the House left town. They are not  here as we speak. I think that has been lost in the discussion. 

  We can debate some of their ideological requests another time down  the road. I mean, here is one from Pelosi's bill: the full offset of  domestic airline emissions by 2025 for airlines that need assistance.  This is section 1 of the Pelosi bill. It is right here. We can have a  debate another time whether they should have part of this New Green  Deal to offset emissions. Now is not the time for that debate. Now is  the time to save the American people both economically and with their  health. 

  We need to get our priorities straight. That means putting the  American people first. This is not a stimulus package. That is the  wrong name for it. This is not a recovery package. That is the wrong  name for it. This is a rescue package. What we are debating right now  is a rescue package. We must come together on both sides. 

  The coronavirus is not partisan. It crosses party lines. It crosses  country boundaries. This is a global challenge on the shores of our  country. It was time for both sides to come together and vote this bill  out of the Senate yesterday, but that didn't happen. The next best time  is today. 

  I urge my colleagues on both sides to set aside the perfect and move  forward with this to restore the confidence of the American people for  their health and their economic well-being. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT