Nomination of William W. Mercer


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696331/nomination-of-william-w-mercer


Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in support of my  friend Mr. Bill Mercer and his nomination to serve as the next judge  for the U.S. District Court for the District of Montana.

President Trump made an excellent choice when he picked Bill. I was  thrilled to see him quickly approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee,  and now, today, the U.S. Senate will vote in the next hour or so on his  final confirmation. And I urge my colleagues to join Senator Sheehy and  I in supporting his nomination.

Bill is a lifelong Montanan. He was born in Billings. We have known  each other for a long time; in fact, we went to rival high schools, and  we actually competed against each other in speech and debate. He was a  Billings West Golden Bear, and I was a Bozeman Hawk. This is what makes  America great. Two kids from Montana dreamed big, they worked hard, and  now we have the opportunity to serve the State we love together.

Bill received his undergraduate degree from the University of  Montana. He later went on to receive a master of public administration  from Harvard and his law degree from George Mason University. Bill  served his State and country in various roles over the past three  decades. In Montana, he served as U.S. attorney for the District of  Montana from 2001 to 2009. He represented Billings in the Montana House  of Representatives for the past 7 years. Bill also worked at the U.S.  Department of Justice where he served as Principal Associate Deputy  Attorney General and Acting Associate Attorney General during the  George W. Bush administration.

He has been actively engaged in his community, serving in five  nonprofit boards of directors in Montana.

Bill has been a member of the Montana Bar for 32 years. He has  appeared at State and Federal court in Montana and as lead counsel in  numerous cases.

He has represented clients in appellate courts, which resulted in  oral arguments in 15 cases in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth  Circuit, the DC Circuit, and the Montana Supreme Court.

Bill has been recognized by his peers in the legal community for  outstanding track records, being rated among the best lawyers in  Montana for environmental and commercial litigation.

Throughout his extensive legal career and years of public service,  Bill has represented Montana's interests very well. He is committed to  the rule of law and the original interpretation of the Constitution.

He understands Montana's laws and issues. His experience as a widely  respected and effective member of the Montana House has helped him  understand the needs of our State, our families, and our communities.

I believe his time serving in Helena has given him an important  perspective on the law and the importance of judicial impartiality.  Federal judges play a critical role in our government. It is important  that we pick servant leaders who are committed to our Founding ideals  and to protecting the role of the judiciary.

These are lifetime appointments. He will have a lasting impact on  both Montana and the Nation.

I have no hesitation when I say Bill is the top choice to serve as  Montana's next Federal judge. I have seen his commitment to our State  firsthand, and his time at the Department of Justice, as U.S. attorney,  and as a State legislator prepared him well. There is not a better pick  to serve the State of Montana.

I urge my colleagues to join me in voting favorably for Bill's  confirmation.

I look forward to seeing the profound influence Bill will have in  Montana and the Nation as he steps into this new role.

Thank you.