Prescription Drug Costs


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Senator Cassidy, thank you--Dr. Cassidy. It is a really  good thing to have a physician serving on the floor of the U.S. Senate  and your additional insight you have as a physician. Thank you. 

  Madam President, I am grateful for not only Senator Cassidy's  leadership but also Senator Grassley's on this very important issue  impacting millions of Montanans and Americans across our country. 

  I also want to thank my colleagues who spoke on this issue earlier  today. 

  When I am back home in Montana, I hear the same concerns in virtually  every corner of our State. Whether I am down in southeast Montana, in  places like Ekalaka or Baker; or up in northeast Montana, in places  like Westby and in places like Sidney and Plentywood; and if we go out  to the northwest part of our State, to places like Eureka, Libby; or in  southwest Montana, where I am from, in Bozeman, Belgrade, or anywhere  you go, I am hearing that Montanans are concerned with the high cost of  prescription drugs. That is why I have made it one of my top priorities  in Congress and on the Senate Finance Committee to lower prescription  drug costs for Montanans and for folks across the country. 

  Year after year, prescription drug out-of-pocket costs are reaching  sky-high levels. They are impacting our seniors, our veterans, our  families, and our working men and women. It is truly heart-wrenching to  hear the stories of folks who are rationing or even skipping doses of  daily medications because they can't afford the out-of-pocket costs.  The American people are struggling under the burden of these out-of- control, high costs of prescription drugs, and they need relief. 

  That is why I am grateful to be working with Chairman Grassley on the  Finance Committee and my colleagues here today in a bipartisan fashion  to lower costs, improve competition, and get our patients more bang for  the buck. The complex drug pricing system has allowed Big Pharma and  these pharmacy benefit managers--you may have seen the chart that  Senator Cassidy just laid out showing some of these complexities. These  pharmacy benefit managers are the middle men responsible for  negotiating drug prices, but in doing so, they take advantage of the  secrecy of the pricing supply chain. 

  The bipartisan reforms we are fighting for and advocating for today  would help fix the secrecy and save taxpayers more than $80 billion.  These reforms will cap out-of-pocket costs in Medicare, providing our  seniors with enhanced financial security. One of the great sources of  anxiety for our seniors is financial security. When you think about it,  their financial situation could be devastated with the out-of-pocket  costs for a single prescription drug. 

  Our efforts would reform the payment incentives and ensure that Big  Pharma and the pharmacy benefit managers have more skin in this game.  These reforms are the product of over 1 year of bipartisan  negotiations. Although this may not be what you hear on the news,  bipartisan compromise is not dead. I am pleased to see my colleagues  putting politics aside and doing what is right for this country.  Lowering costs is more than just figures and numbers and spreadsheets.  This is about keeping our families healthy without having to worry  about how much it is going to cost or if they can even afford it. This  is about getting relief for the retiree who has worked and saved their  entire life only to see the dollars they earned go down the drain  because of the high cost of prescription drugs. 

  President Trump is ready to sign prescription drug reform. He is  committed to getting this done on behalf of the American people. He  hears it when he travels around the country. With strong support from  this administration, I am confident we can achieve some major reforms  for the American people. Montanans and Americans across the country  want to see reform, and that is why I am standing here today, fighting  for it. 

  Let's move past the congressional gridlock and get this done. We had  a good, strong, bipartisan vote out of the Senate Finance Committee,  which will allow us to take a vote here on the floor of the U.S.  Senate. Truly, Republicans, Democrats, and Independents  can deliver a historic victory for the American people, and I will  continue working to get this bill on President Trump's desk. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT