Reps. Tipton, McAdams Introduce Bill to Fight Invasive Mussels Threatening Water Systems


Congressmen Scott Tipton (CO-03) and Ben McAdams (UT-04) introduced legislation to support the fight against invasive species infesting western lakes and reservoirs, threatening water quality, quantity, and recreational opportunities. The Stop the Spread of Invasive Mussels Act of 2019 is supported by the Western Governors Association, among others.

Western states like Colorado and Utah have been fighting the spread of invasive quagga mussels--small, destructive mollusks--for years. They spread to uninfected waterways from contaminated boats and ballast tanks. Existing and potential mussel infestations in the water bodies which provide drinking water to millions of people across the West, could cost tens of millions of dollars each year to control, threatening water quality and quantity.

"Zebra and quagga mussels pose a huge threat to water systems in Colorado. While reservoirs in our state remain free of these nuisance species thanks to the diligent work of state inspectors, the number of mussel-infested boats and recreation equipment attempting to enter Colorado's waters is growing exponentially," said Tipton. "This legislation will provide much needed resources up front to prevent catastrophic costs to our waterways and water delivery systems in the future. I'm glad to be a part of this bipartisan, bicameral effort."

"In Utah, we cherish the opportunity to enjoy boating, fishing and other family activities at our lakes and reservoirs and this destructive invader threatens that experience," added McAdams. "It also threatens our considerable federal investment in water delivery systems that supply drinking water to hundreds of thousands of Utahns."

The legislation authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, to provide funds to purchase, operate or maintain watercraft inspection and decontamination stations to prevent the spread of the mussels. It also provides federal agencies such as the Army Corp of Engineers, the Bureau of Land Management, the Bureau of Reclamation and others with the authority to inspect and decontaminate watercraft and--if necessary--quarantine watercraft on federally-managed areas. It also creates opportunities for federal-state partnerships to accomplish prevention and containment goals.

A bipartisan companion bill -- S. 2975--has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Michael Bennett and Steve Daines.