Safeguard American Voter Eligibility Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700783/safeguard-american-voter-eligibility-act


Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, there are some issues we consider so  logical and so obviously rooted in common sense that I have got to  believe the American people are sitting at home and wondering why  Congress is even having this debate. And such is the case with the bill  the U.S. Senate is considering this week, the SAVE America Act.

Let me be clear. The bill before us today requires proof of  citizenship when registering to vote, and it requires photo ID in order  to vote in a Federal election.

If you come to my office here in Washington, DC, you will see fairly  quickly I am an avid outdoorsman. There are a lot of hunting and  fishing pictures on the walls that say a lot about the great State of  Montana.

As many know, Montana has some of the very best outdoor recreation in  the country, even the world: hunting, fishing, backpacking, you name  it.

I remember growing up in Montana. My grandpa and my dad had a fly rod  in my hand when I was still a little boy before fly fishing was cool  even, back in the early seventies. And I remember fly fishing before  Brad Pitt discovered it with Robert Redford and made the movie ``A  River Runs Through It.'' If you want to fish in Montana, if you want to  fly fish, if you want to get a tag to hunt, you want to shoot a mule  deer or an elk or a white tail, you know what you need to get a tag? to  get a fishing license? You have got to produce a valid ID. To go  fishing, you need a license. And to get a license, you need a valid ID.

Now, nobody has a problem with this when it comes to America's great  outdoors. So why does the left protest so hard against ID requirements  to vote?

It is an explicit law that only American citizens can vote, and all  Americans have an ID or the ability to easily obtain one.

The right to vote and participate in democracy is a core principle of  this great country. It is what gives us our freedom. It is what gives  us a voice. But when election integrity is compromised, our  institutions suffer, and the people don't trust the outcome of  elections or their government anymore.

And that is why 95 percent of Republicans and 71 percent of Democrats  support having voter ID. It is truly that bipartisan. I am not sure  there is a more bipartisan issue right now facing us in Washington.

People want to restore trust in their elections and their government.  So why is this so hard?

I will tell you why it is so hard. Our friends on the other side of  the aisle are captive to their radical base. I grew up as the grandson  of a Democrat in Montana. My dad was a Democrat growing up. But this is  a different kind of Democrat today. The radical base is steering the  party that we debate with across the aisle here in Washington.

Remember under Joe Biden's border catastrophe, at least 10 million-- and that is a conservative number--10 million illegal aliens poured  into the country unchecked. And in many States, these illegal aliens  are eligible for driver's licenses, which makes it easier to illegally  register to vote.

And that is why you need to have proof of citizenship. That is why  the SAVE America Act is so important. Requiring a photo ID is basic. It  is common sense. It is not controversial. It is time to get this done.

I am very grateful to my colleague Senator Mike Lee of Utah and my  colleague Senator Eric Schmitt of Missouri who have been fighting so  hard to get this bill across the finish line.

I urge the rest of our colleagues to get on board, support the SAVE  America Act, stand up for election integrity, and vote for the SAVE  America Act.