TAXPAYER FIRST ACT OF 2019--Continued


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, it is an honor to stand here today in  support of one of the most historic pieces of conservation legislation  in decades--some are saying 50 years. 

  The Great American Outdoors Act will have a lasting impact on  generations to come. That is why, as Montana's voice in the Senate, I  am standing here today to make the Great American Outdoors Act a  reality. 

  Over the last few days, we have seen very strong bipartisan support  both here in the Senate and around the Nation. Senators from both sides  of the aisle, representing States all across our great Nation, have  been coming down to the floor to share stories and photos and to show  support for the bill. It is a very personal piece of legislation  because we all love the outdoors. 

  At this point, plenty of us have spoken in support of this bill, but  today I want to share some quotes from Montanans who are also in  support of the Great American Outdoors Act. 

  David Brooks from Montana Trout Unlimited says:  

       As the Senate takes up the legislation this week, we are       also excited to see progress on addressing decades of       maintenance backlogs on our public lands that benefit our       wild and native fish and their habitat.  

  Speaking of trout, this picture was taken at the Yellowstone River.  The main channel is over here. There is a little side channel as well.  That is Emigrant Peak. That is in a valley called Paradise Valley. It  is appropriately named. It is south of Livingston--between Livingston  and Gardiner. If you were to come visit Yellowstone National Park, one  of the entrances is in Gardiner, and that would be on the way to  Yellowstone Park. 

  As I mentioned before, that is, in fact, where in 1979 we had our  high school homecoming dinner, and I proudly took a date in a Griswold  station wagon with some couples, and we drove down to Chico's. It is  right by where this picture was taken. There are a lot of memories when  I see a picture like that. There was a lot of fish caught as I fished  that river many, many times. I do it several times a summer. 

  Ben Horan with Mountain Bike Missoula says:  

       There is a good reason the Land and Water Conservation Fund       has enjoyed bipartisan support since the 1960s. It is just       good policy. For more than 55 years, LWCF has supported and       funded open spaces and public lands that we in Montana rely       on for our work, for our play, and for our way of life.  

  Kyle Weaver from the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation had this to say:  

       This important conservation program allowed the Rocky       Mountain Elk Foundation to complete more than 80 land       protection and access projects that conserved more than       152,000 acres of habitat for elk and other wildlife. RMEF       strongly urges Members of the Senate and House to rally       alongside Senator Daines, pass this measure, and forward it       to President Trump's desk so it can be signed into law.  

  Land Tawny with the Backcountry Hunters and Anglers said this:  

       Sportsmen and women have been the leading voices in this       effort to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund as       well as providing maintenance funding for the agencies that       manage places critical for public access and fish and       wildlife. Our public lands and our waters have traditionally       been places of refuge, of solace, and of adventure.  

  Never has this been truer than right now when we need to recenter and  get our minds right. Now is the most strategic time for investing in  these places of refuge by funding shovel-ready projects that sustain  important habitat, increase public access opportunities, and get people  back to work. 

  Mayor Bill Cole of Billings said:  

       Over the years, Billings has received almost $2 million to       fund construction repairs on our parks. The Great American       Outdoors Act will be a great help as we plan future projects       that address the backlog of maintenance needs. Parks and       trails are critical to our Western quality of life, they       attract visitors, and they support our economy.  

  The city manager of Great Falls, Greg Doyle, said this:  

       For many years, the city has utilized the LWCF       appropriations to complete a wide variety of projects. These       projects help support and develop park land and recreational       facilities for Great Falls residents and visitors.  

  Alex Kitchens with the Mystery Ranch. The Mystery Ranch--that sounds  kind of mysterious, doesn't it? They actually make some of the best  backpacks in America. In fact, when my wife and I and children get out  in the wilderness area every summer, we all are carrying Mystery Ranch  backpacks. They are some of the very best. In fact, in the early days  of this company, back in the seventies when I was going to high school  in Bozeman, I had a Kletterworks pack. Kletterworks was the precursor  to Mystery Ranch. In fact, the book bag that I then took to Montana  State University and carried my books in throughout my college  experience in Bozeman--I took that same pack to the top of Granite  Peak, our highest point in Montana, and the summit of the Grand Teton,  just south of Montana there--beautiful country outside of Jackson,  WY. It was a small pack. We went very ultralight with bivy bags, kind  of a sense of a quick up and down because of weather. We wanted to get  up there quickly on both peaks, and we made it. That was the precursor  to the Mystery Ranch, which are the packs we have today. They are  larger packs. You can carry more weight into the backcountry.  

  Alex said this: The Great American Outdoors Act is landmark  conservation to protect our public lands. The full funding of the LWCF  is a benefit to our parks and our forests at the local and State level. 

  We have Glenn Marx with the Montana Association of Land Trusts. I  will quote Glenn:  

       Passage of the Great American Outdoors Act means LWCF       funding and tremendous rural community, national park, and       outdoor recreation economic benefits for Montana and the       nation. More legislative steps to go. Let's finish the       journey.    

  I couldn't agree more, Glenn. 

  Finally, I want to highlight a letter. It is a letter signed by every  former Secretary of the Interior, from Secretary Babbitt, who served in  1993, to Montana's very own Secretary Ryan Zinke. 

  In fact, Ryan and I were Boy Staters together back in 1979. Ryan was  a junior, soon to be a senior, at Whitefish High School, and I was a  junior, soon to be senior, at Boozman High in 1979. Little did we know  when we were Boy Staters then that Ryan, after a distinguished military  career in the U.S. Navy as a Navy SEAL, would go on to be our Secretary  of the Interior. 

  The letter says this: ``The Great American Outdoors Act will help  ensure a better, brighter future for nature and for all of us.'' 

  By the way, if you look at those Secretaries, those are Secretaries  who served under Democratic Presidents and Republican Presidents. 

  Needless to say, Montana has its fair share of support for the Great  American Outdoors Act, and the list of support goes on. 

  Montanans know what it takes to conserve their public lands. Ensuring  full mandatory funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund will  make sure our public lands are managed correctly and that Montanans and  Americans around the country will have better access to share public  lands. 

  Dealing with the $12 billion maintenance backlog in our national  parks will be so beneficial for the employees who are working so hard  in national parks. We are seeing record visitation levels in many of  our parks, but our employee housing in many cases is terrible-- crumbling infrastructure, wastewater treatment systems that are in  desperate need of repair and upgrades. That maintenance backlog needs  to be addressed, and that will improve the visitor experience. 

  When I think about our national parks, I think of these parks as the  office of first impression. For visitors who come to our great country  from around the world, when they visit our national parks, they leave  with a profound impression. It is what sets America apart from any  other country--our national parks, our outdoor heritage, and preserving  and protecting that for generations to come. 

  The Great American Outdoors Act will directly impact everybody who  visits, who recreates, and who enjoys our public lands. This will be  truly one of those defining moments for conservation that so many will  remember for generations to come. It is one of these laws that we will  pass, and when the President signs it, it will truly be a legacy for  future generations. It makes me smile just knowing that so many others  will be able to have our public lands to enjoy, just as my wife and I  and my children all have done and continue to do, once we pass the  Great American Outdoors Act. 

  Thank you. 

  I yield back. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT