Usa Freedom Reauthorization Act of 2020


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, Americans want their privacy protected.  For far too long, the Patriot Act and the Foreign Intelligence  Surveillance Act, commonly referred to as FISA, have been used to  trample the civil liberties of American citizens. For Montanans, the  right to privacy is so fundamental that it is enshrined in our own  constitution. In fact, very few States have such protections, but the  drafters of the Montana Constitution recognized that privacy was  essential to exercising all of the other freedoms that we hold so dear. 

  The bill the U.S. House has sent us does have some good reforms, and  it has some good provisions in it, including a provision from my  bipartisan bill with my colleague from Oregon, Senator Wyden, called  the Safeguarding Americans' Private Records Act, which would revoke the  now terminated call detail record program, which secretly collected  data on our cell phones and our land lines, as well as on our private  conversations. Yet the House bill fails to enact real reforms to FISA  that will  actually protect the privacy of the American people. We saw what a  handful of scornful government bureaucrats did to President Trump when  they abused FISA to serve their political motives. Our own government  spied on an American citizen--a political adviser to then-Candidate  Trump--with no oversight. 

  What happened to President Trump can happen to anybody for any  purpose, and that is a very serious problem. Republican or Democrat, we  can't allow the abuse of our government intelligence services to be  used for political attacks. It puts our democracy in danger, and it  undermines the trust and the confidence that our citizens place in  these same institutions that are meant to protect them. 

  The House bill fails to prohibit the warrantless searches of browsing  data in internet search history, and it fails to include any meaningful  oversight and accountability. We need to get government out of our  private lives and, instead, prioritize freedom and privacy. We can and  must protect our national security and protect our civil liberties by  making targeted reforms that will keep everyday Americans' privacy  secure and continue to allow the government to go after the bad guys.  The House bill does not go far enough, and we cannot compromise on an  issue that is so vital to the very foundations of our government. 

  Montanans sent me to Congress to get government off their backs, and  I am working not only to get government off their backs but to get  government out of their phones, out of their computers, and out of  their private lives. At the end of the day, this is about protecting  privacy, and today, this day, we have the opportunity to get these  reforms right. I have been working on behalf of Montanans, with my  Senate colleagues across the aisle, to ensure we take a very bipartisan  approach to this issue 

  In speaking on the Wyden-Daines amendment we will be voting on  shortly, my bipartisan amendment is simple. It protects all Americans'  civil liberties by prohibiting the collection of browser data and  internet search history under section 215 of the Patriot Act. Browser  data is some of the most personal and revealing information that can be  collected on private citizens. Your internet search history can reveal  extremely intimate information, including personal health data,  religious beliefs, political beliefs, where you might go on your next  vacation, even what you bought for your mom this past Mother's Day. I  don't think the government should have access to such private  information without a warrant. Section 215 of the Patriot Act is  supposed to investigate potential terrorists, not spy on our own  Americans' browser data. 

  Let me be clear. My amendment doesn't stop the intelligence community  from doing its job. I am grateful for our intelligence community, and  it doesn't prevent it from doing its job or from accessing the data it  needs to keep Americans safe. It simply requires our intelligence  agencies to abide by the Constitution and work within our Nation's  laws, which means requesting a probable cause warrant to get this type  of information. That means they might have to go to a judge and prove  they have a valid reason to believe that someone is involved in  espionage or in a possible terrorism operation. Without my bipartisan  amendment, the government will be able to access browser data through  the secret 215 spy program with little to no oversight. 

  At the end of the day, this is about securing our most basic Fourth  Amendment rights, to protect our citizens' most personal data. In fact,  recently, the Supreme Court found in the Carpenter decision that the  government needed a warrant to access cell site location data because  of how personal and invasive that information is. 

  The current House bill before us does have a prohibition for the  collection of cell site location data under section 215, and that is a  good thing. My amendment simply extends this prohibition to include  browser data and internet search history, which is even more sensitive  and personal than location data. 

  I agree with many of my colleagues that we need to have the tools in  place to help find and stop our Nation's enemies, those who seek to  harm America. We all agree on that, but we also need to make sure we  are protecting Americans from our own government's spying and  intervening in our personal lives. My amendment balances these  important civil liberties and our national security by allowing the  government to track down terrorists while also stopping them from  violating the rights of law-abiding citizens. 

  This is not a zero-sum game. We can have both. This amendment has  strong bipartisan support. Senator Wyden and I have been working on  this issue for months, and we are joined by a long list of bipartisan  cosponsors, including Republican Senators Lee, Braun, and Cramer, as  well as by Democratic Senators Leahy, Udall, Markey, and many more. The  amendment is also supported by a diverse group of stakeholders across  the political spectrum, from FreedomWorks and Americans for Prosperity  on one end to the ACLU and Demand Progress on the other. Americans  across the country overwhelmingly back this amendment. 

  This is a core constitutional issue that brought a Democrat from  Oregon together with a Republican from Montana. Montanans and  Oregonians may have different priorities, but we all believe strongly  in the right to privacy, in protecting our civil liberties, and in  preserving our American way of life. I urge my Senate colleagues to  stand with Senator Wyden and me to protect the privacy of all  Americans, and I urge them to vote in favor of this amendment. 

  Before I yield to Senator Wyden, I will also take a minute to speak  in support of the Lee-Leahy amendment. 

  This bipartisan amendment strengthens and clarifies the role and the  authority of the amici in the FISA court. Unfortunately, we continue to  see serious abuses and misuse of the FISA process. Most notably, the  Department of Justice's inspector general found major abuses in  applications to surveil President Trump's campaign adviser Carter Page.  This abuse is just the tip of the iceberg. 

  We need serious reforms that protect American citizens from  government surveillance, and the Lee-Leahy amendment does just that. It  gives Americans a fighting chance and brings some clarity and,  importantly, some transparency to the FISA court. I encourage my  colleagues to also join me in supporting this Lee-Leahy amendment. 

  I see that my distinguished colleague and friend, the Senator from  Oregon, Ron Wyden, is on the floor. 

  I yield to Senator Wyden for his remarks. 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this amendment is about protecting  American privacy, about making sure that Government is not intruding on  our most private data. It is about respecting the Constitution and the  Fourth Amendment. The Wyden-Daines amendment simply prohibits the  collection of browser and search history data under section 215.  Browser data is extremely personal, sensitive, and should require a  probable cause warrant to access. This data shouldn't be allowed to be  collected behind closed doors with no traditional oversight. 

  We can protect national security and protect the civil liberties and  the constitutional rights of Americans at the same time. It is plain  and simple. If you want to see an American's search history, than you  better go to a judge and get a warrant. 

                            Vote on Amendment No. 1583  

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT