Women's Healthcare


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, we are here today to discuss two pieces of  legislation that will be voted on tomorrow in the U.S. Senate. These  two important bills address the issue of life, a most basic human  right--the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and the Born-Alive  Abortion Survivors Protection Act. 

  This first bill, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, would  end the barbaric practice of late-term abortions after 5 months. It is  a time, in fact, that the science tells us that babies feel pain. 

  The second bill, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act,  will protect babies who are born alive after surviving botched  abortions. 

  These back-to-back votes will present an opportunity for every  Senator and, more specifically, for nearly every one of the Senate  Democrats to show the American people whether they believe there are  any--any--limits to radical abortion practices. 

  I am joined this evening by several of my esteemed Senate colleagues  and good friends: Senator Ernst of Iowa, Senator Sasse of Nebraska, and  Senator Braun of Indiana. These folks, like me, know how important it  is that we protect the sanctity of life and put an end to the cruel  practice of late-term abortions and the horrific act of infanticide. 

  I founded the Senate Pro-Life Caucus last year because I believe the  U.S. Senate needed to take bolder action to protect human life. 

  In fact, at the State of the Union Address, President Trump invited  Ellie Schneider and her mother, from Missouri, as his guests. Ellie's  mother stood proudly as the President shared their story and the  miracle it was that Ellie was with us that night, healthy and thriving. 

  You see, Ellie was born at 21 weeks and 6 days. In fact, she is one  of the youngest premature babies to survive in the United States.  Despite the odds being stacked against her, Ellie was given a chance at  life. Thanks to the grace of God, she is alive and she is healthy  today.  

  Ellie's story and the stories of so many others like her underscore  how important it is that we put an end to this very cruel practice of  late-term abortion. It is heartbreaking to know that here in America-- in the United States of America--nearly 12,000 children a year are lost  to late-term abortions. 

  At 20 weeks, science tells us, these babies can suck their thumbs.  They can feel pain. They can yawn. They can stretch. They can make  faces. 

  In fact, if you have a smartphone, if you are watching tonight, just  Google 20weekbaby--2-0-W-E-E-K-B-A-B-Y. Here is one of the images that  will show up on your smartphone. That is what a 20-week baby looks  like. 

  It is unconscionable that preborn babies, after 5 months of  pregnancy, can be killed, even though they are capable of feeling pain. 

  In fact, during this age, preborn babies are oftentimes given  anesthesia if there is fetal surgery involved. 

  Now, here is one of the shocking statistics. The United States is  only one of seven--seven--countries in the world, which include North  Korea and China, that allow these barbaric late-term abortions after 20  weeks. That is a list we don't want to be on, but we are. As Americans,  we must strive for better. This isn't political. This is about working  to ensure that every single child has a chance at life. 

  The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is a commonsense bill  and has overwhelming public support. Do you realize public attitude and  opinion on abortion and late-term abortion keeps swinging in the pro- life direction? Why is that? 

  Well, perhaps one reason is because technology has gotten so much  better, and 3D ultrasounds give us such a clear picture of what is  happening there in the womb. 

  Look at this picture right here. The images are very clear. I believe  in a principle that people believe what they discover for themselves.  Technology is helping young people see that what we are talking about  here is a baby. It is life. 

  Sixty-two percent of voters oppose late-term abortion. This bill is  something that I firmly believe every Republican and every Democrat can  get behind. Why can't we at least come together on late-term abortion  and banning it? Passing this bill would be a major step forward for the  pro-life cause. 

  The next bill we are voting on tomorrow is the Born-Alive Abortion  Survivors Protection Act.  

  Back home in Montana, this piece of legislation moved through our  State legislature up to our Governor's desk. It was called the ``Baby  Born Alive'' bill. It is the same thing. It mandates that if a baby is  born alive following a botched abortion, the doctor must protect that  baby and give the same medical care that any other baby would receive. 

  Is that really too much to ask for? Honestly, the fact that we are  having this debate on the floor of the U.S. Senate is astonishing. The  American people agree. In fact, 77 percent of pro-abortion advocates  believe that babies born alive should be medically protected. 

  Sadly, today there are States that do not offer protections for  babies born alive. In fact, just earlier this month, in Colorado, State  legislators killed a bill that would grant legal protections for babies  born alive after abortions. 

  I would like to turn to my colleague from Iowa, Senator Joni Ernst.  She has been an unwavering, relentless champion for life, and she has  been a dear friend. She is a great colleague and a great leader on this  issue of protecting the most vulnerable--these little babies. 

  Senator Ernst, would you agree with me that Senate Democrats should  join us in voting for these commonsense bills that protect innocent  human life? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. DAINES. Senator, thank you, and thanks for your very moving story  about Micah Pickering. It helps to take these ideas and translate them  directly into these children today, whom you can see there as a little  baby. 

  There are critics of the born-alive bill who would say this horrible  act that we described here tonight simply doesn't happen. For those who  say that, they should talk to somebody named Melissa Oden. In fact,  just last year when we had the born-alive bill on the floor of the  Senate, I was coming down to speak on behalf of the bill. I was just  about maybe 50 feet from where I am standing right now, outside the  doors of the Senate, as I was making my way to speak, and guess who was  standing outside the door of the Senate. It was Melissa Oden. She is a  beautiful mother today. She survived a saline-infusion abortion as a  little baby at about 5 months. She was left for dead, and she was  discarded--this was in Kansas City, MO--until a hospital nurse heard  her little cries. This nurse saved Melissa's life, for which we are  very thankful. It was quite an experience to meet her just outside  these Chamber doors. Now Melissa herself is a mother. 

  I believe we have a duty, an obligation to protect life and  particularly the most innocent life and the most vulnerable life, like  a little baby who can be born alive as a result of a botched abortion  attempt. 

  It is my hope that the Members of this body, Republicans and  Democrats, will vote to support and defend this most basic human right  and recognize that late-term abortions--I recognize this is a very  divisive issue in this country, but I would think that on the issue of  late-term abortions, on the issue of babies born alive as a result of  botched abortions--can we at least come together where public opinion  overwhelmingly supports both and say, let's stop these barbaric  practices. These are extreme positions. They should be outlawed in this  country. We can no longer simply stand by as our children--we talk  about children in this country losing their lives to abortion and  infanticide. 

  As Americans, we have an obligation to honor our Nation's founding  promise enshrined in our Declaration of Independence that all men and  all women and all human life are created equal and endowed by our  Creator with these certain inalienable rights--life, liberty, and the  pursuit of happiness. Think about it this way: Of these important  rights, you can't have liberty and the pursuit of happiness without  first having the right to life. This right to life is the first and  most important of these inalienable rights. 

  So I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting these commonsense  bills to stop this brutal violence of late-term abortions of pain- capable babies. That is why it is called the Pain-Capable Act. Babies  are capable of feeling pain at about 20 weeks. That is why, when in  utero surgery is performed, they administer anesthesia--because the  baby is feeling pain. That is where we are drawing the line with these  bills to stop late-term abortion and also babies who are born alive-- which isn't about abortion; this is about infanticide. We must protect  these innocent babies, standing for life, standing for those who are  most vulnerable. 

  I see that my colleague from Nebraska, Senator Sasse, has come to the  floor. Senator Sasse authored the baby born alive bill. I am grateful  Senator Sasse is joining us here tonight in this colloquy. 

  Senator Sasse, can you explain the importance of passing the bill you  have authored? 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT