Electric Supply Chain Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697897/electric-supply-chain-act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my legislation, H.R.  3638, the Electric Supply Chain Act.

My legislation would direct the Department of Energy to conduct  ongoing assessments and report to Congress on all matters affecting the  supply chain for the power sector.

The Electric Supply Chain Act will seek to uncover risks,  vulnerabilities, and security considerations in the availability of  manufactured grid components that are necessary to maintain and expand  our electric infrastructure.

As part of the comprehensive evaluation of supply chains, the  Secretary would maintain discretion over the appropriate office in DOE  with the right expertise necessary to complete the assessment.

In addition, the legislation will leverage power sector experts  spanning the industry to improve DOE's understanding and strengthen  supply chains that are essential to meet the growing needs of our bulk  power system.

During my tenure in Congress, I have remained focused on the security  of the bulk power system and have championed efforts to enhance the  resilience of our systems, particularly for small and rural utilities.

The Electric Supply Chain Act will boost these efforts by putting DOE  in the driver's seat to attentively monitor emerging threats and allow  the Department to utilize their existing authorities to address  vulnerabilities.

In recent years, we have seen how supply chain constraints and  bottlenecks for key grid components, such as distribution transformers  and natural gas turbines, can stifle infrastructure development.

By establishing periodic assessments under this legislation, the  Department will remain in a proactive posture to identify and address  matters affecting our power sector supply chain as they arise. In fact,  in the last 2 months, DOE has taken 52 actions to secure our grid and  lower energy prices.

It is clear that our Nation is on the precipice of great  technological advancements that are straining our electricity supplies,  primarily driven by energy-intensive users such as data centers and  domestic manufacturing.

The timing of projected demands is occurring as historic levels of  baseload power are leaving the system due to a confluence of State and  Federal actions that have attacked fossil fuels and subsidized  preferred sources of intermittent generation.

In fact, while 115 gigawatts of baseload power is expected to retire  over the next few years, U.S. electricity demand is projected to  increase by over 170 gigawatts.

These job-creating industries remain vital to economic prosperity and  our national security. We cannot sit idly by while our adversaries seek  to gain competitive advantage to control the next-generation economy.

This legislation takes an important step to prepare our Federal  agencies against supply chain constraints that could occur as our  Nation seeks to address timely development of electric generation and  transmission infrastructure.

Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3638.