Homeowner Energy Freedom Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700222/homeowner-energy-freedom-act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1075, I call up  the bill (H.R. 4758) to repeal provisions of Public Law 117-169  relating to taxpayer subsidies for home electrification, and for other  purposes, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

Mr. LATTA.  4758.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 4758, the Homeowner Energy  Freedom Act, sponsored by the gentleman from Texas' 12th Congressional  District.

The Homeowner Energy Freedom Act repeals disastrous policies from the  Inflation Reduction Act that were used to subsidize expensive mandates  and implement backdoor fossil fuel bans.

Today, in the United States, the dream of home ownership is out of  reach for far too many Americans. In fact, 75 percent of households  today cannot afford a medium-priced home.

Mr. Speaker, provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act to force  States to implement green energy building codes only serve to make  matters worse.

It is estimated that building codes associated with the HOMES rebate  program raises the cost of a single-family home by $31,000. These  building codes effectively prevent the use of natural gas and require  expensive equipment to accommodate EV chargers and other intermittent  energy sources.

It is important to remember that upwards of 60 percent of homes  utilize natural gas appliances and that the number rises to more than  75 percent in colder climate States. These aren't just talking points.  They are real-world impacts.

Take Kansas City, for example. After adopting the latest IECC  building codes, the city saw a 22 percent decrease in construction  permits, while the surrounding communities saw a 117 percent increase.

The data is clear. The cost of a new home goes up when Democrats get  their green mandates in place. If the Biden administration's so-called  energy efficiency regulatory agenda was cost effective for the American  people, why did they also have to have a billion dollar slush fund to  pay for it?

Instead of a one-size-fits-all mandate from Washington, House  Republicans are focused on limiting the authority of the Federal  Government, making it easier to build affordable homes and taking  advantage of abundant natural gas reserves beneath our Nation.

Importantly, H.R. 4758 builds on the important work of the Working  Families Tax Cut law by officially putting an end to these egregious  authorities so future abuses cannot occur.

By passing this legislation, House Republicans are continuing to  address the affordability for hardworking American households and  responsibly protecting finite taxpayer resources.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  reserve the balance of my time.

Mr. Speaker, returning to the legislation before us, we are here to  debate H.R. 4758, the Homeowner Energy Freedom Act. Again, I thank the  gentleman from Texas' 12th Congressional District for sponsoring this  legislation.

This legislation is about reversing the damage caused by President  Biden's Inflation Reduction Act's aggressive regulatory agenda and  taxpayer-funded spending spree.

Whatever happened to the free market? What has happened to consumer  choice?

Housing affordability is a critical issue facing the American people.  Look at the numbers.

The costs associated with IRA programs this bill seeks to repeal  significantly add to the price of new homes and lead to higher energy  bills for the American people.

According to the Federal Reserve, median home prices have skyrocketed  over the past decade, with the largest increase from 2020 to 2022,  which saw a 40 percent increase in median homes.

When you talk about the home rebates that we are talking about here  today and who is getting them, it provides taxpayer subsidies for  households earning over 150 percent of the median household income for  the area.

The data from 2024 shows that the median income in the District of  Columbia was $104,800, meaning that households in Washington making up  to $156,000 can receive taxpayer subsidies to upgrade their appliances.  In the same numbers in 2024, median income for Massachusetts was  $113,900, meaning that households making up to $170,850, which is  nearly double the nationwide median household income, qualify.

H.R. 4758 brings the dream of homeownership back to millions of  Americans.

By the way, let's talk about electricity costs again. We talk about  this a lot, reliable power, affordable power. Look at the increases.  Where is it? It starts in Maryland and goes to Maine. It is California.  If I lived in those States, as I said before, I would call my  legislators in those States and say: What are you doing out there? What  is the Governor doing?

Look where those States are and look where the affordability crisis  is in this country.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and I  yield back the balance of my time.