Institute for Telecommunication Sciences Codification Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693439/institute-for-telecommunication-sciences-codification-act


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1455) to codify the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences and  to direct the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and  Information to establish an initiative to support the development of  emergency communication and tracking technologies, and for other  purposes.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1455

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Institute for       Telecommunication Sciences Codification Act'' or the ``ITS       Codification Act''.       SEC. 2. INSTITUTE FOR TELECOMMUNICATION SCIENCES.

(a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:

(1) The test center within the National Telecommunications       and Information Administration (in this subsection referred       to       as the ``NTIA'') represents executive branch agencies on       spectrum issues before the Federal Communications Commission.

(2) Understanding radio frequency propagation       characteristics and modeling is a critical component of       making spectrum decisions.

(3) Federal agencies rely on expert engineering studies,       simulations, and analyses to make determinations about how to       make spectrum available for commercial use, including through       system relocations and identifying spectrum sharing       opportunities through the NTIA.

(4) Clearing of Federal spectrum, when feasible, is the       priority action to take to make Federal spectrum available       for commercial uses as required by section 113(j)(1) of the       National Telecommunications and Information Administration       Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(j)(1)).

(5) Sharing of Federal spectrum between Federal entities       and commercial entities provides access to Federal spectrum       for commercial uses in circumstances where clearing is not       feasible.

(6) The test center within the NTIA is the Government's       premier expert laboratory for spectrum research activities,       spectrum sharing innovation and testing, spectrum       interference studies, and all activities related to advancing       next generation wireless technologies.

(7) The test center within the NTIA is critical for       undertaking engineering studies and analyses that inform       clearing or sharing opportunities and facilitate policy       decisions to maximize the efficient use of spectrum       resources.

(b) Operation of Test Center.--Part A of the National       Telecommunications and Information Administration       Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is amended by adding       at the end the following:       ``SEC. 106. INSTITUTE FOR TELECOMMUNICATION SCIENCES.

``(a) Establishment.--

``(1) In general.--Under the authority provided to the       Assistant Secretary under section 103, the Assistant       Secretary shall operate a test center to be known as the       Institute for Telecommunication Sciences (in this section       referred to as `ITS').

``(2) Functions.--

``(A) In general.--In addition to any functions delegated       by the Assistant Secretary under subparagraph (B), ITS shall       serve as the primary laboratory for the executive branch of       the Federal Government to--

``(i) study radio frequency emissions, including       technologies and techniques to control such emissions and       interference caused by such emissions;

``(ii) determine spectrum propagation characteristics;

``(iii) conduct tests on technology that enhances the       sharing of electromagnetic spectrum between Federal and non-      Federal users;

``(iv) improve the interference tolerance of Federal       systems operating with, or using, Federal spectrum;

``(v) promote activities relating to access to Federal       spectrum by non-Federal users and the sharing of Federal       spectrum between Federal and non-Federal users; and

``(vi) conduct such other activities as determined       necessary by the Assistant Secretary.

``(B) Additional functions.--The Assistant Secretary may       delegate to ITS any of the functions assigned to the       Assistant Secretary under section 103(b)(1).

``(3) Agreements and transactions.--In carrying out the       functions described in paragraph (2), the Assistant       Secretary, acting through the head of ITS, may enter into       agreements as provided under the following authorities:

``(A) Sections 11 and 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology       Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710; 3710a).

``(B) Section 1535 of title 31, United States Code.

``(C) Sections 207 and 209 of title 35, United States Code.

``(D) Section 103(b)(2) of this Act.

``(E) Section 113(g) of this Act.

``(F) The first undesignated section of Public Law 91-412.

``(G) Any authorization in any other Federal statute.

``(4) Federal spectrum defined.--In this subsection, the       term `Federal spectrum' means frequencies assigned on a       primary basis to a Federal entity (as defined in section       113(l)).

``(b) Emergency Communication and Tracking Technologies       Initiative.--

``(1) Establishment.--The Assistant Secretary, acting       through the head of ITS, shall establish an initiative to       support the development of emergency communication and       tracking technologies for use in locating trapped individuals       in confined spaces, such as underground mines, and other       shielded environments, such as high-rise buildings or       collapsed structures, where conventional radio communication       is limited.

``(2) Activities.--In order to carry out this subsection,       the Assistant Secretary, acting through the head of ITS,       shall work with private sector entities and the heads of       appropriate Federal agencies, to--

``(A) perform a needs assessment to identify and evaluate       the measurement, technical specifications, and conformity       assessment needs required to improve the operation and       reliability of such emergency communication and tracking       technologies; and

``(B) support the development of technical specifications       and conformance architecture to improve the operation and       reliability of such emergency communication and tracking       technologies.

``(3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of       the enactment of this section, the Assistant Secretary shall       submit to Congress, and make publicly available, a report on       the assessment performed under paragraph (2)(A).''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1455, the Institute for  Telecommunications Sciences Codification Act, or ITS Codification Act,  led by the Representative from Georgia's First District and the  Representative from Colorado's Seventh District.

As demand for wireless technology continues to grow, we must continue  to focus on identifying potential opportunities that make more spectrum  available for commercial use, including reallocating and sharing  spectrum.

Complex, technical engineering testing and analysis underpins these  important decisions on how best to maximize our airwaves for commercial  use while preserving essential Federal missions.

The Institute for Telecommunication Sciences, or ITS, within NTIA  plays an essential role in conducting the tests that guide spectrum  reallocation or sharing decisions. ITS will also help ensure that NTIA,  as the Federal spectrum manager, can continue to find opportunities to  unleash commercial wireless innovation, while also ensuring military  readiness, securing our southern border, advancing scientific  discovery, and other Federal missions are successful.

The work ITS performs has led to innovative advancements in the way  we manage our airways. These airways power faster mobile connectivity  for Americans, and making more spectrum available in the future is  critical to beating Communist China and ensuring our continued economic  and national security.

The ITS Codification Act will strengthen the statutory authority for  ITS and ensure that the work that they do to advance United States  technological leadership remains a key part of our approach. This  bipartisan legislation passed by a voice vote last Congress.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 1455, and I reserve  the balance of my time.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I am prepared  to close.

Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, for a good number of years in the Energy and  Commerce Committee, especially in the Communications and Technology  Subcommittee, one of the things we have talked about is how much more  spectrum we have to have in this country to move forward.

For us to stay number one in the world in this sector, it is  absolutely essential that this piece of legislation is supported and  agreed to by the House, and I ask for support of the legislation.