Recognizing Mercer Health on Their 75th Anniversary


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697414/recognizing-mercer-health-on-their-75th-anniversary


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the seventy-fifth  anniversary of Mercer Health, a dedicated healthcare system in Mercer  County, Ohio. For seventy-five years, Mercer Health has been dedicated  to providing excellent healthcare to the residents of Mercer County and  the surrounding region. The hard work and spirit shown by staff have  improved the health and quality of life for countless patients.

Founded in 1950, Mercer Health, known then as Our Lady of Mercy  Hospital, was established to provide care to the citizens in Coldwater,  Ohio and surrounding area. Seeing a need for a hospital, concerned  citizens banded together to open the forty-eight-bed hospital. In 1969,  the Sisters of Mercy who operated the hospital approached the board and  advised them that they could no longer continue its operations. Over  the next few years, seven townships in Mercer County stepped forward  and took over the hospital. They created a joint township hospital  district and renamed the hospital Mercer County Joint Township  Community Hospital in 1972.

Over the decades, the hospital grew into the healthcare system it is  today. It began to open new departments and expanded to open new  medical centers across the county. By 2004, the remaining townships in  the county joined the original seven to help in the operation of the  health district. To reflect the hospital and health district commitment  to service all the residents of Mercer County, the board renamed the  health district Mercer Health. Since then, Mercer Health has continued  to expand and grow, opening new offices and campuses to house their  network of medical services.

Mr. Speaker, by celebrating the seventy-fifth anniversary of Mercer  Health, the county and its residents can recognize the outstanding  achievements of the staff and pride that they have in the healthcare  system's success. I Congratulate Mercer Health on this momentous  milestone. I thank them for all they do to improve our communities'  health.