Special Recognition of Major General John C. Harris, Jr. Upon His Retirement As Adjutant General of the Ohio National Guard


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1691689/special-recognition-of-major-general-john-c-harris-jr-upon-his-retirement-as-adjutant-general-of-the-ohio-national-guard


Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I, along with members of the Ohio Delegation,  would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Major General John  C. Harris, Jr., on his retirement as Adjutant General of the Ohio  National Guard. During General Harris's career in the Ohio National  Guard, he held a wide range of leadership positions, culminating in  service as a key member of Governor DeWine's cabinet. Governor DeWine  announced General Harris's retirement and nomination to be the next  director of the Ohio Department of Veterans Affairs.

General Harris began his military career in 1981 when he enlisted in  the Ohio Army National Guard. He was assigned to the 107th Armored  Cavalry Regiment located in Worthington, Ohio where he was part of  their Attack Helicopter Troop. Through Officer Candidate School, he  received his commission in 1984 and became the section leader for the  Attack Helicopter Troop at his original station in Worthington. In  1988, General Harris became Aide-de-Camp to Major General Richard  Alexander, Adjutant General of the Ohio National Guard.

Throughout the 1990's and 2000's, General Harris held multiple  leadership positions for several National Guard posts including  Executive Officer of the 2-107th Cavalry in Kettering, Ohio, Assistant  Chief of Staff at Headquarters State Area Command, Deputy Chief of  Staff for Personnel OHARNG Element, and Chief of Staff, Ohio Army  National Guard in Columbus, Ohio. In 2011, General Harris was appointed  Assistant Adjutant General for Army by Governor John Kasich. On  December 12, 2014, he was promoted to his current rank of Major  General.

In 2018, then Governor-elect Mike DeWine nominated General Harris to  succeed General Mark Bartman as Ohio Adjutant General. On January 14,  2019, Major General Harris was sworn in as the 83rd Adjutant General of  the Ohio National Guard. Since then, General Harris has been a  steadfast and capable leader of the Ohio National Guard. He has been  instrumental in the creation of the Ohio Cyber Reserve as well as the  conversion of the Mansfield Air National Guard Wing to the 179th  Cyberspace Wing. During the COVID-19 pandemic, his strong leadership  allowed the National Guard to respond across the state and assist  hospitals and Ohioans in need.

Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in paying special tribute  to Major General John Harris, on his retirement from the Ohio National  Guard. On behalf of the citizens of Ohio, I wish General Harris all the  best as he assumes his new position as Director of the Ohio Department  of Veterans Affairs. I along with the entire Ohio Delegation thank him  for his forty-four years of service to Ohio and our Nation.