State Planning for Reliability and Affordability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697887/state-planning-for-reliability-and-affordability-act


Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend, the chairman of the  Committee on Energy and Commerce, for getting this bill here to the  floor.

Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 3628, the State Planning for  Reliability and Affordability Act, sponsored by my colleague from  Colorado's Eighth District. This legislation ensures that States take  responsibility for their policy decisions that impact households'  access to affordable and reliable supplies of electricity.

It is clear that we are in the midst of a reliability and  affordability crisis caused by the Biden administration and decisions  by States to attack baseload power supplies. Let me be clear: There is  nothing more expensive than a blackout, and that was the path created  by the Biden administration.

In 2008, House Republicans developed an all-of-the-above energy  strategy. This meant that the Federal Government didn't pick winners  and losers. The data is clear. States with the most aggressive forms of  clean energy standards are the same States with the higher electricity  bills.

Across the country, rate case filings by utilities detail the reasons  for rising costs: new infrastructure to meet State climate goals,  stranded assets of prematurely retired power plants, and the need for  additional backup generation to keep the lights on when the weather  doesn't cooperate.

Just look at States like New York, whose own grid operator has begun  sounding the alarm over how their State laws are driving up baseload  generation resources that could threaten the integrity of their system.

Comparatively, States that have responsibly maintained reliability of  their system have enjoyed affordable electricity rates and an influx of  investment into energy-intensive industries, such as domestic  manufacturing, that drive economic growth.

The central focus on resource planning must be affordability and  reliability.

While climate and environmental justice goals of States seem  laudable, the greatest harm that could come to our communities is a  grid without enough electricity. In every facet, our modern life is  uniquely dependent on a reliable and affordable electric grid.

Madam Speaker, H.R. 3628 brings common sense back to integrated  resource planning, and I urge my colleagues to support the legislation.