Protecting Agriculture, the Backbone of Delaware's Economy


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, last week, when the House was out of  session and I was in the greatest State in the Union, Delaware, I met  with a family farmer in Sussex County who continues to farm the same  land that her family has farmed for more than a century. We discussed  the fear and unpredictability that is plaguing farmers in Delaware and  across the country right now, farmers who, since the New Deal, have  been able to rely on the Federal Government as partners in their effort  to produce the food that feeds our families, our neighbors, our Nation,  and the world.

Agriculture is the backbone of Delaware's economy. From poultry farms  to vegetable growers to grain producers, Delaware farmers feed families  here at home and around the globe and contribute to an industry that  supports thousands of jobs in Delaware.

Unfortunately, since taking office, the Trump administration has  broken their promises to our families and breached the trust with our  farmers.

In week one, this administration illegally froze funding from the  bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and the Inflation  Reduction Act, including vital resources that run through the U.S.  Department of Agriculture. They have frozen programs that purchase  products from Delaware farmers.

As I stand here today, the Federal Government is withholding nearly  $10 million owed to Delaware farmers to improve their infrastructure  and lower their energy bills.

At the heart of Delaware's agriculture industry are chickens. We have  roughly 200 chickens per person in Delaware, and while Delaware doesn't  have a ton of people, that is a lot of chickens.

The rising crisis of bird flu poses a massive risk to Delaware  farmers. It is a real and present danger to our food supply and to the  livelihoods of poultry farmers across my State and across the country.

Dangerously, this administration halted bird flu monitoring in nearly  50 countries and imposed a gag order on Federal health agencies,  limiting vital communication and collaboration with farmers. If that  weren't bad enough, the very people we rely on to protect our ag  industry and combat the spread of bird flu have been fired from the  USDA.

This chaos is only worsening the risk of disease spread and  threatening a hallmark industry in Delaware.

All of this has resulted in higher costs for farmers and higher  prices at grocery stores for Americans. Instead of lowering the cost of  eggs, they are actively making them more expensive.

Anyone who knows a thing or two about agriculture and farming knows  this: Farmers operate on thin margins. They depend on Federal partners  to provide stability in a volatile market.

Right now, with a Federal funding freeze, that support is vanishing  when they need it the most. How are farmers supposed to plan for the  next season when the Federal Government is pulling the rug out from  under them?

I don't care who you voted for in the last election. In fact, I made  a commitment to serve all Delawareans--Democrats, Independents, and  Republicans. My job, and the job of this great Chamber, is to serve and  respect every American. That includes the farmers who feed our Nation.

I will stand here in opposition to any executive or legislative  action that puts our farmers at risk because when we fail farmers, we  fail all Americans.