Providing for Consideration of H.R. Streamlining Procurement for Effective Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year and Providing for Consideration of H.R. Stop Illegal Entry Act of 2025


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I know a few Members of this Chamber can't  seem to muster any maturity when they have a transgender colleague, but  members of the U.S. Armed Forces can and have.

For years, transgender people have been serving in our military.  There was no problem until Donald Trump decided to fire thousands of  qualified, capable servicemembers simply because of their gender  identity.

These servicemembers were proudly serving arm in arm with their  peers: deploying, training, leading, and sacrificing. They met the same  standards, passed the same tests, earned the same promotions, and they  were praised by their commanding officers.

There was no problem until the Trump administration created a problem  by removing thousands of loyal patriots from service, squandering  investments made in their training and careers, and disrupting lives  and units.

That is why I introduced an amendment to repeal this ban because this  ban doesn't strengthen our military. It weakens it. It doesn't uphold  our values. It betrays them. It sends the cruelest message to some of  our most devoted patriots that one identity they hold matters more than  their service.

My second amendment restores retirement benefits to transgender  veterans who were forced out of the Armed Forces just shy of 20 years  of service.

Under the law, they should qualify for early retirement benefits just  like everyone else would. Many received approval only to have it  revoked simply because of their gender identity. They wore the uniform.  They kept their promise to us. It is time we keep our promise to them.

It is one thing for some of my colleagues to disrespect me, but it is  another thing entirely to disrespect the people who lay down their  lives for this country.

Unfortunately, the majority in this body refuses to let us vote on  these amendments, but I will not stop standing up for every patriot who  serves our country, which until now I thought was a noncontroversial  and bipartisan idea.

Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.  Foxx), the Chairwoman of the Rules  Committee and the toughest lady in Congress.