Recognizing Shae Parks


Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Shae Parks, a  teacher in Milford, Delaware, one of just three teachers in the entire  Nation to receive the American Civic Education Teacher Award.

In her classroom, Ms. Parks is teaching young minds more than just  facts and dates, but the strength and power of our democracy. This  honor recognizes educators who spark curiosity about the Constitution,  government, and civic life.

At Milford High School, Ms. Parks is shaping the continued strength  of our democracy by preparing her students to enter the world with  critical skills of engagement. She describes the importance of civic  education as imperative to the future of our democracy and believes  ``students need to enter the world with the ability and willingness to  engage in civic discourse with everyone around them, not just those  they agree with,'' something this Chamber could use more of.

It is through model educators like Ms. Parks that Delaware pushes  students to expand both their knowledge of and engagement with the  mechanisms of government.

Milford is proud of her. Delaware is proud of her. I am proud to  stand here today and lift up this dedicated educator.

Like Ms. Parks, I urge my colleagues to support civic education  wherever it is happening because our democracy depends on it.                         Recognizing Frank Coverdale

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize one of Kent and  Sussex Counties' most committed neighbors, Frank ``Fresh'' Coverdale.

Fresh has been described as the ultimate ambassador for the Food Bank  of Delaware, where he spent 22 years delivering food to working  families throughout Delaware.

A native of Harrington, Fresh has been giving back to his community  for his whole life and is a friendly face to all that he meets, a trait  that has earned him an endearing reputation among his neighbors.

For over two decades, he has been out on Delaware's back roads,  delivering more than meals. He is delivering dignity. In a State where  one in eight of our neighbors faces food insecurity, that matters.

Fresh sees the need up close and responds the only way he knows how:  with heart, with humor, and a can-do spirit.

Other than feeding his neighbors and connecting with those he serves,  Fresh is famously a Philadelphia Eagles fanatic. Pulling up in his  truck, people come out of their homes when they hear him because they  trust him, and they look forward to the playful banter he brings along.  They know that he knows their names, their stories, and their teams.  They know he will make sure they leave with enough food for the week  and maybe a little extra.

Fresh is the longest serving employee at the Food Bank of Delaware.  He is a model for compassion, the kind that strengthens communities,  especially when families are stretched thin.

Today and every day, Delaware is better because of Frank Coverdale.

I congratulate Fresh on his years of service, and of course, Go  Birds.                     Celebrating Delaware Reading Assist

Ms. McBRIDE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to celebrate Delaware Reading  Assist, which last month was recognized on the world stage, selected as  1 of just 15 organizations worldwide honored by the Library of Congress  for successful practices in literacy.

A remarkable achievement for Delaware, Reading Assist is a nonprofit  built on a simple but powerful belief: Every child deserves the chance  to read. Their AmeriCorps Fellows work every day in our schools,  shoulder-to-shoulder with teachers, helping struggling readers build  confidence, skills, and joy.

Their CEO said this recognition reflects the trust placed in them by  educators, the hard work of their Fellows, and the resilience of the  students themselves.

Moreover, Acting Librarian of Congress Newlen said the awardees this  year had a particular focus on family and community, something  Delawareans know is at the heart of our State's success.

Being 1 of only 15 honorees, alongside programs from States across  the country, Kenya, and Scotland, shows that Delaware's approach is an  international model.

Today, I am honored to congratulate Reading Assist for proving what  is possible when we invest in our children and meet them where they  are. That is how we close gaps and how we strengthen literacy and  thereby strengthen communities, through investment in our children's  potential.