Adams Memorial-Great American Heroes Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697631/adams-memorial-great-american-heroes-act


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, as a member of the Adams Memorial Commission,  I rise in strong support of H.R. 2306, the Adams Memorial-Great  American Heroes Act. This legislation would extend until 2032 the  existing authorization to build the Adams Memorial in the President's  Park, dedicated to the contributions to our Nation by John and Abigail  Adams, John Quincy and Louisa Catherine Adams, Charles Francis Adams  and Henry Adams and their family.

The exciting part of this is that while efforts have been made in the  past, we have finally arrived upon what I think is a suitable location  for this memorial. It is shown in this small rectangle here, not very  far from the White House itself on the Ellipse. I think that is the key  to the success of this effort, and I give great credit to the bill's  sponsor,   John Moolenaar, and my other colleagues on the Adams  Commission for making the effort and advocating that the Adams family  receive the recognition, and the appropriateness of this memorial  speaks to that as well.

Mr. Speaker, during the 118th Congress, I was honored to be appointed  to the Adams Memorial Commission by Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries.  I also recognize and thank the commission chair, Jackie Cushman, who  was essential to this whole process and really was a driving force in  bringing all of us together, as well as Commissioner Major General  Peter Cooke, and Commissioner Richard Houghton for their dedication to  this effort. In addition, I thank my fellow Members of Congress on the  commission, Congressman Morgan Griffith of Virginia and also the lead  sponsor of this bill, Congressman John Moolenaar of Michigan.

As others have also noted, our dear friend and colleague, the late  Congressman Gerry Connolly also served on the Adams Commission until  his passing earlier this year. Gerry dedicated his life to serving his  community and our Nation and stood for what was fair and just, as did  our former Presidents John and John Quincy Adams.

Congressman Connolly is deeply missed, and the remaining members of  the commission greatly appreciate his work and the work of my  Massachusetts delegation colleagues, first Bill Delahunt, who we lost a  couple years ago and worked on this commission, and Congressman Bill  Keating, who actually stood in Gerry Connolly's place to join the  commission and carry on Representative Connolly's legacy.

As the gentleman from Colorado noted, the success of this endeavor is  greatly aided by the designation of this particular site for the  purpose of establishing this memorial.

President John Adams was one of our most influential Founding  Fathers, negotiating the Treaty of Paris that secured our independence  from Britain. He was also a steadfast public servant who believed  staunchly in the rule of law, defending British soldiers after the  Boston Massacre, even when it was unpopular, and ensuring the first  peaceful transfer of power after his loss in the 1800 Presidential  election.

His son, John Quincy Adams, was equally as devoted to public service,  and I am honored to hold the same seat in the House of Representatives  that he once held after his Presidency, where he made the fight against  slavery one of his primary causes. His advocacy for public education  and the sciences is a legacy that I am proud to continue.

Mr. Speaker, this is the third attempt at this effort. It is a  glaring oversight that on the eve of our 250th anniversary there is  still no memorial in our Nation's Capital honoring John Adams, John  Quincy Adams, both Presidents, and their family, and their leading role  in shaping our country. This recognition is long overdue.

In closing, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to  support this act, and I thank you for the time and courtesy.