Recognizing the Uss Massachusetts (Ssn-798)


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701468/recognizing-the-uss-massachusetts-ssn-798


Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the USS  Massachusetts (SSN-798) Virginia Class nuclear submarine and her crew  on the historic occasion of her commissioning, in Boston Harbor, in her  namesake Commonwealth of Massachusetts, on March 28. 2026. It has been  more than 50 years since the last USS Massachusetts (BB-59) served the  Nation as a Ship of the Line.

The eighth United States Naval vessel to carry the name, dating back  to 1791, the USS Massachusetts (SSN-798) will build upon the proud  legacy of the previous seven ships christened USS Massachusetts,  representing a Commonwealth with claims on the birthplace of the United  States Navy, and which is the home of the great USS Constitution, the  oldest commissioned ship in the fleet.

This warship will further underscore Massachusetts' rich maritime  tradition, naval service and commitment of its citizens by her motto,  inspired by President Kennedy's Inaugural Address, emblazoned on the  ship's crest: Pro Patria ``For Country.''

Naming the Navy's latest, most advanced submarine the USS  Massachusetts provides a proud continuity, as two of the U.S. Submarine  Medal of Honor recipients (of only eight in history) serving in World  War II are tied to the Commonwealth; then Commander Vice Admiral Lawson  ``Red'' Paterson Ramage, was born in Monroe, Massachusetts, and then  Lieutenant Commander Captain George Levick Street, III was a long-time  resident of the Commonwealth in Andover.

Fully embracing our rich maritime heritage and steadfast service to  the Nation, dating back to the Revolutionary War, the USS Massachusetts  (SSN-798) Commissioning Committee is working to develop a strong bond  between the ship and the Commonwealth, and to cultivate a strong and  sustained relationship between the citizens of the Commonwealth and the  crew of the USS Massachusetts (SSN-798).

Mr. Speaker, this state-of-the-art Virginia Class nuclear attack  submarine, christened USS Massachusetts (SSN-798), has completed  acceptance trials and been delivered to our Nation's Navy by the  builder, Huntington Ingalls Industry. Its world-class, leading-edge  stealth and other technological innovations will be a key component of  the United States Naval Fleet, capable of a wide array of critical  missions. I am confident that all citizens of the Commonwealth, and all  Americans. will be proud of the future role of the USS Massachusetts  (SSN-798) and her crew members in protecting our Nation.

I again would like to recognize the profound historical significance  of the commissioning of warship USS Massachusetts (SSN-798) and extend  our best wishes for good fortune for all those that sail aboard her,  for fair winds and following seas during her service to our Nation, and  that service should commence with her commissioning in the Commonwealth  of Massachusetts on March 28, 2026 in Boston Harbor. God-speed.