Casey Releases Questions Trump Should Answer Ahead of Scranton Town Hall


Ahead of President Trump's scheduled town hall in Scranton this evening, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) released a list of questions President Trump should be asked during his town hall.

"Since his candidacy, the President has told Americans he would lower health insurance costs, protect Medicaid and ensure coverage for pre-existing conditions," said Senator Casey. "Instead, he is supporting a lawsuit that would strike down the ACA through the courts, obsessed with sabotaging the law through administrative action and proposing to slash funding for health care at every opportunity. With cases of Coronavirus on the rise, the implications for President Trump's destruction of our health care could not be any more serious. The American people deserve better."

Senator Casey released the following list of questions to the President:

With the growing number of Coronavirus cases, the importance of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and Medicaid expansion is once again center stage. Research indicates that people without health coverage are less likely to seek medical treatment, which could lead to a greater spread of the virus. Yet, just this week, the Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments on a lawsuit that you support, Texas v. United States, to strike down the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid expansion. This comes on top of three years of sabotage by your Administration, which has led to an increase in the number of people without insurance for the first time in 10 years and more than $500 billion in proposed budget cuts to Medicare.

Will you commit to filing a brief in support of the petitioners and the ACA in the Texas v. U.S. case, which could strike down the ACA entirely and cause 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions to lose critical protections and 20 million people across the country to lose coverage?"Will you commit to restoring the $900 billion in proposed cuts that will prevent families from accessing needed health care services, like nursing home care for seniors?Will you commit to restoring proposed cuts to key public health agencies, including nearly $700 million in cuts to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and $2.6 billion in cuts to the National Institutes of Health, so that we are able to combat this serious public health emergency?