Casey Pledges to Donate Plasma to Aid COVID-19 Patients Following Positive Antibody Test


Today, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) is releasing the following statement:

"On Wednesday afternoon, I received the results of a COVID-19 ELISA IgG Antibody Test, which were positive. This positive test means that I likely had COVID-19 at some point over the last several months and have since developed an antibody response to the virus. 

Earlier this spring, I experienced a low-grade fever and some mild flu-like symptoms for a number of days.  I consulted my physician over the phone, who suggested that I quarantine at home in Scranton for a period of two weeks.  Fortunately, I was easily able to isolate myself. My wife was out of town at the time to be with our eldest daughter and son-in-law, who were expecting their first child. In consultation with my doctor, I chose not to seek medical care because my symptoms were relatively mild and manageable. My fever went away on its own by mid-April, and it was never recommended that I be tested for the virus. I was able to work during my illness, remotely engaging with constituents and staff and keeping a full schedule.

Last week, I consulted Dr. Brian Monahan, the Capitol's Attending Physician, and received the COVID-19 ELISA IgG Antibody Test to determine whether my earlier symptoms may have been the result of the virus, and if I might be a candidate to donate blood plasma. The results of this test revealed substantial levels of COVID-19 antibody in my blood, significantly more than the amount required to qualify me as a plasma donor. In an effort to help others fighting this virus, I will be making my first donation today in Taylor, Pennsylvania.  I encourage others who have recovered from COVID-19 to consult with their own physician to see if they may also be eligible to donate. 

I will continue to follow the guidance of public health experts by wearing a mask in public and observing social distancing practices, and I hope that others will do the same to help slow the spread of this virus."