Casey's Bipartisan Bill to Reauthorize Older Americans Act Passes Senate


This week, U.S. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Susan Collins (R-ME), Ranking Member and Chairman of the U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging, announced the Senate passage of the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act through the Senate. This landmark legislation is focused on the wellbeing of the Nation's seniors and their caregivers.

Since 1965, the OAA has supported and improved the lives of seniors--particularly those who are low-income--through programs that promote nutrition, like Meals on Wheels, improve transportation options, support caregivers, offer employment and community service opportunities and prevent abuse and neglect. This critical law was last reauthorized in 2016.

"The Older Americans Act serves more than 10 million Americans each year, including 400,000 people throughout Pennsylvania. It represents our commitment to the generations who made us who we are today and lifts up the seniors who need our help the most. I'm pleased that this bill has broad bipartisan support in the Senate and look forward to getting this bill signed into law," said Senator Casey. "This legislation will direct resources for multigenerational engagement and will ensure that our Area Agencies on Aging are prepared to meet seniors where they are -- in their homes and communities."

This reauthorization is supported by more than 100 organizations including the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations, AARP, the National Area Agencies on Aging (n4a), Advancing States, the National Association of Nutrition and Aging Services Programs (NANASP), National Alliance for Caregiving, Meals on Wheels America, the Jewish Federations of North America and the Alzheimer's Association.

The Older Americans Act is supported by U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Patty Murray (D-WA), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Doug Jones (D-AL), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Tina Smith (D-MN), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Gary Peters (D-MI), Steve Daines (R-MT), Jack Reed (D-RI), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rick Scott (R-FL) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH).