CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Interview with Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) on the Impeachment Trial


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining me now is one of the jurors in the trial, Democratic Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania.

So nice to have you.

SEN. BOB CASEY (D-PA): Poppy, good to be with you. Thank you.

HARLOW: Let's talk really big picture here because one thing that I do think is striking is that through all of this, right, through all of the House investigation, the public hearings, now the beginning of the Senate trial, the president's approval rating has not budged. It has not gone down. It's actually gone up.

I think we can pull it up. September, 39 percent, January, 43 percent in terms of national approval of the president. Why do you think that is?

CASEY: Well, Poppy, I'm not sure. I guess I'd leave the analysis to the political scientists, but I do think that one thing that's clear to me at least, or at least seems to be indicative of where we are is that I think the American people are paying attention to this trial. It's a different process than they're used to when they turn on their television set and watch a hearing from Washington.

It's obviously, longer presentations. But I think the American people have become engaged, and they are hearing, many for the first time.

[09:15:00]

And I think there's probably senators that for the first time are hearing the full scope of the evidence about how the president solicited the interference of a foreign government in our election and basically was asking a foreign government to do his political work for him.

HARLOW: You know, on the issue of witnesses, where -- which is where these house managers are really trying to get those sort of Republicans on the fence, right? They need four of them to vote yes to have these witnesses. On that issue, you do have public opinion on your side. Not only do you have 69 percent of Americans who want to --

CASEY: Right --

HARLOW: Hear from witnesses in the trial. You have 69 percent of independents and 48 percent of Republicans. My question to you, senator, is how do you move -- what is the trigger, the mechanism, et cetera, for moving that public opinion to actually sway the votes of those four Republicans in your favor?

CASEY: Well, I think that's -- well, that remains to be seen in terms of how the presentation by the house managers two more days or at least the equivalent of two more days.

HARLOW: Yes --

CASEY: And the other evidence, how that -- how that impacts their thinking. But I would hope that Republican senators would want to hear from what would in essence be a couple of Republican witnesses. I don't know of anyone who has been under oath who has made the case for the president's position. But I thought one of the most compelling parts of manager Adam Schiff's testimony or presentation yesterday was his recounting of that episode where ambassador -- National Security adviser Bolton is talking to Bill Taylor, the top guy in Ukraine, a Vietnam veteran, a decorated veteran.

And Taylor expresses concerns, Bolton says send a classified cable to Secretary of State, Pompeo. And he said, wouldn't you like to read what was in that cable because it's a contemporaneous account of what Bill Taylor was concerned about with regard to Ukraine? I was just looking at the house Intel report, and he said, quote, "this is Taylor testifying."

Quote, the "Russians, as I said in my deposition, would love to see the humiliation of President Zelensky at the hands of the Americans." We should have access to that document. I think Republicans would want to have that access as well.

HARLOW: On the issue of access of documents and specifically of witnesses, one of the president's lawyers, Alan Dershowitz, just made this case last night. Listen to it, and then we'll talk about it on the other side.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ALAN DERSHOWITZ, DEFENSE ATTORNEY FOR DONALD TRUMP: The first witness I'd call is the witness about whom the conversation took place. So, of course, you could never have witnesses here without Hunter Biden being a central witness. But there are going to be witnesses, there have to be witnesses on all sides. And I think the Democrats will rue the day that they sought witnesses because their witnesses will probably be blocked by executive privilege or at least by court proceedings involving executive privilege.

But the Republican's witnesses like Hunter Biden, there'd be no basis for blocking their testimony.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HARLOW: He says your witnesses would be blocked. They'd call Biden, Hunter Biden would not be blocked, and you guys would rue the day. Is he right? Is that a gamble you're willing to take?

CASEY: Well, Poppy, I think people watching the trial across America, you don't have to be a trial lawyer to know that when you have an inquiry that's a trial, and you want a fair trial with witnesses, the witnesses have to be relevant to the charges. So, Mr. Bolton is relevant because he had conversations with the president, in essence, he was in charge of national security for the president.

And Mr. Mulvaney, of course, is a relevant witness because he is the acting and was the acting Chief of Staff at the time. And also had -- was running the Office of Management and Budget. And the two -- Mr. Duffy and Mr. Blair. So relevant witnesses make a lot of sense. I thought it was really startling and frankly, insulting that the Republicans voted against a measure of -- a motion to let the Chief Justice make the determination about relevance.

You would think that with Republicans having a Chief Justice appointed by a Republican president, they would at least be willing to give Chief Justice Roberts that authority to -- so we want relevant witnesses, not some distraction --

HARLOW: Yes --

CASEY: Or some side show.

HARLOW: Senator Bob Casey, we'll have you back, thanks for your time this morning.

CASEY: Thanks, Poppy.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT