CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA) is Interviewed About the Iowa Caucus, the Coronavirus, and the Impeachment;


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Joining us now is a surrogate for Joe Biden, Democratic Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania. Senator, thank you very much for taking time with us today. Biden's argument has largely been about character and electability. On the latter, do you believe if Bernie Sanders were the nominee that he would cost the party the election?

SEN. BOB CASEY (D-PA): Well, Ana, I think we've got a lot of great candidates. I support Vice President Biden for a couple of basic reasons. Number one is his character. I think he is a person who has demonstrated he has very strong character. He's got great experience both in the Senate as well as vice president, working with President Barack Obama.

And then his plans in this campaign, I think have been forward reaching and also the particular focus on health care and making sure that we preserve the health care that we have and make sure we don't allow President Trump and the Republicans to destroy the health care system which is what they are trying to do with a lawsuit and their budget cuts --

CABRERA: Well, I understand, but I'm asking you --

CASEY: -- and sabotage. So, I support him and I'll leave it to --

CABRERA: Forgive me. I wasn't asking you though why you support Joe Biden. My question was about whether you're concerned about the candidacy of Senator Sanders and whether you feel that if he were to win the nomination that would pose a risk for the party to win in the general election.

CASEY: Ana, here's the bottom line. The Democratic nominee is going to beat Donald Trump and that Democratic nominee is going to be Joe Biden. Simple as that.

CABRERA: All right. Let me ask you about the Biden campaign then because the "New York Times" reported this week that the Biden camp and a Super PAC supporting him are on track to spend $9 million on T.V. ads in Iowa ahead of the caucuses.

This obviously can be a point in which a candidate gets a lot of momentum or sees that momentum slow down or even fizzle out. I understand he hasn't spent much in the next three states that vote here in February.

[17:34:57]

Where does Biden need to finish in your mind in Iowa to keep the fundraising up through all of these contests to come?

CASEY: Well, Ana, I don't think there's a prediction that I ain't going to make about where he should finish. I'll leave that up to the campaign and pundits. But here's what I'm telling you.

In order to get elected president you have to win, for example my home state of Pennsylvania in a general election. I've done that six times. No one has ever done that. I know how to do it.

And I just believe that among several other reasons that I support Joe Biden, one of those reasons is he can carry Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan states like that. And that's the key.

But look, this is a long process. We don't know where things will stand after Tuesday, but I think he'll do well in Iowa. I think he's going to continue to do well, but this is a very long process which is just starting.

CABRERA: Senator, we have just some breaking news just in to CNN. The U.S. has now confirmed a ninth case of the coronavirus. You're on the committee that handles public health. Is the Senate planning to take action on the coronavirus?

CABRERA: Well, what we have to do is listen to the public health professionals starting with the CDC and make sure that if there is additional funding that's needed we should provide that.

The good news here in terms of our preparedness is Senator Burr and I, Senator Richard Burr from North Carolina and I worked together in a bipartisan fashion to get the pandemic all hazards legislation re- authorized.

That means more funding for existing programs, more by way of authority and help for states. So I think we have a good apparatus in place, a good infrastructure. But if there's more that folks on the ground need as this crisis develops and maybe grows, we got to be ready for immediate infusions of funding.

But I'm hoping that the existing structure that's in place as well as new funding that we provided should be enough, but we're going to be listening attentively to that.

CABRERA: Of course the last couple of weeks your focus has been largely on impeachment. I just wonder has all the focus on impeachment prevented any steps that might otherwise need to be taken to allocate money or resources to help protect the public.

CASEY: Well, I think when it comes to providing the resources, we're going to be ready and I don't think there's any question about that, at least the legislative branch. I can't speak to the -- where the administration is going in this.

I hope that they are prepared and they are meeting and they are engaging in briefings because that's the job the administration has. But I'm telling you, from the perspective of the Senate, we're going to be prepared to act if we need to.

CABRERA: Tuesday, the president delivers his state of the union. Wednesday the Senate is poised to acquit him in the impeachment trial. Here's what one of the president's top allies in the Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham has said about all of this coming to an end.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): I went to the school of hard knocks and you know what I believe about all this? It was a bunch of partisan (BLEEP) in the House. It continued in the Senate. It's going to end Wednesday. The president is going to get acquitted and it's going to blow up in their face.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CABRERA: What's your reaction to that?

CASEY: Well, I just don't think a member of the Senate should talk that way about something as grave and that serious as an impeachment trial. This is a critically important moment for the country. We're now seeing polling that shows half, more than half of the American people believe the president abused his power and the president obstructed Congress.

When more than half of the American people believe that, we ought to take it very seriously. And we should be more concerned no matter what the outcome of the trial and it looks like he will be acquitted, but no matter the outcome our focus should be on making sure that no president can abuse their power in this fashion.

But unfortunately, Republicans are in the tank. President Trump now runs the United States Senate, and that's not good for the country when you have one branch of government or at least one half of one branch of government, which is in the pocket of the president, that's a sad day for America.

What any senator should be saying and what the president should say in his state of the union would be to bring the country together, to bring the country together as presidents should do, to act like an adult instead of acting the way they have been acting.

The idea that they would completely ignore new witnesses that are relevant and new documents was a miscarriage of justice. They rigged the trial and we're seeing the results of that. That's not good for the country.

CABRERA: Senator Bob Casey, thank you for being here.

CASEY: Thanks Ana.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT