CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA) is Questioned About the Coronavirus and the Economy


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

CABRERA: All kinds of different numbers there. Joining us now, Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania. His state is dealing with at least four cases right now. And Senator, do you feel like the U.S. is prepared to do widespread testing and really get a sense of how broad this outbreak is?

SEN. BOB CASEY (D-PA): Ana, I'm not sure that we're prepared in terms of having enough test kits available so I'm very concerned about the different numbers we keep hearing from the administration.

The most important thing they have to do right now is not to get caught up in the numbers, but to get the test kits out to the states so that we can do the testing, so you know the scope of the problem, and these conflicting numbers are very confusing.

The president's commentaries have added a lot more in terms of the problem. I would hope that folks out there would listen to their medical provider and would listen to the Centers for Disease Control and others who have authority to speak. But the president's comments so far have been very damaging.

CABRERA: Does Pennsylvania have what it needs right now?

CASEY: Ana, I spoke to Governor Wolf today and I think at least right now in Pennsylvania, they feel like they have enough test kits or tests available and they're testing every day. But as you just noted, we have four cases and that just happened since Friday. And we expect or I should say, I expect, based upon the information that I have, that that number will go up.

CABRERA: You're on the Finance Committee and we have seen a tremendous drop, of course, in the stock market. And it's not just the stock market where we're having issues financially, of course. As this crisis goes on, big businesses are going to take a hit. Jobs are on the line. Savings are on the online.

This administration has talked about waving fees and taxes for the travel industry. Do you believe it's time for Congress to take some kind of measure, some kind of stimulus in order to prevent a major financial crisis?

CASEY: Well, Ana, I think we should have hearings to consider that. But I think it's premature at this time to be able to have a remedy, based upon what we know so far. It's still early in terms of those economic assessments.

The most important thing that Congress did was in the last couple of days, appropriating more than $8 billion. The president signed into it law. Now, the administration has to get that -- those dollars out the door to state and local governments and health departments, as well as to make sure that the dollars are in the pipeline for a vaccine, which we know will take probably on the order of 18 months to provide.

But we have to make sure that all of the personal protective equipment that health care professionals need is there. We've got to make sure, of course, that the test kits get out. But the administration has to be very clear about numbers and about the basic information because when you have this kind of confusion, I think that just adds to the anxiety that people feel.

[17:10:06]

CABRERA: The CDC is advising older Americans to stay at home, as much as possible, to avoid crowds. Today, Dr. Fauci said those older Americans should think twice before flying long distances.

And yet it is campaign season and right now you have Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, and President Trump, all in their 70s, they're crisscrossing the country, shaking hands, they're hugging people, holding these huge rallies. Do you think it's worth the risk?

CASEY: Ana, I think that everyone has to make their own decision about how to proceed, but I think the best thing to do, especially if someone is a senior citizen or has a complex medical condition or is in some way compromised, they should be very careful.

But again, they should rely upon the advice of their medical provider as well as CDC and other authorities, not on the admonitions necessarily of elected officials. But so far -- so far I think folks have taken this very seriously.

And I will say, as well, despite what the president has said and done, a lot of members of his administration I know are very concerned about this take it very seriously and are trying to get it right.

But we've got to make sure that those resources get out the door so that states and communities have help, whether it's a hospital or a state health department or a county health department as well as communities throughout the country.

CABRERA: Senator Sanders made the round on the Sunday shows today and he explained the current state of the race this way.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: The establishment put a great deal of pressure on Pete Buttigieg, on Amy Klobuchar, who ran really aggressive campaigns. I know both of them. They work really, really hard, but suddenly right before Super Tuesday, they announced their withdrawal.

If they had not withdrawn from the race before Super Tuesday, which is kind of a surprise to a lot of people, I suspect we would have won in Minnesota, we would have won in Maine, we would have won in Massachusetts. The turnout may have been a little bit different.

(END VIDEO CLIP) CABRERA: On top of that, senator, a new NBC/Wall Street Journal poll

finds that six in 10 Sanders supporters are uncomfortable with Biden. You've thrown your support behind Joe Biden and so my question is not necessarily whether you agree with Sanders about whether there's an establishment working against him and pushing even other competitors out of the race.

I have to ask you, in your home state of Pennsylvania, Hillary Clinton lost to Donald Trump by less than 50,000 votes. So, you know, every vote counts. Should Biden become the nominee? How do you ensure that Sanders' supporters come out to vote in November?

CASEY: Well, Ana, I think no matter where your support lies right now, whether it's with Vice President Biden as mine has been since the day he announced or with Senator Sanders, I do think that there's a great unanimity, if I can use that word, in our party to be prepared to defeat Donald Trump.

So, I don't think there's going to be any problem with unity in our party when it comes to defeating Donald Trump because I think most Democrats or every Democrat I know knows that there's a lot at stake for our national security, for our economy, and especially on the overriding issue of health care, which will be the number one issue in Pennsylvania.

If you vote for Donald Trump in the fall, you're voting for someone who will take away protections for pre-existing conditions, for example. As demonstrated over and over again that he wants to cut Medicare and Medicaid. That's not going to work in Pennsylvania. I think both supporters of both candidates in the Democratic primary will be together united to defeat Donald Trump.

CABRERA: But didn't not voting for Trump not necessarily worked for Hillary Clinton?

CASEY: No. Look, I think that the circumstances are different now. I think there are a lot of voters, who in 2016 might have thought, well, let's try an outsider who's not part of the political system. And now we know the damage that that has wrought.

The number of uninsured is going up for the first time in years. The number of children who are uninsured has gone way up by hundreds and hundreds of thousands. And I think most people know that even as the president will talk about the stock market and some other indicators, which are really a false reading for working men and women.

They also note the same time the cost of child care is up, the cost of basic daily living expenses for middle class families are way up. So I think people know what's at stake and I think 2016 is a distant memory for a lot of voters.

CABRERA: Senator Bob Casey, thank you for your time this evening.

CASEY: Thanks, Ana.

CABRERA: Up next, a doctor who specializes in pathogens joins us to answer your questions about how well prepared the country is to handle this crisis and what you should be doing.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT