Iran


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise today to discuss U.S. policy  regarding Iran. We know that in 2009 the new Obama administration came  into office at a time when the Iranian regime was racing to develop a  nuclear weapon. The prospect of the Iranian regime with a nuclear  weapon would present a substantial threat to America and to our allies.  At the same time, Iran was engaged in a host of other malign  activities, but the most urgent and significant threat was nuclear. 

  In 2013, Iran was 2 to 3 months from being able to build a nuclear  weapon. The Obama administration decided to use hard-nosed diplomacy  resulting in the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, known by the  acronym JCPOA. This agreement was entered into with a number of  countries, three of them our allies--the United Kingdom, France and  Germany. We also had two partner countries--countries with which we  have a lot of tensions and conflict. We were partners with China and  Russia. So this agreement stretched from one end of the world to the  other. 

  The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action prevented Iran from acquiring  a nuclear weapon by, among other steps, authorizing some of the most  intrusive inspections that have ever been put into place. This  agreement, the JCPOA, did not cover several other nonnuclear malign  activities that the Iranian regime was and is engaged in. The JCPOA  isolated and largely solved the most dire threat, that of a nuclear- armed Iran in the near future. 

  This agreement, from its signing in 2015 through 2018, worked. Until  recently, Iran was complying with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of  Action. That is the considered judgment of the International Atomic  Energy Agency, known as IAEA. The considered judgment of the U.S.  intelligence community was that Iran was complying with the agreement.  It was also the judgment made by the U.S. Department of State and the  U.S. Department of Defense in both the Obama administration and the  Trump administration. 

  The determination that Iran was complying with the agreement is also  the assessment of our allies and partners with whom the Obama  administration worked to bring into a coalition. 

  Here is a sampling of assessments prior to recent events. In  September 2017, then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson stated that Iran  is in ``technical compliance'' with the JCPOA. 

  Second, in October 2017, then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis stated  that Iran was ``fundamentally'' in compliance with the JCPOA. ``Overall  our intelligence community believes that they have been compliant and  the IAEA also says so,'' said General Mattis, then Secretary of  Defense. 

  In March 2018, IAEA Director Amano stated: ``Iran is implementing its  nuclear-related commitments. . . . If the JCPOA were to fail, it would  be a great loss for nuclear verification and for multilateralism.'' 

  Finally, No. 4, in January 2019, former Director of National  Intelligence Dan Coats, a former Republican Senator from the State of  Indiana, said: ``We continue to assess that Iran is not currently  undertaking the key nuclear weapons development activities we judge  necessary to produce a nuclear device.'' 

  Three of the four officials--Secretary of State Tillerson, Secretary  of Defense Mattis, and Director of National Intelligence Coats--all  three were appointed by President Trump. 

  President Trump came into office determined to pull out of this  agreement, despite the fact that it was working. He surrounded himself  with advisers who supported a policy of regime change. Of course, the  words ``regime change'' are words that they will not say out loud--the  President or his administration--but that is the policy. The American  people, after nearly two decades of conflict, know that regime-change  policy is a march to war. 

  This administration calls their regime change policy a ``maximum  pressure campaign.'' Its stated goal was to force Iran to negotiate a  new agreement that would include a host of other nonnuclear issues.  Despite the stated goal, an examination of the methods used to achieve  it make it obvious that the administration was engaged in a policy that  would most likely lead to war instead of a new agreement. The  administration pulled out of the nuclear agreement, which was working,  and while it was in effect, it took the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran  off the table. 

  The administration reimposed sanctions which were lifted as part of  the nuclear agreement. They engaged in a host of other activities that  resulted in increased risks and moved us further away from a diplomatic  resolution. 

  The administration's regime change policy was supposed to deter the  Iranian regime from threatening our Nation and its allies. This policy  has not done that. This policy was supposed to bring Iran to the  bargaining table. It has not. It was supposed to cajole Iran to behave  like a ``normal nation.'' Once again, it has not. 

  Tensions have increased. Threats to our servicemembers, our citizens,  and allies have increased, not decreased. The region--the Middle East-- is less  stable. Iran is closer--closer--to obtaining a nuclear weapon. 

  The terrible results of this policy were predictable. The  administration, including Secretary Pompeo and former National Security  Advisor John Bolton, never had any intention of forging a new  diplomatic agreement with Iran. All of this is how our Nation has found  itself on the brink of war with Iran, facing the potential of another  bloody conflict in the Middle East. 

  Americans across our country are well aware of the events leading up  to the killing of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani, the leader of Iran's  Quds Force on January 2. Following the killing of an American  contractor at a U.S. military compound in Kirkuk, Iraq, on December 27,  the U.S. military retaliated with a strike against the Iranian-backed  Kataib Hezbollah terrorist group, killing at least 25 members of the  militia and wounding others. 

  In response, the Iranian Government orchestrated protests in Baghdad,  which led hundreds of pro-Iranian protesters to storm the U.S. Embassy  in Baghdad on New Year's Eve. The strike against the Quds Force  Commander Qasem Soleimani followed. 

  Soleimani was a military figure who inflicted terror and killed  thousands in Israel, Iraq, and Syria as well. You can add other places  to that. He killed thousands. He worked to prop up Bashar al-Assad in  Syria. He aided Shiite forces that killed hundreds of Americans in  Iraq. We have been told that he was behind the attacks on the U.S.  Embassy in Baghdad on New Year's Eve. Qasem Soleimani was directly  responsible for the killing of hundreds of American soldiers and  civilians and wounding many more. He was a despicable person who was  the leader of an entity designated as a terrorist organization. 

  Across the international stage, there are many committed enemies of  America who plot every day to do our Nation and our allies harm--every  single day. Those entrusted with the national security of our Nation  have to assess whether taking direct action against one of those  individual enemies increases or decreases risks over time and whether  taking actions against those individuals is consistent with our values  and our commitment to the rule of law. 

  This is a high standard, and it should be. We are the United States  of America, and we believe that conflicts have rules and limits. We  strive for a higher standard that both honors our values and protects  our security. Because we have high standards and because we expect our  leaders to act prudently and with deliberation, the Constitution  requires substantial consultation with Congress regarding matters of  war except in limited, urgent circumstances. 

  Acting with disregard for these standards, President Trump took this  unilateral action. The President may have endangered the lives of U.S.  servicemembers in the Middle East. He may have also prompted near- lethal retaliation from Iran. 

  Iran's retaliatory strikes against U.S. bases at Al-Asad and Erbil on  January 7 thankfully did not claim any American lives. However,  conflicting reports continue to emerge about whether Iran intentionally  avoided hitting U.S. personnel, and that raises questions about whether  Iran sought to escalate or de-escalate its conflict with the United  States. 

  Video evidence has emerged in recent days showing that the Iranians  actually decimated housing units for soldiers on the base. Without  having received a classified briefing from the administration about  this incident--as opposed to the briefing we had on the killing of  Soleimani, which I will get to later--without having that classified  briefing, we can rely upon press reports for some information. Press  reports indicate that the Iranians were aiming to take American lives. 

  The fallout from the Soleimani strike didn't end there. On January 8,  the Iranian Government covered up the fact that it mistakenly shot down  a civilian aircraft killing 176 people onboard. The Iranian people have  since taken to the streets in protest of the coverup. I strongly  condemn the Iranian Government's crackdown on protesters and support  the Iranian people's right to rise up and demand human rights and  democratic governance in their country. 

  But let's not lose focus on a very important matter: President Trump  ordered a targeted killing of a high-ranking military official of a  country with which we are not in a declared or authorized conflict.  This is a serious step which required both a rigorous examination as  well as an explanation from the administration. Thus far, the  explanations we have received from this administration have been  woefully inadequate and inconsistent--and I think that is an  understatement. 

  We have been told that this strike was in response to an ``imminent  threat'' that four U.S. Embassies abroad were being targeted, which  Defense Secretary Esper almost immediately contradicted. 

  The word ``imminence'' is important here. Imminence derives from the  doctrine of self-defense, which under article 51 of the United Nations  Charter and the broader ``laws of war,'' imminence justifies use of  force in another state's territory when an armed attack occurs-- occurs--or when an armed attack is imminent. Some national security  scholars define ``imminence'' as ``leaving no reasonable time for  nonforceful measures to obviate such a threat.'' 

  I will speak for myself only, but this is true of a number of  Senators, I believe. I have yet to see clear evidence that there was  ``no reasonable time'' to seek nonlethal, diplomatic options prior to  killing Soleimani. The administration has failed to disclose sufficient  detail regarding the imminence of this threat. When asked on Friday,  Secretary Pompeo said he did not know when this asserted imminent  threat was supposed to take place. 

  The American people have also heard from Secretary Pompeo and  President Trump that the attack was a matter of retribution from events  that occurred in the past. We have heard from Secretary Pompeo that  this attack was designed to ``restore deterrence,'' but it is unclear  that he coordinated with his national security colleagues across the  interagency. 

  We know from reporting from the New York Times that Secretary Pompeo  was among the ``most hawkish voices arguing for a response to Iranian  aggression.'' The article also goes on to say: ``Top Pentagon officials  were stunned'' in reference to the strike. 

  So the question of why this strike was launched and when it was  launched remains unanswered. Both Democratic Senators and Republican  Senators asked this question in a classified briefing last week and few  received a satisfactory answer. We still lack answers on the ``imminent  threat.'' 

  The President has spent the last week at rallies and other  appearances triumphantly marking the killing and indicating that the  Iranian threat is behind us. The strike authorized by President Trump  may have been reckless, taken without appropriate planning for the  consequences and aftermath, and done without serious consultation with  Congress and--and--within the administration. Contrary to the  President's boast, I am gravely concerned we will feel the adverse  consequences of this administration's actions across the Iran policy  landscape for years to come. 

  If we think the attacks on the Al-Asad and Kirkuk bases last Tuesday  were the end of Iranian retaliation for Soleimani's death, we are  likely mistaken, due to the continued threat of the Iranian regime's  proxy forces throughout the Middle East. Let's examine the potential  negative consequences of the strike. I hope this is something that the  administration engaged in before the strike, but it is important to  review this. 

  On January 5, Iran announced that it is no longer bound by the  restrictions of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action as it relates to  uranium enrichment. This agreement unequivocally extended Iran's  breakout time, which is the time it would take to obtain enough highly  enriched uranium for a nuclear bomb. The agreement extended the  breakout time to 12 months--1 year. Again, before the agreement, Iran's  breakout time was 2 to 3 months. So the agreement extended that time,  meaning making the world safer by extending that time from 2 to 3  months to 1 year. That is where we were with the implementation of the  agreement. 

  Without this agreement--the JCPOA--without that agreement in  place, Iran could reach the requisite uranium stockpile in as little as  6 months, if not sooner. Iran is closer today to a nuclear weapon than  it was a week or so ago, and certainly it is closer to a nuclear weapon  since 2018, when the administration withdrew from the Joint  Comprehensive Plan of Action. That is one consequence we have to  consider. Iran is closer to a nuclear weapon. 

  No. 2 is ISIS. If the President's October 2019 withdrawal of U.S.  forces from Syria and the concurrent abandonment of our Kurdish  allies--if that did not create space for the resurgence of ISIS in the  Middle East, the President's recent action will almost certainly allow  for ISIS to regain a foothold in the region. Just 3 days after the  Soleimani strike, the New York Times reported that, and here is the  headline, ``U.S.-Led Coalition Halts ISIS Fight as it Steels for  Iranian Attacks''--halts ISIS fight. NATO has already suspended its  operations against ISIS. We have to consider, how does that outcome  make us safer? 

  Next, No. 3, we have to consider what is happening in Iraq. Iraq  voted to expel U.S. troops from their country as a result of the  strike. If we fully withdraw from Iraq, where are we going to launch  counter-ISIS operations in both Iraq and Syria from? How do we do  that--from where? Where was the effort to work with the Iraqi  Government in quashing Kataib Hezbollah and countering Iranian  influence in Iraq? Now that the Iraqi Government opposes U.S. troop  presence in its country, what is the plan? How does the administration  plan to restart conversations with Iran to negotiate a ``better''  nuclear deal that will ensure Iran never has a nuclear bomb? How do  they restart those negotiations? This strike looks more like another  step forward in a policy of regime change rather than a coherent  strategy designed to keep our Nation safe by using tough diplomacy and  alliance-building to confront Iran. 

  I have been one of the most determined advocates of being tough on  Iran, especially regarding sanctions. Since I came to the Senate in  2007, I have been part of almost every sanctions push in efforts to so- call tighten the screws on the Iranian regime and hold them fully  accountable for their actions. All those steps that I have been a part  of, and people of both parties have been a part of, were part of a  strategy to get the results we saw when the Joint Comprehensive Plan of  Action was signed. 

  Now, 2 years and after one particularly dangerous week, President  Trump has badly undermined all that progress. The advocates of regime  change in Iran are closer than ever to getting the United States into a  shooting war with Iran.  

  The events of the last few weeks remind me of the lead-up to the U.S.  invasion of Iraq in 2003. Across both the House and the Senate,  Congress held only seven hearings that dealt directly with the proposed  2002 authorization for the use of military force to authorize the Iraq  war. AUMF is the acronym for that. Are seven hearings, over a period of  3 weeks between the House and the Senate, sufficient discussion and  debate prior to voting to go to war with Iraq? No. No, that is not  sufficient time and not a sufficient number of hearings. 

  At last count, 201 Pennsylvanians were killed in Iraq and over 1,200  were wounded. Have we learned from the mistakes of 2002 and 2003 that  led to those deaths and all those Pennsylvanians being wounded and many  thousands beyond that killed and wounded in the Iraq war? Have we  learned? Have we learned those lessons yet? We have a duty--an abiding  obligation--not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to constrain the  actions of a President who may endanger the lives of U.S.  servicemembers and Americans abroad. 

  Before we get too far down this path, Congress must reassert its  constitutional duty to debate and authorize war. Prior to authorizing a  strike, we must assess--and I hope the administration did this--whether  such an action would have an adverse impact on our national security.  Before we march our sons and daughters off to fight another war, we  need to make sure we are doing everything possible to prevent the loss  of American lives. 

  I have been clear in opposing a direct confrontation with Iran  without--without a clear authorization from Congress. The Trump  administration acted without a congressionally approved authorization  for the use of military force last week. That is why I and many others  have cosponsored Senator Tim Kaine's bipartisan S.J. Res. 68 to prevent  the President from going to war with Iran without congressional  authorization. If you want to go to war with Iran, you ought to be  compelled to vote for it, up or down--vote for or against as a Member  of Congress. Specifically, this resolution, S.J. Res. 68, requires the  President to ``terminate the use of the United States Armed Forces for  hostilities against the Islamic Republican of Iran or any part of its  government or military unless explicitly authorized by a declaration of  war or a specific authorization for the use of military force'' as  enacted by Congress. Nothing in this resolution prevents the United  States from ``defending itself against imminent attack.'' Those are the  exact words. 

  It is authorization or declaration before you go to war with Iran. I  think a lot of Americans--most Americans--believe that is not just the  right thing to do but that is our duty, no matter who is President. 

  When the administration fails to brief Congress on threats we face  and concurrently takes unilateral actions that could lead to all-out  war, we must act quickly and decisively to prevent further escalation  and demand a strategy. We owe it to Pennsylvanians, and we owe it to  all Americans, especially our men and women in uniform and their  families, to engage in a substantial, robust public debate on what  engaging in hostilities with Iran would mean for U.S. national security  and how it could endanger American lives. The House vote of last  Thursday was to reassert this congressional authority, and the Senate  will vote this week. I urge a vote in support of S.J. Res. 68, which  has several bipartisan cosponsors. 

  This is a dark time, and I cannot overstate my level of concern. I  know that concern is shared widely here in Congress but also across the  country. As to Iran, we are headed down a path to war, one which could  be more bloody, more complicated, and more protracted than any in my  lifetime. We have been walking down this path since President Trump  pulled out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. Every week since,  we are a little closer to an armed conflict, and the events of these  past weeks have likely turbocharged the dangerous path we are on. 

  Going back to the time of the Vietnam war and thereafter, elected  leaders of both political parties have lied to the American people. The  American people were told we were making progress, when we weren't. The  American people were told that insurgencies were in their ``last  throes,'' when the opposite was true. The American people demand that  politicians don't make serious mistakes that lead to war. 

  The good news is, we still have time. We have time to get it right.  We have time to engage in hard-nosed diplomacy. We have time to reject  a policy of regime change regarding Iran. There is time for this  administration to outline and implement an effective Iran strategy that  substantially reduces the likelihood of war in a nuclear-armed Iran,  but time is running short. 

  The administration may be committed to a policy of regime change, but  the Senate can act. We can pass the bipartisan S.J. Res. 68 and other  measures to make sure this administration cannot take us recklessly to  war with Iran without congressional authorization or a declaration of  war. We owe it to the American people and to our servicemembers to do  this. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT