Letter to Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and Roger Wicker, Chairman of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation - King Critical of Distance Learning Funding Shortfall in Coronavirus Bill


Dear Leader McConnell and Chairman Wicker:

We write to express our profound disappointment with the coronavirus relief package that SenateRepublicans proposed today. In its current form, this legislation fails to provide sufficientfunding to help ensure that all K-12 students have adequate home internet connectivity if theirschools close due to the ongoing pandemic. We believe that Congress must provide robustresources for these purposes, in order to guarantee that all children are able to continue theireducation during the current public health emergency. Simply put, we cannot bail out the airlineindustry to the tune of tens of billions while providing only pennies for our nation's children.The coronavirus pandemic has shone a bright light on the "homework gap" experienced by the12 million students in this country who do not have internet access at home and are unable tocomplete their homework -- at a time when more than 70% of educators assign schoolwork thatrequires internet access. Research has shown that the homework gap affects students in bothrural and urban areas and disproportionately affects lower-income students and students of color.Students without internet access at home consistently score lower in reading, math, and science.We are concerned that this existing inequity will only be exacerbated by the high number ofschools that are suspending in-person classes and have transitioned to remote learning over theinternet to protect the health of students, faculty, and staff. Children without connectivity are atrisk of not only being unable to complete their homework during this pandemic, but being unableto continue their overall education. Congress must address this issue by providing additionalfinancial support for home internet access in the next emergency relief package so that no childfalls behind in their education.We specifically request that you include at least $2 billion in E-Rate funds for schools andlibraries to provide Wi-Fi hotspots or other devices with Wi-Fi capability to students withoutadequate connectivity at their home. The E-Rate program is, and has been for over two decades,an essential source of funding to connect the nation's schools and libraries to the internet. As thecoronavirus pandemic develops, this program offers a solution that may help mitigate the impacton our most vulnerable families. We believe additional funding for E-Rate would greatly narrowthe homework gap during the current crisis and help ensure that all students can continue tolearn. 2Congress must act in light of the unprecedented disruption that the coronavirus has created forour education system. We must work to close the homework gap and ensure that all students whoneed internet access have the connectivity they need to continue learning from home.Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Due to the closure of many Senate officesduring the coronavirus outbreak, physical signatures are unavailable. The listed senators haveasked to be signatories to this letter.

Sincerely,