Aukus Reform for Military Optimization and Review Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694782/aukus-reform-for-military-optimization-and-review-act


Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, again, I thank my colleague, Representative  Baumgartner, for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of my bill, H.R. 4233, the  AUKUS Reform for Military Optimization and Review Act, or the ARMOR  Act.

The ARMOR Act strengthens defense collaboration and trade among  Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States, which make up the  AUKUS trilateral security partnership.

Since its inception in 2021, AUKUS has been key to our collective  defense strategy, promoting cooperation on cutting-edge technologies  like nuclear-powered submarines, artificial intelligence, and  hypersonic systems.

Unfortunately, outdated export controls and bureaucratic hurdles  currently hinder the efficient sharing of critical defense technologies  among our trusted partners.

H.R. 4233 addresses these challenges by facilitating quicker, more  secure transfers of defense materials while preserving critical  protections for sensitive technologies.

Specifically, it expands the expedited licensing to include  retransfers, removes the congressional notification requirement on  certain AUKUS transfers, requires a report on implementation of  expedited review for export licenses, and requires an annual review of  the Excluded Technology List to ensure the list is relevant and aligned  with AUKUS goals.

The Indo-Pacific faces growing challenges, and the unholy alliance is  growing more brazen and aggressive. This  week, Xi Jinping is hosting Iran, North Korea, Russia, and other  hostile actors for a military parade. They are clearly sending a  message to the United States and our allies that they are more united  than ever.

Time is of the essence. We need to expedite the AUKUS partners'  access to markets and make sure this defense pact is working as  intended.

Bureaucratic delays to the AUKUS agreement undermine our ability to  counter threats and to maintain technological and defense superiority.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill to send a strong message to  our adversaries and friends alike that the United States is serious  about preserving a free and open Indo-Pacific with our allies.

Mr. Speaker, I thank the Foreign Arms Sales Task Force co-chairs,  Representatives Zinke and Dean, for leading this bill with me.