Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700740/enhanced-iran-sanctions-act-of-2025


Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the bill  (H.R. 1422) to impose sanctions with respect to persons engaged in  logistical transactions and sanctions evasion relating to oil, gas,  liquefied natural gas, and related petrochemical products from the  Islamic Republic of Iran, and for other purposes, as amended.

The Clerk read the title of the bill.

The text of the bill is as follows:                                 H.R. 1422

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of       the United States of America in Congress assembled,       SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

This Act may be cited as the ``Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act       of 2025''.       SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

It is the policy of the United States--

(1) to fully enforce sanctions against the Islamic Republic       of Iran, including with respect to Iran's petroleum and       petrochemical sectors;

(2) through such sanctions, to deny Iran financial       resources--

(A) to advance its nuclear weapons capabilities;

(B) to finance the development of weapons of mass       destruction;

(C) to support missile and drone proliferation;

(D) to fund and facilitate international terrorism;

(E) to engage in destabilizing efforts abroad, including       the targeting of United States citizens; and

(F) to repress the rights of Iranian citizens; and

(3) to strengthen coherence among members of the       international community with respect to enforcing sanctions       against malign activities of Iran.       SEC. 3. EXPANDING THE REWARDS FOR JUSTICE PROGRAM TO COVER                     PERSONS VIOLATING OR EVADING UNITED STATES                     SANCTIONS AGAINST IRAN.

Section 36(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act       of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(b)) is amended--

(1) in paragraph (14), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a       semicolon;

(2) in paragraph (15), by striking the period at the end       and inserting ``; or''; and

(3) by adding at the end the following paragraph:

``(16) the identification of each person described in       section 4(a) of the Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act of 2025 or       section 3 of the Stop Harboring Petroleum Act (22 U.S.C.       8572) that has attempted or is attempting to evade sanctions       imposed under either such Act with proceeds generated by       transactions related to oil, condensates, or other petroleum       or petrochemical products from the Islamic Republic of       Iran.''.       SEC. 4. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS                     ENGAGED IN TRANSACTIONS RELATED OR INCIDENTAL                     TO OIL, CONDENSATES, PETROLEUM OR PETROCHEMICAL                     PRODUCTS FROM IRAN.

(a) In General.--On and after the date of the enactment of       this Act, the President may impose the sanctions described in       subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person that the       President determines--

(1) has knowingly engaged in any significant transaction       related or incidental to the processing, refining, export,       transfer or sale of oil, condensates, or other petroleum or       petrochemical product in whole or in part from Iran;

(2) is a subsidiary of a foreign person described in       paragraph (1);

(3) is a corporate officer, principal executive officer, or       other person performing similar functions of either such       officer, of a foreign person described in paragraph (1);

(4) is an immediate family member of a foreign person       described in paragraph (1) who demonstrably benefits from any       activity described in paragraph (1); or

(5) directly or indirectly conducts a significant       transaction with, for, or on behalf of a foreign person       described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 3(b) of       the Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act (22 U.S.C. 8572).

(b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this       subsection are the following:

(1) Blocking of property.--The President shall, pursuant to       the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.       1701 et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in       property and interests in property of a foreign person       subject to sanctions pursuant to subsection (a) if such       property and interests in property are in the United States,       come within the United States, or are or come within the       possession or control of a United States person.

(2) Aliens inadmissible for visas, admission, or parole.--

(A) Visas, admission, or parole.--In the case of an alien       subject to sanctions pursuant to subsection (a), the alien       is--

(i) inadmissible to the United States;

(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to       enter the United States; and

(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into       the United States or to receive any other benefit under the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

(B) Current visas revoked.--

(i) In general.--The visa or other entry documentation of       an alien described in subparagraph (A) shall be revoked,       regardless of when such visa or other entry documentation was       issued.

(ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under clause (i)       shall--

(I) take effect in accordance with section 221(i) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)); and

(II) cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation       that is in the alien's possession.

(c) Exceptions.--

(1) Exception to comply with international obligations.--      Sanctions under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect       to an alien if admitting or paroling the alien into the       United States is necessary to permit the United States to       comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the       United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and       entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United       Nations and the United States, or other applicable       international obligations.

(2) Exception for authorized intelligence and law       enforcement activities.--Sanctions under subsection (a) shall       not apply with respect to activities subject to the reporting       requirements under title V of the National Security Act of       1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence,       law enforcement, or national security activities of the       United States.

(3) Exception for humanitarian assistance for the people of       iran.--

(A) In general.--Sanctions under subsection (a) shall not       apply to--

(i) the conduct or facilitation of a transaction for the       provision of agricultural commodities, food, medicine,       medical devices, or humanitarian assistance, or for       humanitarian purposes to or for the people of Iran; or

(ii) transactions that are necessary for or related to the       activities described in clause (i).

(B) Definitions.--In this paragraph--

(i) the term ``agricultural commodity'' has the meaning       given that term in section 102 of the Agricultural Trade Act       of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602);

(ii) the term ``medical device'' has the meaning given the       term ``device'' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and       Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321); and

(iii) the term ``medicine'' has the meaning given the term       ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and       Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

(4) Exception for safety of vessels and crew.--Sanctions       under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a person       providing provisions to a vessel otherwise subject to       sanctions under this section if such provisions are intended       for the safety and care of the crew aboard the vessel, the       protection of human life aboard the vessel, or the       maintenance of the vessel to avoid any environmental or other       significant damage.

(d) Waiver.--

(1) In general.--The President may, on a case-by-case basis       for a period of not more than 180 days, waive the application       of sanctions imposed with respect to a foreign person under       subsection (a) if the President--

(A) certifies to the appropriate congressional committees       that the waiver is in the national interests of the United       States; and

(B) submits with the certification required under       subparagraph (A) a detailed justification explaining the       reasons for the waiver.

(2) Renewal of waiver.--The President may, on a case-by-      case basis, renew a waiver issued under paragraph (1) for       additional periods of not more than 180 days if the       President--

(A) determines that the renewal of the waiver is vital to       the national interests of the United States; and

(B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a       report on the renewal of the waiver that includes--

(i) a justification for the renewal of the waiver;

(ii) a detailed plan to phase out the need for any such       waiver issued with respect to such foreign person; and

(iii) for reoccurring waivers, steps taken to implement or       otherwise further the plan described in clause (ii).

(e) Implementation; Regulations; Penalties.--

(1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all       authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the       International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702       and 1704) to carry out subsection (a).

(2) Regulations.--Not later than 60 days after the date of       the enactment of this Act, the President shall issue       regulations or other guidance as may be necessary for the       implementation of this section.

(3) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections       (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency       Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to any       person who violates, attempts to violate, conspires to       violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition of this       section, or an order or regulation prescribed under this       section, to the same extent that such penalties apply to a       person that commits an unlawful act described in section       206(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 1705(a)).

(f) Termination of Sanctions.--Consistent with the Iran       Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701       note), the requirement to impose sanctions under subsection       (a) shall cease to be effective beginning on the date that is       30 days after the date on which the President certifies to       the appropriate congressional committees that--

(1) the Government of Iran no longer repeatedly provides       support for international terrorism as determined by the       Secretary of State pursuant to--

(A) section 1754(c)(1)(A) of the Export Control Reform Act       of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4318(c)(1)(A));

(B) section 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22       U.S.C. 2371);

(C) section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.       2780); or

(D) any other related provision of law; and

(2) Iran has ceased the pursuit, acquisition, and       development of, and verifiably dismantled its, nuclear,       biological, and chemical weapons and ballistic missiles and       ballistic missile launch technology.

(g) Exception Relating to the Importation of Goods.--

(1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose       sanctions under this section shall not include the authority       or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of       goods.

(2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term ``good''       means any article, natural or manmade substance, material,       supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and       test equipment, and excluding technical data.       SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) Admitted; alien.--The terms ``admitted'' and ``alien''       have the meanings given those terms in section 101(a) of the       Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).

(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term       ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--

(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on       the Judiciary, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and       Urban Affairs of the Senate; and

(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the       Judiciary, and the Committee on Financial Services of the       House of Representatives.

(3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means a       person that is not a United States person, including the       government of a foreign country.

(4) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to       conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has       actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the       circumstance, or the result.

(5) Property; interest in property.--The terms ``property''       and ``interest in property'' have the meanings given the       terms ``property'' and ``property interest'', respectively,       in section 560.325 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations,       as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of       this Act.

(6) United states person.--The term ``United States       person'' means any United States citizen, permanent resident       alien, entity organized under the laws of the United States       or any jurisdiction within the United States (including       foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

Amend the title so as to read: ``A bill to impose sanctions       with respect to persons engaged in significant transactions       related or incidental to the processing, refining, export,       transfer or sale of oil, condensates, or other petroleum or       petrochemical products in whole or in part from the Islamic       Republic of Iran.''.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 1422, the Enhanced Iran  Sanctions Act.

For decades, the Iranian regime has brutally suppressed its own  people while exporting terror across the globe. Tehran has pursued  nuclear weapons, expanded its missile and drone programs, sponsored  terrorism, and targeted Americans and our allies.

On February 28, under President Trump's leadership, U.S. Central  Command launched Operation Epic Fury after Iran rejected diplomatic  off-ramps and refused to dismantle its nuclear program.

Since then, the regime has escalated further by targeting civilian  infrastructure and threatening to hold the Strait of Hormuz and our  global energy supply hostage. These actions are funded by Iran's  illicit oil and gas sales, and now is the time to cut off its revenue  streams.

H.R. 1422 strengthens secondary sanctions on entities that are  enabling Iran to evade existing restrictions and profit from its  petroleum trade.

This bill sends a very clear message that the United States will not  tolerate those who finance the world's leading state sponsor of  terrorism.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this bill.                                           House of Representatives,                                      Committee on the Judiciary,                                      Washington, DC, June 16, 2025.      Hon. Brian Mast,      Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,      House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.

Dear Chairman Mast: I write regarding H.R. 1422, the       Enhanced Iran Sanctions Act of 2025. Provisions of this bill       fall within the Judiciary Committee's Rule X jurisdiction,       and I appreciate that you consulted with us on those       provisions. The Judiciary Committee agrees that it shall be       discharged from further consideration of the bill so that it       may proceed expeditiously to the House floor.

The Committee takes this action with the understanding that       forgoing further consideration of this measure does not in       any way alter the Committee's jurisdiction or waive any       future jurisdictional claim over these provisions or their       subject matter. We also reserve the right to seek appointment       of an appropriate number of conferees in the event of a       conference with the Senate involving this measure or similar       legislation.

I ask that you please insert this letter in the       Congressional Record during consideration of H.R. 1422 on the       House floor. I appreciate the cooperative manner in which our       committees have worked on this matter, and I look forward to       working collaboratively in the future on matters of shared       jurisdiction. Thank you for your attention to this matter.            Sincerely,                                                        Jim Jordan,      Chairman.                                   ____                                           House of Representatives,                                    Committee on Foreign Affairs,                                      Washington, DC, June 23, 2025.      Hon. Jim Jordan,      Committee on the Judiciary,      House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Jordan: Thank you for consulting with the       Committee on Foreign Affairs and agreeing to be discharged       from further consideration of H.R. 1422, the Enhanced Iran       Sanctions Act of 2025, so that the measure may proceed       expeditiously to the House Floor.

I agree that your forgoing further action on this measure       does not in any way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of       your committee or prejudice its jurisdictional prerogatives       on this measure or similar legislation in the future. I would       support your effort to seek appointments of any appropriate       number of conferees from your committee to any House-Senate       conference of this legislation.

I will submit the exchange of letters to be published in       the Congressional Record. I appreciate your cooperation       regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to       work together on matters of shared jurisdiction during this       Congress.            Sincerely,                                                     Brian J. Mast,                                                          Chairman.

Mrs. KIM.

Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, yes, I reclaim my time.

Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my colleagues to support  this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.