Improving Access to Small Business Information Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693953/improving-access-to-small-business-information-act


Mrs. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 3351, the Improving  Access to Small Business Information Act.

Orange County, which I am proud to represent, is home to over 100,000  small businesses. It takes grit, perseverance, and commitment for  entrepreneurs to make an idea into a reality.

To help with some of those challenges facing small businesses, the  Securities and Exchange Commission created an Office of the Advocate  for Small Business Capital Formation.

Each year, the Office of the Advocate for Small Business Capital  Formation hosts events across the country, including California.

These events aim to support small businesses and better understand  the issues that they face in raising funds. Unfortunately, burdensome  regulations often prevent the advocate from asking the right type of  questions.

The former director of the Office of the Advocate for Small Business  Capital Formation, Ms. Martha Miller, said that: The office went  through a yearlong process just to collect registration information for  our annual forum and ask a few basic questions to understand the  audience attending.

The unfortunate truth is that regulations handicap us from  understanding the needs of small businesses.

My bill is very simple. The legislation would specify that activities  like conducting field surveys carried out by the Office of the Advocate  for Small Business Capital Formation are not a collection of  information under the Paperwork Reduction Act.

Currently, OMB's approval process is prolonged and bureaucratic,  which delays feedback collection from small businesses and their  investors. Preventing these delays will enable the advocate to gather  more effective and timely data.

The better information that the advocate can gather, the better the  SEC  can respond, and the better off our small businesses will be.

Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Gottheimer for working with me on  this commonsense legislation, and I urge my colleagues from both sides  of the aisle to support H.R. 3351.