Brown-Gillibrand Introduce Legislation to Diversify Military Service Academy Nominations


Congressman Anthony G. Brown (MD-04) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) introduced legislation to mandate race, gender, ethnicity and other demographic metrics for academy nominations be collected and published on an annual basis. The "Public Accountability on Nominations Offered that Result in Admissions to Military Academies" (PANORAMA) Act would give Members of Congress and the general public key data and additional transparency to ensure diversity within military leadership.

Military service academies are historically less diverse than the nation. According to a study by Yale University women have never exceeded 27 percent of nominations made by Members of Congress. Leadership is strongest when it represents the diversity of the people they represent, encompassing different backgrounds and perspectives.

"My 30-years spent serving this country in uniform are among my proudest. Our military brings together brave men and women from across this nation to serve - those leading our service members should reflect the power of this diversity," said Congressman Brown. "Increasing transparency in the academy nominations process will ensure qualified candidates do not go overlooked as we build the next generation of military leadership. A range of backgrounds and experiences in leadership brings out the best in our military, and ensures that everyone who wants to serve their country in uniform, can do so."   

"Our nation's service academies cultivate exceptional officers, and we must ensure that not only are our nominees the best and the brightest, but that they reflect our country's diversity," said Senator Gillibrand. "I am proud to sponsor this legislation calling for a transparent and inclusive academy nominations process that will help ensure every student has an equal chance to serve, regardless of race, gender, or socioeconomic status. Our future military leaders should highlight a fundamental truth--our diversity is our strength."

The PANORAMA Act would increase transparency and this country's commitment to increasing diversity by:

Requiring the Department of Defense to standardize gender, race and ethnicity classifications and demographic categories across all service academies.

Establishing a uniform online portal for all military service academies

Collecting demographic information from congressional nominations, allowing members to review previous nomination records for their district

Requiring the Department of Defense to publish an annual report regarding the demographics of applicants and nominations made by each congressional district for the most recent application year

Original House co-sponsors include: Reps. Don Bacon (NE-02), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), André Carson (IN-07), Gil Cisneros (CA-39), TJ Cox (CA-21), Veronica Escobar (TX-16), Deb Haaland (NM-01), Denny Heck (WA-10), Chrissy Houlahan (PA-06), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Michael San Nicolas (GU-AL), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eric Swalwell (CA-15) and Filemon Vela (TX-34).

Senate co-sponsors include: Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Mazie Hirono (D-HI).

The Service Women's Action Network, Protect Our Defenders and Connecticut Veterans Legal Center endorse the PANORAMA Act.