CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) Reacts To 2020 Democratic Debate.


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

BALDWIN: Yes. M.J., thank you. With me now, Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. She bowed out of the 2020 race just in August.

Senator Gillibrand, a pleasure, welcome.

SEN. KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND (D-NY): Thank you.

BALDWIN: So we'll get to Mike Bloomberg, and those NDAs in just a second. But first, you know, you have been on this debate stage. Watching last night, everyone was fired up.

But do you agree with Mike Bloomberg when he said today that it was actually Donald Trump who won the debate?

GILLIBRAND: I couldn't disagree more. I thought the Democrats did great in laying out a vision for this country that is very different than what President Trump is doing.

I think our candidates are strong. I'm excited about the agenda, and I thought a lot of them really tried to just differentiate themselves and showed clear differences in their record, as well as in their goals. And I thought that was useful. I thought it was a great debate.

BALDWIN: You didn't feel like it was a bit circular firing squad, not a good look for the Democratic Party?

[14:20:23]

GILLIBRAND: No, because a lot of the differences were real. There's a big difference between what Bernie and Liz have in terms of vision for this country and what Mayor Bloomberg has.

I think, Vice President Biden tried to talk about his foreign policy experience, what he's done across his career, I thought that was useful.

I think it was a lot of really important information that came out in that debate, and I do think debating issues like stop and frisk is relevant. It's about are you going to be able to represent the whole country? And it gave an opportunity for all candidates to say, where do they stand today? And what do they hope to do as President?

And so I thought the topics that the moderators brought up were smart, and I think the debate was an effective one.

BALDWIN: I do want to ask you about the NDAs. I know, you know, you really champion women and the question to you is, you know, should Mike Bloomberg try to negotiate the termination of these NDAs or is his point about them being consensual legitimate?

GILLIBRAND: Well, I think that's a question for voters to answer to be perfectly honest. I don't think he has satisfied the voters with the answers that he gave last night.

I think there will be far more questions about what were the nature of the allegations? Is he someone who can represent all of us going forward? Does he take issues of women's rights seriously? Does he understand what the #MeToo movement is about? Does he believe in a national paid leave plan?

Those are the kinds of questions that I think voters will ask of him, and he will get on the campaign trail. It's an important issue. It should not be minimized and it should not be disregarded.

BALDWIN: You are launching this effort within Citizens United to boost female candidates who favor getting money out of politics? Just given this, what does Bloomberg real time experiment in American elections tell you, Senator?

GILLIBRAND: So I'm really excited about this partnership that I am doing off the sidelines with and Citizens United.

The purpose of this partnership is to really talk about the corruptive nature of money in politics that any unsolvable problem, so-called unsolvable problem that you can come up with, I will show you the moneyed interests standing in the way of progress.

Take for example, ending gun violence. The NRA is so well funded, they will involve themselves in races across the country. They will create fear amongst Republicans that they can't possibly stand up to the NRA, so nothing gets done after every gun death.

Look at issues of global climate change. You've got the fossil fuel industry pouring money into campaigns and into issue ads just to undermine candidates that believe we need to attack global climate change full on.

So I am excited to be talking about this issue across the country. I do think money in politics is corrupting. I don't believe that wealthy billionaires should have an outsized influence in having their voice be louder than everybody else.

I don't believe money is speech, and so we have to end Citizens United. We've got to get money out of politics. And I still think I'm the only presidential candidate who actually put out an agenda on publicly funded elections.

And so I'm hopeful that the other candidates and our nominee ultimately will take this issue as an important one, because it's how you actually will get things done in Washington by taking out the special interest and ending this ultimate corruption that money has in our political system.

BALDWIN: Speaking of women and female candidates, you want to endorse either of your female colleagues in the Senate here, Senator Warren or Senator Klobuchar right now on CNN.

GILLIBRAND: I am so proud of both Liz and Amy. They have run such good campaigns. The vision that they shared last night was so strong, and I'm just really proud of them.

And I'm proud of my senate colleagues overall, I've so enjoyed working with them in this way to set up a national agenda, and so I'm going to keep supporting all of them. And at some point, I will come forward with an endorsement hopefully before the New York primary, just to give New Yorkers my take on where we are and what's best in terms of defeating Trump.

BALDWIN: What about Senator Bernie Sanders? Do you think a socialist nominee -- a Democratic socialist nominee is capable of beating President Trump?

GILLIBRAND: I do. I think every one of the candidates on the stage last night can beat Donald Trump. And I think the label is a distraction.

I think voters will determine based on who our nominee is whether he or she has a vision that talks about them. People care about the bread and butter issues of every day. They care about healthcare. They care about education. They care about jobs.

And I believe they will not be hung up on labels. I believe they will look at each candidate and say who is the one that's going to make it easier for me to provide for my kids? Who is the one who's going to stand up to the drug companies and the insurance companies and make sure I have access to good high quality, affordable healthcare?

[14:25:11]

GILLIBRAND: I think they're going to want to know how are you going to help me get better job training so I can earn more money, earn my way into the middle class, and actually provide for my kids?

Those are the issues that matter, and I don't think it matters. I think, what is most important is what are you going to do for me, my family, and my community, and voters are smart. I don't think they'll get caught up on labels and name calling.

I think they will get caught up on who you are, why you're running and what you're going to do for America. And that's why our democracy is so strong.

BALDWIN: Appreciate you saying that, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand. Good to see you. Thank you.

GILLIBRAND: Looking forward to it. Talk to you soon.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT