CNN "CNN Newsroom" - Transcript: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) Discusses Coronavirus In NY


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT 

Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, of New York, is on Capitol Hill. She joins us now.

Senator, thank you so much for speaking us right now.

I want to get to the stimulus bill because another key procedural vote has just failed.

First though, I want to ask about your home state, which has turned into the epicenter here in the U.S., the hot spots across the world. How dire is the situation there?

SEN. KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND (D-NY): It's quite urgent in New York. We do have the most cases at this point. I've been talking to our hospital heads over the last week and one state hospital is down to the last mask that they have. They're short on gowns. They're short on ventilators. So there's an urgent need.

I think we need the Defense Production Act implemented. We need to national the medical supply chain. And we need to get these supplies into the front lines where they're needed.

And we also, Brianna, need a national paid leave plan and universal sick days for our workers. When a worker has to stay home because the school is closed, they need to be paid during that time period. That's what paid leave is for. If they're sick, they need to stay home. That's what sick days are for.

Unfortunately, the Republicans are not willing to move these basic defense mechanisms forward. This is what keeps us safe. Every transmission we stop by keeping a person home, by allowing them to stay not only in their family unit but away from crowds and from work, it's one less transmission. It's perhaps lives saved.

KEILAR: One of the big hang-ups in this bill, from the way Democrats see it, is accountability when it comes to billions and billions of dollars that will be used to essentially bail out companies. Democrats are working for, they'll say, protections for workers. They also are wanting to make sure that, you know, companies are kind of walking away, laughing all the way.

We heard from our Julia Chatterley who said that the Democrats may be getting it wrong on focusing on CEO pay. That focusing on accountability makes more sense. But wrapping up something like CEO pay, which may be an issue that is kind of unrelated in the view of some folks, that they may be a mistake.

GILLIBRAND: I think that's one of many concerns about the way Mitch McConnell put the bill forward. We were negotiating very productively on Saturday until about 5:30 p.m. And then Republicans pulled back.

At 9:00, they said our way or the highway, we're not negotiating, and deleted and took away all the compromises that had been made that would have had abilities for employees to be furloughed, get their paycheck and be home as needed. They would have had the sick days in there and had accountability for when we do rescue companies, which we fully intend to do, that they are not able to use the funds in ways that hurt employees.

We just want the bill to be a worker's first bill, a families-first bill, and not allow the companies to do what they did during the last bailout. We remember quite well what happened during the financial collapse last time. I did not vote for it because of how it was structured. There was no accountability. The American people did not have the ability to have equity in these companies. It's the same thing again.

If they take billions of dollars and pay dividends and have stock buybacks and give money to CEOs, not employees, they're making the wrong decision for the common good and for America. And to receive that money, taxpayer money, to bail them out in this urgent time of need, we're willing to do that. We just want them to behave in a way that is good for everyone, not just their C suite.

KEILAR: Senator Rand Paul, as you know, in isolation. He tested positive for coronavirus. And as he was awaiting his diagnosis, and up until his diagnosis, he was socializing. He attended meetings, lunches, even went to the gym yesterday morning before learning of his diagnosis.

Are you concerned about exposure? Are your colleagues concerned?

GILLIBRAND: Well, my heart goes out to Rand Paul. I hope he's recovering. There are several Senators that have followed the directive of the capitol physician and isolating themselves for the last two weeks because they had direct contact with Senator Paul.

All of us are deeply concerned that the people in our states aren't getting the protective gear they want, aren't getting the masks and the money and the ability to be at the front lines against this disease. We are less concerned about our ourselves.

[14:35:01]

KEILAR: Senator Amy Klobuchar, your colleague, thinks remote voting in Congress is inevitable. More members likely to be quarantined. Do you agree? Do you want to see remote voting?

GILLIBRAND: I think we should absolutely have remote voting. I don't know why Senator McConnell is refusing to create accommodations under these circumstances.

I think this is something we can easily do. We are able to do proxy votes in committees. That's no reason why we can't do proxy votes or floor votes. It's not hard to do.

And I think this reticence is unwise, given the age and health of so many of our colleagues. I think it's important to protect everyone and we can do that better through remote voting.

We've been holding our caucus meetings, at least on the Democratic side, remotely. Republicans chose not to do that. And I think that was a deep mistake.

KEILAR: Before I let you go, just a final word from you, Senator, especially for people in your state in New York. What do you want people to know at this time?

GILLIBRAND: What's most important is to listen to health professionals and follow their guidelines. Everyone should be staying home. They should be doing social distancing. Remain six feet apart from anybody that you happen to see when you're on the way to the grocery store or at the grocery store or pharmacy.

Take time to stay at home. Call your loved ones. Talk to your grandparents and people at home alone. Remember that we can get through. We are resilient country. We are resilient people. And so kindness and thoughtfulness, speaking to people who are alone is important.

But, again, keeping your family safe by at home and limit exposure outside to when you need to go out to get medicine or groceries or just to take a walk to get some fresh air. Those things are important for everybody to do every day.

And I think if we use common sense and have the resilience and strength that America is known for, we will get through this. KEILAR: Senator, thank you so much. We look forward to getting through

this. It seems far away at this point. But, Senator Gillibrand, we appreciate you joining us.

GILLIBRAND: It is. Thank you.

KEILAR: Thank you so much.

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT