Impeachment


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Colleagues, over the past few weeks, we have  conducted the third impeachment trial in our entire Nation's history  for a President. 

  Let's be perfectly clear about something: Democrats did not want to  impeach President Trump. From the start, efforts to begin an  impeachment inquiry in the House were met with resistance until the  President's reckless behavior and unprecedented actions forced the  Speaker's hand. The Speaker could not sit idly by after the President  withheld congressionally approved military aid from a U.S. ally in  order to orchestrate foreign interference in our upcoming election. 

  We have worked hard to find common ground with this President, and at  times, Democrats have worked together to get good, bipartisan  legislation accomplished. But President Trump's brazen misconduct  forced this issue. His misdeeds posed a moral challenge to every single  Member of Congress. How much corruption should we stomach? How much of  our integrity should we sacrifice? How much malfeasance should we  tolerate? Will we look the other way as the President flaunts our laws  and ignores the Constitution? 

  Sometimes it can seem far easier to just stay silent. All of us know  that it can be easier to avoid angry phone calls. But think about how  much harder it would be to explain this moment in history to our  children and our grandchildren. Think about how painful it will be to  explain if you knew what President Trump did was wrong and you did  nothing; if you knew what President Trump did was wrong under the  Constitution that you swore to uphold; that you knew it was wrong, but  you voted to acquit anyway because of your ambition, because of your  political party. 

  Lest you think you can convince them otherwise, let me dispel this  fiction. History's record of this time will be very clear. The American  people can see through these lies. They recognize the inconsistencies  and the double-speak. The American people are not naive. They are not  stupid. They are not ignorant. They are not immoral. 

  My Republican colleagues are not naive or ignorant or immoral either.  They are good men and women. They love their children, their neighbors,  and our country. I consider many of them my friends. When we have  dinner together, when we go to visit the troops overseas. We don't do  it as Democrats and Republicans. We do it as colleagues, friends, and  as peers in this body. We do so as elected Members of Congress, as  Senators representing our States and our country.  

  It should be the very same when we judge President Trump. In I John  2:21, John writes to a group of believers who are in turmoil. He wrote:  ``I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because  you do know it and because no lie comes from the truth.'' 

  This trial had the goal of accomplishing one thing--to discover the  truth, to know what happened, to hold the President accountable. We  pledged to listen to receive that evidence fairly and to judge  honestly. We swore to defend the Constitution, not to defend a man or a  political party, and we should all remember this when we cast our  votes, because President Trump is not like you. He is not honest, kind,  or compassionate. He doesn't have integrity or moral conviction. He is  neither fair nor decent. 

  We, as Senators who swore to uphold the Constitution, should, based  on the facts laid before us, vote to convict. Hold President Trump  accountable for what he has done. We have to show the American people,  ourselves, that President Trump does not represent our values, that we  still believe that we must fight for what is right, for truth, for  justice, for honesty, for integrity, and that laws mean something, and  we don't put ourselves before the law. 

  For those who lack courage in this moment, those who are unwilling to  do what they know in their heart of hearts, in their conscience and in  their deepest thoughts to be right, if they do not do what they know  they should, they will be remembered as complicit. They will be  remembered as not telling the truth. They will not be remembered well. 

  I urge you to vote your conscience. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT