Letter to the Hon. Mitch McConnell, Senate Majority Leader, and the Hon. Charles Schumer, Senate Minority Leader - Merkley, Wyden Urge Congress to Protect America's Farmworkers in Upcoming Relief Legislation


Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer,

The COVID-19 health crisis has presented our nation with challenges unlike any we have seen inour lifetimes. During this crisis, our frontline farmworkers are laboring every day to put food onAmerica's dinner table and maintain the nation's food supply. As the virus threatens theresiliency of our food supply chains, it has never been more important to ensure the well-beingof our agricultural producers and workforce. Future legislation in response to the coronaviruspandemic must include protections for these vital members of our communities. Among them,for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to issue an EmergencyTemporary Standard (ETS) requiring employers to develop and implement a comprehensive planto protect their workers.

We support ongoing efforts to help agricultural producers through this crisis, and also believe itis critical to recognize that our nation's food security depends on the ability of farmworkers tocontinue to work safely to produce our nation's food. To support farmworkers (regardless ofimmigration status) and contain the spread of COVID-19 in agricultural communities, we urgethat any future emergency funding to agricultural producers require recipients to:

Provide sick pay and family leave for farmworkers to be able to sustain themselves (shouldthey or other family members fall ill with COVID-19 symptoms) and protect other workersfrom exposure.Provide pandemic or hazard premium pay for farmworkers who are putting themselves andtheir families at a higher risk of exposure to COVID-19 to feed the nation.Maintain payrolls and limit farmworker layoffs and furloughs.Implement CDC recommendations on sanitation and social distancing in work sites,employer provided housing and transportation.

Farmworkers and their families need our support and protection. Their work for this countryshould be respected and honored as our food supply depends on them.

As this crisis evolves and Congress continues to explore response packages, we stand ready towork with you to ensure these protections are made available.