Congratulating Jerry Gachett on His Retirement


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the career of a  dedicated and true public servant, Detective Jerry Gachett, who is  retiring from the Akron Police Department.

I am honored to be standing here today talking about a man who has  served the Akron community so humbly for over 31 years and who I am  proud to call a friend.

Jerry was born in Alabama and raised in Akron, where he graduated  from the John R. Buchtell High School in 1985. He then bravely served  this country in the United States Army for 4 years.

For the last 31 years, Jerry has served our community as a member of  the Akron Police Department. He has worked as a hostage negotiator. He  worked in the financial crimes unit. Jerry also worked for 21 years as  a juvenile detective, where he investigated crimes against children.

Throughout his distinguished career, Detective Gachett has played a  pivotal role of securing justice with his investigations, leading to  the imprisonment of hundreds of child predators, solidifying his  reputation as a champion for the community's most vulnerable.

Jerry is one of the most caring and compassionate people I know. In  fact, throughout his career, he has taken the care to truly get to know  the victims and survivors who he has been sworn to protect and serve.

He has been to countless basketball games, baby showers and more, to  celebrate the survivors who he cares so deeply for. He even walked one  of the people he supported down the aisle at her wedding. In fact, my  husband and I met Jerry when we hired him to secure our wedding when  MAGA protesters threatened our very precious and sacred event.

Jerry has always put the people of our community first, and his deep  desire to serve his community is an inspiration to all who have had the  opportunity to experience his passion for  protecting our community's most vulnerable.

In addition to his law enforcement career, Detective Gachett is an  ordained minister and a devoted follower of Jesus Christ. He is also a  loving husband, father, and grandfather.

No one deserves retirement more than Jerry, but I know that he won't  be retiring for real, as he has been sworn into the APD Reserves. I am  sure we will continue to see him serving our community in his own  special way.

On behalf of Ohio's 13th Congressional District, I congratulate and  thank Detective Jerry Gachett on a storied career at the Akron Police  Department and for over 31 years of outstanding service and devotion to  our community and our country.