My Amendments to H.R. 3838


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of my proposed  amendments to H.R. 3838, the Streamlining Procurement for Effective  Execution and Delivery and National Defense Authorization Act for  Fiscal Year 2026.

Ohio's 13th Congressional District has long been known as the Rubber  Capital of the World, and my First Amendment upholds that legacy by  investing in American manufacturing to ensure that this vital industry  remains globally competitive.

Taking from the Retreaded Tires Jobs, Supply Chain Security and  Sustainability Act of 2025, this amendment would ensure that the U.S.  Government uses retreaded tires whenever possible rather than using  cheap foreign tires.

This amendment will support more than just my neighbors in Ohio and  Ohio's 13th District as retreaded tires make up the largest  remanufacturing sector in the United States, employing over 51,000  American workers.

This commonsense amendment is good for both the economy, the  environment, and the U.S. Government while protecting more good-paying  manufacturing jobs right here in the United States of America.

I am proud that my district is also home to the most famous airship  in the entire world, and that is the Goodyear Blimp.

This amendment, which is based on the Airship Improvement Research  for Safety and Humanitarian Innovation Projects Act, or the AIRSHIPS  Act, would support the research into additional civilian cases for  airships, often referred to as ``blimps,'' that could contribute to  national defense; provide economic, sustainable, and clean air cargo  transportation; support disaster response efforts; and provide  humanitarian aid to people in areas of need.

Especially in the face of challenges such as global pandemics and  natural disasters, airships are uniquely capable of accessing remote  locations or damaged landscapes and delivering resources and services  where traditional aircraft often cannot.

This amendment could enable and reintroduce the world to practical,  economical, and environmentally friendly airship transportation, in  addition to the fact that we see them at our favorite football game  high in the sky.

I ask for the inclusion of this amendment to continue to establish my  community, Ohio's 13th District, as a global leader in airship  technology.

This amendment will encourage innovative uses of this method of  transportation to address some of our Nation's and world's most  pressing needs.

I am also proud to represent the Akron Sustainable Polymers Tech Hub.  The Tech Hub aims to advance critical polymer and advanced material  innovations of defense, mobility, healthcare, and semiconductor  industries. Polymers touch every industrial sector in our modern world.  People often ask: What is a polymer? Quite literally, it is almost  anything that you touch.

Ohio's 13th Congressional District has long been a trailblazer in  polymer science and polymer engineering. Akron's polymer manufacturing  ecosystem provides a local pipeline from education and training to the  workforce.

Among the world-class institutions included in the Akron Sustainable  Polymers Tech Hub is the University of Akron which is ranked number one  in polymer science and plastic engineering. Partners in the Tech Hub  are also investing in industry-led workforce training programs in  collaboration with universities and community colleges.

Strong coordination with the labor units through the Tri-County Labor  Council within the region ensures the creation of good-quality jobs for  workers from all educational and socioeconomic backgrounds, all with  the protections of organized labor.

Last year, the Akron Sustainable Polymers Tech Hub was awarded  approximately $51 million in Federal funds, thanks to the historic  CHIPS and Science Act.

I am proud to have worked with our local, State, and Federal  stakeholders to bring these vital funds back to our district to create  good-paying jobs and grow our local economy. This investment will  ensure that northeast Ohio remains a global leader in polymer science  and polymer engineering, reaffirming our district's legacy as the  Rubber Capital of the World.

From sustainable tires to cutting-edge polymers, the next generation  of rubber and plastics production will proudly be made right here in  the United States and, most importantly, Ohio's 13th Congressional  District.

I know that the Tech Hub in my community is performing groundbreaking  research and development that can revolutionize industries across the  country and across the world. That is why I am introducing this  amendment that urges the Department of Defense to collaborate with Tech  Hubs to accelerate defense innovations in partnerships with academia  and industry right in our backyards.

As you can see, Mr. Speaker, these amendments will not only make sure  our community is safe, our country is safe, but we are investing in  American manufacturing with American workers. For that reason, I hope  that my colleagues can support the amendments that I am offering to the  NDAA and ensure that America is the best place to live, work, and grow.