Providing for Consideration of H.R. Lower Health Care Premiums for All Americans Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Do No Harm in Medicaid Act; Providing for Consideration of H.R. Protect Children's Innocence Act; and Relating to Consideration of H.R. Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of my proposed  amendment to H.R. 6703 and in opposition to the underlying bill.

In 2 weeks, 22 million Americans will see their healthcare premiums  double, triple, or quadruple, costing them hundreds of additional  dollars a month, and more than 4 million Americans will lose their  coverage entirely. This includes 12,300 Ohioans in my district alone.

This Republican healthcare crisis is completely and entirely  preventable, and House Democrats and even a few Republicans have a  solution: Extend the Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits.

Mr. Speaker, what do House Republicans propose instead?

It is a collection of failed policies that would raise prices,  leaving an additional 100,000 people without insurance and restricting  access to abortion care, setting the stage for a national abortion ban.

However, I believe it is my job to offer solutions to help the  American people and, specifically, my constituents in Ohio. That is why  I proposed an amendment to remove the section responsible for  increasing costs and limiting access to reproductive healthcare.

Right now, any and all abortion coverage provided under marketplace  plans are not paid for by Federal dollars. However, this bill would  impose unprecedented restrictions on private dollars and is yet another  Republican attempt to ban reproductive healthcare coverage across this  country.

It is unacceptable that Congress is about to head home having done  nothing--nothing--to protect the millions of Americans who will lose  coverage on January 1.

I have heard heartbreaking stories from my constituents who have no  clue how they are going to make ends meet as we enter into what should  be a merry holiday season.

Mr. Speaker, I had a professor in college who was very clear in  calling us out when we were unprepared when we showed up for our class.  He would call us derelict, negligent, and trifling.

This Congress, Mr. Speaker, is derelict, negligent, and trifling for  failing to ensure that Americans have healthcare coverage and we are  actually lowering their costs.

Mr. Speaker, this bill is deceptive at best and cruel at worst. I  urge my colleagues to extend the enhanced tax credits before it is too  late.