Recognizing Joseph Drury Conner As Ohio's 13th Congressional District Champion of the Week


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to recognize Jackson High  School Automotive Teacher Joseph Drury as Ohio's 13th Congressional  District Champion of the Week.

Joseph was recently awarded a $50,000 prize for his school's skilled  trades program as a winner of the 2025 Harbor Freight Tools for Schools  Prize for Teaching Excellence. He is 1 of just 25 teachers around the  country to be honored with this award--a true testament to his  determination to better the lives of his students.

This annual award was created to recognize excellence among high  school skilled trades teachers, a group of educators that is frequently  overlooked and underappreciated, yet so important to ensure that  students have the tools to excel in a career in the trades.

Inspired by his own experiences as a high school student, he told his  automotive instructor on graduation day that he wanted to be a teacher  one day, too. He has 15 years of industry experience in dealerships and  six years as a bus mechanic for Jackson Local Schools. Joseph is most  passionate about sharing his love for automobiles with students, seeing  them grow more confident as they acquire the knowledge and skills to  become self-sufficient with automotive operation and upkeep.

By using real-world scenarios and hands-on projects, students gain  practical experience with modern repair technologies, preparing them  for future careers in the automotive industry. The Automotive  Technology Program at Jackson High School prepares students to be high- tech automotive technicians, move into advanced training within the  industry, or earn an associate degree in the automotive technology  field.

Joseph's students have a 95 percent job placement rate within six  months of graduation, with many students employed at local auto shops,  dealerships, or starting their own businesses. In the last 3 years,  100% of students enrolled in Joseph's automotive technology classes  have graduated, and 85% of them have done so after earning one or more  industry certifications. Thank you Joseph for doing this work to  inspire the next generation of skilled mechanics.

With this award, and all the hard work that came before it, Joseph is  a shining example why Ohio's 13th Congressional District is known as  the ``Birthplace of Champions.'' He has certainly made Jackson High  School and our greater community proud.