Rising Housing Costs


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, I often say that while my name may be on the  ballot, we are all going to Congress together. Families in Ohio's 13th  Congressional District and all across the country are telling us that  housing costs are rising faster than wages, making it hard to keep a  roof over their heads.

Today, I rise to bring an issue that plagues my community and the  entire country, which is the rising cost of housing.

In my district alone, over one hundred thousand households rent their  homes. The median renter household income is just above $40,000 a year,  yet the median rent is more than $1,000 per month. That means housing  costs are often the largest part of a monthly budget, and this is even  before groceries, childcare, or healthcare.

It is not just renters who are feeling the squeeze. Homeowners are  feeling the squeeze, too. The median home value in Ohio's 13th District  is about $228,000. That may sound modest compared to national prices,  especially for those of you on the coasts, but property taxes,  insurance, utilities, and repairs add up fast. With aging homes and  data centers driving up the cost of utilities, people are feeling the  crunch.

For families with a mortgage, monthly housing costs average nearly  $1,500, and even those who have paid off their mortgage face rising  property taxes and repair costs that strain household budgets.

For families trying to buy their first home, the challenge is  steeper, because mortgage rates may have dipped below 6 percent, but  high prices and limited inventory keep homeownership out of reach for  many in my district. We cannot ignore the inequities baked into the  system.

In Ohio's 13th District, the homeownership rate overall is nearly 69  percent, but for Black families, it drops to just 37 percent, dropping  by nearly half. That gap reflects generations of barriers we still have  a responsibility to address, like redlining and restrictive covenants.

For some families, rising costs lead to housing instability or  homelessness. That is why, last November, I pressed the Department of  Housing and Urban Development to protect Federal funding and  homelessness prevention programs in Summit and Stark Counties. These  continuum of care dollars support nearly 2,700 beds in my district for  families, veterans, and young people who need a safe place to sleep.  Any cut could disrupt services that people depend on and, most  importantly, keep them without a roof over their head.

We also have to confront the root causes of this crisis. Large  corporate investors are buying up single-family homes, driving up  prices and rents, and locking families out of homeownership.

That is why, last summer, I introduced the HOMES Act, which cracks  down on investors buying 50 or more single-family homes, shines a light  on corporate ownership and rental practices, and makes sure local  families, not profit-seeking investors, get first  access to homeownership. People simply cannot compete with these for- profit corporations, and every family deserves a place to call home.

Just last week, President Trump acknowledged the same problem and  called on Congress to address it. On this issue, it seems we may  finally all be reading from the same page.

I encourage my colleagues to support the HOMES Act and see its swift  passage, but we also need to build homes, too. Supply simply has not  met the demand. That is why I secured Federal funding for the East  Akron Neighborhood Development Corporation to help expand affordable  housing, revitalize neighborhoods, and create jobs. Increasing supply  is essential if we want housing prices to come down.

As chair of the New Democrat Coalition's Affordable Housing Task  Force, I helped develop a housing action plan with more than 20  recommendations to increase housing supply, reform zoning and  permitting, strengthen Federal incentives, grow the construction  workforce, and improve transparency.

Mr. Speaker, housing is the foundation of opportunity. Homeownership  is the primary way in which families build wealth. When housing is  affordable and stable, families can plan, save, and build a future.  When it is not, life becomes harder. Rents are too high. Mortgages are  still out of reach for far too many families. Property taxes and  repairs are stretching household budgets. Homelessness programs that  protect our most vulnerable neighbors must be preserved.

Mr. Speaker, we have to get serious about housing and focus our  attention on lowering the cost of housing and keeping housing  accessible to everyone. The American Dream depends on it.

Every family deserves a safe and affordable place to call home, and  this House has a responsibility to help make that possible. Until  housing costs come down, Congress has a lot more work to do. I look  forward to working with this body on behalf of my constituents and  across the country to work to reduce housing costs so everyone can live  their American Dream wherever they choose to call home.