Social Security Administration is There to Help, Not Hurt, Americans


Mrs. SYKES. Mr. Speaker, we started this year on a high note.

On January 5, President Biden signed the Social Security Fairness Act  into law, expanding Social Security for thousands of Americans whose  benefits, that they earned through years of hard work, were cut because  of bad policies.

The Social Security Fairness Act is estimated to result in an average  increase of $360 per month for more than 2.5 million Social Security  recipients, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

These are our teachers, firefighters, and other public service  employees who have dedicated their careers and their lives to serving  and ultimately improving their communities. At a time when people have  been struggling to make ends meet, these benefits could not have come  at a better time.

This was a major victory for Ohio's 13th District and all of America,  one that I was proud to support as a cosponsor, then by signing the  discharge petition to bring it to the House floor before finally voting  on it here on behalf of the constituents that I represent.

I have heard from countless people in my community, they are thrilled  that they were finally able to get the Social Security benefit that  they deserve and earned. There wasn't anywhere that I could go in the  community: church, the grocery store, the gym, restaurants, someone  always stopped me to thank me for voting for the Social Security  Fairness Act and to tell me a story of how it is going to change lives.

You can imagine my disappointment as the Social Security  Administration has taken recent actions to hurt, not help, the American  people, including those in Ohio's 13th. From cutting phone helplines,  to requiring certain services be conducted in person, to slowing down  processing times, and closing offices, the American people are not  getting the service they earned from the Social Security  Administration.

Now, to add insult to injury, the Trump administration is vowing to  withhold the benefits of Americans as a result of mistakes made by the  Social Security Administration. Instead of making the Social Security  Administration work better and remain solvent, the Trump administration  is accusing seniors of fraud and calling their earned benefits waste.

The fraud is an unelected billionaire, the richest man in the world,  who is cutting services to low- and middle-income families. The waste  is the garbage coming out of people's mouths who don't care about  seniors and say things like it is just a complicated Ponzi scheme. It  is abuse by the Federal Government, abuse of people who worked hard  their entire lives to support themselves and paid into a system that  promised to one day support them.

Our seniors rely on Social Security to pay their bills, to put food  on their tables, to keep a roof over their head, and if the Social  Security Administration makes a mistake, it can be addressed in time.  However, our seniors can't afford to foot the bill for when they make  errors. With more than 97,000 residents of my district living under the  poverty line and 175,000 residents relying on Social Security, these  payments are, in fact, a lifeline.

In what world is this going to improve America? In what world is  taking a lifeline away from seniors improving our economy, and in what  world is constantly raising and lowering the hopes of some of our most  vulnerable neighbors making America great again?

I have already heard from constituents who have been contacted by the  Social Security Administration who are concerned about the changes and  the cuts. They have been told that 100 percent of their benefits will  be withheld until overpayments were paid back in full. These  overpayments were as a result of a mistake by the Social  Security Administration and not the fault of my constituents.

This means that people in my community lose their lifeline to pay for  food, housing, medications, and more. This means that people in my  community are suffering because of bad policy and abysmal management.  Let's fix Social Security. Let's make it solvent, but let's not punish  our seniors.

Changes to the Social Security Administration that prevent  beneficiaries from accessing their full benefits are nothing more than  backdoor benefit cuts, and I will not stand for it. I will always stand  in the way of these wolf-in-sheep's-clothing policies. We already know  that this is just a setup for cuts, and these changes are setups to pay  for tax giveaways for the richest, the billionaires, and greedy  corporations.

Mr. Speaker, I hear my colleagues say that there is a mandate, but I  don't think that there is a mandate to take housing, food, and  healthcare away from our seniors. I ask you and all of my colleagues  who I serve with to make sure that we protect Social Security, keep it  solvent, and ensure that we are protecting the benefits that they have  earned for hard work over several years and decades of service.