DC Criminal Reforms to Immediately Make Everyone Safe Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1695559/dc-criminal-reforms-to-immediately-make-everyone-safe-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this undemocratic and paternalistic  bill, which amends D.C. law. The over 700,000 D.C. residents, the  majority of whom are Black and Brown, are capable and worthy of  governing themselves.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record letters opposing this bill from  D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, the entire D.C. Council, and D.C. Attorney  General Brian Schwalb.                                                 September 10, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: As Mayor and       Chief Executive Officer of the District of Columbia, I am       proud of the work we have accomplished to invest in our       people, strengthen our neighborhoods, and drive down crime.       Building on this progress, my Administration established the       Safe and Beautiful Emergency Operations Center to coordinate       public safety and beautification efforts as the presidential       emergency declaration ends. This structure ensures that DC       will remain proactive--bringing together local and federal       partners to sustain momentum on reducing crime and improving       quality of life for every resident.

We have worked collaboratively with this Committee on       shared priorities, including public safety, the federal       Return to Work, implementing a DC budget Fiscal Year 2025 fix       (which is still pending in the House) and revitalizing the       RFK campus; but I write now to ask you to reject 13 of the DC       bills before you today that encroach on DC's Home Rule:

Bills like H.R. 5183, the District of Columbia Home Rule       Improvement Act, make the District less efficient,       competitive, and responsive to the needs of a highly complex       unique local government that serves local, county and state       functions. Bogging down legislative and executive action only       adds costs and uncertainty, making it more difficult to       handle the economic headwinds and growth opportunities ahead.

Bills like H.R. 5214, the District of Columbia Cash Bail       Reform Act, make DC less safe. Replacing our very effective       pre-trial detention regime, which focuses on charged violent       offenses and repeat violent offenders, not just on cash bail.       I credit recent changes to our laws related to pre-trial       detention for helping to drive down violent crime in the last       two years.

And the bills to abolish the Judicial Nominations       Commission and to convert the elected DC Attorney General to       a Presidentially appointed legal officer for the District are       both less democratic and untenable for District operations.       The Judicial Nomination Commission, with seven members       appointed by the Mayor, DC Council, President, US District       Court for DC, and the DC Bar, works. As recently as last       month, President Trump nominated three federal judicial       nominees who were selected from the Commission's candidate       pool--a process that demonstrates the value of maintaining       local input. DC residents also voted to elect an Attorney       General who represents the public interest. Changes to these       charter agencies would significantly undercut the already       thin ties to autonomy that limited home rule provides.

Finally, I urge you not to up end our three-part education       funding SOAR Act. I have long supported the program to expand       opportunity for DC students. However, my support has always       been contingent on parity among all three education sectors--      public, private, and charter--and this approach is working.       We will not support changes that tip the scales away from       this core principle of fairness for DC families. As the       fastest improving urban school system, DC has become a model       for urban education. We outpace the national average on all       tested subject areas. We boast free, full-day Pre-K access       serving more than 13,200 young learners--an investment which       supports our children and our workforce. DC ranked top of the       nation in parental satisfaction regarding school choice.       Mayoral control, council oversight, and deep, targeted       investments in our students, teachers, and buildings made       these remarkable achievements possible.

I look forward to continuing a productive partnership with       the Committee--one that respects the will of DC residents and       honors the principles of home rule. Together, we can build on       our successes while protecting the autonomy that, as history       reflects, has made our city stronger.            Sincerely,                                                     Muriel Bowser,      Mayor.                                   ____           Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Attorney General                                 Washington, DC, September 9, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The House       Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is scheduled to       markup fourteen bills tomorrow related to the operations of       the District of Columbia. With the exception of H.R. 2693,       the District of Columbia Electronic Transmittal Act, I write       in strong opposition to these bills. They address inherently       local issues and laws that were passed after careful       consideration by the District's elected representatives, who       are directly accountable to District residents. Members of       this very Committee have long advocated for the principles of       federalism on which this nation was founded. They have       consistently condemned federal overreach and fought       forcefully and convincingly for the uniquely American values       of local control, freedom, and self-governance. These       principles should apply to the more than 700,000 people who       call Washington, DC home, just as they do for your       constituents across the country.

I specifically want to call attention to the significant       incursion on local self-governance reflected in two bills,       the District of Columbia Attorney General Appointment Reform       Act and the District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform       Act. Both laws would displace the ability of District       residents to have a voice in the selection of local leaders       who wield significant power over local judicial matters: the       judges on our local courts and the Attorney General for the       District. The judges on the DC Court of Appeals and DC       Superior Court rule on inherently local matters such as       criminal prosecutions, landlord-tenant cases, probate       proceedings, civil cases, and divorce proceedings, all of       which have profoundly important impact on our community. For       more than 50 years, the Judicial Nomination Commission (JNC)       has successfully allowed DC residents to have a voice in       judicial appointments, while also granting the President and       Senate a role in confirming our judges. I urge the Committee       not to overturn that well-established process.

The DC Attorney General, as the District's chief law       officer, is also responsible for local legal issues, namely,       protecting the District and its residents in a wide range of       matters, such as enforcing child support laws, handling abuse       and neglect proceedings in the child welfare system,       enforcing our housing code, and defending District agencies       and officers when they are sued. In no other place in the       United States are such local issues determined by a federally       appointed person with no local accountability. The proposed       legislation would be especially undemocratic in light of the       fact that, in 2010, an overwhelming majority of District       voters (76 percent) exercised their right to amend the       District Charter to make the DC Attorney General an       independent, elected office, rather than a position appointed       by and subordinate to the Mayor. With that vote, District       residents clearly expressed their desire that the Attorney       General should be independent and accountable to them. The       pending bill would displace that choice in favor of       installing an Attorney General accountable not to District       residents, but to the President. Given that the U.S. Attorney       for the District is already appointed by the President, if       passed, this bill would concentrate all criminal and civil       litigation authority in the President, divesting the District       and its residents of any local control over these essential       functions.

No one knows or cares more about keeping DC safe than DC       residents who work, live and raise their families here. Our       democratically elected officials work closely with local law       enforcement, policy experts, and community leadership to pass       laws that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of DC voters with the whim of federal       politicians is undemocratic and un-American.

I urge you to reject these measures and uphold the values       Congress sought to advance more than 50 years ago when it       passed the District of Columbia Home Rule Act: that       District residents should enjoy the ``powers of local self-      government'' that all other Americans enjoy. See DC Code       Sec.  1-201.02.            Respectfully submitted,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,      Attorney General for the District of Columbia.                                   ____                              Council of the District of Columbia,                                  Washington, DC, September 8, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chair, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The Council       of the District of Columbia is aware that the House Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform is planning to mark up       more than a dozen proposed measures that would severely and       negatively impact the operations, public safety, and autonomy       of the District of Columbia. We ask that you oppose these       measures in full, save one, H.R. 2693, District of Columbia       Electronic Transmittal of Legislation Act. While we have not       seen the final text of this legislation, the public summary       of H.R. 2693 is consistent with the long held request by the       District of Columbia to allow the ability to electronically       transfer legislative acts to Congress, rather than only       allowing physical copies be transferred. The challenge and       barriers created by this current requirement were clearly       exposed during both the recent COVID pandemic restrictions as       well as the Capitol campus restrictions following the January       6, 2021 attacks on the Capitol.

The other 13 measures that have been shared with us would       do direct and serious harm to the District of Columbia and we       urge you to reject these measures completely. These bills       represent an unprecedented attack on the autonomy and home       rule of our local government and the more than 700,000       Americans that call it home. The breadth of these bills is       remarkable, and if passed, would result in an erosion of       accountability and public safety for the District of       Columbia. They range from eliminating and replacing our       elected and accountable Attorney General for the District of       Columbia with a President's hand-picked and unaccountable       associate requiring no confirmation by the U.S. Senate and no       local ties, to a full repeal of multiple local DC laws that       have been in place for many years, if not decades, that are       tested, proven, and effective components of our public safety       infrastructure and ecosystem. The effect of these       Congressional repeals would put our legal and Court system       into chaos and directly undermine successful tools that focus       on serious accountability and effective rehabilitation when a       crime occurs. As always, when revisions or amendments to DC       laws are necessary, those changes should only take place       within our local legislature which has the best capacity to       provide effective oversight and accountable actions for the       residents of the District of Columbia.

We respectfully request that all members of the Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform, and all members of       Congress, reject these harmful measures whether in committee       mark up or before the full House of Representatives. Given       the breadth of the multiple measures before you, we also       request an opportunity to provide a more in-depth discussion       of each bill before the Committee's mark-up, especially in       light that the Committee will not hold public hearings on       these measures.            Sincerely,

Chairman Phil Mendleson; Councilmember Anita Bonds, At-      Large; Councilmember Robert White, Jr., At-Large;       Councilmember Brooke Pinto, Ward 2; Councilmember Janeese       Lewis George, Ward 4; Councilmember Charles Allen, Ward 6;       Councilmember Trayon White, Sr, Ward 8; Councilmember Kenyan       McDuffie, At-Large; Councilmember Christina Henderson, At-      Large; Councilmember Brianne Nadeau, Ward 1; Councilmember       Matthew Frumin, Ward 3; Councilmember Zachary Parker, Ward 5;       Councilmember Wendell Felder, Ward 7.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, the local legislature, the Council, has 13  members. If D.C. residents do not like how members vote, residents can  vote them out of office or pass a ballot measure. That is called  democracy.

Congress has 535 voting Members. None are elected by D.C. residents.  If D.C. residents do not like how Members vote on local D.C. matters,  residents cannot vote them out of office or pass a ballot measure. That  is the antithesis of democracy.

The substance of this bill should be irrelevant since there is never  justification for Congress to legislate on local D.C. matters.  Nevertheless, I will discuss it.

Republicans claim D.C.'s Youth Rehabilitation Act treats adults as  juveniles. They are wrong. They either do not understand the act or are  misleading the public about it intentionally. The act's sentencing and  set aside provisions apply only in adult court, not juvenile court.

Let me repeat: The provisions apply in adult court, not juvenile  court. A judge may, but is not required to, sentence a person under the  act, and certain crimes are ineligible under the act.

D.C. is not the only jurisdiction with a so-called young adult  offender law. Alabama, Florida, Michigan, New York, South Carolina, and  Vermont have such laws. The sponsor of this bill is from one of those  States.

D.C. residents have all the obligations of American citizenship,  including paying Federal taxes, serving on juries, and registering with  the Selective Service, yet Congress denies them full local self- government and voting representation in Congress. The only solution to  this undemocratic treatment is to grant D.C. statehood.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter explaining why D.C.  statehood is constitutional from leading constitutional scholars,  including Larry Tribe.                                                       May 22, 2021.      Re Washington, D.C. Admission Act, H.R. 51 and S. 51 (the           ``D.C. Admission Act'').       Hon. Nancy P. Pelosi,      Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Charles E. Schumer,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Kevin O. McCarthy,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Mitch McConnell,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.

Dear Congressional Leaders: As scholars of the United       States Constitution, we write to correct claims that the D.C.       Admission Act is vulnerable to a constitutional challenge in       the courts. For the reasons set forth below, there is no       constitutional barrier to the State of Washington, Douglass       Commonwealth (the ``Commonwealth'') entering the Union       through a congressional joint resolution, pursuant to the       Constitution's Admissions Clause, just like the 37 other       states that have been admitted since the Constitution was       adopted. Furthermore, Congress's exercise of its express       constitutional authority to decide to admit a new state is a       classic political question, which courts are highly unlikely       to interfere with, let alone attempt to bar.

The D.C. Admission Act. The House passed the Act, as H.R.       51, on April 22, 2021, and as of this writing, the       substantively identical companion bill (S. 51) is under       consideration by the Senate. The Act provides for the       issuance of a congressional joint resolution declaring the       admittance as a State of most of the territory currently       comprising the District of Columbia, while the seat of       government (defined as the ``Capital'') will fall outside of       the boundaries of the new State and remain under federal       jurisdiction. The Act also repeals the provision of federal       law that establishes the current mechanism for District       residents to participate in presidential elections, pursuant       to Congress's authority under the Twenty-Third Amendment; and       provides for expedited consideration of the repeal of that       Amendment.

The Admissions Clause grants Congress constitutional       authority to admit the Commonwealth into the Union. The       starting point for a constitutional analysis of the Act is       the Constitution's Admissions Clause (Art. IV, Sect. 3),       which provides that ``New States may be admitted by the       Congress into this Union.'' The Clause ``vests in Congress       the essential and discretionary authority to admit new states       into the Union by whatever means it considers appropriate as       long as such means are framed within its vested powers.''       Every State admitted into the Union since the Constitution       was adopted has been admitted by congressional action       pursuant to this Clause; no State has been admitted pursuant       to a constitutional amendment.

The Supreme Court has broadly construed Congress's assigned       power to admit new states and has never interfered with       Congress's admission of a state, even when potentially       legitimate constitutional objections existed. For example, in       1863, Congress admitted into the Union West Virginia, which       had been part of the State of Virginia, in potential       violation of a provision of the Admissions Clause that bars       the formation of a new State out of a portion of the       territory of another State without the consent of the ceding       State. The Supreme Court, however, did not bar West       Virginia's admission; to the contrary, it later tacitly       approved of it.

Some critics of the D.C. Admission Act have suggested that       Maryland's consent might be required under the foregoing       provision of the Admissions Clause. This objection mistakenly       presupposes that Maryland retains a reversionary interest in       the territory currently composing the District of Columbia,       which Maryland ceded to the federal government when the       District was established in 1791. In fact, Maryland expressly       relinquished all sovereign authority over the territory at       issue when the federal government accepted it. The express       terms of the cession state that the territory was ``for ever       ceded and relinquished to the congress and government of the       United States, in full and absolute right, and exclusive       jurisdiction.       . . . As Viet D. Dinh, who served as an Assistant Attorney       General during the presidency of George W. Bush, has       explained, because Maryland's cession of the territory now       constituting the District was full and complete, it severed       D.C. residents' now far distant ``political link with''       Maryland. The current District is not part of Maryland, and       Maryland has no claim on any portion of the District's       territory. There is accordingly no basis to require       Maryland's consent for the establishment of the new State.

The Constitution's District Clause poses no barrier to       admitting the Commonwealth into the Union. The Constitution's       District Clause grants Congress power to ``exercise exclusive       Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not       exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular       States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of       the Government of the United States.'' Based on this Clause,       Congress established the current District of Columbia, which       (as explained) was taken from territory ceded by Maryland, as       well as Virginia.

The D.C. Admission Act complies with the District Clause       because it provides that the Capital--which is defined in the       Act to include (among other things) the White House, the       Capitol Building, the United States Supreme Court Building,       and the Federal executive, legislative, and judicial office       buildings located adjacent to the Mall--will not become part       of the new State and will remain under the sovereignty of the       federal government.

Some critics have argued that the District Clause somehow       mandates that the District of Columbia permanently retain all       of its current territory, and that its size may neither be       increased or reduced by Congress. The plain language of the       District Clause says no such thing; it does not mandate that       the District be any size or shape, except it limits the       maximum size of the federal enclave to ten square miles.

Historical practice confirms that Congress can change the       size of the District. In 1791, Congress altered the       District's southern boundary to encompass portions of what       are now Alexandria, Virginia and Anacostia. Then, in 1846,       Congress retroceded Alexandria and its environs back to       Virginia. As a result, the territory composing the District       was reduced by a third.

At the time of the 1846 retrocession, the House's Committee       on the District of Columbia considered, and rejected, the       very argument that critics of the D.C. Admission Act are       raising today, reasoning that the ``true construction of [the       District Clause] would seem to be solely that Congress retain       and exercise exclusive jurisdiction'' over territory       comprising the ``seat of government.'' The language of the       District Clause, the legislators observed, places no mandate       on the size, or even the location, of that seat of       government, other than preventing the government from       ``hold[ing] more than ten miles for this purpose.'' The       House's judgment was correct in 1846, and remains so today.

The Twenty-Third Amendment does not prevent Congress from       granting the Commonwealth statehood. Opponents of statehood       have suggested that the Twenty-Third Amendment bars Congress       from exercising its constitutionally enumerated authority to       grant statehood to the Commonwealth. In fact, the Amendment       poses no barrier to the admission of the Commonwealth into       the Union through an act of Congress, in accordance with the       plain language of the Admissions Clause, just as Congress has       done in connection with the admission of several other       States, including most recently Alaska and Hawaii.

Section 1 of the Twenty-Third Amendment, which was ratified       in 1961, provides:

The District constituting the seat of Government of the       United States shall appoint in such manner as the Congress       may direct: A number of electors of President and Vice       President equal to the whole number of Senators and       Representatives in Congress to which the District would be       entitled if it were a State, but in no event more than the       least populous State; they shall be in addition to those       appointed by the States, but they shall be considered, for       the purposes of the election of President and Vice President,       to be electors appointed by a State.

By its plain terms, the Amendment poses no barrier to       Congress's admission of the Commonwealth into the Union.       Indeed, it is entirely silent on the matter.

The only question raised by the existence of the Twenty-      Third Amendment is a practical, not a constitutional one: How       best to address the Twenty-Third Amendment's provision for       the assignment of presidential electors to what will become a       vestigial seat of government, with virtually no residents?       The Act satisfactorily addresses this question by providing       for the repeal of the provision of federal law that       establishes the current mechanism for District residents to       participate in presidential elections, pursuant to Congress's       authority under the Twenty-Third Amendment, as well as by       commencing the process for repealing the Amendment itself.

Initially, the Act provides for an expedited process for       repeal of the Twenty-Third Amendment, a process that should       move forward to ratification swiftly and successfully once       the Commonwealth is admitted as a State. None of the other 50       States has reason to seek to retain three electors for a       largely unoccupied seat of government.

But the Act also addresses the possibility that the Twenty-      Third Amendment is not promptly repealed by mandating the       immediate repeal of the provision of federal law that       provides the current mechanism for District residents to       participate in federal elections.

In 1961, following the adoption of the Twenty-Third       Amendment, Congress exercised its enforcement authority by       enacting legislation (codified at 3 U.S.C. Sec. 21),       providing that the District residents may select presidential       electors; the votes of the electors are currently awarded to       the ticket prevailing in the District's presidential       election.

The existing statutes, fall within the broad authority       granted to Congress by the Twenty-Third Amendment to define       the terms of, and effectuate, the District's participation in       presidential elections. The Amendment allows for the       appointment of a number of Electors ``in such manner as the       Congress may direct.'' The Amendment also allows Congress to       select the number of Electors the District may receive,       subject only to a maximum: The District may participate in       the presidential Electoral College through the appointment of       no more electors than those of the smallest State, ie.,       three. And section 2 of the Amendment grants Congress the       power to ``enforce'' the provision ``by appropriate       legislation,'' as it did in 1961.

But once Congress acts again, pursuant to its express grant       of constitutional authority, and repeals the legislation that       creates the existing procedure for District residents to       select presidential electors, that will remove the       legislative provision providing for the District's       participation in presidential elections. Without such a       provision, there is no mechanism for identifying the Capital       area's electors or allocating their votes.

Some scholars have questioned whether that approach is       satisfactory. They contend that the Twenty-Third Amendment is       self-enforcing, and effectively mandates the appointment of       electors on behalf of the District of Columbia, regardless of       whether such appointment is called for under a federal       statute. Some of us disagree; indeed, the very existence of       Section 2 of the Amendment makes clear that enabling       legislation is required to effectuate the District's       participation in the presidential election process. And       Congress's 1961 enforcement legislation supports this       interpretation.

Even if this self-enforcement argument were to be accepted,       however, Congress could easily address it by replacing the       current law mandating that the Capital area's electors vote       in accordance with the outcome of the popular vote in the       District with a new legislative mandate that the Capital       area's electors vote in other ways. For example, Congress       could require District electors to vote in favor of the       presidential ticket that receives the most Electoral College       votes (of the remaining 538 electors). Or, alternatively,       Congress could require that District electors vote for the       winner of the national popular vote winner.

A recent Supreme Court decision confirms that a legislative       directive to the Capital area's electors would be       enforceable. The Twenty-Third Amendment provides that the       District ``shall appoint'' electors ``in such manner as       Congress may direct''; this language is a direct parallel to       the Constitution's grant of broad authority to each of the       States to appoint and instruct their respective electors. In       its recent decision in Chiafalo v. Washington, the Supreme       Court held that electors do not have discretion to decide how       to cast their Electoral College votes, but rather are legally       bound to follow the instructions given by their respective       states.

As Columbia Law School Professors Jessica Bulman-Pozen and       Olatunde Johnson have observed, it follows from the Court's       holding in Chiafalo that Congress could legally bind any       electors to vote in accordance with the overall vote of the       Electoral College or the national popular vote, just as the       existing enabling statute currently binds them to vote in the       Electoral College in accordance with the outcome of the       popular vote in the District.

In sum, none of the critics' constitutional objections to       the D.C. Admission Act are meritorious; and the contention       that a constitutional amendment is required to admit the       Commonwealth into the Union is incorrect. The D.C. Admission       Act calls for a proper exercise of Congress' express       authority under the Constitution to admit new states, a power       that it has exercised 37 other times since the Constitution       was adopted.

Courts are unlikely to second-guess Congress's exercise of       its constitutional authority to admit the Commonwealth into       the Union. Apart from the fact that the legal objections to       admission of the Commonwealth as a State are without merit,       it is also unlikely that the courts will ever consider those       objections. As Mr. Dinh has observed, the decision whether to       admit a state into the Union is a paradigmatic political       question that the Constitution expressly and exclusively       assigns to Congress. The Supreme Court has long, and       strenuously, avoided adjudicating disputes respecting matters       that the Constitution makes the sole responsibility of the       coordinate, elected branches.

The remaining objections to Statehood do not concern       applicable constitutional law, but rather matters of policy.

For example, some have argued that the District should not       be admitted to the Union because it is a single city and have       instead proposed that most of the District's territory be       retrocessioned to Maryland. There is, however, no       constitutional barrier to a large, diverse city, with a       population comparable       to that of several existing States, joining the Union.       Furthermore, the Maryland retrocession proposal is subject to       many of the same supposed constitutional objections raised by       those who object to statehood for the District. For example,       retroceding the District to Maryland would decrease the size       of the remaining federal enclave, which objectors to District       Statehood have claimed is constitutionally impermissible. A       forced merger of the District and Maryland would also do       nothing to address the purported constitutional objection to       leaving the residual seat of government with three potential       electors, pursuant to the terms of the Twenty-Third       Amendment, prior to the Amendment's repeal.

Opponents also argue that Congress should not grant the       District statehood because it will lead to a lawsuit. But any       court challenge will be without merit, and indeed likely will       be dismissed as presenting a political question. We       respectfully submit that Congress should not avoid exercising       its express constitutional authority to admit the       Commonwealth into the Union because of meritless threats of       litigation.            Sincerely yours,

Caroline Fredrickson, Georgetown University Law Center;       Erwin Chemerinsky, University of California, Berkeley School       of Law; Stephen I. Vladeck, University of Texas Law School;       Franita Tolson, University of Southern California, Gould       School of Law; Jessica Bulman-Pozen, Columbia Law School;       Leah Litman, University of Michigan Law School; Laurence H.       Tribe, Harvard Law School; Paul Smith, Georgetown University       Law Center; Geoffrey R. Stone, University of Chicago Law       School; Peter Edelman, Georgetown University Law Center,

Kermit Roosevelt, University of Pennsylvania Carey Law       School; Eric Segall, Georgia State College Law; Trevor       Potter, Campaign Legal Center; Gregory P. Downs, University       of California Davis; Larry Sabato, University of Virginia;       Aziz Huq, University of Chicago Law School; Jennifer       Hochschild, Harvard University; Neil S. Siegel, Duke       University School of Law; Beau Breslin, Skidmore College;       David C. Vladeck, Georgetown University Law Center; Sanford       Levinson, University of Texas at Austin School of Law; Ira C.       Lupu, George Washington University Law School; Peter M.       Shane, Ohio State University Moritz College of Law; Ira P.       Robbins, American University Washington College of Law;       Michael Greenberger, University of Maryland Francis King       Carey School of Law.

David Pozen, Columbia Law School; Mark Tushnet, Harvard Law       School; Michael C. Dorf, Cornell Law School; Miguel Schor,       Drake University School of Law; David S. Schwartz, University       of Wisconsin Law School; Caroline Mala Corbin, University of       Miami School of Law; Jonathan Askin, Brooklyn Law School;       Aziz Rana, Cornell Law School; John Mikhail, Georgetown       University Law Center; Richard Ford, Stanford Law School;       Richard Primus, University of Michigan Law School; Joseph       Fishkin, University of Texas Law School; Kate Masur,       Northwestern University; Chris Edelson, American University.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, the D.C. statehood bill, H.R. 51, the  Washington, D.C. Admission Act, grants D.C. residents full local self- government and voting representation in Congress. H.R. 51 reduces the  size of the Federal district from 68 square miles to 2 square miles,  consisting of the White House, Capitol, the Supreme Court, and The  National Mall and remaining under the control of Congress. The new  State consists of the residential and commercial areas of D.C. The new  State has a larger population than two States, pays more Federal taxes  per capita than any State, and pays more total Federal taxes than 21  States.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to vote ``no'' on the D.C. CRIMES Act,  keep their hands off D.C. and free D.C.