Disapproving the Action of the District of Columbia Council in Approving the D.C. Income and Franchise Tax Conformity and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding time.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this unprecedented, undemocratic, and  paternalistic disapproval resolution. This  disapproval resolution would sabotage the District of Columbia's tax  filing season and credit rating.

The substance of the D.C. law that is the subject of this disapproval  resolution should be irrelevant to Members of Congress since there is  never justification for Congress to legislate on local D.C. matters,  but I will discuss it.

The D.C. law, which the D.C. Council unanimously passed, established  a child tax credit, increased an existing earned income tax credit, and  decoupled D.C.'s tax code from some of the tax provisions in the so- called One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

This disapproval resolution would repeal the D.C. law. Let's be  clear: The D.C. law changed only the D.C. tax code. It did not, and  could not, change the Federal tax code.

The D.C. tax filing season began last week. This disapproval  resolution would change D.C.'s tax code during the current tax filing  season, causing an administrative nightmare for D.C. and tax software  companies. D.C. would have to suspend the current tax filing season for  several months to update tax forms and guidance, and taxpayers who have  already filed returns would have to file amended returns.

The D.C. law is not unique. Like D.C., approximately half of the  States, both red and blue, automatically adopt Federal tax changes in  their tax codes. However, like D.C., several of these States, both red  and blue, have passed laws decoupling their tax codes from some of the  tax provisions in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act.

The approximately 20 States, both red and blue, that link their tax  codes to the Federal tax code, as of a specific date would have to  change that date to adopt the tax provisions of the One Big Beautiful  Bill Act. The D.C. law expires in 225 days, giving D.C. time to  evaluate which provisions in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act it wants to  permanently adopt or decouple.

This disapproval resolution could harm D.C.'s credit rating, forcing  D.C. to pay higher interest rates. Rating agencies consider the  possibility of Congress meddling in D.C.'s fiscal matters as negative  for D.C.'s rating, but also consider as positive that ``Congress has  never voided or otherwise overturned a revenue-raising measure approved  by the District.''

If this disapproval resolution were enacted, Congress would have  overturned a revenue-raising measure approved by D.C. Last year, when  Congress cut D.C.'s local budget by $1 billion, D.C.'s rating was put  on negative watch. This disapproval resolution is an even bigger threat  to D.C.'s rating.

The D.C. law established a child tax credit and increased an existing  earned income tax credit. These credits are projected to reduce child  poverty in D.C. by 20 percent. This disapproval resolution would repeal  these credits.

The D.C. law is expected to generate approximately $600 million in  local revenue over the next 4 years. If this disapproval resolution  were enacted, D.C. would have to make up for that lost revenue, such as  by cutting critical programs.

The 700,000 D.C. residents, the majority of whom are Black and Brown,  are capable and worthy of self-government. I urge my colleagues to  oppose this disapproval resolution and to instead make D.C. a State.  Free D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter to Congress from the  D.C. Office of the Chief Financial Officer, an independent office  established by Congress.          Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Chief Financial Officer,                                                  February 2, 2026.      Re Impact of Joint Resolution on District of Columbia           Finances.       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives.      Hon. John Thune,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives.      Hon. Charles Schumer,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate.

Dear Speaker Johnson, Leader Jeffries, Leader Thune, and       Leader Schumer: We are providing information on the financial       implications to the Government of the District of Columbia       from Joint Resolution of Disapproval H.J. Res. 142 and Joint       Resolution of Disapproval S.J. Res. 102 (collectively, the       Joint Resolution).

If the joint Resolution passes both the House and Senate       and is signed by the President, the changes in District law       enacted by The District's Income and Franchise Tax Conformity       and Revision Temporary Amendment Act of 2025 (the Tax       Amendment Act), which de-coupled the District from certain       provisions of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, H.R. 1, Public       Law 119-21 (OBBBA), would be invalidated.

This document reviews the implications of the Joint       Resolution on the District's current four-year Financial       Plan, the District's tax administration processes, and the       District's cash position.                                Financial Plan

The Joint Resolution would not have a material impact on       the four-year financial plan approved by the Mayor and D.C.       Council, and by Congress.

In the September 2025 Revenue Estimate issued by my office,       the District estimated a reduction in revenue from the       implementation of OBBBA provisions. However, such reduction       was estimated to be offset by revenues collected by the       District under current law (i.e., not taking into account the       impact of implementing the Tax Amendment Act) and as a result       of the general state of the economy in the District of       Columbia.

In particular, personal income tax revenues are estimated       to be strong due to capital gains earnings by higher-income       households, and corporate tax revenues are expected to       increase due to strong growth in earnings by businesses that       have a presence in the District of Columbia.                              Tax Administration

Enactment of the Joint Resolution will disrupt the       District's ability to collect income tax revenues associated       with annual income tax filings due by April 15, 2026.

Several of the provisions in the District's Tax Amendment       Act were applicable for tax year 2025, and for certain       taxpayers, tax years 2022, 2023, and 2024. Beginning last       fall, the District's tax administration agency, the Office of       Tax and Revenue (OTR), undertook efforts to implement the       legislation in time for the opening of the tax filing season       on January 26, 2026.

Implementation required substantial changes to OTR's       systems and taxpayer forms for nearly all aspects of income       and franchise tax filings by District residents, trusts and       estates, as well as all corporations, unincorporated       businesses, and partnerships doing business in the District.       It also required OTR staff training and outreach to tax       software vendors, the tax preparer community, and taxpayers.

Enactment of the Joint Resolution means that the changes       that were made to OTR's forms and systems for tax year 2025       will no longer be consistent with District law. As a result,       OTR would need to suspend the current filing season until       such time as it can make the necessary changes to revert the       District's tax administration system to conform with legal       requirements prior to the Tax Amendment Act's enactment. The       necessary changes include, but are not limited to:

Updating forms, schedules, and instructions. Forms and       other relevant filing documents must be developed.       Additionally, preparation for each filing season typically       begins immediately after the start of the previous season. If       OTR is required to re-work tax year 2025 now, they will be       managing two filing seasons concurrently (i.e., Tax Years       2025 and 2026).

Systems changes. Reprogramming the tax processing system       will be required. This includes development of business and       system requirements, and tasks associated with Modernized       Electronic Filing. As noted previously, OTR would be required       to manage two filing seasons concurrently.

Changes to software of tax processing vendors. Vendors will       need to reconfigure software to allow taxpayers to properly       file. If the District must reverse the changes pursuant to       implementing the Act, it could be at risk of losing vendors       who normally participate in DC tax filing, as the current       products that are already approved and in use would no longer       be valid.

For the current filing season, OTR managers estimate that       adjustments will likely require several months, which would       extend District income tax filing deadlines into fall 2026.       The adjustments will also generate millions of dollars of       additional expenses that must be paid by the District's       General Fund resources.                                  Cash Flow

Invalidation of the Tax Amendment Act may lead to District       cash flow disruptions. In addition to the administrative       burdens described above, the District is assessing the impact       of the invalidation of the Tax Amendment Act on the timing of       collections of income tax revenues and the related cash flow,       among other matters. For example, it is possible that an       extension in filing deadlines could lead to a shift in the       timing of collections in income tax revenue from Fiscal Year       2026 to Fiscal Year 2027, thereby creating a shortfall in       cash collections of approximately $400 million in FY 2026.

Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have questions.            Sincerely,                                                          Glen Lee.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, the letter states that if this disapproval  resolution were enacted, the office would have to suspend the current  D.C. tax filing season for several months to update tax forms,  schedules, and instructions, to reprogram the tax processing system,  and for tax preparation companies to update their software.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a joint letter to Congress from  D.C.'s elected Mayor and the elected council chairman strongly opposing  this disapproval resolution.                                                   February 2, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives.      Hon. John Thune,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate.      Hon. Charles Schumer,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate.

Dear Speaker Johnson, Leader Jeffries, Leader Thune, and       Leader Schumer: We write to express our strong opposition to       Joint Resolution of Disapproval H.J. Res. 142 and Joint       Resolution of Disapproval S.J. Res. 102. These resolutions       are an intrusion on the District's Home Rule authority and       would have major and immediate impacts on tax administration       in the District. We very strongly urge you and your       colleagues to oppose these resolutions.

The District of Columbia is one of many jurisdictions       across the Nation that routinely modifies its local tax code       in accordance with federal tax laws, including choosing to       decouple from federal tax changes to address local concerns       or mitigate projected fiscal impacts. At the end of last       year, multiple states and the District decided to decouple       their tax codes from some provisions of H.R. 1. While the       District adopted the majority of H.R. 1 provisions, a small       number were temporarily set aside. These decisions were made       through the District's legislative process and are the same       type of policy judgments that every state and local       government routinely makes on behalf of their residents.

The timing of these resolutions are especially problematic.       The District is already a month into the 2026 tax year and       has begun accepting and processing tax returns. Disapproval       at this stage would create huge administrative challenges,       require taxpayers to re-file their taxes, render existing       guidance and forms obsolete, and necessitate rapid mid-year       changes to tax administration systems. It is unclear how       quickly commercial tax preparation software could be updated       to accommodate such changes, and District residents and       businesses would likely experience confusion, as well as       delays. The resolutions would lead to the District's income       tax filing deadlines to be pushed to Fall 2026 and would       cause millions of dollars in additional expenses.

We strongly urge you to oppose the disapproval resolutions       and to respect the District's governance of its local fiscal       affairs.            Sincerely,      Muriel Bowser,

Mayor.      Phil Mendelson,

Chairman, Council of the District of Columbia.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, while they disagreed on whether the D.C.  Council should have enacted the D.C. law that is the subject of this  disapproval resolution in the first place, they both strongly oppose  this disapproval resolution. Their letter states that this disapproval  resolution, if enacted, not only would violate D.C.'s right to self- government but ``would have major and immediate impacts on tax  administration in the District.''

Mr. Speaker, I finally include in the Record a letter to Congress  from the D.C. business community.                                                   February 3, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives.      Hon. John Thune,      Majority Leader, U.S. Senate.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Minority Leader, House of Representatives.      Hon. Charles Schumer,      Minority Leader, U.S. Senate.

Dear Speaker Johnson, Leader Thune, Leader Jeffries, and       Leader Schumer: We write to you, in unison, as       representatives of the District of Columbia's business       organizations, urging you to oppose the Joint Resolution of       Disapproval H.J. Res. 142 and Joint Resolution of Disapproval       S.J. Res. 102 that would reverse the District's decision to       decouple the local tax code from some provisions of the One       Big Beautiful Bill Act's federal tax code changes.

A reversal of decoupling would create chaos in the middle       of tax filing season. The District has already begun       accepting and processing returns. It would take the DC       government and private vendors months to adjust local tax       administration. Filing deadlines would have to be pushed back       to the Fall of 2026. Delaying local income tax collection       would create a local cash shortfall of up to $400 million in       FY26, according to the DC Chief Financial Officer.

Local tax code decoupling from the federal tax code is not       unique. Many states have also voted to decouple from       provisions in the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, as they have       many times in the past in response to federal tax changes.

Changes at this stage in the process would create fiscal       instability and uncertainty, impeding the District's ability       to attract investment. There are many ways that Congress has       and can continue to use its power to make the District a       vibrant city where Americans want to live, visit, and do       business, and we welcome your support for the District of       Columbia.            Sincerely,

The Washington, DC Business and Civic Community; Anthony       Williams, CEO & Executive Director, Federal City Council;       Jack McDougle, President & CEO, Greater Washington Board of       Trade; Chinyere Hubbard, President & CEO, DC Chamber of       Commerce; Lisa Mallory, President & CEO, Apartment & Office       Building Association of Metropolitan Washington; Scott       Reiter, CEO, DC Association of REALTORS; Jacqueline D.       Bowens, President & CEO, D.C. Hospital Association; Liz       DeBarros, CEO, District of Columbia Building Industry       Association; Edward Krauze, CEO, Greater Capital Area       Association of Realtors; Solomon Keene, President & CEO,       Hotel Association of Washington, DC; Malcom Fox, Executive       Director, Opportunity DC.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, while the D.C. business community may not  have supported the D.C. law that is the subject of this disapproval  resolution, their letter states they oppose this disapproval resolution  because it would, if enacted, cause ``chaos in the middle of tax filing  season'' and ``create fiscal instability and uncertainty, impeding the  District's ability to attract investment.''