District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill, which eliminates the  District of Columbia's already small role in the selection of its local  judges.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record letters opposing this bill from  D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, the entire D.C. Council, D.C. Attorney Brian  Schwalb, and the D.C. Bar.                                                 September 10, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: As Mayor and       Chief Executive Officer of the District of Columbia, I am       proud of the work we have accomplished to invest in our       people, strengthen our neighborhoods, and drive down crime.       Building on this progress, my Administration established the       Safe and Beautiful Emergency Operations Center to coordinate       public safety and beautification efforts as the presidential       emergency declaration ends. This structure       ensures that DC will remain proactive--bringing together       local and federal partners to sustain momentum on reducing       crime and improving quality of life for every resident.

We have worked collaboratively with this Committee on       shared priorities, including public safety, the federal       Return to Work, implementing a DC budget Fiscal Year 2025 fix       (which is still pending in the House) and revitalizing the       RFK campus; but I write now to ask you to reject 13 of the DC       bills before you today that encroach on DC's Home Rule:

Bills like H.R. 5183, the District of Columbia Home Rule       Improvement Act, make the District less efficient,       competitive, and responsive to the needs of a highly complex       unique local government that serves local, county and state       functions. Bogging down legislative and executive action only       adds costs and uncertainty, making it more difficult to       handle the economic headwinds and growth opportunities ahead.

Bills like H.R. 5214, the District of Columbia Cash Bail       Reform Act, make DC less safe. Replacing our very effective       pre-trial detention regime, which focuses on charged violent       offenses and repeat violent offenders, not just on cash bail.       I credit recent changes to our laws related to pre-trial       detention for helping to drive down violent crime in the last       two years.

And the bills to abolish the Judicial Nominations       Commission and to convert the elected DC Attorney General to       a Presidentially appointed legal officer for the District are       both less democratic and untenable for District operations.       The Judicial Nomination Commission, with seven members       appointed by the Mayor, DC Council, President, US District       Court for DC, and the DC Bar, works. As recently as last       month, President Trump nominated three federal judicial       nominees who were selected from the Commission's candidate       pool--a process that demonstrates the value of maintaining       local input. DC residents also voted to elect an Attorney       General who represents the public interest. Changes to these       charter agencies would significantly undercut the already       thin ties to autonomy that limited home rule provides.

Finally, I urge you not to up end our three-part eduction       funding SOAR Act. I have long supported the program to expand       opportunity for DC students. However, my support has always       been contingent on parity among all three education sectors--      public, private, and charter--and this approach is working.       We will not support changes that tip the scales away from       this core principle of fairness for DC families. As the       fastest improving urban school system, DC has become a model       for urban education. We outpace the national average on all       tested subject areas. We boast free, full-day Pre-K access       serving more than 13,200 young learners--an investment which       supports our children and our workforce. DC ranked top of the       nation in parental satisfaction regarding school choice.       Mayoral control, council oversight, and deep, targeted       investments in our students, teachers, and buildings made       these remarkable achievements possible.

I look forward to continuing a productive partnership with       the Committee--one that respects the will of DC residents and       honors the principles of home rule. Together, we can build on       our successes while protecting the autonomy that, as history       reflects, has made our city stronger.            Sincerely,                                                     Muriel Bowser,      Mayor.                                   ____                              Council of the District of Columbia,                                  Washington, DC, September 8, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chair, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The Council       of the District of Columbia is aware that the House Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform is planning to mark up       more than a dozen proposed measures that would severely and       negatively impact the operations, public safety, and autonomy       of the District of Columbia. We ask that you oppose these       measures in full, save one, H.R. 2693, District of Columbia       Electronic Transmittal of Legislation Act. While we have not       seen the final text of this legislation, the public summary       of H.R. 2693 is consistent with the long held request by the       District of Columbia to allow the ability to electronically       transfer legislative acts to Congress, rather than only       allowing physical copies be transferred. The challenge and       barriers created by this current requirement were clearly       exposed during both the recent COVID pandemic restrictions as       well as the Capitol campus restrictions following the January       6, 2021 attacks on the Capitol.

The other 13 measures that have been shared with us would       do direct and serious harm to the District of Columbia and we       urge you to reject these measures completely. These bills       represent an unprecedented attack on the autonomy and home       rule of our local government and the more than 700,000       Americans that call it home. The breadth of these bills is       remarkable, and if passed, would result in an erosion of       accountability and public safety for the District of       Columbia. They range from eliminating and replacing our       elected and accountable Attorney General for the District of       Columbia with a President's hand-picked and unaccountable       associate requiring no confirmation by the U.S. Senate and no       local ties, to a full repeal of multiple local DC laws that       have been in place for many years, if not decades, that are       tested, proven, and effective components of our public safety       infrastructure and ecosystem. The effect of these       Congressional repeals would put our legal and Court system       into chaos and directly undermine successful tools that focus       on serious accountability and effective rehabilitation when a       crime occurs. As always, when revisions or amendments to DC       laws are necessary, those changes should only take place       within our local legislature which has the best capacity to       provide effective oversight and accountable actions for the       residents of the District of Columbia.

We respectfully request that all members of the Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform, and all members of       Congress, reject these harmful measures whether in committee       mark up or before the full House of Representatives. Given       the breadth of the multiple measures before you, we also       request an opportunity to provide a more in-depth discussion       of each bill before the Committee's mark-up, especially in       light that the Committee will not hold public hearings on       these measures.            Sincerely,

Chairman Phil Mendelson; Councilmember Anita Bonds, At-      Large; Councilmember Robert White, Jr.; Councilmember Brooke       Pinto, Ward 2; Councilmember Janeese Lewis George, Ward 4;       Councilmember Charles Allen, Ward 6; Councilmember Kenyan       McDuffie, At-Large; Councilmember Christina Henderson, At-      Large; Councilmember Brianne Nadeau, Ward 1; Councilmember       Matthew Frumin, Ward 3; Councilmember Zachary Parker, Ward 5;       Councilmember Wendell Felder, Ward 7; Councilmember Trayon       White, Sr, Ward 8.                                   ____           Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Attorney General,                                                 September 9, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The House       Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is scheduled to       markup fourteen bills tomorrow related to the operations of       the District of Columbia. With the exception of H.R. 2693,       the District of Columbia Electronic Transmittal Act, I write       in strong opposition to these bills. They address inherently       local issues and laws that were passed after careful       consideration by the District's elected representatives, who       are directly accountable to District residents. Members of       this very Committee have long advocated for the principles of       federalism on which this nation was founded. They have       consistently condemned federal overreach and fought       forcefully and convincingly for the uniquely American values       of local control, freedom, and self-governance. These       principles should apply to the more than 700,000 people who       call Washington, DC home, just as they do for your       constituents across the country.

I specifically want to call attention to the significant       incursion on local self-governance reflected in two bills,       the District of Columbia Attorney General Appointment Reform       Act and the District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform       Act. Both laws would displace the ability of District       residents to have a voice in the selection of local leaders       who wield significant power over local judicial matters: the       judges on our local courts and the Attorney General for the       District. The judges on the DC Court of Appeals and DC       Superior Court rule on inherently local matters such as       criminal prosecutions, landlord-tenant cases, probate       proceedings, civil cases, and divorce proceedings, all of       which have profoundly important impact on our community. For       more than 50 years, the Judicial Nomination Commission (JNC)       has successfully allowed DC residents to have a voice in       judicial appointments, while also granting the President and       Senate a role in confirming our judges. I urge the Committee       not to overturn that well-established process.

The DC Attorney General, as the District's chief law       officer, is also responsible for local legal issues, namely,       protecting the District and its residents in a wide range of       matters, such as enforcing child support laws, handling abuse       and neglect proceedings in the child welfare system,       enforcing our housing code, and defending District agencies       and officers when they are sued. In no other place in the       United States are such local issues determined by a federally       appointed person with no local accountability. The proposed       legislation would be especially undemocratic in light of the       fact that, in 2010, an overwhelming majority of District       voters (76 percent) exercised their right to amend the       District Charter to make the DC Attorney General an       independent, elected office, rather than a position appointed       by and subordinate to the Mayor. With that vote, District       residents clearly expressed their desire that the Attorney       General should be independent and accountable to them. The       pending bill would       displace that choice in favor of installing an Attorney       General accountable not to District residents, but to the       President. Given that the U.S. Attorney for the District is       already appointed by the President, if passed, this bill       would concentrate all criminal and civil litigation authority       in the President, divesting the District and its residents of       any local control over these essential functions.

No one knows or cares more about keeping DC safe than DC       residents who work, live and raise their families here. Our       democratically elected officials work closely with local law       enforcement, policy experts, and community leadership to pass       laws that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of DC voters with the whim of federal       politicians is undemocratic and un-American.

I urge you to reject these measures and uphold the values       Congress sought to advance more than 50 years ago when it       passed the District of Columbia Home Rule Act: that District       residents should enjoy the ``powers of local self-      government'' that all other Americans enjoy. See DC Code       Sec.  1-201.02.            Respectfully submitted,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,      Attorney General for the District of Columbia.                                   ____                                                           DC Bar,                                                     Washington, DC,                                                September 12, 2025.      Re: District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission.       James Comer, Chair,      Robert Garcia, Ranking Member,      Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: I am writing       to you on behalf of the District of Columbia Bar (the D.C.       Bar) and its Board of Governors in support of the vital work       of the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission       (JNC or Commission) and its essential role in maintaining the       integrity and excellence of the District of Columbia's       courts. In particular, the D.C. Bar supports the views       presented by members of the Commission in their September 9,       2025, letter, a copy of which is attached here. The continued       work of the JNC is important and valuable to D.C. Bar       members, District residents, and the administration of       justice in the District of Columbia.

Congress created the Commission in 1973 to ensure that the       District's local judges are selected based on professional       qualifications, experience, judicial temperament, and       commitment to justice. Comprised of Commissioners appointed       by the President of the United States, the United States       District Court for the District of Columbia, the Mayor and       Council of the District of Columbia, and the D.C. Bar, the       JNC is a hallmark of bipartisan commitment to merit-based       judicial selection, and has produced one of the nation's most       well-respected local court systems.

The JNC's mission is straightforward: to recommend to the       President highly qualified individuals to fill judicial       vacancies on the District's local courts, and to select the       chief judges of the D.C. Court of Appeals and the Superior       Court of the District of Columbia. For more than five       decades, through rigorous evaluation of legal experience,       integrity, intellectual capacity, and community standing, the       Commission has consistently provided the President with a       carefully vetted pool of highly qualified nominees.

Despite having numerous vacancies in recent years, our       local courts constantly handle demanding caseloads comprising       complex matters. The commitment and dedication of our local       judges are a testament to the work and value of the       Commission.

The D.C. Judicial Nomination Commission represents the best       of American democratic institutions: independent, merit-      based, and committed to the public good. Its continued       effectiveness depends on timely confirmation of nominees and       sustained support for its mission and recognition of its       vital contribution to the administration of justice in the       District of Columbia. We respectfully urge your continued       support for this exemplary institution and its critical work       in the service of justice in the nation's capital.            Sincerely,                                                    Sadina Montani,                                               President, D.C. Bar.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I also insert into the Record a letter on  this bill from the D.C. Judicial Nomination Commission.                                               District of Columbia,                                  Judicial Nomination Commission,                                  Washington, DC, September 9, 2025.      Re H.R. 5125, District of Columbia Judicial Nominations           Reform Act.       James Comer, Chair,      Robert Garcia, Ranking Member,      Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: Members of       the District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission       respectfully submit this letter to the Committee on Oversight       and Government Reform in response to H.R. 5125, District of       Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform Act.

The District of Columbia Judicial Nomination Commission       (JNC or Commission) was established by Congress on December       24, 1973 (Public Law 93-198, 87 Stat. 796). The JNC is       composed of seven members--two appointed by the Mayor of the       District of Columbia, two by the Board of Governors of the       District of Columbia Bar Association (Unified), one by the       Council of the District of Columbia, one by the President of       the United States, and one judicial member appointed by the       Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the       District of Columbia. Each member is appointed for a six-year       term, except for the member appointed by the President, who       serves a five-year term

The JNC solicits, screens, and recommends a panel of three       candidates to the President of the United States for each       judicial vacancy on the District of Columbia Court of Appeals       and the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. From the       panel of names recommended by the JNC, the President       nominates a person for each vacancy and submits the nominee's       name to the United States Senate for confirmation. The JNC       also designates the Chief Judges for the District of Columbia       courts.

The JNC, using a merit-based selection process, works to       provide the citizens of the District of Columbia with the       best possible court system by (a) soliciting a diverse and       talented pool of applicants for each judicial vacancy; (b)       screening applicants to ensure they have the requisite       experience, skill, temperament, and qualifications for       judicial office; and (c) recommending the three most       qualified applicants to the President of the United States       for his or her consideration in selecting a nominee to fill       each judicial vacancy on the District of Columbia Court of       Appeals and the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.

Since its first list of applicants was sent to President R.       Gerald Ford, Jr. on May 8, 1975, the JNC has recommended more       than 93 candidates for 31 vacancies on the District of       Columbia Court of Appeals (Court of Appeals) and more than       513 candidates for 171 vacancies on the Superior Court of the       District of Columbia (Superior Court). Working with both       Republican and Democratic Presidents for more than 50 years,       the Senate has confirmed 29 Presidential nominations to the       Court of Appeals and 159 to the Superior Court. To date, the       Senate has confirmed more Republican Presidential nominees to       both courts--17 of 29 on the Court of Appeals and 83 of 159       on the Superior Court. All the Presidential nominees were       selected from lists the JNC sent to the President pursuant to       D.C. Code Sec. Sec.  1-204.31, 1-204.33. Arguably, the       judicial nomination process in the District of Columbia is       one of the best nonpartisan processes in the country, a       process that President Trump engaged in during his first term       (with 10 confirmations to the local courts) and on September       2, 2025, when he nominated candidates for three vacancies on       the Superior Court.

In conclusion, the Commission members are united in       expressing our pride in the JNC's lengthy history of       proficient service. The Commission process has been effective       for over 50 years, working with both Republican and       Democratic administrations. Our process is carefully designed       to ensure that the over 700,000 residents of our city have a       voice in judicial appointments, while also respecting the       President's authority in nominating individuals for the       critical role of judicial service in the District of       Columbia. We stand in support of the JNC's current role and       configuration, and we look forward to continuing to serve our       city in discharging our critically important       responsibilities.            Respectfully Submitted,

For the Commission:

Hon. Marie C. Johns, PPC-Leftwich, Washington, DC.

Benjamin F. Wilson, Esq., Washington, DC.

Addy R. Schmitt, Esq., Kropf Moseley Schmitt, Washington,       DC.

Vincent H. Cohen, Jr., Esq., Dechert LLP, Washington, DC.

Yaida O. Ford, Esq., Ford Law Pros PC, Washington, DC.

Hon. Linda W. Cropp, Washington, DC.

Hon. Tanya S. Chutkan, United States District Court for the       District of Columbia, United States Courthouse, Washington,       DC.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, under the D.C. Home Rule Act, the President,  with the advice and consent of the Senate--a chamber in which D.C. has  no representation--appoints judges to the local D.C. courts. The  President must make a nomination from a list of candidates recommended  by the Judicial Nomination Commission. The establishment of the  Judicial Nomination Commission provided D.C. with three, albeit  limited, roles in the nomination of its local judges. First, members of  the commission must be D.C. residents. Second, D.C. appoints three of  the seven members of the commission. Third, the commission holds a  public comment period on applicants for a vacancy on the local D.C.  courts, allowing D.C. residents to express their views on applicants.

Republicans claim the Judicial Nomination Commission is  unconstitutional because it limits the President's authority to make  nominations. They are wrong. The commission has been in existence for  50 years. Congress, not the President, has plenary authority over D.C.

Congress also has plenary authority over the territories, and  Congress has given them authority to select their local judges without  any role whatsoever for the President or Congress.

I refer my Republican colleagues to the Supreme Court's decision in  2020 regarding the appointments to the Puerto Rico financial control  board, which Congress established pursuant to its plenary authority  over Puerto Rico. The court held the appointments clause of the  Constitution does not ``restrict the appointment of local officers that  Congress vests with primarily local duties'' pursuant to the  territorial or District clauses of the Constitution. Local D.C. judges  are local officers that Congress vests with primarily local duties  pursuant to the District clause.

The longstanding judicial vacancy crisis on the local D.C. courts is  not due to any failure of the Judicial Nomination Commission. The  commission always meets its 60-day statutory deadline to submit a list  of names for a vacancy to the President. The crisis exists because the  President and, to a larger extent, the Senate, regardless of the party  in power, do not prioritize local D.C. judges. For example, there has  been a vacancy on D.C.'s highest local court since 2013.

Congress should give authority to the over 700,000 D.C. residents to  select their local judges in any manner they choose. D.C. residents,  the majority of whom are Black and Brown, are capable and worthy of  governing themselves.

Since Republicans do not trust D.C. residents with self-government,  they should at least address the longstanding vacancy crisis in the  local D.C. courts, which is harming public safety and access to  justice. A simple solution is to make an appointment to the local D.C.  courts effective 30 days after the President makes a nomination, unless  Congress enacts a disapproval resolution during that period. That is  essentially the same process used for congressional review of  legislation enacted by D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the D.C. Judicial  Nominations Reform Act and to grant D.C. statehood instead. Free D.C.