District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696979/district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlemen for yielding to me.

Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill which amends the District of  Columbia's pretrial release and detention law.

Last year, violent crime in D.C. was down 35 percent, reaching an  over-30-year low. This year, violent crime in D.C. is down 28 percent  compared to the same period last year.

I suspect most of my Republican colleagues do not know that D.C.'s  longstanding pretrial release and detention law is substantially the  same as the longstanding Federal pretrial release and detention law, or  that the same well-respected Federal agency provides pretrial services  for both the local and Federal trial courts in D.C.

This bill requires, in the case of certain crimes, pretrial detention  based solely on a charge and financial conditions for pretrial release.  However,  mandatory pretrial detention based solely on a charge is  unconstitutional and financial conditions for pretrial release  criminalize poverty.

Neither D.C. nor Federal law requires pretrial detention or financial  conditions for pretrial release, but both laws permit each. Under both  D.C. and Federal law, pretrial release and detention are based on a  judge's assessment of a defendant's risk of not appearing in court and  danger to the community. In contrast, 18 States, the majority of which  are red States, have a constitutional right to bail, meaning, except in  capital cases, a defendant cannot be detained pretrial based solely on  flight risk or dangerousness.

Pretrial detention is a severe restriction on the liberty of an  individual who is presumed innocent. This bill requires detention for  the period before trial based solely on a charge, with no adversary  hearing. That is unconstitutional. The Due Process Clause of the  Constitution requires an adversary hearing to detain a defendant for  the period before trial.

In 1987, the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the  Federal pretrial release and detention law. In its ruling, the Court  stressed the law's procedural protections for defendants.

Chief Justice Rehnquist said:

In our society liberty is the norm, and detention prior to       trial or without trial is the carefully limited exception. We       hold that the provisions for pretrial detention in the Bail       Reform Act of 1984 fall within that carefully limited       exception. The act authorizes the detention prior to trial of       arrestees charged with serious felonies who are found after       an adversary hearing to pose a threat to the safety of       individuals or to the community which no condition of release       can dispel. The numerous procedural safeguards detailed above       must attend this adversary hearing.

Studies show that whether a jurisdiction requires financial  conditions for pretrial release has no effect on the crime rates of  that jurisdiction. Instead, even small financial conditions for  pretrial release often force poor defendants to remain in jail, which  can cost them their jobs and housing and leads to more convictions and  longer sentences.

The over 700,000 D.C. residents, the majority of whom are Black and  Brown, are capable and worthy of governing themselves. If residents do  not like how the D.C.'s local legislature votes, residents can vote  them out of office or pass a ballot measure. That is called democracy.

If D.C. residents do not like how the Members of Congress vote on  local D.C. matters, residents cannot vote them out of office. That is  the antithesis of democracy.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record letters opposing this bill from  the D.C. Mayor, the entire D.C. Council, and the D.C. Attorney General,  all of whom were elected by D.C. residents.                                                September 10, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: As Mayor and       Chief Executive Officer of the District of Columbia, I am       proud of the work we have accomplished to invest in our       people, strengthen our neighborhoods, and drive down crime.       Building on this progress, my Administration established the       Safe and Beautiful Emergency Operations Center to coordinate       public safety and beautification efforts as the presidential       emergency declaration ends. This structure ensures that DC       will remain proactive--bringing together local and federal       partners to sustain momentum on reducing crime and improving       quality of life for every resident.

We have worked collaboratively with this Committee on       shared priorities, including public safety, the federal       Return to Work, implementing a DC budget Fiscal Year 2025 fix       (which is still pending in the House) and revitalizing the       RFK campus; but I write now to ask you to reject 13 of the DC       bills before you today that encroach on DC's Home Rule:

Bills like H.R. 5183, the District of Columbia Home Rule       Improvement Act, make the District less efficient,       competitive, and responsive to the needs of a highly complex       unique local government that serves local, county and state       functions. Bogging down legislative and executive action only       adds costs and uncertainty, making it more difficult to       handle the economic headwinds and growth opportunities ahead.

Bills like H.R. 5214, the District of Columbia Cash Bail       Reform Act, make DC less safe. Replacing our very effective       pre-trial detention regime, which focuses on charged violent       offenses and repeat violent offenders, not just on cash bail.       I credit recent changes to our laws related to pre-trial       detention for helping to drive down violent crime in the last       two years.

And the bills to abolish the Judicial Nominations       Commission and to convert the elected DC Attorney General to       a Presidentially appointed legal officer for the District are       both less democratic and untenable for District operations.       The Judicial Nomination Commission, with seven members       appointed by the Mayor, DC Council, President, U.S. District       Court for DC, and the DC Bar, works. As recently as last       month, President Trump nominated three federal judicial       nominees who were selected from the Commission's candidate       pool--a process that demonstrates the value of maintaining       local input. DC residents also voted to elect an Attorney       General who represents the public interest. Changes to these       charter agencies would significantly undercut the already       thin ties to autonomy that limited home rule provides.

Finally, I urge you not to upend our three-part education       funding SOAR Act. I have long supported the program to expand       opportunity for DC students. However, my support has always       been contingent on parity among all three education sectors--      public, private, and charter--and this approach is working.       We will not support changes that tip the scales away from       this core principle of fairness for DC families. As the       fastest improving urban school system, DC has become a model       for urban education. We outpace the national average on all       tested subject areas. We boast free, full-day pre-K access       serving more than 13,200 young learners--an investment which       supports our children and our workforce. DC ranked top of the       nation in parental satisfaction regarding school choice.       Mayoral control, council oversight, and deep, targeted       investments in our students, teachers, and buildings made       these remarkable achievements possible.

I look forward to continuing a productive partnership with       the Committee--one that respects the will of DC residents and       honors the principles of home rule. Together, we can build on       our successes while protecting the autonomy that, as history       reflects, has made our city stronger.            Sincerely,                                                     Muriel Bowser,      Mayor.                                   ____                              Council of the District of Columbia,                                  Washington, DC, September 8, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chair, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The Council       of the District of Columbia is aware that the House Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform is planning to mark up       more than a dozen proposed measures that would severely and       negatively impact the operations, public safety, and autonomy       of the District of Columbia. We ask that you oppose these       measures in full, save one, H.R. 2693, District of Columbia       Electronic Transmittal of Legislation Act. While we have not       seen the final text of this legislation, the public summary       of H.R. 2693 is consistent with the long held request by the       District of Columbia to allow the ability to electronically       transfer legislative acts to Congress, rather than only       allowing physical copies be transferred. The challenge and       barriers created by this current requirement were clearly       exposed during both the recent COVID pandemic restrictions as       well as the Capitol campus restrictions following the January       6, 2021 attacks on the Capitol.

The other 13 measures that have been shared with us would       do direct and serious harm to the District of Columbia and we       urge you to reject these measures completely. These bills       represent an unprecedented attack on the autonomy and home       rule of our local government and the more than 700,000       Americans that call it home. The breadth of these bills is       remarkable, and if passed, would result in an erosion of       accountability and public safety for the District of       Columbia. They range from eliminating and replacing our       elected and accountable Attorney General for the District of       Columbia with a President's hand-picked and unaccountable       associate requiring no confirmation by the U.S. Senate and no       local ties, to a full repeal of multiple local DC laws that       have been in place for many years, if not decades, that are       tested, proven, and effective components of our public safety       infrastructure and ecosystem. The effect of these       Congressional repeals would put our legal and Court system       into chaos and directly undermine successful tools that focus       on serious accountability and effective rehabilitation when a       crime occurs. As always, when revisions or amendments to DC       laws are necessary, those changes should only take place       within our local legislature which has the best capacity to       provide effective oversight and accountable actions for the       residents of the District of Columbia.

We respectfully request that all members of the Committee       on Oversight and Government Reform, and all members of       Congress, reject these harmful measures whether in committee       mark up or before the full House of Representatives. Given       the breadth of the       multiple measures before you, we also request an opportunity       to provide a more in-depth discussion of each bill before the       Committee's mark-up, especially in light that the Committee       will not hold public hearings on these measures.            Sincerely,

Chairman Phil Mendelson; Councilmember Kenyan McDuffie, At-      Large; Councilmember Anita Bonds, At-Large; Councilmember       Christina Henderson, At-Large; Councilmember Robert White,       Jr., At-Large; Councilmember Brianne Nadeau, Ward 1;       Councilmember Brooke Pinto, Ward 2; Councilmember Matthew       Frumin, Ward 3; Councilmember Janeese Lewis George, Ward 4;       Councilmember Zachary Parker, Ward 5; Councilmember Charles       Allen, Ward 6; Councilmember Wendell Felder, Ward 7;       Councilmember Trayon White, Sr, Ward 8.                                   ____                             Government of the District of Columbia,                                  Office of the Attorney General,                                  Washington, DC, September 9, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform,      Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: The House       Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is scheduled to       markup fourteen bills tomorrow related to the operations of       the District of Columbia. With the exception of H.R. 2693,       the District of Columbia Electronic Transmittal Act, I write       in strong opposition to these bills. They address inherently       local issues and laws that were passed after careful       consideration by the District's elected representatives, who       are directly accountable to District residents. Members of       this very Committee have long advocated for the principles of       federalism on which this nation was founded. They have       consistently condemned federal overreach and fought       forcefully and convincingly for the uniquely American values       of local control, freedom, and self-governance. These       principles should apply to the more than 700,000 people who       call Washington, DC home, just as they do for your       constituents across the country.

I specifically want to call attention to the significant       incursion on local self-governance reflected in two bills,       the District of Columbia Attorney General Appointment Reform       Act and the District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Reform       Act. Both laws would displace the ability of District       residents to have a voice in the selection of local leaders       who wield significant power over local judicial matters: the       judges on our local courts and the Attorney General for the       District. The judges on the DC Court of Appeals and DC       Superior Court rule on inherently local matters such as       criminal prosecutions, landlord-tenant cases, probate       proceedings, civil cases, and divorce proceedings, all of       which have profoundly important impact on our community. For       more than 50 years, the Judicial Nomination Commission (JNC)       has successfully allowed DC residents to have a voice in       judicial appointments, while also granting the President and       Senate a role in confirming our judges. I urge the Committee       not to overturn that well-established process.

The DC Attorney General, as the District's chief law       officer, is also responsible for local legal issues, namely,       protecting the District and its residents in a wide range of       matters, such as enforcing child support laws, handling abuse       and neglect proceedings in the child welfare system,       enforcing our housing code, and defending District agencies       and officers when they are sued. In no other place in the       United States are such local issues determined by a federally       appointed person with no local accountability. The proposed       legislation would be especially undemocratic in light of the       fact that, in 2010, an overwhelming majority of District       voters (76%) exercised their right to amend the District       Charter to make the DC Attorney General an independent,       elected office, rather than a position appointed by and       subordinate to the Mayor. With that vote, District residents       clearly expressed their desire that the Attorney General       should be independent and accountable to them. The pending       bill would displace that choice in favor of installing an       Attorney General accountable not to District residents, but       to the President. Given that the U.S. Attorney for the       District is already appointed by the President, if passed,       this bill would concentrate all criminal and civil litigation       authority in the President, divesting the District and its       residents of any local control over these essential       functions.

No one knows or cares more about keeping DC safe than DC       residents who work, live and raise their families here. Our       democratically elected officials work closely with local law       enforcement, policy experts, and community leadership to pass       laws that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of DC voters with the whim of federal       politicians is undemocratic and un-American.

I urge you to reject these measures and uphold the values       Congress sought to advance more than 50 years ago when it       passed the District of Columbia Home Rule Act: that District       residents should enjoy the ``powers of local self-      government'' that all other Americans enjoy. See DC Code       Sec. 1-201.02.            Respectfully submitted,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,                     Attorney General for the District of Columbia.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this  undemocratic and paternalistic bill. It is long past time for Congress  to pass the D.C. statehood bill. Free D.C.