District of Columbia Federal Immigration Compliance Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692373/district-of-columbia-federal-immigration-compliance-act-of-2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this undemocratic, anti- immigrant bill, which would nullify laws, policies, and practices  enacted by the locally elected District of Columbia Government. The  over 700,000 D.C. residents, a majority of whom are Black and Brown,  are capable and worthy of local self-government.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record two letters, one from every  Member of D.C.'s locally elected legislature, the Council; and one from  D.C.'s locally elected Attorney General, Brian Schwalb, opposing this  bill.                            Council of the District of Columbia,                                       Washington, DC, June 9, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: We write to       express our opposition to three pieces of legislation we       understand will be considered on the House floor this week.       All three bills would repeal provisions in laws that were       carefully and deliberately enacted by the Council for the       benefit of all District residents.

H.R. 2096 would repeal several efforts by the Council to       ensure that police officers who violate the law and       contravene public safety are appropriately disciplined. The       bill would strip the Chief of the Metropolitan Police       Department (MPD) of the authority to discipline officers who       violate the law or MPD policy. It would also limit the MPD       Chief's discretion to impose disciplinary penalties greater       than those recommended by the board investigating the       allegations made against an officer. Stripping MPD management       of its authority in this area would       greatly undermine both MPD and public safety. A 2022 D.C.       Auditor's report catalogued cases where MPD was barred from       firing officers who had committed sexual and domestic       violence, who were arrested for assorted criminal activity,       or who gave false statements, misused their firearms, or       slept on the job. H.R. 2096 would also restore a 90-day       statute of limitations for claims against police officers       that, in the past, was repeatedly used by officers seeking to       avoid accountability. Every MPD Chief for the past 15 years       has supported this reform because it empowers police       leadership--not a third-party board or arbitrator--to       determine the appropriate standards of conduct and discipline       for their officers. Congress should not substitute its       authority for that of local elected leaders and MPD Chiefs       who have examined these issues closely.

We support having a robust and strong police force and work       closely with MPD leadership to provide them with the tools       they need to make the city safe. Part of that effort includes       ensuring that the force can appropriately remove officers who       violate the law, MPD policies, and the public trust. When the       public trusts that MPD can effectively police its own,       residents are more likely to cooperate in investigations and       more likely to assist in prosecution, making the District       safer. H.R. 2096 would make it harder for law enforcement       leadership in the Nation's Capital to remove bad actors who       undermine that trust.

We also oppose H.R. 884, which would repeal a 2022 law       extending voting rights in local District elections to non-      citizen residents. Non-citizens enjoy similar voting rights       in 15 other jurisdictions, including San Francisco and       Oakland, California, Montpelier, Vermont, and a number of       jurisdictions in neighboring Maryland. It continues to be       unlawful for non-citizens to vote in federal elections in the       District. In fact, federal law has prohibited non-citizens       from voting in federal elections since 1996. Our local law       cannot and does not attempt to change that.

Finally, we oppose H.R. 2056, which attempts to negate       provisions in local District law governing how MPD and other       District agencies participate in federal immigration       enforcement efforts. This law has been on the books for 13       years and makes it clear that District officials must       cooperate with any court order directing that an individual       in District custody suspected of an immigration violation be       detained or transferred to federal custody. H.R. 2056 would       also eliminate rules governing information sharing between       the District and federal law enforcement on immigration       matters. In sum, the bill would scrap rules and practices       that are clear and familiar and replace them with nothing.       This will only cause confusion and uncertainty both for law       enforcement and those suspected of an immigration violation.       The Council is already considering a proposal from Mayor       Muriel Bowser to reconsider the District's laws and policies       in this area. We respectfully request that you allow us to do       that work.

Thank you for your consideration and your attention to       these important matters. We look forward to working with you       on our shared goals to advance the safety, security, and       prosperity of the District.            Sincerely,      Phil Mendelson,

Chairman, At-Large.      Anita Bonds,

Councilmember,      At-Large.      Robert C. White,

Councilmember,      At-Large.      Brooke Pinto,

Councilmember, Ward 2.      Kenyan R. McDuffie,

Chair Pro-Tempore, At-Large.      Christina Henderson,

Councilmember,      At-Large.      Brianne K. Nadeau,

Councilmember, Ward 1.      Matthew Frumin,

Councilmember, Ward 3.      Janeese Lewis George,

Councilmember, Ward 4.      Charles Allen,

Councilmember, Ward 6.      Zachary Parker,

Councilmember, Ward 5.      Wendell Felder,

Councilmember, Ward 7.                                   ____           Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Attorney General                                                      June 9, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House Minority Leader, House of Representatives, Washington,           DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: I write       in opposition to three pieces of legislation before you       today, H.R. 2096, H.R. 884, and H.R. 2056. These bills seek       to repeal, explicitly or in effect, three local D.C. laws       pertaining to three inherently local issues, namely the       administration of local elections, the allocation of finite       local law enforcement resources, and the processes for       disciplining local police officers if they engage in       misconduct. The D.C. Council--whose members are elected by       and are directly accountable to District residents--passed       those laws after extensive debate and consideration. It would       be undemocratic and contrary to the principles of local       autonomy on which this country was founded for Members of       Congress, in whose election District residents have no say,       to vote to upend these purely local laws.

District residents should have the same right as all other       Americans to govern our local affairs. Just like your       constituents in Louisiana and New York, and indeed the       constituents in all of your colleagues' home states across       the country, the more than 700,000 residents who call the       District home know and care deeply about the local issues       that uniquely impact our lives. Our democratically elected       local officials work closely with policy experts, local law       enforcement, and other community stakeholders to pass laws       that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of District voters and the duly elected       D.C. Council for that of federal politicians is, simply put,       un-democratic. Even if members of Congress might vote       differently on similar local issues for their own       jurisdictions, the residents of D.C. deserve to have our       local laws respected without interference from the federal       government.

I urge you and your colleagues to vote against advancing       these proposals.            Sincerely,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,                     Attorney General for the District of Columbia.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, D.C. residents are treated as second-class  citizens by Congress. They are required to pay Federal taxes, serve on  Federal juries, and register with Selective Service in the same manner  as residents of the States. They have served in the military since the  Revolutionary War, which was fought to end taxation without  representation and to give consent to the governed. Yet, Congress has  denied them voting representation in Congress and full local self- government over the past 200 years.

Last Congress, 100 bills and amendments were introduced to repeal or  block local D.C. laws and policies. This Congress, 28 such bills and  amendments have already been introduced, including bills to abolish the  locally elected D.C. Government.

Three months ago, Congress passed a bill that cut over $1 billion  from the local D.C. budget, which consists entirely of locally raised  revenue. While Congress has the authority to legislate on local D.C.  matters, it does not have a duty to do so.

In Federalist No. 43, James Madison said of D.C. residents: ``A  municipal legislature for local purposes, derived from their own  suffrages, will of course be allowed them.''

In 1953, the Supreme Court held that: ``There is no constitutional  barrier to the delegation by Congress to the District of Columbia of  full legislative power.''

The council has 13 members. If D.C. residents do not like how the  members vote, residents can vote them out of office or pass a ballot  measure. This is called democracy.

Congress has 535 voting Members. None are elected by D.C. residents.  If D.C. residents do not like how the Members vote on local D.C.  matters, residents cannot vote them out of office or pass a ballot  measure. That is the antithesis of democracy.

Congress has the authority to grant D.C. residents voting  representation in Congress and full local self-government. It simply  needs to pass H.R. 51, the D.C. statehood bill, which would make the  residential and commercial areas of D.C. a State.

The Admissions Clause of the Constitution gives Congress the  authority to admit new States. All 37 new States were admitted by an  act of Congress. The District Clause of the Constitution gives Congress  the authority to reduce the size of the Federal district, which it has  previously done.

The substance of H.R. 2056 is irrelevant since there is no  justification for Congress to legislate on local D.C. matters, but I  will briefly discuss it.

Consistent with Federal law, the position of the Major Cities Chiefs  Association and D.C.'s values, D.C. limits cooperation with Federal  immigration agencies. D.C. concluded that cooperating with Federal  immigration agencies would make D.C. less safe for all residents by  diverting police resources  and discouraging immigrants from interacting with the police department  and other government agencies. Many States, cities, and counties have  reached the same conclusion.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to respect the will of D.C. residents by  voting ``no'' on this bill.