Francis G. Newlands Memorial Removal Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694054/francis-g-newlands-memorial-removal-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today I introduce the Francis G. Newlands  Memorial Removal Act, which would remove the plaque and inscriptions on  a fountain bearing Francis G. Newlands' name from Chevy Chase Circle, a  federal park located in both the District of Columbia and Maryland.  Representative Jamie Raskin of Maryland joins me in introducing this  bill. and Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland is the sponsor of the  companion bill.

Newlands was a U.S. senator from Nevada, a conservationist and the  founder of the Chevy Chase Land Company, which developed the Chevy  Chase neighborhood that touches D.C. and Maryland. Newlands was also a  segregationist. He built Connecticut Avenue and ran a streetcar up the  road to the newly built Chevy Chase Lake. However, homes on Connecticut  Avenue were purposely priced to keep working families out, and  covenants were later added to many of the property deeds in Chevy Chase  explicitly prohibiting the land from ever being owned by African  Americans or Jews. These covenants have since been declared void.  Newlands went further to keep Black and White Americans separate. In  the late 1800s, he and Senator William Stewart secured 2,000 acres of  land for Rock Creek Park. Establishing this park not only increased  property values for landowners like Newlands and Stewart, but also kept  White communities separate from emerging Black communities on what they  called the ``wrong side of the park.'' Newlands' racist views went even  further. In 1912, he called for the repeal of the 15th amendment, which  gave African-American men the right to vote.

The fountain in Chevy Chase Circle was established in 1932 by  Congress. In 1990, the Chevy Chase Land Company added a plaque with  Newlands' name next to the fountain. A resolution to remove Newlands'  name from the fountain was first introduced by the D.C. Chevy Chase  Advisory Neighborhood Commission in 2014. On July 27, 2020, the  commission voted unanimously to ask the National Park Service (NPS) to  remove the plaque bearing Newlands' name and to begin discussion on a  new name for the fountain. On September 14, 2020, the Maryland Chevy  Chase Village Board of Managers adopted a resolution calling on NPS and  Congress to remove any mention of Newlands from the fountain. On April  19, 2022, the Montgomery County Council introduced a resolution  affirming the county's support for this bill. Newlands should not be  honored on federal land.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.