Introduction of the District of Columbia Transportation Funding Equality Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  Transportation Funding Equality Act. This bill would make the District  of Columbia eligible for three federal programs that support the  development and revitalization of public transportation systems in the  same manner as states are eligible for these programs. It would also  make D.C. eligible in the same manner as states are eligible for a  transportation program that would support the replacement and removal  of infrastructure that damages the ecosystems of the Anacostia and  Potomac rivers. D.C. residents pay the same federal taxes as residents  of the states and therefore D.C. is almost always treated as a state in  federal programs.

First, this bill would treat D.C. as a state in the High-Density  States Formula for certain grants from the Mass Transit Account of the  Highway Trust Fund. Currently, only states are eligible for these  grants. Second, this bill would treat D.C. as a state under the Grants  for Buses and Bus Facilities Program. Under the formula grants for this  program, each state is authorized to receive a minimum of $4 million  per year, while D.C. is authorized to receive a minimum of only $1  million per year. Third, this bill would treat D.C. as a state under  the National Culvert Removal, Replacement, and Restoration Grant  Program. Currently, only states and units of local government are  eligible for these grants, and the U.S. Department of Transportation  (DOT) has held that D.C. is ineligible, even though D.C. operates as  the functional equivalent of a city, county and state. Fourth, this  bill would treat D.C. as a state under the Safe Streets for All  Program. Cities, counties and political subdivisions of a state are  eligible for this program, but DOT has held that D.C. is ineligible.

The programs in this bill fund the modernization of bus and rail  fleets, the purchase of zero-emission transit vehicles, the improvement  of transit station accessibility for all users, the extension of  transit services to new communities, the replacement and repair of  culverts and the implementation of roadway safety improvements for all  road users.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.