Introduction of A Bill to Require Members of the Armed Forces Performing Active Service in the District of Columbia in Response to An Order of the President Which Relates to Crime or Civil Disturbance in the District of Columbia to Participate in A Program Substantially Similar to the Body-Worn Camera Program of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1694758/introduction-of-a-bill-to-require-members-of-the-armed-forces-performing-active-service-in-the-district-of-columbia-in-response-to-an-order-of-the-president-which-relates-to-crime-or-civil-disturbance-in-the-district-of-columbia-to-participate-in-a-program-substantially-similar-to-the-body-worn-camera-program-of-the-metropolitan-police-department-of-the-district-of-columbia


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce a bill that would require  members of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard, deployed in  the District of Columbia in response to an order of the President  relating to crime or civil disturbance in D.C. to participate in a  program substantially similar to the body-worn camera program of D.C.'s  police department, the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD). This bill  would apply to the current deployment of troops and any future  deployment.

The use of body cameras by troops during deployments related to crime  or civil disturbance in D.C. would promote transparency in the troops'  interactions with the public and protect the public and the troops. MPD  has a well-established program for the use of body cameras, as well as  for the preservation and disclosure of body camera footage.

The Trump administration has deployed more than 2,000 National Guard  troops in D.C. This deployment is a raw assertion of power over the  more than 700,000 disenfranchised D.C. residents, a majority of whom  are Black and Brown; a politicization of the military; a disservice to  the members of the National Guard and their families, unwarranted, and  possibly unlawful with respect to both the D.C. National Guard and the  state National Guards. I have urged the administration to remove these  troops immediately.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.