Introduction of the District of Columbia Electronic Transmittal of Legislation Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1689607/introduction-of-the-district-of-columbia-electronic-transmittal-of-legislation-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  Electronic Transmittal of Legislation Act, which would permit the Chair  of the Council of the District of Columbia to transmit legislation to  Congress in the form of the Chair's choosing, including electronic  form. This bill would bring the congressional review process for  legislation enacted by D.C. into the electronic age. In the 117th  Congress, the Committee on Oversight and Reform passed this bill.

While I do not believe there should be a congressional review process  for D.C. legislation--and I have introduced a bill to eliminate the  review process--this bill would not change the review process, except  that it would give D.C. flexibility in the form it transmits  legislation to Congress. This bill's only purpose is to reduce  administrative burdens on D.C. and Congress.

The D.C. Home Rule Act requires the Chair of the D.C. Council to  transmit legislation to Congress for a review period. The legislation  takes effect upon the expiration of the review period, unless a  resolution of disapproval is enacted into law during the review period.  The Home Rule Act is silent on the form of transmittal, but Congress  has always required the legislation to be physically transmitted.

Electronic records are recognized as valid under federal and state  law, and federal, state and local governments conduct official business  electronically. For example, under the Electronic Signatures in Global  and National Commerce Act, which was enacted into law more than 20  years ago, with respect to any interstate transaction in which the  parties consent, ``a signature, contract, or other record relating to  such transaction may not be denied legal effect, validity, or  enforceability solely because it is in electronic form.'' In 2002, the  E-Government Act, which facilitated the federal government providing  information and services to the public electronically, was enacted into  law.

Federal agencies transmit regulations and other documents to the  Federal Register electronically. Congress is also capable of conducting  official business electronically. For example, the House permits  Members, including acting through their staff, to introduce legislation  and submit statements into the Congressional Record electronically.

The requirement that D.C. physically transmit legislation imposes  costs on the Council. The Council engages in a 12-step process to  physically transmit legislation, including printing two copies of each  bill and committee report, arranging a time for delivery of these  documents to the offices of the Speaker and President of the Senate and  having two staffers drive to the Capitol to deliver the documents--two  are necessary because of parking restrictions.

The physical transmittal process also imposes costs on Congress. The  following congressional offices and committees are involved in the  physical transmittal process: the offices of the Speaker and President  of the Senate, the House and Senate Parliamentarians, the House Clerk,  the Senate Secretary, the House Committee on Oversight and  Accountability and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and  Governmental Affairs.

The aftermath of the January 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol  highlighted the burdens of physical transmittal. After temporary  fencing was installed around the Capitol, D.C. employees could not  enter the Capitol. This delayed transmittal of D.C. legislation until  Council and congressional staff developed a workaround, which consisted  of staff meeting outside the fencing to transmit legislation.

I recognize that Congress requires all so-called executive  communications, including D.C. legislation, to be physically  transmitted, but D.C. is the only entity required to transmit  legislation to Congress for a review period.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.