Introduction of the Universal Prekindergarten and Early Childhood Education Act of 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Universal  Prekindergarten and Early Childhood Education Act of 2025, which would  establish and expand prekindergarten programs in public and public  charter schools for three- and four-year-olds.

This bill seeks a breakthrough in public education by providing  funding for states to add prekindergarten for children at three and  four years of age, like the kindergarten programs for five-year-olds  now routinely available in public schools. This bill would take  advantage of the safe facilities required in public schools.

This bill would provide federal funds to states to establish or  expand universal, voluntary prekindergarten in public and public  charter schools for three- and four-year-olds, regardless of income.  The classes, which would be full-day and run throughout the entire  school year, would be taught by teachers who have equivalent or similar  qualifications to those teaching other grades in the school. The funds  would supplement, not supplant, other federal funds for early childhood  education.

The success of Head Start and other prekindergarten programs,  combined with the scientific evidence on the importance of brain  development in early childhood, virtually mandates the expansion of  early childhood education to all children. Early learning programs have  been available only to the affluent, who can afford them, and to some  low-income families in programs such as Head Start, which would be  unaffected by this bill. This bill is a practical way to create  universal, public prekindergarten. The goal of this bill is to provide  the benefits of early childhood education to those who have been left  out of this essential education.

We cannot afford to allow the most critical years of child  development to pass unenriched. This bill responds both to the great  needs of parents who seek early childhood education and neuroscience,  which shows that a child's brain development begins much earlier than  had been previously understood.

Considering the staggering cost of day care, the inaccessibility of  early childhood education and the opportunity that early education  offers to improve a child's chances of success, schooling for three-  and four-year-olds is overdue. The absence of viable options for  working families demands our immediate attention.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.