Introduction of the Paul Laurence Dunbar Commemorative Coin Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701558/introduction-of-the-paul-laurence-dunbar-commemorative-coin-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Paul Laurence Dunbar  Commemorative Coin Act, which would direct the Secretary of the  Treasury to mint and issue coins in honor of Paul Laurence Dunbar. This  bill would recognize one of the first influential African American  poets in American literature and benefit the Dunbar Alumni Federation,  the alumni association for the Paul Laurence Dunbar Senior High School  in the District of Columbia, which was the first public high school for  African Americans in the United States. I am a proud graduate of  Dunbar, a storied African American high school.

Paul Laurence Dunbar was born on June 27, 1872, to formerly enslaved  parents, and went on to pen such classics as Majors and Minors and  Lyrics of Lowly Life. He also wrote the lyrics for In Dahomey, the  first all-African American musical produced on Broadway. By the late  1890s, Dunbar had become a prominent author, having had his poems  published in major national newspapers, including The New York Times.  Dunbar died on February 9, 1906, at age 33.

Paul Laurence Dunbar Senior High School was established in 1870 as  the Preparatory High School for Colored Youth. It was the first college  preparatory high school for African Americans in the United States. The  school was renamed for Dunbar in 1916. The Dunbar Alumni Federation was  organized in 2002 to provide scholarships and other financial support  to students and graduates of Paul Laurence Dunbar Senior High School.  The Dunbar Alumni Federation has alumni from more than 35 graduating  classes, and supports the school through its scholarship efforts,  community activities and other endeavors. This bill would authorize the  Secretary of the Treasury to mint 50,000 five-dollar coins, 400,000  one-dollar coins and 750,000 half-dollar coins, with a surcharge on  each coin. The surcharges would benefit the scholarships and similar  activities of the Dunbar Alumni Federation.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.