Introduction of the Golden Thirteen Congressional Gold Medal Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1699496/introduction-of-the-golden-thirteen-congressional-gold-medal-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Golden Thirteen  Congressional Gold Medal Act. This bill would award a posthumous  Congressional Gold Medal to the 13 men who became the first African  American commissioned and warrant officers in the United States Navy.

In 1944, the Navy began officer training for 16 African American men.  At that time, there were no African American officers in the Navy.  These 16 men were expected to complete their officer training in eight  weeks, even though officer training was normally 16 weeks.

These 16 men supported each other, including by placing blankets over  their windows and studying as a group by flashlight at night. Each  brought to the group his own expertise to help the others.

When their officer training was completed, all 16 passed their exams.  With some claiming that the group must have cheated, the group was  forced to retake certain exams, and the group scored even higher. The  average grade for the group was 3.89 out of 4.0, the highest average of  any class in Navy history at that time.

Even though all 16 men passed their exams, the Navy commissioned only  12 of the men, and a 13th was made a chief warrant officer. Three  returned to the enlisted ranks, with no reason given by the Navy.

During the men's careers, they oversaw all-Black units or the  training of Black recruits. One would go on to make his career in the  Navy after World War II, with the rest returning to civilian life. In  the 1970s, Captain Edward Secrest, a former instructor, gave the group  the name the ``Golden Thirteen.''

I urge my colleagues to support this bill to honor the first African  American officers in the Navy: Jesse Walter Arbor; Phillip G. Barnes;  Samuel Edward Barnes; Dalton Louis Baugh, Sr.; George Clinton Cooper;  Reginald Ernest Goodwin; James Edward Hair; Charles Byrd Lear; Graham  Edward Martin; Dennis Denmark Nelson; John Walter Reagan; Frank Ellis  Sublett, Jr.; and William Sylvester White. The three men who passed  their exams but were not made officers were Augustus Alves; J.B.  Pinkney; and Lewis ``Mummy'' Williams.