Introduction of the District of Columbia Zoning Commission Home Rule Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692763/introduction-of-the-district-of-columbia-zoning-commission-home-rule-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  Zoning Commission Home Rule Act. This bill would give the District of  Columbia the authority to appoint all members of the D.C. Zoning  Commission (Commission). Currently, the membership of the Commission  consists of two federal officials the (the Architect of the Capitol  (AOC) and the Director of the National Park Service (NPS)) and three  members appointed by the D.C. mayor, subject to D.C. Council approval.  Federal officials are members of the Commission even though the  Commission has no authority over federal property.

Land use is a quintessential local matter. Despite the D.C. Home Rule  Act, which gave D.C. authority over local matters, 40 percent of the  members of the Commission are federal officials, who are not  accountable to the more than 700,000 D.C. residents. The federal  government would lose nothing under this bill because the federal  government's land-use interests in the Nation's capital are protected  by federal law and federal agencies.

The Commission creates the zoning maps and regulations, which must  ``not be inconsistent with the comprehensive plan for the national  capital.'' The mayor is responsible for the local elements of the  comprehensive plan, subject to Council approval. The National Capital  Planning Commission (NCPC), which is the central planning agency for  the federal government in D.C. and approves federal projects in D.C.,  is responsible for the federal elements of the comprehensive plan. This  bill would not alter the comprehensive plan process or the authority of  NCPC and the Commission.

This bill would immediately remove the AOC and the NPS Director from  the Commission, and the Commission would, at least initially, consist  solely of three mayoral appointees. D.C. would have the authority to  reconstitute the membership of the Commission through local  legislation.

This bill is an important step to increase D.C. home rule. I urge my  colleagues to support this bill.