Introduction of the Requirement of the Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia and the Director of the District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency to Reside in the District of Columbia


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce a bill that would require  the Directors of two federal agencies, the Court Services and Offender  Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (CSOSA) and the  District of Columbia Pretrial Services Agency (PSA), to reside in the  District of Columbia during their terms. There are residency  requirements for government positions in federal law, D.C. law and the  laws of jurisdictions throughout the United States. The primary reason  such laws exist is to ensure that certain government officials have a  connection to the residents they serve and in-depth knowledge of the  unique issues and challenges these residents face. The House Committee  on Oversight and Reform passed this bill in the 117th Congress.

CSOSA and PSA are federal agencies that focus exclusively on D.C.  CSOSA supervises individuals on probation, parole or supervised release  for violations of D.C. law. PSA makes recommendations regarding  pretrial release and supervises defendants for the D.C. Superior Court  and the U.S. District Court for D.C. The Directors of CSOSA and PSA  should be  required to be D.C. residents since these agencies serve only D.C.

Congress has justifiably required that certain federal officials live  in the jurisdictions to which they are appointed, including U.S.  district court judges, U.S. Marshals and U.S. Attorneys. Similarly,  Congress, which controls the local D.C. court system, has justifiably  required local D.C. judges and members of the D.C. Judicial Nomination  Commission and the D.C. Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure  to reside in D.C.

There is no reason that the Directors of CSOSA and PSA should not be  required to live in D.C. These federal officials need to be part of the  community they serve. A D.C. residency requirement for these federal  officials will lead to better outcomes in the criminal justice system  and is a matter of fairness for D.C. residents.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.