Introduction of the Federal Government Advertising Equity Accountability Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696333/introduction-of-the-federal-government-advertising-equity-accountability-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Federal Government  Advertising Equity Accountability Act, which would require all federal  agencies to include in their annual budget requests to Congress the  amount they spend on advertising contracts with small disadvantaged  businesses (SDBs) and businesses owned by minorities and women. Federal  agencies would be required to provide prior and projected total  expenditures for such contracts. At my request, the Committee on  Appropriations has required many federal agencies to provide such  information each of the last several years, but this bill would codify  this requirement and apply it to all federal agencies.

In 2007, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) examined spending  on advertising contracts with minority-owned businesses by five federal  agencies--the Department of Defense, the Department of the Treasury,  the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of the  Interior and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration--and  found that only five percent of the $4.3 billion available for  advertising contracts went to minority-owned businesses. In light of  these concerning findings, I, along with several other Members of  Congress, sent letters to GAO in 2016 and 2022 requesting updated  information on the amount of federal advertising dollars spent with  SDBs and businesses owned by minorities and women. In 2018 and 2024,  GAO issued reports on the amount of federal advertising dollars spent  with SDBs and businesses owned by minorities and women. The 2024 report  revealed that only 15 percent of federal advertising contract  obligations went to SDBs and businesses owned by minorities and women.  The federal government is one of the largest advertisers in the United  States, and it has an obligation to ensure equitable access to its  contracts for SDBs and businesses owned by minorities and women. GAO's  findings demonstrate that there is still much progress to be made.

The regular collection of information on federal advertising  contracts with SDBs and businesses owned by women and minorities is  essential to bridging the gap between what current statistics show and  a more inclusive advertising landscape. This bill would help achieve  this goal while also promoting transparency and encouraging federal  agencies to strive to reach minorities, who often receive the news from  smaller media outlets that serve communities of color. The requirement  that agencies submit prior and projected information on the amount of  advertising dollars spent with SDBs and businesses owned by minorities  and women would allow federal agencies to evaluate their progress. The  regular collection of this information would also demonstrate that the  promotion of equity in advertising and in all areas of government, is a  continuous effort and is important to the mission of every federal  agency.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.