Introduction of the District of Columbia Flood Prevention Act of 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the District of Columbia  Flood Prevention Act of 2025. This bill would amend the Coastal Zone  Management Act of 1972 (CZMA) to make the District of Columbia an  eligible entity. The House passed this bill as part of the Coastal and  Great Lakes Communities Enhancement Act in the 116th Congress.

This bill would make D.C. eligible for federal funding for coastal  zone management and give D.C. oversight of federal agency actions that  affect its coastal waters. D.C. urgently needs the protection of the  CZMA because of serious flood risks that affect federal assets,  residents and businesses in D.C., including the National Mall and  federal buildings in the Federal Triangle area.

The CZMA provides planning and technical services to assist states in  protecting, restoring and developing coastal communities and resources.  Once the federal government approves a state's coastal management plan,  the state becomes eligible for federal funding and federal agency  actions must be consistent with the state plan.

Even though D.C. is located on two rivers and has suffered  substantial coastal floods, it was omitted from the list of eligible  entities in the CZMA. It is notable that under the CZMA, the term  ``coastal state'' includes the states and territories. D.C. residents  pay full federal taxes and therefore D.C. is usually treated as a state  for federal programs. It appears D.C.'s omission was a mistake. This  oversight likely occurred because the CZMA was passed in 1972, which  was before D.C. achieved home rule.

Scientists have predicted that the tides on the Atlantic Coast could  rise two to four feet by 2100, causing property worth as much as $7  billion in D.C. to be routinely under threat by floodwaters. This  includes private homes and businesses, the National Mall, federal  buildings and three military bases. The Anacostia and Potomac rivers,  which surround D.C., are tidally influenced. In addition, the Maryland  and Virginia coastal zones each include the tidal Potomac River, with  Maryland's zone ending at the D.C. line.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.