Introduction of the Bayard Rustin Stamp Act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Bayard Rustin Stamp  Act. This bill would direct the United States Postmaster General to  issue a forever stamp to commemorate the life and work of Bayard  Rustin. Representative Ritchie Torres is co-leading this bill.

Born in 1912, Rustin became one of the most important leaders in the  20th century civil rights movement. At a young age, Rustin learned the  values of nonviolence and peacekeeping from his grandparents' Quaker  faith, and he would continue to build these values into his life as a  civil rights movement leader.

Rustin attended City College of New York, where he joined a  progressive club that aimed to remedy racial issues during turbulent  times. His time with the club was short-lived, but it inspired him to  join the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an organization that became a  champion for labor rights, equity and world peace.

Rustin's time with the Fellowship of Reconciliation led him to become  a leader in the 1947 ``Journey to Reconciliation,'' where white and  Black people across the South rode buses together to challenge  segregation laws, a precursor to the Freedom Rides.

Rustin was an advisor in Martin Luther King, Jr.'s inner circle as  King advocated pacifism and nonviolence for achieving equal treatment  for African Americans. Rustin applied his brilliant strategic mind to  execute aggressive, peaceful action in the civil rights movement and  throughout his life as an activist.

Rustin's most important role was as the chief organizer of the  historic March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, the largest  demonstration ever organized at the time, in which a quarter of a  million people turned out to demand civil rights for African Americans.

In the years after the civil rights movement, Rustin, a gay man,  inspired others to advocate for and achieve rights for LGBTQ+ people.  He  remained a strategist and public speaker for workers' rights movements,  including co-founding the A. Philip Randolph Institute, an organization  for Black trade union members. Rustin remained committed to promoting  social good, and advocating for the disenfranchised, until his death.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.