Introduction of the Marijuana in Federally Assisted Housing Parity Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1698317/introduction-of-the-marijuana-in-federally-assisted-housing-parity-act


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, I introduce the Marijuana in  Federally Assisted Housing Parity Act. This bill would permit the use  of marijuana in federally assisted housing, including public housing  and Section 8 housing, in compliance with the marijuana laws of the  state (including the District of Columbia) where the property is  located. Senator Cory Booker is introducing the companion bill.

Individuals living in federally assisted housing should not be denied  admission, or fear eviction, for using a product that is legal in the  state where they reside. Adult-use marijuana, medical marijuana or both  are currently legal in 40 states, the District of Columbia and three  territories, and approximately 90 percent of Americans support  legalized medical marijuana. Under federal law, users of drugs that are  illegal under federal law, including marijuana, are prohibited from  being admitted into federally assisted housing. Moreover, federal law  allows landlords to evict residents of federally assisted housing for  using illegal drugs.

The federal government has begun to change its approach to marijuana.  For example, for the last several years, Congress has prohibited the  Department of Justice (DOJ) from using federal funds to prevent  jurisdictions from implementing their medical marijuana laws. This bill  would similarly allow individuals to use marijuana in federally  assisted housing in compliance with a state's marijuana laws. The  Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), like DOJ, should not  be allowed to interfere with jurisdictions implementing their marijuana  laws.

Under this bill, HUD must develop regulations that restrict smoking  marijuana in federally assisted housing in the same manner and in the  same locations as HUD restricts smoking tobacco in federally assisted  housing.

I urge my colleagues to support this bill.