Letter Led By the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights on the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025 (H.R. and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025 (H.R.


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1696914/letter-led-by-the-leadership-conference-on-civil-and-human-rights-on-the-common-sense-law-enforcement-and-accountability-now-in-dc-act-of-2025-hr-and-the-district-of-columbia-cash-bail-reform-act-of-2025-hr


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today the House of Representatives debated  the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of  2025 (H.R. 5107) and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of  2025 (H.R 5214). I include in the Record a letter opposing these bills  led by The Leadership Conference on Civil an Human Rights.                                       The Leadership Conference on                                          Civil and Human Rights,                                  Washington, DC, November 19, 2025.

Dear Representative: On behalf of The Leadership Conference       on Civil and Human Rights and the undersigned organizations,       we write to express our strong opposition to H.R. 5107, the       ``Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in D.C.       (CLEAN DC) Act of 2025, and to H.R. 5214 the D.C. Cash Bail       Reform Act.

H.R. 5107 would largely overturn the District of Columbia's       Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act       (CPJRAA) of 2022, while H.R. 5214 would require mandatory       pretrial detention and cash bail for an arbitrary overly       broad list of offenses.

These bills are part of a long line of attacks on democracy       in the District of Columbia. D.C. citizens pay federal taxes       and comply with all the other duties of residence, yet they       are deprived of not only any voting representation in       Congress, but also of control over their own local       governance. With these votes, Congress would yet again       micromanage the affairs of the District and relegate the more       than 700,000 residents of D.C. to second-class citizenship--      and without a single vote representing D.C.

D.C. autonomy and D.C. statehood are civil rights and       racial justice issues. D.C. residents deserve the same tight       as residents from any U.S. state to decide the laws that are       best for their communities. It remains painfully clear that       the right to vote is meaningless if the will of D.C.       residents can be overturned by a Congress that gives them no       say in the matter. Congress must listen to Mayor Bowser and       the D.C. Council and reject this attempt to roll back duly       passed D.C. legislation.

Washingtonians are best situated to address police reform       policies in their own community and deserve to determine       these policies without congressional interference. The CPJRAA       includes commonsense reforms to increase police       accountability and government transparency, and it directly       responds to the calls from District communities for       additional law enforcement oversight. Many of the reforms in       this bill echo provisions in the George Floyd Justice in       Policing Act, as well as President Biden's executive orders       on policing--including improving access to body-worn camera       recordings, restricting access to military-grade weapons, and       creating a public discipline database of information related       to sustained allegations of police misconduct. D.C., like       many other jurisdictions, initially passed these reforms in       response to the murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor       and the need to enact systemic police reform. In the wake of       the deployment of the National Guard and surge of federal law       enforcement in D.C., there has been an increase in instances       of police brutality and unwarranted searches. Congress must       not block D.C. from heeding the calls of its residents by       rescinding police oversight law.

Legislation like the CPJRAA is not anti-police, rather it       helps restore public confidence in law enforcement both by       deterring abuses of power and demonstrating that law       enforcement is not above the law. Holding police officers       accountable for violating the law does not lead to an       increase in crime in fact, D.C. saw a 30-year low in violent       crime in 2024, after the CPJRAA was enacted. Between 2010 and       2020, Washington, D.C. paid out more than $91 million in       police misconduct settlements. Yet, according to an audit,       between 2015 and 2021, D.C. was forced to rehire 37       Metropolitan Police Department officers who were fired due to       sustained misconduct allegations, with the city awarding them       more than $14.3 million in back pay. Police oversight is       crucial to preventing and holding officers accountable for       misconduct against the very people they have sworn to       protect.

H.R. 5214 proposes drastic, harmful changes to D.C.'s       pretrial laws, which ensure that pretrial release decisions       are based on assessments of true risk, rather than wealth. It       would impose mandatory pretrial jailing of people who are       simply accused of certain offenses, a change that is flatly       unconstitutional. Its requirement of cash bail for other       offenses would have a devastating impact on       low-income people who are also simply accused. These changes       would swing the door wide open to abuses, and they would       disproportionately impact people of color.

These bills and other attacks on D.C.'s autonomy are       emblematic of larger efforts to allow state and federal       legislatures to exert control and authority over Black       localities and roll back democratically authorized criminal-      legal and police reforms. We call on you to fight this trend       and vote NO on H.R. 5107 and H.R. 5214. If you have any       questions, please feel free to contact Rob Randhava of The       Leadership Conference or Nicole Zayas Manzano of The Bail       Project.            Sincerely,

The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, The       Bail Project, Advancement Project, Black Voters Matter Fund,       Center for Policing Equity (CPE), DC Vote, Human Rights       Campaign, Interfaith Alliance, Juvenile Law Center.

National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good       Shepherd, National Council of Churches, National Education       Association, National Organization for Women, NCNW, Pax       Christi USA, Prison Policy Initiative, St. Joseph Justice       Center--A Ministy of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Orange,       Vera Insitute of Justice.