Make the District of Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of 2025


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1701306/make-the-district-of-columbia-safe-and-beautiful-act-of-2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this bill. I include in  the Record letters opposing this bill from the District of Columbia  Mayor and every member of the D.C. Council.                                                 September 10, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform,           Washington, DC.      Hon. Robert Garcia,      Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government           Reform, Washington, DC.

Dear Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Garcia: As Mayor and       Chief Executive Officer of the District of Columbia, I am       proud of the work we have accomplished to invest in our       people, strengthen our neighborhoods, and drive down crime.       Building on this progress, my Administration established the       Safe and Beautiful Emergency Operations Center to coordinate       public safety and beautification efforts as the presidential       emergency declaration ends. This structure ensures that DC       will remain proactive--bringing together local and federal       partners to sustain momentum on reducing crime and improving       quality of life for every resident.

We have worked collaboratively with this Committee on       shared priorities, including public safety, the federal       Return to Work, implementing a DC budget Fiscal Year 2025 fix       (which is still pending in the House) and revitalizing the       RFK campus; but I write now to ask you to reject 13 of the DC       bills before you today that encroach on DC's Home Rule:

Bills like H.R. 5183, the District of Columbia Home Rule       Improvement Act, make the District less efficient,       competitive, and responsive to the needs of a highly complex       unique local government that serves local, county and state       functions. Bogging down legislative and executive action only       adds costs and uncertainty, making it more difficult to       handle the economic headwinds and growth opportunities ahead.

Bills like H.R. 5214, the District of Columbia Cash Bail       Reform Act, make DC less safe. Replacing our very effective       pre-trial detention regime, which focuses on charged violent       offenses and repeat violent offenders, not just on cash bail.       I credit recent changes to our laws related to pre-trial       detention for helping to drive down violent crime in the last       two years.

And the bills to abolish the Judicial Nominations       Commission and to convert the elected DC Attorney General to       a Presidentially appointed legal officer for the District are       both less democratic and untenable for District operations.       The Judicial Nomination Commission, with seven members       appointed by the Mayor, DC Council, President, US District       Court for DC, and the DC Bar, works. As recently as last       month, President Trump nominated three federal judicial       nominees who were selected from the Commission's candidate       pool--a process that demonstrates the value of maintaining       local input. DC residents also voted to elect an Attorney       General who represents the public interest. Changes to these       charter agencies would significantly undercut the already       thin ties to autonomy that limited home rule provides.

Finally, I urge you not to up end our three-part education       funding SOAR Act. I have long supported the program to expand       opportunity for DC students. However, my support has always       been contingent on parity among all three education sectors--      public, private, and charter--and this approach is working.       We will not support changes that tip the scales away from       this core principle of fairness for DC families. As the       fastest improving urban school system, DC has become a model       for urban education. We outpace the national average on all       tested subject areas. We boast free, full-day Pre-K access       serving more than 13,200 young learners--an investment which       supports our children and our workforce. DC ranked top of the       nation in parental satisfaction regarding school choice.       Mayoral control, council oversight, and deep, targeted       investments in our students, teachers, and buildings made       these remarkable achievements possible.

I look forward to continuing a productive partnership with       the Committee--one that respects the will of DC residents and       honors the principles of home rule. Together, we can build on       our successes while protecting the autonomy that, as history       reflects, has made our city stronger.            Sincerely,                                                     Muriel Bowser,      Mayor.                                   ____                              Council of the District of Columbia,                                     Washington, DC, March 24, 2026.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: We write to       express our strong opposition to H.R. 5103, the Make D.C.       Safe and Beautiful Act. This bill is unnecessary and       duplicative and, if enacted, could actually erode public       safety in the District. We urge all House members to vote       against the bill this week.

We appreciate the interest H.R. 5103's sponsors have in       promoting cleanliness in Washington, D.C. That said, the       Secretary of the Interior does not need new legislation like       H.R. 5103 to improve the appearance of federal land, parks,       and monuments in the District. He certainly does not need       four years, as the bill proposes, to remove graffiti and       repair statues on federal property. He can do that work now,       and, in fact, is doing that today in locations like Freedom       Plaza and Columbus Circle. If he needs more resources, he       should request them.

H.R. 5103's creation of a federal ``Safe and Beautiful''       commission is also a concern. This commission would, among       other things, be charged with encouraging immigration       enforcement in the District, reviewing District criminal       justice policies, and facilitating federal law enforcement       deployment in the city. Such a commission would, in some       ways, duplicate coordination work already underway on areas       of mutual interest to the federal government and the       District, including issues like trash collection and joint       crime prevention activities. Establishing and funding a new       government body focused on issues like immigration that are       not a source of public safety concerns in the District would       be wasteful.

Finally, we must express serious concerns about the       provision in H.R. 5103 intended to encourage and speed the       issuance of concealed carry licenses in the District. Our       local police already manage a straightforward and safety-      focused concealed carry program. Putting more guns on our       streets more quickly would be a step backwards at a time when       D.C. police and their federal partners are working together       daily to get firearms out of the hands of dangerous       individuals.            Sincerely,

Chairman Phil Mendelson, Councilmembers Anita Bonds;       Christina Henderson; Brianne K. Nadeau; Matthew Frumin;       Zachary Parker; Wendell Felder; Robert C. White, Jr.; Doni       Crawford; Brooke Pinto; Janeese Lewis George; Charles Allen;       and Trayon White, Sr.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, D.C. is a world-class city, yet this bill  seeks to codify and encourage President Trump's efforts to control and  transform D.C., as well as to demonize D.C. and its 700,000 residents,  the majority of whom are Black and Brown. President Trump already has  called for the repeal of D.C. home rule, federalized the D.C. police  department, deployed troops and masked Federal agents on D.C.'s  streets, terrorized immigrants in D.C., demolished the East Wing of the  White House, removed the nonprofit managing the public golf courses in  D.C., and announced the closure of the Kennedy Center. This bill will  only embolden him.

This bill would establish in the executive branch the D.C. Safe and  Beautiful Commission. The commission's responsibilities include  increasing civil immigration enforcement in D.C., deploying more  Federal law enforcement officers in D.C., and increasing the number of  people carrying guns in D.C.

The commission's top priority is to increase civil immigration  enforcement in D.C. Specifically, the commission is required to ensure  the ``maximum enforcement of Federal immigration law within the  District of Columbia, including policies to encourage the redirection  of available Federal, State, or local law enforcement resources to  apprehend and deport illegal aliens,'' and to monitor D.C.'s  ``compliance with the enforcement of Federal immigration law.'' The  commission is also  required to facilitate the ``deployment of a more robust Federal law  enforcement presence'' in D.C. and to ``increase the speed and lower  the costs of processing concealed carry'' permits in D.C.

However, D.C. does not want masked Federal agents terrorizing  communities, separating families, and destroying the community trust  needed for effective local policing or more guns on the streets.

This bill would also require the Secretary of the Interior to  ``develop a program to beautify'' D.C., even though D.C. is already one  of the most beautiful cities in the world.

This Congress, Republicans have filed over 100 bills, amendments, and  riders to repeal, amend, or block D.C. from carrying out local laws and  policies. The House has already passed 10 of those bills.

D.C. residents have all the obligations of American citizenship,  including paying Federal taxes, serving on juries, and registering with  the Selective Service, yet Congress denies them full local self- government and voting representation in Congress. The only solution to  this undemocratic treatment is to grant D.C. statehood.

Congress has the authority to admit D.C. as a State. The D.C.  statehood bill, H.R. 51, would reduce the size of the Federal district  from 68 square miles to 2 square miles, consisting of the White House,  the Capitol, the Supreme Court, and The National Mall. The residential  and commercial areas of D.C. would be a new State.

I urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on H.R. 5103.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter opposing this bill from  Brady United Against Gun Violence.                                                     March 25, 2026.

Dear Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: Founded       in 1974, Brady works across Congress, courts, and       communities, uniting gun owners and non-gun owners alike, to       take action, not sides, and end America's gun violence       epidemic. Our organization today carries the name of Jim and       Sarah Brady. As you know, Jim was shot and severely injured       in the assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan. As       victims of gun violence and life-long gun owners, Jim and       Sarah dedicated the rest of their lives to passing federal       legislation requiring background checks for gun sales. Brady       continues to uphold Jim and Sarah's legacy by uniting       Americans from coast to coast, red and blue, young and old,       liberal and conservative, to combat the epidemic of gun       violence.

This week, the House will consider the Make the District of       Columbia Safe and Beautiful Act of 2026 (H.R. 5 103), which       establishes in the federal executive branch the District of       Columbia Safe and Beautiful Commission, consisting entirely       of federal officials. This bill is yet another example of       federal overreach into the affairs of the District's       residents, imposing unnecessary and unwanted criminal and       civil reforms. Most egregiously, the bill would direct the       commission to seek to ``increase the speed and lower the cost       of processing concealed carry license requests in the       District of Columbia.'' Brady stands in strong opposition to       H.R. 5103 and urges Members to oppose this dangerous       overreach of federal authority over the District of Columbia       and its residents.

Every American should have a say in how they can best       prevent gun violence and violent crime in their own       communities; that is at the very core of the system of       federalism our founding fathers fought a revolution to       create. Yet, when it comes to efforts to pass public safety       laws, citizens of our nation's capital are often at the mercy       of federal legislators with little interest in their needs,       and attempts by the District's leaders to keep their       communities safe are continuously tossed aside by lawmakers       with no stake in those communities.

The District's residents are among the only Americans who       bear all the responsibilities of citizenship without fully       realizing their benefits. The District has a population       larger than two states that enjoy full representation in       Congress. D.C. residents pay higher taxes than residents in       all but 2 states and have the highest per capita federal tax       rate in the nation. Yet, D.C. Home Rule is limited--Congress       has the power to review and block local legislation, impose       their own legislative prerogatives, control the budget, and       appoint judges.

The District of Columbia, guided by interest in preserving       public safety for its residents and visitors, has implemented       a concealed firearm carry licensing process that ensures       prospective licensees meet the necessary legal requirements       for firearm and concealed carry possession, including the       completion of an MPD-approved range training, within the       District. Under H.R 5103, the federal government would meddle       with the District's laws regarding who can carry concealed       handguns in public, undermining its ability to enforce laws       in service of public safety.

District residents deserve autonomy over their home and       over how they choose to combat violent crime. The federal       government should not abuse its oversight of the District of       Columbia to interfere with home rule policies and practices.       As such, Brady calls on Members to oppose H.R. 5103 and any       other bill that restricts the autonomy of the District of       Columbia or overrides the District's criminal justice laws.            Best regards,                                                   Mark A. Collins,                                          Director, Federal Policy.