Opposition Letter Led By Tzedek DC on the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025 (H.R. November 2025


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, the House of Representatives debated  the District  of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025 (H.R. 5214). I include in the  Record a letter opposing this bill led by Tzedek DC.                                                 November 18, 2025.      Hon. John Thune,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker of the House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Chuck Schumer,      U.S. Senate,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House Minority Leader,      Washington, DC.

Dear Leader Thune, Minority Leader Schumer, Speaker       Johnson, and Minority Leader Jeffries: We, the undersigned,       non-partisan, nonprofit organizations and individual       Americans, urge Congress to reject H.R. 5214, the District of       Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025, which was recently       voted out of Committee by the House Oversight Committee. The       bill would force DC to adopt a cash bail system and introduce       new categories of offenses requiring mandatory pretrial       detention. These changes would require many people arrested       in DC to provide cash or other forms of property as       collateral for release before their trial. They would also       remove judicial discretion to determine whether a person can       be safely released, and if so, under what conditions. If H.R.       5214 (or its substance) is enacted, DC residents who are       legally innocent and who present no danger to the community       would be held in jail solely because they cannot afford to       pay. Meanwhile, wealthier defendants could simply buy their       freedom. This approach would displace and worsen DC's current       system, which, as detailed below, has been effective and       focused on public safety. Congress should, on a bipartisan       basis, soundly reject the approach of this bill.

All of us who have signed this letter care deeply about the       safety of our neighborhoods and the well-being of the       District of Columbia. We grieve when there is a crime that       harms a member of our community or someone visiting our       Nation's Capital. It is because of that care and commitment       that we all come together to reject the proposed legislation,       as those changes to DC's local court's risk-based assessments       will ultimately make our Nation's Capital less safe.

In 1992, the DC Council, DC's elected legislative branch       under the Home Rule system established by Congress, found       after extensive hearings that cash bail was harming, not       helping, public safety. The Council adopted a system that,       mirroring federal bail laws, removes wealth from the decision       to release or detain someone pretrial. Under DC law, pretrial       release considers whether the individual may pose a danger to       the community or fail to return to court. This assessment is       based on risk factors such as criminal background, threats to       victims, and past failures to appear in court or otherwise       abide by pretrial release conditions People on pretrial       release are supervised by the Pretrial Services Agency (PSA).       PSA officers meet regularly with those on pretrial release       and, when appropriate, provide connections to services, such       as mental health and drug treatment, and can remand people to       jail custody if people are not meeting their supervision       conditions. These factors prioritize safety. For three       decades, DC's approach has kept appearance rates high and new       offenses low.

Like Americans around the country, DC residents do not want       violent crime in their community. But risk-based detention       systems (sometimes confusingly referred to as ``cashless       bail'') do not cause or increase crime. The data on this is       clear. A study conducted by the DC Criminal Justice       Coordinating Council found that in a recent six-month period,       not a single person released after being charged with a       violent or dangerous crime was rearrested for a violent or       dangerous crime during their pretrial release. Similarly,       data from the Pretrial Services Agency for DC (a federal       agency) from the most recent nine months available shows that       of the defendants released before their trial, only 1.20%       have been rearrested for a violent crime, a 98.8% success       rate on this metric.

National data reinforces the point that cash bail does not help make  us safer. A 2024 Brennan Center for Justice study found ``no  statistically significant difference in crime rates between cities that  reformed their bail policies and those that did not.'' Similarly, after  Harris County, Texas ended cash bail for most misdemeanors, the result  was ``no corresponding increase in violent crime. After New Jersey  implemented bipartisan bail reforms, violent crime declined while the  jail population shrank significantly. A 2023 John Jay College of  Criminal Justice report found that eliminating cash bail for  misdemeanors in New York cut recidivism by nearly 50 percent. In  contrast, people jailed in cash bail systems suffer worse outcomes-- like lower employment rates, lack of housing, and loss of family  connections--for years into the future. This places them at a higher  risk of recidivism. A study commissioned by Arnold Ventures looking at  the impact of pretrial detention on 1.4 million people booked through a  jail system over a decade found just one day in jail increases a  person's likelihood of being arrested in the future.

Beyond the financial and familial losses suffered by       pretrial detainees, there is a very real threat to physical       well-being. Nationally, pretrial detention is the riskiest       phase for in-custody deaths, and DC Jail is already unsafe.       Even before the recent wave of arrests by the current federal       executive branch, a report by the DC Auditor in collaboration       with the Council for Court Excellence (CCE) found that the       death rate at DC Jail is 3.5 times the national average. This       same report found that ``[a]side from the disrepair and filth       of the building, the architectural design of [the jail],       combined with staffing shortages, is contributing to violence       and deaths in custody.'' Recent changes imposed by the       federal government have already increased strain on the       facility. The newest data collected by the CCE supports this,       showing a 10 percent increase in the jail population since       the August law enforcement surge. Under the cash bail system       proposed in H.R. 5214, anyone unable to pay their bond amount       would remain in custody, likely at this facility. Cash bail       threatens to increase the jail population and aggravate       already-unsafe conditions--risking the lives of those who       cannot afford to buy their freedom.

H.R. 5214 would also override the will of DC voters and       increase costs to DC residents. DC's current risk-based pre-      trial detention system has been effectively prioritizing       safety since 1992; if the current system begins failing       District residents, DC's democratically elected       representatives are well-positioned to respond. H.R. 5214       would also bring increased costs to DC taxpayers.       Incarcerating someone at the DC jail can cost $241 a day; the       price of maintaining the current jail population of 1,977       costs DC residents approximately $476,457 every day and over       $173 million every year. Introducing cash bail and expanding       mandatory pretrial detention would run these estimates even       higher. Every dollar spent on jailing low-risk people is a       dollar not spent on schools, mental health care, roads or       targeted law enforcement needs.

Congress can stand with the residents of the District and       prioritize public safety by rejecting these proposals. Dispel       myths that D.C. allows all individuals to be released       regardless of their crime or history. Review the data and       evidence. Listen to the voices of the people who are most       impacted by the laws applied to the District of Columbia.

We urge Congress to reject H.R. 5214 and keep safety, not       wealth, the basis of pretrial decisions.            Sincerely,

Tzedek DC; Council for Court Excellence; DC Justice Lab;       ACLU-D.C.; Americans for Financial Reform; Appleseed       Foundation; Bar Association of the District of Columbia;       Catholic Charities Welcome Home Reentry Program; Center for       Legal and Evidence-Based Practices; Center for Survivor       Agency and Justice; Christian Legal Aid of DC; Civil Rights       Corps; Coalition for Justice; Coalition on Human Needs.

DC Action; DC Appleseed Center for Law and Justice; DC       Chapter National Organization for Women; DC Coalition Against       Domestic Violence; DC Fiscal Policy Institute; DC for       Democracy; Disability Rights DC at University Legal Services;       Eunnae at Law PLLC; Everyone Home DC; Fair Budget Coalition;       Free Minds Book Club & Writing Workshop; Interfaith Action       for Human Rights; Kansas Appleseed.

Lawyers for Good Government; Legal Action Center; Legal Aid       DC; Lillian's Southern Box Catering; Maine Peoples Alliance;       Mi Casa, Inc.; Michigan League for Public Policy; Michigan       Liberation; Montana Budget & Policy Center; More Than Our       Crimes; Mother's Outreach Network; National Association of       Criminal Defense Lawyers; National Center for Law and       Economic Justice; National Coalition for Drug Legalization.

National Legal Aid & Defender Association; Neighbors for       Justice; Network for Developing; Conscious Communities; Open       City Advocates; Open Horizon; Pathways to Housing DC; Project       love u; Public Justice Center; Sasha Bruce Youthwork Inc;       School Justice Project; The Bail Project; The Festival       Center; The National Reentry Network for Returning Citizens;       The Second Look Project; The T.R.I.G.G.E.R. Project.

The Washington Legal Clinic for the Homeless; Thrive Under       25; Trial Lawyers Association of Metropolitan Washington,       D.C.; University of Baltimore School of Law Center for       Criminal Justice Reform; University of the District of       Columbia Law School; Volare; VYTL Inc; Washington Lawyers'       Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs; Westminster       Presbyterian Church DC; Women's Bar Association of the       District of Columbia.

Aayushma Bastola; Abi Hollinger; Alessandro Coreas; Alex       Tyson; Alexander Lyles; Alexandra Smith; Alicia N; Alyson       Palmer; Ana Pyper; Ann Keep; April Fernandes; Ariel Levinson-      Waldman; Ashlei Craig; Ashley Arnold; Ashley Martin; Ata       Akiner; Aubrey Dillon.

Balazs Horvath; Barbara E. Swan; Bonnie Harris; Carmen       Bolt; Cassandra Lyons; Cassaundra Coleman; Catherine Quinn;       Christian Constantine; Crystal Jones Nieves; David J.       Cynamon; Dr. Kirstin A. Morgan; Elisa Ortiz; Elizabeth Field;       Emily Karandy; Erin Eife; Fabian Lucero, Esq.

Gabby Mulnick Majewski; Gabriel Goldberg; George Derek       Musgrove; Gianna Karandy; Glenn Engelmann; Gwen Umbach;       Gwendolyn Green; Harvey Reiter; Henry F. Fradella, J.D.,       Ph.D.; Hugh T. Keleher; James J. Sandman; Jason A. Grant,       Esq.; Jayme Epstein; Jen Jenkins; Jennifer Copp; Jennifer       Nicole Alameda; Jennifer Ricketts; Jennifer Ubiera; Jonathan       M. Smith; Jorge Tormes.

Joshua Horvath; Joy Welan; Judith Sandalow; June Kress;       Katharine Mark; Kathryn Ferger; Katie Feioek; Katie       McConville; Kelli Coffman; Kezia Constantine; Lee Ann       Anderson, Esq.; Leonard Bailey; Lisa Cohen; Lisa Foster, Ward       2; Lisa Greenman; Madeline Bateman; Maxon Orchard; Margaret       J. Lyons; Margie Clark; Mark Randolph.

Marta Beresin; MaryAnna Foskett; MaryEva Candon, DC native,       DC Voter since 1972; Meghan Briggs; Michael Williams; Michael       Young; Misty Thomas Zaleski; Nancy Liebermann; Nashrah Ahmed;       Nikisha Gordon; Nina F. Simon; Patricia Harlow; Paul Ashton;       Professor Emily Cassometus; Rachel Gilliam; Rachel N.; Ralph       P. Albrecht, Past President, Bar Association of DC.

Rebecca Lindhurst; Ren Newport; Risa Wallach; Robert Rozen;       Ruth Enriquez; Ruth Friedman; Sade Cole; Sam H; Sam Pannell;       Sapna Mirchandani; Sarah Baczewski; Sarah Foster; Shelley       Broderick; Spurgeon Kennedy; Stacey Crooks; Stephen Benson,       PhD; Susan M. Liss; Susie Cambria; Tamasha Johnson; Tim       Curry, DC Ward 4; Vanessa Lopez; Violeta Zamora; Ward 7       Committeewoman; Willard K. Tom.