Opposition Letter Led By Free DC on the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025 (H.R. and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of 2025 (H.R.


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, the House of Representatives debated  the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of  2025 (H.R. 5107) and the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform Act of  2025 (H.R. 5214). I include in the Record a letter opposing these bills  led by Free DC.                                                         Free DC,                                                  November 17, 2025.

Dear Representative: There are currently six bills queued       up for floor votes in the House attacking the District of       Columbia. These bills would severely erode DC's already       limited control over its criminal justice system and leave       individuals and organizations in DC at the mercy of this       administration as they continue implementing an authoritarian       agenda. These bills would roll back evidence-based criminal       justice reforms passed by the duly elected DC Council,       introduce new punitive measures that would harm DC residents,       and grant the president even more direct control over DC       government. We, the undersigned national organizations, urge       you and all House members to be strong allies to DC and       oppose all these bills.

We have seen what the Trump administration's interference       in local law enforcement has done so far. Communities have       been terrorized by federal agents' race-based targeting of       residents and National Guard soldiers carrying weapons of war       in DC streets.

Trump's appointee for U.S. Attorney for DC, Jeanine Pirro,       has repeatedly had frivolous charges rejected by grand and       petit juries. Now Trump and his allies in Congress will       attempt to remove DC's locally elected Attorney General and       appoint a lackey in his place. This would give Trump power       over not only DC's juvenile justice system, but also civil       prosecution against perceived enemies. These bills would       enable the Trump administration to attack any and all       entities in DC, from individuals to advocacy organizations to       labor unions and more. We therefore call on the House to       reject all six bills:

OPPOSE H.R. 5214, the District of Columbia Cash Bail Reform       Act, introduced by Rep. Stefanik, that would increase pre-      trial detention and require cash bail for a range of alleged       offenses. Calendar No 269.

OPPOSE H.R. 5179, the District of Columbia Attorney General       Appointment Reform Act, introduced by Rep. Fallon, that would       remove DC's elected Attorney General and grant the President       sole authority to nominate a replacement. Calendar No. 270.

OPPOSE H.R. 5107/S. 2687, the CLEAN DC Act, introduced by       Rep. Clyde and Sen. Cruz, that would repeal the Comprehensive       Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022. Calendar       No. 271.

OPPOSE H.R. 5172, the Strong Sentences for Safer D.C.       Streets Act, introduced by Rep. Biggs, that would increase or       establish mandatory minimum sentences for a number of       offenses, and remove the exception for minors. Calendar No.       279.

OPPOSE H.R. 5242/S. 2815, to repeal D.C.'s Incarceration       Reduction Amendment Act of 2016 and the Second Chance       Amendment Act of 2022, introduced by Rep. Kustoff and Sen.       Cornyn. An amendment was added to this bill in committee that       would prohibit automated traffic enforcement in DC and undo       the no-right-on-red traffic safety law. Calendar No. 293.

OPPOSE H.R. 5163, the Clean and Managed Public Spaces Act,       that would prohibit camping on public property in DC and       effectively criminalize homelessness, introduced by Rep.       Timmons. Calendar No. 294.

These six bills are only the most imminent threats facing       DC in the House. Many more bills and appropriations riders       are in the pipeline. In solidarity with the people of the       District of Columbia and our national democracy, we, the       undersigned, call on you to side with DC and oppose every       bill and rider that seeks to prohibit, restrict, or undo DC's       laws, and co-sponsor and support all bills that seek to       expand DC's local power.

DC needs more local power--not more attacks. The 700,000       people who live in DC deserve the same rights and dignity as       the people in your home district. No democracy will be able       to function in the United States if the capital city is under       military control, cannot pass or enact its own basic laws,       and is subject to anti-democratic interference against the       will of the people.

Thank you for your attention and swift action on this       matter.            Sincerely,

Free DC and, American Federation of Teachers, Bend the Arc:       Jewish Action, Black Voters Matter Fund, DC Vote, Friends of       the Earth U.S., Greenpeace USA, Indivisible, Metropolitan       Washington Council, AFL-CIO, More Than Our Crimes, Movement       for Black Lives, Movement for Freedom.

National Association of Social Workers, National Education       Association, National Women's Law Center, NETWORK Lobby for       Catholic Social Justice, People For the American Way, People       Power United, Public Citizen, Seed the Vote Action, SEIU,       Stand Up America, The Workers Circle, Voices for Progress,       50501 Movement.

To learn more about Free DC, the renewed campaign for DC       autonomy, visit freedcproject.org. For follow up questions or       additional information to inform your votes, contact Free       DC's Congress Working Group Co-chairs, Michelle Chappell and       Jacqueline Johnson.