Opposition Letter Led By the DC Justice Lab on the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of 2025 (H.R.


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, today, the House of Representatives debated  the Common-Sense Law Enforcement and Accountability Now in DC Act of  2025 (H.R. 5107). I include in the Record a letter opposing this bill  led by the DC Justice Lab.      Letter of opposition      RE H.R. 5107 and any related attempts to repeal or weaken the           District of Columbia's Comprehensive Policing and Justice           Reform Amendment Act of 2022       Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker of the House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House Minority Leader,      Washington, DC.

Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: We, the       undersigned organizations and individuals committed to public       safety and democratic self-governance, urge you to oppose all       legislative efforts now before Congress that would repeal,       defund, or weaken the District of Columbia's Comprehensive       Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act of 2022 (CPJRAA).       This includes H.R. 5107/S. 2687 (the CLEAN DC Act), which is       up for a vote this week, and H.R. 5166, Sec. 827 (the       Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act       rider blocking CPJRAA implementation).

Together, these bills would dismantle one of the District's       most significant public safety and accountability reforms in       decades. They would reinstate dangerous practices, reopen       pathways for abusive officers to remain on the force, and       override a democratically enacted law grounded in research,       expert input, and community consensus.

The CPJRAA responds to longstanding gaps in police       oversight, transparency, and discipline.

The law strengthened the Office of Police Complaints,       expanded the Police Complaints Board, required the creation       of a public misconduct database, and required timely release       of body-worn camera footage following deaths or serious uses       of force. It closed arbitration loopholes that previously       reinstated officers fired for serious misconduct. In an 18-      month period, the District paid $5.6 million in back pay to       just ten officers who were fired and then returned to duty       through arbitration. The CPJRAA corrected this. These bills       would take us backward.

The CPJRAA also protects residents from dangerous and       deadly encounters.

It restricts deadly force; bans neck restraints; limits       high-speed police pursuits in a dense city where bystanders       are most likely to be hurt; and regulates the acquisition of       military-grade weapons. These reforms were enacted because       these dangerous tactics have repeatedly killed District       residents, disproportionately Black residents, and endangered       children, pedestrians, bicyclists, and other bystanders.

The CPJRAA reduces biased policing and strengthens       evidence-based decision-making.

It improves consent search rules, mandates anti-bias and       de-escalation training, requires review of an officer's poor       misconduct before hiring, and directs independent assessment       of possible ties between officers and hate groups. It       modernizes data systems across agencies and ensures       transparency around school-based arrests, less-lethal       weapons, and disciplinary actions.

Repealing or defunding this law would not make the District       safer. It would restore outdated and harmful practices that       undermine trust, community safety, and officer morale. It       would weaken oversight structures that law enforcement       leaders themselves have said were necessary to keep ``very       bad officers'' off the force (see page 173 of the Report by       the Police Reform Commission). And it would override the       decisions of local officials who are accountable to the       people who live in the District.

Congress should respect the District's authority to govern       itself, especially on matters of public safety. Allowing       these bills to move forward would set a troubling national       precedent by permitting federal intervention into local       policing policy, even when the local reforms are backed by       research, crafted through community input, and aligned with       modern public safety standards.

For these reasons, we urge you to vote against H.R. 5107,       and any related attempts to repeal or obstruct the CPJRAA.       D.C. residents deserve the right to determine the policies       that keep their communities safe.            Sincerely,                                                  Clinique Chapman,                                               CEO, DC Justice Lab.

Organizational signatories:

ACLU-D.C., Black Swan Academy, Community Shoulders, DC       Action, DC Coalition Against Domestic Violence, DC Democratic       State Committee, DC for Democracy, DC Jail & Prison Advocacy       Project, Fair Budget Coalition, Free DC, Free Minds Book Club       & Writing Workshop, Georgetown Law Center for Innovations in       Community Safety, Harriet's Wildest Dreams, Interfaith Action       for Human Rights.

Leadership for Justice Innovation, LLC, League of Women       Voters of the District of Columbia, League of Women Voters of       the United States, Legislation Clinic (University of the       District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law), Metro DC       DSA, Migrant Solidarity Mutual Aid, Miriam's Kitchen, More       Than Our Crimes.

Movement for Freedom, Neighbors for Justice, Neighbors       United for DC Statehood, Open Horizon, Pretrial Justice       Institute, Raise One Teach One Dalaneo Martin Foundation,       RebuildingTheCommunity, Reframe Health and Justice, School       Justice Project, Scrofano Law PC.

Seeding Stories/Sembrando Historias, Tzedek DC, University       of Baltimore School of Law Center for Criminal Justice       Reform, Volare, Ward 3 Democratic Committee, Ward 3 Democrats       Statehood Task Force, Washington Lawyers' Committee for Civil       Rights and Urban Affairs, Wren Action Group.

Individual signatories:

Adam D. Harris, Ailsa Hermann-Wu, AJ Cho, Alex Tyson,       Allister Layne, Aloysius Wald, Andrew Kincare, Ann Wasgatt,       Anne Cauman, Aphra, April Lasiter, Ashley, District Resident,       At-Large Councilmember, Robert White, B. Yohe, Barbara Kraft,       Bill Scher, Blaine Stum, Breanna Gilland, Brianna Buford.

Bruce R. Ross, Carl Jakobsson, Chantel Rollins, Char Esser,       Rabbi Charles Feinberg, Cheryl Dzubak, Cheryl Eames, Cheryl       Marlin, Chris Hammond (Ward 7), Christine Payden-Travers,       Rev. Dr. Christopher Zacharias, (Pastor, John Wesley AME Zion       Church), Christopher, Connie Ridgeway, Cybele Kotonias,       Cynthia Lee, Dallas Windham, Darcy Skarada, David Holmes,       David Wendt, Delia T. Cooke.

Denise Lindgren, Dennis and Susan R. Kepner, Donald R.       Schwartz, Donna Tate, Dorothy Marion, Dr. Elizabeth Allen,       Eileene       Gillson, Elaine M. Carlson, Eleanor Crowe, Elinor Hart,       Elizabeth Paukstis, Emily Han, Erin Smith, F. Robert Wesley,       Francis O'Malley, George Perla, Grayson Parisee, Gregory       Denton, Gwen Umbach, Hannah Milem.

Harold Watson, Heather Goss, Hillary Ellen Kruh, Howard       Garrett, Hugh T. Keleher, Irma Salley, Isa Mirza, Isabella       LeBlanc, J. Yudell, Jackie Neece Gray, Jamelle ``Mellie''       Harris, James Flasch, James Mulcare, Jaqueline Castaneda,       Jason Miller, Jason R. Crawford, Jayme Epstein, Jeanne       Otersen, Jennifer McConnell, Jennifer Ubiera, Esq.

Jessica Wang, Jillian W., Jo Harvey, Joanne S. Metzler, Joe       LeBlanc, Jon Drago, Joy Welan, Kahlil Goodwyn, Kameron Davis,       Karen Cassell, Kathleen A. Mireault, Kathy Colton, Kenedi       McCormick, Kerry Krebill, Kerry Krebill, Kevin K. Walsh,       Kristopher Burrell, LaShunda Hill, Laura Esparza, Laura       Mitterman.

Laurent Ross, Lawerency J.C. Boone Sr., Layne Emery, Leah       Tribbett, Leonard Edwards, Leslie, Linda B., Linda D. Lee,       Linda Oeth, Linda Richardson, Lisa Morenoff, Lore       Wintergreen, Lori Stefano, Lorraine Brabham, Lowell Palm,       Lucinda Snow, Lynette Rynders, Lynn D. Carlson, Madeleine       Straubel, Madeline Hall,

Maeve Gallagher, Maggie Kelfstad, Marcia Curry, Mark       Schroeder, Marsha Davison, Marta Beresin, Maureen Ellis,       Maureen McCarthy, Melanie E. Bates, Michael Smith, Michael       Winston Pan, Minyara Willingham, Monique Jackson,Mykel Victor       Reese, Mystelle Ruble, Naike Savain (Former DC Police Reform       Commissioner), Nashrah Ahmed, Nathan Brenner Sr., Nicola,       Noam Stopak.

Norah Renken, Patricia Harlow, Phil Klein, Rachel Neurohr,       Rafaella Zabot-Hall, Rebbie Davis, Regina Coates, Renaud       De'Aundre Brown, Robert Burks, Ron Mittan, Ronald Hampton       (Washington Representative, Blacks in Law Enforcement), Ryan       Lynch, Sade Cole, Samantha Luisa Crisanti, Sarah Bradach,       Sarah Jane Shoenfeld, Shane O'Shea, Shannon Harper, Shannon       Lynch, Shay Mussulman.

Sincere Allah, Sophia, Sophia Bos-Shadi, Stephan Donovan,       Stephen E. Benson, Stephen Keener, Susan & David Courrejou,       Susan Castelli-Hill, Susan Courtney, Susan Halversen, Susan       Sasha Beth Silverstein, Thea Cabrera Montego, Theodore Voth,       Tom Kirk, Virginia Avniel Spatz, Wade Hampton, Patricia       Stamper (Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner, 7C06), Will       Yetvin.