Prohibiting Voting By Noncitizens in District of Columbia Elections


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692314/prohibiting-voting-by-noncitizens-in-district-of-columbia-elections


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I strongly oppose this undemocratic,  paternalistic bill, which would repeal a law enacted by the locally  elected District of Columbia Government and impose a new law on D.C.

Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from every member of  D.C.'s local elected legislature, the council, opposing this bill.                            Council of the District of Columbia,                                       Washington, DC, June 9, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: We write to       express our opposition to three pieces of legislation we       understand will be considered on the House floor this week.       All three bills would repeal provisions in laws that were       carefully and deliberately enacted by the Council for the       benefit of all District residents.

H.R. 2096 would repeal several efforts by the Council to       ensure that police officers who violate the law and       contravene public safety are appropriately disciplined. The       bill would strip the Chief of the Metropolitan Police       Department (MPD) of the authority to discipline officers who       violate the law or MPD policy. It would also limit the MPD       Chief's discretion to impose disciplinary penalties greater       than those recommended by the board investigating the       allegations made against an officer. Stripping MPD management       of its authority in this area would greatly undermine both       MPD and public safety. A 2022 D.C. Auditor's report       catalogued cases where MPD was barred from firing officers       who had committed sexual and domestic violence, who were       arrested for assorted criminal activity, or who gave false       statements, misused their firearms, or slept on the job. H.R.       2096 would also restore a 90-day statute of limitations for       claims against police officers that, in the past, was       repeatedly used by officers seeking to avoid accountability.       Every MPD Chief for the past 15 years has supported this       reform because it empowers police leadership--not a third-      party board or arbitrator--to determine the appropriate       standards of conduct and discipline for their officers.       Congress should not substitute its authority for that of       local elected leaders and MPD Chiefs who have examined these       issues closely.

We support having a robust and strong police force and work       closely with MPD leadership to provide them with the tools       they need to make the city safe. Part of that effort includes       ensuring that the force can appropriately remove officers who       violate the law, MPD policies, and the public trust. When the       public trusts that MPD can effectively police its own,       residents are more likely to cooperate in investigations and       more likely to assist in prosecution, making the District       safer. H.R. 2096 would make it harder for law enforcement       leadership in the Nation's Capital to remove bad actors who       undermine that trust.

We also oppose H.R. 884, which would repeal a 2022 law       extending voting rights in local District elections to non-      citizen residents. Non-citizens enjoy similar voting rights       in 15 other jurisdictions, including San Francisco and       Oakland, California, Montpelier, Vermont, and a number of       jurisdictions in neighboring Maryland. It continues to be       unlawful for non-citizens to vote in federal elections in the       District. In fact, federal law has prohibited non-citizens       from voting in federal elections since 1996. Our local law       cannot and does not attempt to change that.

Finally, we oppose H.R. 2056, which attempts to negate       provisions in local District law governing how MPD and other       District agencies participate in federal immigration       enforcement efforts. This law has been on the books for 13       years and makes it clear that District officials must       cooperate with any court order directing that an individual       in District custody suspected of an immigration violation be       detained or transferred to federal custody. H.R. 2056 would       also eliminate rules governing information sharing between       the District and federal law enforcement on immigration       matters. In sum, the bill would scrap rules and practices       that are clear and familiar and replace them with nothing.       This will only cause confusion and uncertainty both for law       enforcement and those suspected of an immigration violation.       The Council is already considering a proposal from Mayor       Muriel Bowser to reconsider the District's laws and policies       in this area. We respectfully request that you allow us to do       that work.

Thank you for your consideration and your attention to       these important matters. We look forward to working with you       on our shared goals to advance the safety, security, and       prosperity of the District.            Sincerely,      Phil Mendelson,

Chairman, At-Large.      Anita Bonds,

Councilmember,

At-Large.      Robert C. White,

Councilmember,

At-Large.      Brooke Pinto,

Councilmember,

Ward 2.      Kenyan R. McDuffie,

Chair Pro-Tempore,

At-Large.      Christina Henderson,

Councilmember,

At-Large.      Brianne K. Nadeau,

Councilmember,

Ward 1.      Matthew Frumin,

Councilmember,

Ward 3.      Janeese Lewis George,

Councilmember,

Ward 4      Charles Allen,

Councilmember,

Ward 6.      Zachary Parker,

Councilmember,

Ward 5.      Wendell Felder,

Councilmember,

Ward 7.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record a letter from D.C.'s  locally elected attorney general, Brian Schwalb, opposing this bill.           Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Attorney General,                                                      June 9, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House Minority Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: I write       in opposition to three pieces of legislation before you       today, H.R. 2096, H.R. 884, and H.R. 2056. These bills seek       to repeal, explicitly or in effect, three local D.C. laws       pertaining to three inherently local issues, namely the       administration of local elections, the allocation of finite       local law enforcement resources, and the processes for       disciplining local police officers if they engage in       misconduct. The D.C. Council--whose members are elected by       and are directly accountable to District residents--passed       those laws after extensive debate and consideration. It would       be undemocratic and contrary to the principles of local       autonomy on which this country was founded for Members of       Congress, in whose election District residents have no say,       to vote to upend these purely local laws.

District residents should have the same right as all other       Americans to govern our local affairs. Just like your       constituents in Louisiana and New York, and indeed the       constituents in all of your colleagues' home states across       the country, the more than 700,000 residents who call the       District home know and care deeply about the local issues       that uniquely impact our lives. Our democratically elected       local officials work closely with policy experts, local law       enforcement, and other community stakeholders to pass laws       that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of District voters and the duly elected       D.C. Council for that of federal politicians is, simply put,       un-democratic. Even if members of Congress might vote       differently on similar local issues for their own       jurisdictions, the residents of D.C. deserve to have our       local laws respected without interference from the federal       government.

I urge you and your colleagues to vote against advancing       these proposals.            Sincerely,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,                     Attorney General for the District of Columbia.

Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, last Congress, Republicans introduced 26  bills or amendments to change local D.C. election laws, including 14 to  prohibit noncitizens from voting in D.C. or to repeal, nullify, or  prohibit the carrying out of the local D.C. law that allows noncitizens  to vote in local elections.

Yet, Republicans refused to make the only election law change D.C.  has requested, which is to make D.C. a State so they can hold elections  for voting Members of the House and Senate.

While Congress has the authority to legislate on local D.C. matters,  it is not required to do so. In Federalist No. 43, James Madison said  of D.C. residents: ``A municipal legislature for local purposes,  derived from their own suffrages, will of course be allowed them.''

In 1953, the Supreme Court held that ``there is no constitutional  barrier to the delegation by Congress to the District of Columbia of  full legislative power.''

Mr. Speaker, I want to discuss democracy, or lack thereof, in D.C.  There are 700,000 D.C. residents. D.C. residents are required to pay  Federal taxes, register with the Selective Service System, and serve on  Federal juries in the same manner as residents of States. Yet, D.C.  residents have no voting representation in Congress, and Congress has  the ultimate say on local D.C. matters.

The council has 13 members. If D.C. residents do not like how the  members vote, residents can vote them out of office or pass a ballot  measure. That is called democracy.

Congress has 535 voting Members. None are elected by D.C. residents.  If D.C. residents do not like how the Members vote on local D.C.  matters, residents cannot vote them out of office or pass a ballot  measure. That is the antithesis of democracy.

The substance of this bill is irrelevant since there is never  jurisdiction for Congress to legislate on local D.C. matters. However,  I will briefly discuss it.

D.C. allows noncitizens to vote in local elections because it  believes that all adult residents deserve a say in their local  government. While D.C. law allows noncitizens to vote only in local  elections, 40 States and the Federal Government allowed noncitizens to  vote in local, State, territorial, and Federal elections at various  points, including at the founding.

The Federal Government first prohibited noncitizens from voting in  Federal elections only 29 years ago. Today, nearly 20 cities allow  noncitizens to vote in local elections.

As the House has considered this bill, Republicans have repeatedly  said the franchise is a right of citizenship. If that is what  Republicans believe, I hope they will finally grant American citizens  who live in D.C. the right to vote for voting representation in  Congress. I have introduced H.R. 51 to do so.

Pursuant to the Admissions Clause and District Clause of the  Constitution, H.R. 51 would admit the residential and commercial areas  of D.C. as a new State. Statehood would not only give D.C. voting  representation in Congress, but it would also give D.C. full local  self-government.

Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to respect the will of D.C. residents by  voting ``no'' on H.R. 884.