Protecting Our Nation's Capital Emergency Act


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692302/protecting-our-nations-capital-emergency-act


Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I strongly oppose this antidemocratic  bill, which would repeal provisions of a law enacted by the locally  elected District of Columbia Government. The over 700,000 D.C.  residents, the majority of whom are Black and Brown, are capable and  worthy of local self-government.

Madam Speaker, I include in the Record three letters, including a  letter from D.C.'s locally elected Chief Executive, Mayor Muriel  Bowser, opposing this bill; a letter from every Member of D.C.'s  locally elected legislature, the Council, opposing this bill; and a  letter from D.C.'s locally elected attorney general, Brian Schwalb,  opposing this bill.                                                       May 21, 2025.      Hon. James Comer,      Chairman, House Oversight Committee,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Gerald Connolly,      Ranking Member, House Oversight Committee,      Washington, DC.

Chairman Comer and Ranking Member Connolly: As Mayor of       Washington, DC, I write to express my Administration's       opposition to H.R. 2096, the ``Protecting Our Nation's       Capital Emergency Act of 2025''. This legislation purports to       protect hardworking police officers from unnecessary,       protracted disciplinary procedures. However, it would reverse       common-sense disciplinary reforms adopted by the District to       the sole benefit of those few Metropolitan Police Department       (MPD) officers who engage in egregious, sometimes criminal       misconduct and seek to evade accountability.

A 2022 report by the District of Columbia Auditor       documented the shortcomings of the prior disciplinary       process. It chronicled the cumbersome, union-negotiated       process that on average took eight years to resolve a       termination case. Over the 18-month period considered in the       audit, 36 terminated police officers were reinstated within       five and a half years of their terminations, at a cost of       over $14 million in backpay to DC taxpayers. This process was       neither efficient for the officers nor responsible to the       residents of the District.

The conduct for those terminated officers included criminal       acts such as sexual assault, sexual abuse, indecent exposure,       solicitation of prostitution, domestic violence, receiving       stolen property, fraud, and false statements. For many of       those cases, the misconduct was not in dispute; and in nearly       40 percent of the reinstatements, labor arbitrators applied       their own, often conflicting, interpretations of procedural       requirements and ordered reinstatement without even       considering the merits of the cases.

The Comprehensive Policing and Justice Reform Amendment Act       of 2022 removed serious police discipline from collective       bargaining and introduced additional transparency and       accountability measures to address these systemic problems.       This new process has been in place for more than two years       and has been a success. Members are still entitled to union       representation throughout the process and MPD policy still       requires disciplinary cases to commence timely within 90       days, although those deadlines are tolled during criminal       investigations.

Under the new system, members have a right to be heard, in       person, before any discipline is imposed, and the vast       majority of disciplinary cases are resolved by agreement.       While labor arbitrators have been removed from the process,       members still have the right to appeal their discipline to       the independent Office of Employee Appeals (OEA). OEA has       upheld the two termination cases it has considered under the       new system--one originally overturned on a timing       technicality involving a member who worked unauthorized       outside employment while on duty, accepted gratuities, and       made untruthful statements; and another where the member had       repeated alcohol-related misconduct, including driving under       the influence, public intoxication, and being the subject of       a Substantial Risk Order that prohibited him from possessing       a firearm. While the sample size is small, these sustained       terminations are unquestionably the right outcomes for MPD,       our residents and visitors, and the local and national       elected officials that MPD serves.

The law enforcement disciplinary reforms implemented by the       District were long overdue. They transformed a process where       the determination of whether or not an officer is       fit to wear the badge rests not with an unaccountable labor       arbitrator, but with the official who bears ultimate       responsibility for those members' conduct--the Chief of       Police. I urge you once again to reject H.R. 2096, the       ``Protecting Our Nation's Capital Emergency Act of 2025,''       and to support the work of my Administration, including the       Chief of Police, to maintain these critical accountability       measures for officers that engage in egregious and criminal       misconduct.            Sincerely,                                                     Muriel Bowser,      Mayor.                                   ____                              Council of the District of Columbia,                                        Washington, DC, June 9, 2025      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      Democratic Leader, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries: We write to       express our opposition to three pieces of legislation we       understand will be considered on the House floor this week.       All three bills would repeal provisions in laws that were       carefully and deliberately enacted by the Council for the       benefit of all District residents.

H.R. 2096 would repeal several efforts by the Council to       ensure that police officers who violate the law and       contravene public safety are appropriately disciplined. The       bill would strip the Chief of the Metropolitan Police       Department (MPD) of the authority to discipline officers who       violate the law or MPD policy. It would also limit the MPD       Chiefs discretion to impose disciplinary penalties greater       than those recommended by the board investigating the       allegations made against an officer. Stripping MPD management       of its authority in this area would greatly undermine both       MPD and public safety. A 2022 D.C. Auditor's report       catalogued cases where MPD was barred from firing officers       who had committed sexual and domestic violence, who were       arrested for assorted criminal activity, or who gave false       statements, misused their firearms, or slept on the job. H.R.       2096 would also restore a 90-day statute of limitations for       claims against police officers that, in the past, was       repeatedly used by officers seeking to avoid accountability.       Every MPD Chief for the past 15 years has supported this       reform because it empowers police leadership--not a third-      party board or arbitrator--to determine the appropriate       standards of conduct and discipline for their officers.       Congress should not substitute its authority for that of       local elected leaders and MPD Chiefs who have examined these       issues closely.

We support having a robust and strong police force and work       closely with MPD leadership to provide them with the tools       they need to make the city safe. Part of that effort includes       ensuring that the force can appropriately remove officers who       violate the law, MPD policies, and the public trust. When the       public trusts that MPD can effectively police its own,       residents are more likely to cooperate in investigations and       more likely to assist in prosecution, making the District       safer. H.R. 2096 would make it harder for law enforcement       leadership in the Nation's Capital to remove bad actors who       undermine that trust.

We also oppose H.R. 884, which would repeal a 2022 law       extending voting rights in local District elections to non-      citizen residents. Non-citizens enjoy similar voting rights       in 15 other jurisdictions, including San Francisco and       Oakland, California, Montpelier, Vermont, and a number of       jurisdictions in neighboring Maryland. It continues to be       unlawful for non-citizens to vote in federal elections in the       District. In fact, federal law has prohibited non-citizens       from voting in federal elections since 1996. Our local law       cannot and does not attempt to change that.

Finally, we oppose H.R. 2056, which attempts to negate       provisions in local District law governing how MPD and other       District agencies participate in federal immigration       enforcement efforts. This law has been on the books for 13       years and makes it clear that District officials must       cooperate with any court order directing that an individual       in District custody suspected of an immigration violation be       detained or transferred to federal custody. H.R. 2056 would       also eliminate rules governing information sharing between       the District and federal law enforcement on immigration       matters. In sum, the bill would scrap rules and practices       that are clear and familiar and replace them with nothing.       This will only cause confusion and uncertainty both for law       enforcement and those suspected of an immigration violation.       The Council is already considering a proposal from Mayor       Muriel Bowser to reconsider the District's laws and policies       in this area. We respectfully request that you allow us to do       that work.

Thank you for your consideration and your attention to       these important matters. We look forward to working with you       on our shared goals to advance the safety, security, and       prosperity of the District.            Sincerely,      Phil Mendelson,

Chairman, At-Large.      Kenyan R. McDuffie,

Chair Pro-Tempore, At-Large.      Anita Bonds,

Councilmember, At-Large.      Christina Henderson,

Councilmember, At-Large.      Robert C. White,

Councilmember, At-Large.      Brianne K. Nadeau,

Councilmember, Ward 1.      Brooke Pinto,

Councilmember, Ward 2.      Matthew Frumin,

Councilmember, Ward 3.      Janeese Lewis George,

Councilmember, Ward 4.      Zachary Parker,

Councilmember, Ward 5.      Charles Allen,

Councilmember, Ward 6.      Wendell Felder,

Councilmember, Ward 7.                                   ____           Government of the District of Columbia, Office of the             Attorney General,                                      Washington, DC, June 9, 2025.      Hon. Mike Johnson,      Speaker, House of Representatives,      Washington, DC.      Hon. Hakeem Jeffries,      House Minority Leader, House of Representatives      Washington, DC.

Dear Speaker Johnson and Minority Leader Jeffries: I write       in opposition to three pieces of legislation before you       today, H.R. 2096, H.R. 884, and H.R. 2056. These bills seek       to repeal, explicitly or in effect, three local D.C. laws       pertaining to three inherently local issues, namely the       administration of local elections, the allocation of finite       local law enforcement resources, and the processes for       disciplining local police officers if they engage in       misconduct. The D.C. Council--whose members are elected by       and are directly accountable to District residents--passed       those laws after extensive debate and consideration. It would       be undemocratic and contrary to the principles of local       autonomy on which this country was founded for Members of       Congress, in whose election District residents have no say,       to vote to upend these purely local laws.

District residents should have the same right as all other       Americans to govern our local affairs. Just like your       constituents in Louisiana and New York, and indeed the       constituents in all of your colleagues' home states across       the country, the more than 700,000 residents who call the       District home know and care deeply about the local issues       that uniquely impact our lives. Our democratically elected       local officials work closely with policy experts, local law       enforcement, and other community stakeholders to pass laws       that are in the best interests of all Washingtonians.       Substituting the will of District voters and the duly elected       D.C. Council for that of federal politicians is, simply put,       un-democratic. Even if members of Congress might vote       differently on similar local issues for their own       jurisdictions, the residents of D.C. deserve to have our       local laws respected without interference from the federal       government.

I urge you and your colleagues to vote against advancing       these proposals.            Sincerely,                                                  Brian L. Schwalb,                     Attorney General for the District of Columbia.

Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, Republicans regularly introduce  legislation to repeal local D.C. laws. What is different about this  bill is it also overrides longstanding wishes of the D.C. police  department.

For at least a quarter century, the D.C. police department has  requested increased authority to discipline officers for misconduct.  The Council gave the department this authority after the murder of  George Floyd. This bill would take away this authority.

I will discuss the justification and timing of this bill, though it  is always wrong and never the right time for Congress to legislate on  local D.C. matters. This bill says it is necessary to combat rising  violent crime in D.C. and to improve the retention and recruitment of  D.C. police officers. This bill has its facts wrong.

Last year, violent crime in D.C. reached a more than 30-year low.  This year, violent crime in D.C. is down 22 percent compared to the  same period last year. Police departments throughout the country, in  both red and blue States, are struggling to retain and recruit  officers, and they have been for many years.

The timing of the introduction and consideration of this bill is  stunning. It was introduced the same day Congress cut the local D.C.  budget by more than $1 billion. This fiscal sabotage did not save the  Federal Government any money, since the local D.C. budget consists  entirely of locally raised revenue. The Senate immediately passed the  District of Columbia Local Funds Act  to reverse this cut. Although President Trump and the National  Fraternal Order of Police called for the House to immediately pass the  District of Columbia Local Funds Act, the District of Columbia Local  Funds Act has been sitting in this House for 3 months.

Madam Speaker, I close by discussing democracy, or lack thereof, in  D.C. The Revolutionary War was fought to give consent to the governed  and to end taxation without representation. Yet, D.C. residents cannot  consent to any action taken by Congress, whether on local or Federal  matters, and they pay full Federal taxes while being denied voting  representation in Congress.

If Republicans cared about D.C. residents or democracy, they would  take up H.R. 51, the Washington, D.C. Admission Act. H.R. 51 would  admit the residential and commercial areas of D.C. as a State, giving  D.C. residents voting representation in Congress and full local self- government.

Congress has the authority to admit the new State. The Admissions  Clause of the Constitution gives Congress the authority to admit new  States. All 37 new States were admitted by an act of Congress. The  District Clause of the Constitution gives Congress the authority to  reduce the size of the Federal district, which it has previously done.

Madam Speaker, I urge the House to vote ``no'' on H.R. 2096 and to  pass the D.C. statehood bill and the District of Columbia Local Funds  Act.