Recognizing the Dacor Bacon House


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1692257/recognizing-the-dacor-bacon-house


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the DACOR Bacon House  (the ``House''), formerly known as the Ringgold-Carroll House. The  House, a building in the District of Columbia, celebrates its  bicentennial today.

The House is situated on land previously owned by David Burnes, whose  other landholdings now house the National Mall, the White House and  other notable D.C. landmarks.

The House was constructed in 1825 by Tench Ringgold using enslaved  individuals. Shortly after being built, the House's boarders included  Chief Justice of the Supreme Court John Marshall and occasionally other  Supreme Court Justices, including Joseph Story, Gabriel Duvall, Smith  Thompson and Henry Baldwin.

In 1835, the House was sold to former Maryland Governor Samuel  Sprigg, who gifted it to his daughter and son-in-law, Sally Sprigg and  William Thomas Carroll, the Clerk of the Supreme Court. When the  Carrolls owned the House, it hosted numerous dignitaries, including  President Abraham Lincoln.

From the end of the 19th century to the beginning of the 20th  century, the House remained a home for dignitaries. Residents included  Russian Imperial Minister Nikolai Shishkin and Chief Justice of the  Supreme Court Melville W. Fuller, who hosted Presidents Grover  Cleveland and Theodore Roosevelt, as well as William Howard Taft during  his tenure as Secretary of War.

Illinois Senator Medill McCormick and his wife, future Congresswoman  Ruth Hanna McCormick, resided in the House during the 1920s, where they  entertained lawmakers and their spouses.

In 1925, the House was purchased by Congressman Robert Low Bacon and  his wife, Virginia Murray Bacon. Virginia Murray Bacon founded the  Bacon House Foundation, which worked with the DACOR Education and  Welfare Foundation to form the DACOR Bacon  House Foundation, which maintains and preserves the House today.

Since 1986, the House has served as DACOR's headquarters, regularly  hosting educational programming related to foreign policy, including  professional development and networking. The House continues to welcome  dignitaries, including the numerous ambassadors, military officers,  political appointees and members of Congress who are members of DACOR.

I ask the House of Representatives to join me in recognizing the  DACOR Bacon House for its contributions to American history.