Recognizing Thomas Atkins


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1702062/recognizing-thomas-atkins


Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize Thomas Atkins, who  served as a dedicated member of my staff for almost 20 years, where he  worked tirelessly to advance my agenda for all residents of the  District of Columbia.

Thomas has an extensive political background, having served as the  National Volunteer Coordinator on the Jackson for President Campaign  '84 and as a Political Director with the Campaign for Military Service.  He also served as a leader in the environmental movement and the peace  movement and has worked for justice on important political issues. He  has made a positive impact on D.C. and the world.

As his colleagues will attest, Thomas works with commitment and  passion. In my office, his deep dedication to the arts and education  were invaluable when he served as the Coordinator of the D.C.  Congressional Art Competition Committee. His leadership, enthusiasm and  commitment ensured successful competitions, which brought together  locally, nationally and internationally renowned educators and artists  to serve as committee members and jurors. Through his leadership, the  committee was able to offer mentorship to aspiring young artists and  facilitate scholarships to esteemed institutions like the Savannah  College of Art and Design (Savannah, Georgia) and the Corcoran School  of the Arts & Design (Washington, D.C.). The committee also hosted  grand receptions and student art exhibits at prestigious venues,  including the Smithsonian Institution, the National Building Museum,  the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport  and notable galleries throughout D.C.

Thomas has held several professional roles. He worked in the  entertainment industry, where he served as the Personal Representative  of Hal Jackson, a founder of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation  (ICBC), and his daughter Jane Jackson Harley, Talent Coordinator of the  Apollo Theater and the Founder of Kemit Productions in New York City.  He is an avid art collector and has traveled extensively around the  world. His collection, the TERA Gallery, has been exhibited in the  United States and abroad.

Mr. Speaker, I ask the House of Representatives to recognize Thomas  Atkins for his service and dedication. We all wish him the best in his  well-deserved retirement.