Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2026


Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the  amendment.

Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the  gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood).

Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.

Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, in closing, the gentleman from Florida is  entitled to his opinion. It is an opinion he has brought to us not  once, but multiple times. Each time this body has voted down, on a  broad bipartisan basis, this amendment.

There is reason for that, Madam Chair. It has been voted down  repeatedly because, in fact, it is misguided, and it relies on facts  that simply aren't facts.

I don't know about the author of this bill, where he got it, but I  can tell you this. I have stood in Lebanon with our Special Forces who  are training and working on a constant basis with the LAF. I have stood  in Lebanon and seen the destruction of Hezbollah caches, massive  amounts. More than that, I have met with our ally Israel, and in  conversation with Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu, I asked him: Should we  continue to give money to the LAF? His answer was short: Give them  more.

Madam Chair, King Abdullah of Jordan has been passing on necessary  vehicles to help them do their job better, and Israel created the  opportunity for them to retake all of Lebanon and rid it of the Iranian  influence and Hezbollah once and for all.

Our President; his predecessor, Joe Biden; his predecessor, Donald  Trump; his predecessor, Barack Obama; and his predecessor, George W.  Bush, don't agree on much, but they agree on this: It has been worth  the investment. It is paying dividends. You do not let up just at a  point when they are clearing out and making safe for a democracy that,  in fact, would work there but for foreign forces with weapons.

Madam Chair, this has been defeated before, but before we didn't have  the good news and the support of every neighbor and our President the  way we do today.

I ask all Members to vote against this, not because they can't make a  point that Lebanon is a country that has been influenced but because  they can't make a point that the LAF is anything but the only force  that can, in fact, bring an eradication of Hezbollah and keep Iran from  reoccupying that, something that Israel supports and we support.

Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.