Crypto Used By Criminals and Corrupt Politicians


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1693618/crypto-used-by-criminals-and-corrupt-politicians


Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, this week, we will vote on bills to defund  the police, sow the seeds for our next financial crisis, and remove any  remaining fig leaf that we might hide behind when we insist that  Congress is a coequal branch of government.

I am, of course, referring to the highly misnamed GENIUS and CLARITY  Acts. Let's dive in.

The way a tool is used is the purpose of the tool. If you watch a  carpenter use a screwdriver, Mr. Speaker, you can ignore someone who  says that those tools are for hammering nails.

Crypto has been around since 2009. Watch how people used crypto over  the last 16 years, Mr. Speaker. You can ignore anyone who says that  this is a tool for legitimate finance. That is because the tool is  overwhelmingly used for crime.

The Russians use crypto to evade sanctions and fund their war in  Ukraine. The North Koreans use it to fund their nuclear program. Hamas  used it to fund their October 7 attack. Fentanyl traffickers use it to  get paid. All, 100 percent, of ransomware attacks get paid in crypto.

That is a really good argument for legislation, and if the crypto  industry did not want to hang out with criminals, then they would have  welcomed good legislation. These bills are not that.

The CLARITY Act would exempt any platform that is the network for  crypto transfers from any regulation at all. That might be attractive  to my Republican colleagues because Donald Trump's World Liberty  Financial is one of those platforms.

The CLARITY Act would defund white-collar police by shifting most of  these coins from the well-staffed, well-funded SEC to the much smaller  CFTC. It would exempt whole classes of crypto, the so-called memecoins,  from any regulatory supervision.

Do you know the Trump coin, Mr. Speaker? That is a memecoin.

It would allow normal, healthy public companies to evade all SEC  regulation by tokenizing their stock so they can raise more money from  less informed, less sophisticated, and dumber investors.

Finally, it would allow anyone to create a self-hosted wallet, which  is basically an online account where they can transfer assets between  anonymous users with absolutely no regulation. If the goal is to make  money laundering easier, then I have no idea how to make the CLARITY  Act better.

Yet somehow, the GENIUS Act manages to be even worse because it  connects the fraud of crypto to the real financial system. The GENIUS  Act is for so-called stablecoins. I say so-called  because they are neither stable nor are they coins. They are bits of  computer code that can be bought and sold at any time, in theory, for  one real U.S. dollar. As of May, there were $247 billion of stablecoins  in circulation.

How is the tool used? Six percent of them are used to buy things.  Nearly 90 percent are used to provide a liquidity bridge between much  shadier cryptocurrencies, the ones contemplated by the CLARITY Act.

To state the obvious, Mr. Speaker, no one will sell you a gallon of  milk for a Trump coin, but they will take dollars. Criminals need  stablecoins so they can make crypto crime pay.

The blockchain, of course, doesn't fix this because smart criminals  cover their tracks. They have created these digital mixers that  comingle lots of crypto together and spit out a clean, or shall we say  laundered, blockchain. This is why the United States Treasury  Department has described offshore mixers as a primary money laundering  concern.

Of course, you can't make a profit buying and selling something at  the same price, so the stablecoin issuers, like banks, want to earn  interest on the dollars they hold, except that those issuers are not  regulated like banks. We saw this when Silicon Valley Bank collapsed  and the price of the USDC stablecoin, which was supposedly worth a  dollar, fell to 88 cents as the run on the bank exposed the company's  failure to keep cash deposits in insured accounts. USDC only looks  stable today because the taxpayers bailed them out with the FDIC.

The GENIUS Act makes this problem even worse by saying that, in the  event of a future bank run, those uninsured crypto deposits, the  irresponsible depositors, get a claim on money before your deposits,  you as a good depositor, Mr. Speaker. That puts every American's  deposit at risk.

Amendments were introduced to fix every one of these problems, and  every one of them was rejected, which brings me to a final point: Do  you know who really benefits from crypto? Corrupt politicians do.

Just last week, the United Arab Emirates sent $2 billion to convicted  money launderer Changpeng Zhao, using coins issued by Donald Trump's  family. That is $2 billion in their bank account. The Trump family will  earn about $30 million off this transaction, and Mr. Zhao is now asking  for a pardon.

These bills will make all of those crimes easier, and if we build it,  crime will come.

When the crime happens, when the President gets richer, Mr. Speaker,  when your bank fails, when your deposits are wiped out, and when the  crypto bubble pops, just don't say that you weren't warned.