Winners of the Global Energy Race Are Being Decided


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700229/winners-of-the-global-energy-race-are-being-decided


Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, families across America are struggling with  ever-increasing energy prices.

In the last year, electricity prices have soared, increasing by 13  percent under the Trump administration. Utility bills overall have  increased at double the rate of inflation.

We all know what is driving those increases. We have soaring demand  from data centers and other loads, rising prices for natural gas, and  much-needed repairs to the grid that have been put off for years.

Those are all tangible, identifiable causes of these price increases,  but at the center of it all is one really simple reason: American  energy policy has always put producers first and families second.

Mr. Speaker, you might think that, in a democracy, the fact that  there are more consumers than producers would cause the reverse. Yet,  in fact, for far too long, we have pursued an energy system with a  single goal: Make sure that oil and gas and coal companies keep their  profits as high as possible. We have pushed the most expensive,  dirtiest forms of energy onto Americans because that is what has helped  producers.

The Trump administration has done everything they can to curb the  rise of more competitive, renewable energy. You hear a lot about how  the Trump administration hates clean energy, but that is not true. They  don't hate clean energy. They hate affordable energy.

Mr. Speaker, there is some good news. We have a plan to fix it, and I  am here today because of the Energy Bills Relief Act, a consumer- focused, family-first approach to American energy policy.

Renewable energy is the fastest, lowest-cost, most-affordable way to  meet rising demand. Right now, there are bottlenecks in the system that  prevent renewable energy from getting from where it is generated to  where it can be used.

Our Energy Bills Relief Act removes the red tape. It makes sure that  we can build our domestic energy supply so that we keep your beer cold  and your showers hot, and lower your bills at the same time.

Mr. Speaker, to do that, we are also going to have to modernize our  electric grid and increase capacity by providing much-needed, overdue  upgrades using the latest technology.

We are starting to fall behind other countries, which means that  those costs could rise even further if we don't act, but we have time.  We have time to catch up, and the Energy Bills Relief Act helps us to  do it.

Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman Levin.

I am going to take a little bit of a personal privilege here and tell  you a little bit about Mike's and my background.

Mike and I both came into Congress in 2018. Prior to that, we were  both in the clean energy industry. I think it is safe to say that prior  to the election of Donald Trump in 2016, neither of us thought that our  paths involved eventually getting to Congress or certainly being in  this moment here right now.

I say that because both of us spent our careers, before getting into  Congress, building and deploying clean energy, building and deploying  low-cost, affordable energy. If you are going to go and build one of  those plants, you build the plant, you hook it up, you connect it to  the grid. The person who now is controlling the dispatch of that plant  never runs it unless it is cheaper than the electric grid. Every minute  you own a solar panel, every minute you own a cogeneration plant, a  wind turbine, all of these technologies that are out there, you are  saying: Is this cheaper or more expensive than the alternative?

There is a saying back in the days when I was going and doing all of  that, that asking a utility for permission to interconnect to the grid  is like asking a man for permission to date his wife. It doesn't matter  whether you are cheaper. It doesn't matter whether that is in the  national interest. You are a competitive threat, and capitalism works  on competition.

So fast-forward. Mike and I run for Congress. We win. Speaker Pelosi  appoints us both to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the  Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security and charges us,  along with our wonderful leader (Ms. Castor), to figure out how to take  this knowledge and make sure that we can deploy cheaper, cleaner  energy. That work through the 116th Congress, through the 117th  Congress ultimately led to the Inflation Reduction Act.

In 2022, we passed the largest climate bill in the history of this  country, in the history of the world. The purpose of that bill was to  make sure that your access to cheap energy was not a function of  whether you had capital, whether you could hire the lawyers and the  engineers to go and fight with the utility. It was to make sure that  every American had access to the cheapest energy.

That bill, the Inflation Reduction Act, took a significant step  forward in expanding access to cleaner, more affordable energy sources  to lower costs for all Americans. I was really proud of the work we did  to help write that bill. Then President Trump killed it.

Now, killing it didn't prevent all of those generators that got built  from operating, because if you have got a solar panel on your roof, it  is still cheaper than whatever anybody else is providing. It blocks new  people's ability to bring those forward.

Last summer, he gutted programs that were designed to boost domestic  renewable energy. He slashed incentives to help households save money.  He arbitrarily blocked the development of affordable energy sources,  while forcing more expensive coal plants to keep running, ensuring that  the fossil fuel companies can keep raking in profits at taxpayers'  expense.

The Energy Bills Relief Act puts an end to that. This is a consumer- focused bill. It is a bill that puts American families first. It  restores the tax credits for home energy upgrades that were ended by  President Trump. It incentivizes utilities to help consumers save money  by funding home weatherization and energy efficiency. Wouldn't you like  to spend less on your natural gas bill? Wouldn't you like your utility  to be a partner in that?

It provides financial assistance to make sure that families don't  have their power shut off. It puts an end to price gouging because  utilities shouldn't profit while you are struggling.

It makes sure that places like data centers cover their own costs,  and if a data center opens in your area, that doesn't mean that the  costs are pushed onto your household. It gives a voice to the American  people and makes sure they are consulted when new energy projects are  being developed in their community.

This bill was put together in a way that I wish was not so  innovative. A lot of bills around here must start by saying what is  politically possible. What can we do on a bipartisan basis? Well, if  what is scientifically necessary exceeds what is politically possible,  then we are failing in any ability to claim to be a leader.

What we did in this bill is, it says: What is the energy policy that  is necessary? What is the energy policy that is most helpful to  American consumers? That is what we set out to do. I am proud of the  legislation that Congressman Levin and I have written to do that.

With that, I yield back to the great gentleman from California (Mr.  Levin).

Mr. CASTEN.   Kaptur).

Mr. CASTEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Levin for his remarks.

As we prepare to close, I want to talk a little bit about how the  Energy Bills Relief Act fits into the broader conversation we are  having about energy permitting right now.

To do this, I want to ask you to consider that you saw someone on TV  who said the reason we don't have a lot of houses in America is because  of the permitting barriers to building houses out of straw. You would  probably have two thoughts. The first is, who the heck wants to build a  house out of straw? The second thought you might have is what little  pig is behind this advocacy campaign.

I tell you that because you have to look at what is happening in the  energy sector right now, among those in the fossil fuel industry who  are telling you that the permitting problem we have is a difficulty  deploying fossil fuel assets.

Let's look at some numbers. In the year 2010, the United States  consumed 1.1 billion short tons per year of coal. Today, we consume  about 500 million. That is a more than 50 percent drop in the amount of  coal our country is consuming.

In the year 2000, the United States consumed about 20 million barrels  of oil per day. Today, we consume about 20 million barrels of oil per  day.

We drive more miles and have more people, yet we are consuming the  same amount of oil. Our houses are just as well-lit, just as warm, yet  we are consuming half as much coal.

How did we get to that point? The reason we got to that point is  because vehicles got more efficient. Given the choice between driving a  car that costs you $40 to fill up and one that costs $20, people prefer  $20. If the choice is $100 versus $50, people prefer $50. Heck, if you  have an electric vehicle, you don't have to pay at all, especially if  you have a solar panel on your roof. People like not paying for energy.

The other way that that happened is that the fastest growing source  of new energy in this country has been renewable energy. We now  generate more power from non-hydro renewables than we do from all the  coal plants in the country.

That is not because we got woke. It is because we got greedy. It is  because markets said they want to build the cheap stuff, and consumers  wanted to benefit from that cheap stuff.

Now, step back and say, okay, what do you do if you are a fossil fuel  company that is selling something that is losing market share? There is  a new technology coming out that is eating into your customer base. You  can't sell as much.

They have done two things. Number one, they have shifted to exports.  In 2016, the United States basically didn't export any natural gas at  all. By 2021, we were exporting 300,000 million cubic feet per year.  Today, we are over 500,000 million cubic feet per year. It is as if we  invented cell phones and then decided to double down on exporting  rotary phone technology to the rest of the world. We are still  producing a lot of oil in the United States, but oil is increasingly  also an export play.

If there is a permitting problem that is blocking our ability to  produce and distribute oil and gas, how is it that it is so easy to get  it down to the Gulf Coast and ship it out to overseas? The truth is, it  ain't that hard.

The reason why we are having this conversation about permitting is  really, really simple. Half of the businesses in this country, by  definition, are below average. A competitive market does not reward  below-average businesses. Now, we find ourselves in a position where  energy industry participants that historically made sure that we kept  our lights on, made sure that our cars could drive, and made sure that  our homes were warm built the economy that we have, and we are grateful  to them. They are now losing market share, and instead of pivoting to  providing people with the technologies they want, they are, number one,  shifting to exports to try to go places that are not blessed with the  kind of competitive capitalistic markets that we have in the United  States; and, number two, they are doing everything they can to ask  people in this body to please prevent capitalism from eating my lunch  because I cannot compete in a competitive market. That is what is going  on.

The reason why we are spending this time talking so much about costs  and energy is because we have this amazing opportunity right now that  we can have our cake and eat it, too.

When we embrace clean energy, we are embracing affordable energy.  When we embrace consumers, we are embracing competition. To turn  against those is to turn against capitalism. It is to turn against  everything that ever truly made America great. It is to turn against  the things that have kept up.

Then you ask how much farther we could go. I will give you some crazy  statistics. The United States' total GDP divided by the total amount of  energy that the United States uses, we generate about $200 of GDP per  million Btu of primary energy.

The United Kingdom generates almost 350 million Btu, almost twice as  much as we generate. The Danes generate over 500. Their economies are  vastly more efficient at turning energy into wealth than the United  States is--vastly more, like twice as efficient.

Imagine if we were so bad at turning labor into wealth as our  competitors. We would be having a crisis about why American labor is so  uncompetitive. Imagine if you were running a business that did a  terrible job at turning capital into wealth, and we were earning  terrible returns on investment in the United States economy. We would  be having a crisis.

We should be having a crisis about the fact that we have done such a  horrible job at turning energy into economic activity. We can be  depressed about that, or we can be enormously optimistic at the  opportunity we have in front of us.

We don't have a lot of time to prevent massive ecological disaster  from climate change, but we do have a way to move forward to avert that  crisis and make us stupidly rich. My God, let's move forward.

Mr. Speaker, thank you for allowing us the time. I thank Congressman  Levin, Congresswoman Kaptur, and Congressman Subramanyam. For goodness'  sake, let's move forward. I yield back the balance of my time.