Pregnant Students' Rights Act


Ms. RANDALL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member Scott for yielding.

Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to H.R. 6359, a bill  that claims to protect pregnant students but actually mandates that  they get less, not more information about their rights.

If the sponsor of this bill and the majority party actually believed  in supporting student parents, then they would take real action, not  just grandstand on the House floor because the March for Life is this  weekend.

The bill before us today requires the dissemination of incomplete  information, but it also comes after House Republicans have worked  alongside the Trump regime to dismantle and weaken the Department of  Education and protections for students who file complaints around Title  IX violations, among other things.

It has dismantled subsidized loan programs and financial aid. It has  decimated Medicaid, the number one payer for births in this country, in  order to pay for tax breaks for the ultrawealthy and fund ICE's violent  reign in our communities.

If we believed in supporting student parents, we would put more money  into childcare subsidies, more money into financial aid, and more money  into food assistance so that the women in college, the people who are  students who get pregnant, who have a tough decision to make, would  have all of the resources and support they need to make the decision  that is right for them.

It is not our job to tell a student what decision is right for them.  It is not our job to tell any high school graduate that they need to go  to college, right? I hear Republicans say that all the time. I tend to  agree. I believe that students deserve all of the options and all of  the support to make the choice that is right for them.

Yet mandating incomplete information while gutting the programs that  would allow a pregnant student to choose to stay pregnant and to choose  to complete school is a fallacy. It is political theater, and it is  doing a disservice to the students who we are purporting to support.

I have had a chance to work with a lot of students who have become  pregnant, both from around the time I was in junior high, when a friend  of mine had a pregnancy scare, to a time when I was in college, to  being a volunteer in the bay area where I was on a rapid response line  in case someone needed to take a bus 3\1/2\ hours from their college  campus into the city. That is because that was the only place they  could access either maternity care, OB/GYN care, or access abortion  care. We have not funded healthcare in rural communities across the  country. We have gutted programs that provide actual support for  pregnant people.

This is a joke. This let's make sure they get an email with all of  the information. It is unserious.

Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill  and to take serious action to support students, pregnant or not.