China


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1697555/china


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, we have a little over 2 weeks before the  Christmas recess, and we still have a lot of work to do here in the  U.S. Senate, including passing a fully conferenced National Defense  Authorization Act bill--by that, I mean reconcile the differences  between the House version and the Senate version and get it to the  President for his signature. There are many different players across  both the House and the Senate, and they have to come together to make  this happen.

Of course, we all have different priorities, but our main priority  ought to be the welfare and the training and the equipment of our men  and women in the military and their ability to protect all of us. But  we can't forget about the real-world consequences of the  policies we are legislating. It matters, what ends up in and what ends  up out of this bill at the end of the day. With something like the  annual Defense bill, these decisions can have life-or-death  consequences.

So as the National Defense Authorization Act comes to a close, I have  been pushing to ensure that several provisions, including addressing  outbound investment transparency, are included in the final  legislation.

It is no secret to any of us that China is our near-peer competitor,  and they don't have benign intentions with regard to the United States.  They want to dominate the United States economically and militarily.

President Xi, the head of the People's Republic of China, and the  Chinese Communist Party have threatened time after time after time to  forcibly attack Taiwan and to consolidate Taiwan with mainland China.

We also know that the battle for the future of the world will  literally be determined by who wins the race for artificial  intelligence, which is heavily reliant on the production of advanced  semiconductors and other advanced microelectronics.

These technologies--and this is really important--have both  commercial and military applications, but in China, anything that is  developed or possessed by a commercial entity has to be shared with the  Chinese Communist Party and the People's Liberation Army. They call  that military-civil fusion. So it means that any progress that they  make, including on something as sophisticated and cutting edge as  artificial intelligence, has to be shared and will be shared with their  military.

On Tuesday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Subcommittee on  East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy held a  hearing on China's challenge to America's leadership when it comes to  artificial intelligence. We heard expert testimony from four witnesses  on the challenges that the United States faces in staying ahead of  China in this critical sector.

Each of these witnesses emphasized the importance of export controls,  controlling what technology goes from the United States into China,  where they can then use that to compete with us and potentially even  beat us in the AI race.

One quoted a senior executive at a Chinese AI firm, who said that  Chinese companies have to use two to four times the computing power to  achieve the same results for large model training because of U.S.  restrictions on AI chips. Now, this is a good thing; however, export  controls, while an effective tool, are not simple or straightforward,  and the Chinese Government is really good--like the Russians--at  circumventing sanctions and different restrictions--in this case, on  cutting-edge technology.

The United States must take care to ensure that our export controls  are properly enforced as PRC shell companies have ways of working  around these trade controls in order to acquire American semiconductors  and other controlled products. Unfortunately, sometimes it seems like a  game of Whac-A-Mole because one company will pop its head up, and we  will deal with that, but then they change the name, and it is the same  thing under a different name.

It is not just the chips themselves that we have to keep a tight grip  on but the machinery we use to make them. Many of the intermediary  parts, such as lithography machines, are produced by our allies, like  the Dutch ASML, which makes the leading-edge, advanced, ultraviolet  lithography that is necessary to produce the most advanced  semiconductor chips, but other countries, like South Korea, Japan, and  Germany, are also part of that supply chain of critical equipment and  machinery. Working and winning the AI race means we have to work hand  in glove with our allies to ensure that these technologies are not  acquired by the PRC, and we know the stakes if we don't accomplish that  job.

In the same way that China has captured the supply chain for the  production of processing critical minerals, they have designs to  capture the manufacturing capacity for advanced semiconductors. Then  they will do what they have always done, which is undercut worldwide  competitors with government subsidies and then corner the market so  that they become the only supplier, holding the rest of the world  hostage.

Of course, there is the fact that China has never seen a piece of  intellectual property that they aren't willing to steal, so by hook or  crook, they are going to try to outcompete us, and we need to maintain  our diligence and be vigilant when it comes to this threat.

China is aggressively investing resources towards winning this race  for artificial intelligence, and we cannot aid them in winning the race  through U.S. investments in China. That is where this piece of  legislation called outbound investment transparency comes in.

One of the ways that China has built its mammoth manufacturing  capacity is when American companies go into China and massively invest  in manufacturing capabilities there. There is plenty that has been  written on this topic. Apple, Tesla, and other major companies have  gone into China because of the lower cost of manufacturing, and the  Chinese, unsurprisingly, have learned these manufacturing processes to  now where they have become some of the very best in the world. But we  have to make sure at minimum that we aren't blindly watching American  investments into China in technology that could later be used to kill  American marines or American soldiers in a future conflict in the Indo- Pacific.

Some estimates show that as of 2020, a total of U.S. investments in  Chinese companies totaled $2.3 trillion. Now, that is a lot of money,  and if it wasn't available to the Chinese economy and Chinese  manufacturing, it would make it harder for them to compete against us.  This $2.3 trillion in market value includes $21 billion in  semiconductor investment, $54 billion in military companies--U.S.  companies investing in Chinese military companies to the tune of $54  billion--and $221 billion in artificial intelligence.

Again, because of China's military-civil fusion policy, we are not  just investing in commercial applications of these technologies; every  American dollar that is invested in these critical sectors in China is  directly fueling the arsenal of our greatest strategic adversary.

Let me say that again. Every dollar that Americans invest in China in  these critical sectors is directly fueling the arsenal of our greatest  strategic adversary.

It is suicidal for the United States to see American dollars flow to  China for the development of military technologies that very well could  be used one day to kill American soldiers.

This is not a priority we can afford to kick down the road. Anyone  who dismisses the threat of outbound investment is blind--blind--to the  threat of the Chinese Communist Party and, I would argue, is working  against the best interests of this country.

I have been working for years to try to make sure that we have this  provision in the Defense authorization bill. We had one vote I think 3  years ago on a defense authorization bill; it was 92 to 6. So this is a  bipartisan concern, as it should be, but for one reason or another,  every time a bill comes across from the House through a conference,  this provision seems to drop out, and that is because, frankly, of some  of the people who financially benefit from the status quo and who do  not want us to have, as policymakers, any transparency into Americans  who invest in China to help them defeat us, whether militarily or in  the race for AI.

(Mr. MORENO assumed the Chair.)

So I am glad that, at this point in the negotiations, the House and  the Senate are prioritizing this provision in the final version of this  year's NDAA. If we do not address outbound investment transparency,  then we are playing to lose the AI race and risk the lives of American  servicemembers and a potential conflict in the Indo-Pacific.

The time to act was yesterday, but the next best time to act is  today. This fight to address outbound investment transparency has been  going on for many years, but I look forward to finally declaring  victory when President Trump signs the National Defense Authorization  Act into law, which I hope is very soon.