Cormick, and MMcr. Fetterman):Hagerty, Kim, Cormick, Schumer, Sullivan, Fetterman, and Others for


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1688807/cormick-and-mmcr-fettermanhagerty-kim-cormick-schumer-sullivan-fetterman-and-others-for


Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, a lot has changed in Washington, DC, in  the last 6 weeks. That is an understatement, perhaps. But one of the  things that President Trump has done is shifted the Overton window when  it comes to the People's Republic of China.

Years ago, when the Clinton administration invited China to join the  World Trade Organization, the idea behind that was that somehow  communist China would change with being part of the rules-based  international order. Well, of course, we know China doesn't follow the  rules and has taken advantage of the United States for decades. But  under President Trump, that will no longer be the case. For example,  last month, the White House announced its America-first investment  policy, which will be critical for holding China to account.

One of the avenues that China has exploited to gain the upper  economic hand is through both inbound and outbound flows of capital. By  investing in U.S. companies, the People's Republic of China and the  Chinese Communist Party can obtain access to intellectual property and  know-how. And, of course, they have no shame. Again, they don't play by  our rules. They are not afraid to cheat or steal our technology if it  is possible.

On the other side of the coin, U.S. investments from the United  States are flowing into China and have for a long time. A 2021 estimate  was that the market value of U.S. investments in China was valued at  more than $1 trillion.

Now, the reason why that is important is that China has used that  investment to build their economy and their military. It has allowed  them to advance technologies that one day might be used against the  United States.

So I am very glad that President Trump, by his Executive order, has  brought this issue from the back burner to the front.

It is no secret to any of my colleagues that I have been working on  this issue for a while now. I was proud to partner with President Trump  during his first administration to update CFIUS, the Committee on  Foreign Investment in the United States. This interagency committee  reviews foreign investments and real estate transactions to determine  whether they pose any security risks for the United States.

Through the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act, or what  was known as FIRRMA, we strengthened and modernized CFIUS to rise to  the occasion of new threats coming from the People's Republic of China.  The President's America-first investment policy builds on this by  directing CFIUS to restrict PRC investments in U.S. tech, agriculture,  energy, raw materials, and more.

But as Chinese companies get richer and richer from American  investment, it is clear that restricting inbound investment is not  enough. We need to prevent the People's Republic of China from using  capital investments by the United States to gain access to and copy our  technological advances--most importantly, in certain critical sectors.

As of 2023, U.S. investors were investing close to $2 billion in  Chinese critical technology sectors, including semiconductors, quantum  computing, and artificial intelligence. A report from the U.S.-China  Economic and Security Review Commission noted: ``The United States is  the most important foreign source of investment to semiconductors,  quantum computing, and AI in China.''

Let me say that again. ``The United States is the most important  foreign source of investment to semiconductors, quantum computing, and  AI in China.''

So it is these investments, which are largely opaque to us, as  policymakers, that are helping China basically compete with us. We  know, of course, it is not just about economic competition. We know  that China has a strategy of military-civil fusion, which means that  these investments are not simply benefiting China's economy and  consumer tech sector; they are directly helping build China's military  strength.

It is not too dramatic to say that as I stand here, U.S. dollars are  funding the development of technologies that could one day be used  against Americans, potentially even to kill Americans or American  troops.

Inbound and outbound investments are simply two sides of the same  coin. We can't be giving away all of our intellectual property and our  incredible innovation for Chinese companies to copy at will, and we  can't be giving them the capital to recreate our ideas or reverse- engineer and then use them against us.

How can we expect to outcompete our most significant competitor on  the world stage if we are sending billions of dollars directly into  their arsenal?

President Trump has been a great partner with Congress on ending this  exploitative relationship with China. Again, this is not dealing with  another country on the basis of good faith and a knowledge that  everybody is operating from the same set of rules and norms. China does  not, and we have recognized that more recently, but it is important to  reemphasize because some people, I think, still naively assume China  operates by the same rules the United States does.

So I am glad the President is as excited as I am to finish the job we  started with CFIUS reform.

Today, I am proud to announce that I am introducing legislation to  finally tackle this issue called the Foreign Investment Guardrails to  Help Thwart China Act. The acronym is FIGHT China. Two years ago, I  sponsored an amendment to the NDAA requiring transparency for these  outbound investments. It passed the Senate overwhelmingly with a final  bipartisan vote of 91 to 6. We don't see many votes here in the Senate  these days where there is such strong bipartisan support, so I am  grateful for that.

Regrettably, even in the face of such overwhelming consensus, this  amendment did not make its way into the final version of the bill for  reasons I won't dwell on now. But, as my colleagues can attest, I am  not one to give up easily, and this issue is simply too important to  American national security to take no for an answer, so I have  continued to work with great partners in the House, in the Senate, and  in the Trump administration to continue to make progress on this and  bring us to where we are today.

The legislation we are introducing today has been the culmination of  years of work, and I believe it is stronger as a result of the input  and the collaboration that have occurred.

The FIGHT China Act will establish a program at the Department of  Treasury to prohibit U.S. investments in certain sensitive technologies  in the PRC.

Now, some people may say: Well, if you stop all U.S.-based investment  in China, that is a big problem. But we are not talking about that. I  could care less how many Starbucks or Burger Kings are built in China.  It only addresses certain of the most sensitive technologies. These  include advanced semiconductors, artificial intelligence, quantum  computing, and hypersonics. Of course, all of these have a military  application.

So this is not just an economic question; this is a national security  issue. We know that all of these critical industries directly support  the Chinese military, and this is the military that has been instructed  by President Xi to be ready to invade Taiwan or to absorb Taiwan one  way or another, either by force or by coercion, by 2027. It is simply  foolish to continue to send money to fuel these technologies that could  be used perhaps in the next few years against the United States and our  allies.

This legislation would create a notification regime to create more  transparency around investments that are not prohibited. You know, as  long as we are blind to how much money is  being invested in China and in what technology and in what sectors it  is being invested in, we as policymakers can't do our job and the  administration can't do its job, which is primarily to keep our country  safe and the American people safe.

This legislation will authorize the President to impose sanctions  against any PRC entity that engages in PRC military or intelligence  sectors.

I want to express my gratitude to our colleagues, people like  Senators Cortez Masto, Warren, Banks, Slotkin, Ricketts, Bennet,  Hagerty, Kim, McCormick, Schumer, Sullivan, Fetterman, and others for  their partnership on this legislation.

I especially want to recognize the chairman of the Banking Committee,  which has principal jurisdiction over this subject matter, Senator Tim  Scott, and thank him for working with me and cosponsoring this  legislation.

Last but not least, President Trump has been a great partner to see  this project to the finish line. Everything we are doing here is  working hand in glove with the administration to ensure that the  People's Republic of China is not allowed to meddle with the United  States under the guise of simply doing business.

But time is running short. We know that China, as I said, has an  interest in reincorporating Taiwan as early as 2027, not 2 years from  now. Now is not the time to continue to allow them access to copy all  of our work, in particularly the most sensitive areas. Nor is it the  time to allow them to continue to benefit from U.S. investment dollars  now that they are no longer a developing country, but they are one of  the most advanced economies in the world and certainly a rising  military power.

We know that China, Iran, and Russia have conducted joint naval  drills in the Middle East, called the Maritime Security Belt 2025.  These exercises took place in the Gulf of Oman near the strategic  Strait of Hormuz, the narrow mouth of the Persian Gulf through which  nearly a fifth of all crude oil traded in the world passes. This is an  ominous sign. We know they are strengthening their cooperation together  in a way to undermine and challenge the West, including the United  States. The last thing the United States should do is to join this  cooperation by investing in the Chinese military, and that includes not  just the Government of the United States but all Americans and American  businesses and investors.

So the President has been right to highlight this growing threat, and  I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump and Secretary  Bessent to ensure that U.S. dollars no longer are able to help build  the Chinese military and line the pockets of the country that is  working to undermine the international rules-based order and the United  States first and foremost.                                  ______