Cornyn: Schumer Blocking Rx Bill to Defeat Me in Reelection


Today on the floor, U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) discussed the Minority Leader's opposition to his bipartisan drug pricing bill at the expense of lower drug prices for his New York constituents. Excerpts of Sen. Cornyn's floor remarks are below, and video can be found here.

"The Senior Senator from New York, the Democratic Leader, has refused to let this bill pass without a Broadway-scale production of other unrelated legislation."

"He doesn't think it's bad policy. In fact, he admitted it's a good bill. He's not objecting to it because it is somehow a partisan bill that hasn't gone through the regular order or would increase the national debt. As I said, none of these things are true of this legislation."

"The only reason the Senior Senator from New York, the Democratic Leader, objected to this bill is because he's engaging in the kind of politics and gamesmanship that really gives Washington, D.C. a bad name."

"Senator Schumer apparently is willing to punish his constituents in New York State by not allowing this bill to pass because he wants to make sure that nobody whose name that's on the ballot who happens to be a Republican can claim any sort of advantage by getting a win legislatively."

"We saw this mentality during the President's impeachment trial, too."

"We saw how the Democratic Leader staged vote after vote not because he felt like he had a shot at getting a conviction of President Trump and a removal, but strictly to make senators whose names were going to be on the ballot in 2020 look bad."

"He knew he was going to lose on the main impeachment vote so he focused on the one thing that has eluded him for many years, and that is his aspiration to become the next Majority Leader."

"And now in his bid to become the next Majority Leader, our colleague from New York is blocking a bill that would bring down drug prices not only in the state of Texas, but in New York as well and every other state around the country."