Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, across our country, we are seeing  cities, schools, businesses, and other organizations take the necessary  and serious precautions to keep the American people safe from the  spread of the coronavirus. School districts, colleges, and universities  are canceling in-person classes, churches are moving services online,  professional sports teams are hitting pause on their regular season,  airlines are canceling flights, and many Main Street businesses are  closing their doors. 

  I know that all of this is a little disorienting and certainly  alarming. But while these measures aren't normal, it is a sign that we  are heeding advice from the experts, people like Dr. Fauci and  organizations like the Centers for Disease Control. It is a sign that  we are doing what we can to prevent or at least slow down community  spread. It is a sign that we are standing together and making progress,  ultimately expecting that we will get through this together. The  difficult decisions that need to be made by elected officials, business  owners, and community leaders when they decide to shut down normal  parts of our daily lives--these are not easy decisions for them to  make. 

  Despite the public health benefits these closures will provide, we  are also expecting other serious--mainly economic--consequences. Our  economic engine is being brought to a halt as people are staying home  rather than producing, and small businesses and their employees in  particular are feeling the impact. 

  Jason Phillips is a manager at Zoli's Pizza in Fort Worth, TX, and he  has been in the service industry for more than 20 years. Still, he said  he has never been in a situation quite like this one. He said this past  Saturday that Zoli's Pizza had about half the number of customers they  have come to expect. 

  Steven Startz has experienced a similar struggle. Last November, he  opened a new restaurant in New Braunfels, TX, just north of San  Antonio, called Le Citron European Cafe and Bistro. The first year for  any new restaurant is bound to be tough. As luck would have it, a week  after they opened, an oven broke, and it had to be replaced. But  nothing has prepared Steven for the months of February and March, what  they would bring. He was hoping, as you might imagine, for an uptick in  tourists, which would mean more business, but instead a pandemic has  kept everybody at home. Rather than a positive bump in the business,  revenue for his young restaurant is down 60 percent. As a result, he  has had to cut staff, and he hasn't hired replacements for the  employees he has recently lost. 

  This is an all-too-familiar struggle for millions of Americans who  are unable to go to work during this pandemic and are facing serious  economic uncertainty about their future. Those in the service  industry--especially those who rely on tips--are among the hardest hit. 

  I am glad to say that soon the Senate will take action to provide  additional relief. As the Presiding Officer knows, we passed an $8.3  billion emergency package to help fast-track discovery of a vaccine and  to make sure that our healthcare sector is prepared for what is coming  at it, or at least better prepared. 

  The House has now passed the Families First Coronavirus Response Act,  which we are in the process of taking up and will hopefully finish this  week, and then I expect there will be a third installment--a stimulus  package that Treasury Secretary Mnuchin will be up here on the Hill  talking about today to try to help employees and employers and entire  industries survive this economic trauma. 

  The Families First Coronavirus Response Act will help protect both  the physical and financial health of our country by supporting workers  and their families impacted by the virus. It will remove financial  barriers for Texans who need access to coronavirus testing, regardless  of income or insurance coverage. 

  This is one of the things I talked to Governor Abbott about in  particular. He said that there are two things that Texas needs. He said  it is more testing and it is more protective equipment, personal  protective equipment--PPEs, as they are called--in order for this  testing to take place. 

  While it is still true--according to the Centers for Disease  Control--that you should not be tested unless you are experiencing  symptoms and referred by a healthcare provider, it is clear that more  testing is going to be needed, and indeed we have heard from the  President and the Vice President and the administration in general that  we expect a huge ramping up of the capacity to test people so they can  know whether they are positive and they need to stay in isolation or  possibly need healthcare treatment or whether, like the President and  one of our colleagues here, Senator Graham, they are negative, and  obviously the peace of mind that comes with that. This legislation  removes all financial barriers for that testing 

  For those who have private insurance, it requires that all plans  cover the cost of testing, including the cost of a provider, an urgent  care center, and emergency room visits in order to get tested. As I  said, right now, CDC protocol calls for a healthcare provider to make a  diagnosis based on symptoms that would then lead to a test. 

  Those are the same zero-cost measures that would apply to those  covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and TRICARE. 

  It also requires the National Disaster Medical System to reimburse  the cost of testing for patients who are uninsured. 

  In short, the bottom line is, no one will have to pay to be tested  for the coronavirus, period. 

  This legislation also includes a range of provisions to provide  financial security for those who are unable to work, and that is  because they are protecting the public health. It will create a new  Federal emergency paid sick leave program for those impacted by the  coronavirus. That means that any Texan--any American who is diagnosed,  quarantining, or caring for a dependent who was impacted by this virus  will be able to take 14 days of paid sick leave. And many Texas workers  will be able to access 12 weeks of paid leave for virus-related long- term absences. These protections include workers who stay home to care  for their loved ones, including staying home with their kids due to  school closures. 

  This bill also makes changes to unemployment insurance. It will  temporarily waive requirements for workers to prove they are actively  searching for work during the public health emergency response, and it  will provide $1 billion in emergency grants for States to support  processing and paying unemployment insurance benefits. In other words,  we know that people are staying home because their employers have told  them their businesses have been shut down. Even though they are not  sick, they are suffering financial loss. The purpose of this is to make  sure that through the vehicle of unemployment insurance, they do get  some money so that they can take care of their necessities and keep  putting food on the table. 

  This bill also takes serious steps to strengthen food security for  those who are struggling with reliable access to healthy meals. This is  one of the things I heard from a friend of mine out in West Texas just  today concerned about the food banks that provide a safety net for  people without access to regular, healthy food. This bill actually will  send $400 million to local food banks, which are supporting those low- income families across the country, including in places like West  Texas. 

  We know that older Americans are the most vulnerable when it comes to  the coronavirus, and many are afraid to leave their homes at the risk  of getting sick. This legislation provides a quarter of a billion  dollars for the senior nutrition program to provide home-delivered  meals to low-income seniors. It also provides half a billion dollars  for Federal food stamps. It provides flexibility on work requirements,  so those who lose their jobs or aren't able to work can receive  assistance when they need it the most. 

  I mentioned the food banks and the school lunch program. Last week,  the U.S. Department of Agriculture approved a request from Texas with  regard to school lunches. Millions of Texas students are currently  eligible for free lunch programs, but, obviously, when the schools  close, they don't get access to that nutrition. But thanks to the U.S.  Department of Agriculture, Texas schools can continue to serve  free meals to low-income students, even when their schools are closed. 

  This legislation also includes a range of measures to support  healthcare workers, veterans, small businesses, and countless Texans  who are struggling financially as a result of this pandemic. 

  Of course, we know we are all racing against the clock to respond to  this virus, and it is important for Congress to act promptly to  demonstrate to the American people that we understand the problem and  that we are using every tool in our toolbox to respond to this crisis  on their behalf. 

  In any major event--whether it is a natural disaster or a pandemic-- we need an all-of-government response. All of us need to be cooperating  and working on the same page, moving as efficiently as we possibly can. 

  As I said, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act builds on the  $8.3 billion emergency spending bill that was signed into law by  President Trump earlier this month. It also complements the national  emergency declaration made by President Trump last week and Governor  Abbott's disaster declaration for the State of Texas. That is why I  plan to support this bill when a vote is scheduled. 

  I know there are other Senators who have said they have good ideas.  Many of them are intriguing and I think would make a positive addition  to this legislation, but I think in times like this, the thing we need  to do is to work together and function expeditiously to get this  legislation passed. And because we know there is going to be another  installment--a third installment--to respond to the coronavirus,  perhaps those other good ideas can be included in that additional  legislation, which we will pass before we recess. 

  I was interested to hear the majority leader say that we will not  recess until we take up and pass that third installment. I think his  sense of urgency and his sense of determination and focus is well  justified, and I congratulate him for that. I think we need to all pull  together in a similar spirit of unity. 

  I thank the Trump administration, especially Treasury Secretary  Mnuchin, for working so quickly with Speaker Pelosi to build this  package so that we can provide relief for American workers and families  as soon as possible. 

  This is not the first bill to strengthen our response to the  coronavirus, and it will not be our last. As I said, there is a  bipartisan commitment to passing the third phase to strengthen our  economy and support the industries and businesses that have been hit  the hardest by this pandemic. 

  Leader McConnell has made clear his commitment to finding a bold,  bipartisan solution to the economic challenges we are facing and will  continue to face in the months ahead, and I am proud to support this  effort. 

  While conversations continue regarding the next phase of our  coronavirus response and what that may look like, I believe it is time  to pass the Families First Coronavirus Response Act so that we provide  this needed relief to the American people as soon as possible. 

  (Mr. SULLIVAN assumed the Chair.)    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT