Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the last several weeks, the world has  watched closely as the coronavirus has spread from China to more than  100 countries around the world. 

  Since this rapid spread began--before cases were discovered in at  least 35 States, including the District of Columbia--folks in my  hometown of San Antonio were already providing topnotch care for  Americans evacuated from Wuhan Province overseas with suspected  exposure. 

  From the first evacuees from China to more than 120 passengers from  the Diamond Princess cruise ship, to those who will soon arrive from  the Grand Princess cruise ship, the dedicated healthcare professionals  in San Antonio have been operating--have been hitting on all cylinders. 

  So far, Lackland Air Force Base has been used to quarantine 235  evacuees, with hundreds more to arrive in the coming days. I must say,  they have done a good job of managing this rapidly evolving situation,  but that is not to say there haven't been challenges. 

  A few weeks ago, I organized a meeting with officials from the city  of San Antonio, including the mayor and two city council persons, as  well as the Department of Health and Human Services and the Defense  Department, to discuss the ongoing mission and any concerns the city  might have. Anytime officials at every level of government  are working together--whether it is in response to a natural disaster  or a public health emergency--coordination is key. You have to make  sure everybody is operating on the same page and regularly sharing  information--something that was a challenge in the beginning and  remains a challenge today. 

  At one point, we were able to get everybody in the same room to  discuss not only the response to the virus but the steps to be taken to  protect the general public in the surrounding area. Of course, that  work doesn't start and end at Lackland in San Antonio. Hospitals around  the State are facing a great deal of pressure and uncertainty  surrounding the virus and working to ensure that they are prepared to  treat potential coronavirus patients without impacting their normal  operations is an urgent concern. 

  Last week, I helped organize a conference call with the Texas  Hospital Association and officials from Health and Human Services and  the Texas Department of State Health Services to discuss some of the  issues of concern to hospitals serving on the frontline all across our  State. There have been a lot of news stories about the shortage of  masks and personal protective equipment for healthcare workers and  subsequent price gouging, and that is a big concern for these  hospitals--many of which serve rural populations. As I told folks on  that call, communication in these situations is critical. It seems so  obvious, but it is not done unless you insist upon it. I was  particularly glad to hear personally their concerns so we can make sure  we are doing what is needed on our end in Washington, DC, to support  them. 

  I appreciate Texas's incredible healthcare professionals who have  been working to treat patients in their care and prevent the  coronavirus from spreading to the general public. The city of San  Antonio--I have to single out in particular--has been carrying the  weight of the struggle for a number of weeks now, and it has come at  quite a significant cost to city taxpayers. Fortunately, last week, the  President signed an $8.3 billion funding bill to support our Nation's  response to the coronavirus. It will send vital funding for treating  and preventing the spread of the virus, including the purchase of masks  and personal protective equipment, as well as supporting the  development of a vaccine. 

  The funding bill will also include money for State and local  communities, including San Antonio, which have been at the forefront of  the battle at home. That makes $950 million available for reimbursement  for the costs Texas and other States have incurred while monitoring and  treating these individuals. It is a start in the process to repay San  Antonio for the work they have done to help our Nation mitigate the  impact of the coronavirus.  

  I appreciate Chairman Shelby and Ranking Member Leahy for including  this reimbursement funding in the legislation and working so closely  with all of us to get the relief on the way as soon as possible. 

  Over the last couple of days, we have witnessed the ripple effect the  coronavirus threat has had on the markets, and the next big question on  everyone's mind is how this virus will impact the economy. Yesterday we  had the opportunity to discuss potential options with President Trump,  Vice President Pence, and Secretary Mnuchin, and we are continuing to  work to identify the best path forward. 

  Unfortunately, there doesn't yet seem to be a bipartisan effort to  try to reach a consensus--something we need. One of our Democratic  colleagues suggested that the best way to prevent economic damage is to  stop the spread of the virus. I can't argue with that logic, but unless  that Senator knows something the rest of us don't know, that is not  exactly a productive use of our time. We know we need to stop the  virus, but we also need to deal with the economic fallout as well. 

  When we were in a position in 2014 with the Ebola crisis, we didn't  hear a lot of griping about what President Obama was doing. We found  ways to work with him for the betterment of our communities in the  country. So I hope that at a time when we are confronting this threat,  we can work together. That includes the Speaker and the minority leader  here, all of us together to try to solve this problem. It is not a time  to play politics. It is a time for us to work together in the Nation's  interest. 

  Keeping the American people safe and healthy and keeping our economy  strong should be a shared bipartisan goal. I hope our colleagues--all  of our colleagues--will keep that in mind, just as we did when we  worked with President Obama in 2014. 

  While the American people are rightly taking precautions to protect  themselves and their loved ones, it is important to remember there is  no reason to panic. Preparation, yes; panic, no. 

  The leaders at the Centers for Disease Control and the Department of  Health and Human Services continue to remind all of us that the risk  for the average American remains low, and the best defense against the  virus is to use the same personal hygiene practices that our mother  taught us when we were young. To help communicate what those practices  are, as well as other information, my office has created a unique web  page on my official website, cornyn.senate.gov. This will serve as a  platform to provide information to all Texans who have questions about  the virus and may be of interest to anybody who is concerned about what  the government is doing to deal with the virus. If you are looking for  information on how to prevent the spread of the virus, what Congress is  doing to help, where you can find the latest number of cases in Texas,  we have compiled all of the relevant links in one place. 

  I know I speak on behalf of all Texans when I thank the dedicated  healthcare professionals around the State and around the Nation for  providing the highest quality care for people who come down with the  virus. I am grateful for everyone who is unified in this fight and who  are working to stop the spread of the virus and, ultimately, develop a  vaccine. 

  On one final note, let me say a word about my friend and colleague  Senator Cruz. Over the weekend, he announced he would self-quarantine  after coming into contact with someone who was later determined to have  the coronavirus. I want to thank him for having the courage to step  forward and to do what any one of us should do if we are exposed to  somebody with the coronavirus, if we know it: to monitor our health and  make sure we don't spread it to others and to seek care from a  healthcare professional should we begin to come down with worrisome  symptoms. 

  His is a great reminder for all Americans to take this potential risk  seriously and that we should all be joined together to do everything we  can to keep our communities safe and healthy. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT