Coronavirus


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, since the Senate returned to Washington 2  weeks ago after about a 6-week hiatus, we have accomplished quite a bit  on a bipartisan basis. We have confirmed national security nominees; we  have held hearings to examine liability limitations, coronavirus  testing, safely getting back to work and school, and the impact of the  pandemic on broadband. In short, the Senate has been working, on a  bipartisan basis, to understand the challenges that this virus has  created so we can provide targeted reforms. 

  It certainly seems to be a different approach than the one taken by  the House. Earlier this week, House Democrats released a so-called  coronavirus relief bill. You might say they kind of mailed it in  because they haven't been here for the last 2 weeks, but it has an  absolutely staggering pricetag--$3 trillion, with a ``t.'' That is more  than we spent in the first four coronavirus response bills combined. 

  I tell my constituents, when I am talking to them on a  videoconference call or teleconference, that 2 months ago, I never  would have imagined that the Senate would be voting on trillion-dollar  bills, but now apparently the House wants to make this a routine way to  do business and particularly without much debate. 

  As astounding as that figure is, the biggest issue with that bill  isn't the cost or the fact that Speaker Pelosi and her party drafted it  in secret but that they released the 1,800-page bill text on Tuesday,  and they plan to vote on it tomorrow. Unbelievable. 

  It would be an understatement to say there are concerns with this  kind of legislating. I would call it legislative malpractice, to be  kind. It is not just from Republicans or the administration or the  American people; the Speaker's own Members are begging for additional  time to review this massive bill. Unlike the previous coronavirus  response bills passed here in Congress, there have been no bipartisan  discussions in the production of that bill from the House--not with  House Republicans, not with the administration, and certainly not with  us. I can assure you that this legislation looks just like the kind of  product that you would expect from that type of flawed process. It is  partisan; it is unaffordable; it is unrealistic; and it stands  absolutely no chance of becoming law. 

  We all know that legislation drafted in a vacuum by one political  party in one Chamber isn't a good-faith effort to try to survive, much  less address, this pandemic crisis. It is a political statement as much  as anything else, a liberal wish list which, if passed--which it will  not be--would sink us further in debt without the benefit of addressing  the problems we are actually facing. 

  When this legislation was announced, Speaker Pelosi said:  

       We all know we must put more money in the pockets of the       American people. This is not only necessary for their       survival, but it is also a stimulus to the economy.  

  But the ones set to reap the biggest benefits from this bill aren't  the ones struggling to make ends meet. Actually, what Speaker Pelosi is  apparently trying to do is help some of the wealthiest people in  America. 

  This legislation would reinstate the so-called SALT deduction--the  State and local tax deduction--and thrust that burden of subsidizing  the wealthiest people in the bluest parts of the country on the rest of  us. We were able to cap that in a fair and realistic way in the Tax  Cuts and Jobs Act.  

  Prior to that tax reform, taxpayers who itemized their returns could  deduct the amount of State and local taxes they paid with no limit. So,  if you lived in a high-tax State like New York, there was no limit to  your ability to deduct those State and local taxes. You know who paid  for it? The people of Indiana, the people of Alaska, the people of  Texas, and the people of other States who more responsibly dealt with  their fiscal affairs. 

  Now, for the average American, this change hasn't even been a blip on  the radar screen. For the millionaires and billionaires, though, the  ones Speaker Pelosi's bill would benefit most directly, this was a huge  blow. 

  People say, well, the wealthy ought to pay more. Well, OK. Here is a  way for them to do it in the right way, but it is also a way to hold  your State and local jurisdictions accountable for the high taxes they  pass, only to previously allow those taxes to be deducted from the  Federal income tax, so this is a matter of political accountability for  them, too. 

  I am sure the wealthiest Americans were delighted to see that the  Democrats' response to what Speaker Pelosi called the biggest  catastrophe in our Nation's history would allow them, once again, to  reap the benefits of this no-limit deduction. If the SALT cap were  removed, they would receive an average tax cut of nearly $60,000. That  is higher than the household income for many Texans and many Americans.  To make matters worse, this would sink our country further in debt. 

  The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Tax estimates that doing away with  the SALT cap would cost about $700 billion over the next 7 years, with  almost 95 percent of the benefit going to those making at least  $200,000 and more than half going to those making more than $1 million  a year. 

  Now, we have spent a lot of money in the last couple of months, but  we have done so in the face of an emergency--kind of like the civilian  equivalent of World War II--fighting this virus, both the public health  and the economic consequences, so we are already looking at staggering  debt that we are going to have to deal with at some point because it is  immoral to expect our kids and grandkids to pay that money back after  we have already cashed those checks. 

  But this just adds insult to injury, what Speaker Pelosi and House  Democrats are trying to do. Even the liberal Tax Policy Center reported  that one-third of the SALT deduction went to the top 1 percent. We hear  our Democrat friends talk about income inequality and the top 1 percent  needing to pay more. Well, then, their actions are directly contrary to  their rhetoric. We know 80 percent of the benefit went to the top 20  percent income earners. 

  Now, we are not trying to start a civil war here between people who  are doing well and people who are not doing well, but this just makes  absolutely no sense, particularly in the face of a crisis like the  coronavirus. This isn't an attempt to support those who are struggling  to make ends meet. That is who we ought to be focusing on: the people  who are not getting a paycheck because their business has been shut  down, their restaurant, their bar, their sports stadium. This is a get- out-of-jail-free card for millionaires and billionaires who don't want  to pay their fair share of taxes and would foist that unfairly onto  others. 

  Now, I realize that is only a small portion of the bill. After all,  it is a $3 trillion bill. So let's dive into a couple of other things-- changes, for example, they would make in unemployment insurance. The  CARES Act we passed--I think it was March 25--expanded unemployment  benefits to include workers who would not typically be eligible for  those benefits, the self-employed and independent contractors. It also  provided an additional $600 of Federal benefit on top of the State's  unemployment benefit through the end of July, for 4 months. 

  The theory behind that was to provide workers who lost their jobs  with the money they needed to pay for the necessities of life until the  economy could reopen and they could go back to work. 

  Slowly but surely, businesses across this country are starting to  reopen their doors--safely and gradually reopen their doors--and many  are facing an unlikely burden, which is now getting people to come back  to work. Over the last several weeks, I have heard Texas businesses  struggling to rehire their employees because they are making more from  unemployment than they would if they worked. 

  And it is not an isolated issue. According to the Texas Workforce  Commission that administers our unemployment insurance program, 80  percent of the people are making more money on unemployment than they  were when previously employed--80 percent. 

  Now, that clearly was a mistake in the underlying bill. It is true  that, when you do something that big and that fast, you are going to  make some mistakes, but nobody can think this is sound public policy:  to pay people more for not working than when they do work. 

  Here is what House Democrats do. They extend that mistake through  next January, providing even less of an incentive for workers to find  new jobs. The United States can't be the successful economy that we  are capable of being or have been by encouraging people not to work. At  a certain point, these benefits are going to do more harm than good,  and I would say they are already starting to do that. So, extending  unemployment benefits to next year would deter people from trying to  return to work because, why would they? Why would someone choose to do  more work for less money?  

  Well, I understand the need to support the American people until they  are able to get back on their feet, but I am afraid this move would  stunt--would retard--any hope of economic recovery, and it would deepen  the hiring struggle businesses are already facing--and I am glad that  they are hiring--and ensure that the ``Sorry, we're closed'' sign  remains on the door of Main Street businesses throughout the country. 

  As we begin to recover from the economic crisis that this virus has  caused, our country will need a lot more from Congress than a blank  check written in a back room. Rushing to appear to do something while  doing absolutely nothing, which is what House Democrats have done, will  not do any good unless we are taking the time to find out what  America's healthcare professionals, small businesses, and workers  actually need. 

  That is what we are doing every day: listening. How is what we have  already done working? What are the mistakes that need to be corrected?  Where are the gaps that need to be filled--at a time when about a half- trillion dollars of that money from the CARES Act isn't even out the  door yet from the Main Street lending facility that is being set up  through the Federal Reserve. 

  I am not blaming Treasury. I am just saying, they are covered up, and  they are working 24/7, but let's see how what we have already done  works before we continue to shovel more money aimlessly out the door. 

  Earlier this week, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing to examine  liability around the coronavirus pandemic. One of our witnesses was  Kevin Smartt, a Texan from Bonham, TX--the home of Sam Rayburn--who is  CEO and President of Kwik Chek food stores. I think he has 47 fast-food  stores. In his opening statement, he outlined the steps that Kwik Chek  took to protect the safety of its employees and customers while  continuing to provide access to essential items like food and fuel. 

  They followed the constantly shifting guidelines from the CDC and  other Federal, State, and local government agencies and adjusted and  adapted accordingly. Like millions of businesses across the country,  Kwik Chek implemented strict cleaning protocols. They installed sneeze  guards in their stores, they put markers on the floor to help customers  maintain social distancing, and they made every effort to obtain masks  and hand sanitizer, but have often struggled to overcome supply  disruptions. 

  In his testimony, Kevin said:  

       Unfortunately, despite trying to do everything we can to       protect the health and safety of our customers and employees       during this pandemic, my companies now have targets on our       back because our doors have remained open. That's just not       right. We are all in this together, and my businesses       shouldn't become targets for liability threats just because       they serve their communities.  

  I found this is a common fear for businesses small and large alike,  as  well as for our dedicated healthcare professionals. Can you imagine  serving on the frontline of this fight against the pandemic, doing  everything you can possibly do to help people who are sick and injured,  and, despite acting in good faith to protect employees, customers, or  patients, we know that a certain element of the bar are lining up to  file opportunistic lawsuits against these hard-working men and women,  people who I think we all consider to be heroes. 

  Across the country, lawsuits have already begun rolling in by the  hundreds. Unless we take action, we are going to wake up from this  pandemic only to find ourselves in a legal nightmare. 

  Now, I want to be clear. Bad actors don't deserve blanket immunity.  We are all in agreement on that point, but hard-working Americans who  are trying to do the best thing and follow, in good faith, the guidance  that their government gives them deserve a safe harbor from frivolous  litigation and nuisance lawsuits. This Chamber is full of lawyers-- Democrat lawyers, Republican lawyers--who are well aware of just how  damaging this unlimited litigation that will ensue will be on our  economic recovery. 

  While House Democrats have been crafting their dead-on-arrival  liberal wish list, we have been working on legislation which can and  should gain bipartisan support and protect our frontline workers in the  process. 

  We are working on legislation to provide liability protections for  the men and women who have supported us through this crisis and who  will be the key to our recovery from this crisis. We simply must  protect those who have acted in good faith from having to defend costly  legal battles--only to win--only to lose their business because they  can't survive that additional burden--going through the pandemic, the  shutdown, only to find, just when you think you are coming out of it,  that you are being drowned with litigation costs. 

  I believe we should continue to provide an opportunity to seek legal  recourse for those who act willfully or exercise reckless disregard for  the health and safety of others. Those are the kinds of cases that  deserve, in my opinion, access to compensation. 

  Make no mistake, our country's road to recovery isn't going to be  easy, and we have already caught a glimpse of the next epidemic, the  lawsuit epidemic, that is waiting around the corner. 

  Unlike House Democrats, who are moving full-speed ahead, the Senate  has chosen to tap the brakes and figure out the best way to avoid  hitting the brakes, economically and from a public health perspective.    

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT