Department of Government Efficiency


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, it looks like my timing is exquisite  because I came down here to talk about something that I think has sort  of fallen off the radar screen here in recent weeks, and that is the  work of the Department of Government Efficiency,  one of the most important developments that I think we have seen with  the advent of President Trump's ascension to the Office of President.

It is amazing to me to listen to my Democratic colleagues talking  like Chicken Little: ``The sky is falling.'' I heard the Senator from  Rhode Island suggest that we are trying to privatize Social Security.  There is no one--absolutely no one--suggesting that. This is what is  called a straw man. You erect a phony argument, and you knock it down,  and you claim victory.

The truth is, Mr. Musk and the Department of Government Efficiency  should be applauded for their efforts to root out waste, fraud, and  abuse. You would think taxpayers--the same taxpayers our colleagues  represent in their States--would applaud this effort.

I can't think of a more difficult but important goal than helping the  government find efficiencies and reduce spending, because if we reduce  spending, two things happen: Either we reduce the taxes that are taken  from the hard-working families and produce the revenue by which  government operates or we eliminate or reduce the amount of debt that  the Federal Government accrues, which right now is at an unsustainable  level. To me, both of those things are positive: limiting the amount of  money that comes from the taxpayer or--and maybe it is ``and''-- reducing the government debt.

The problem with runaway spending by the government, of course, is  not a new one, but it has been getting increasingly worse, particularly  during the last 4 years of the Biden administration. The truth is, it  has taken us a long time to get to $37 trillion in debt, but it has now  reached the point of unsustainability. We are spending more money on  interest on the national debt than we are on defense in an increasingly  dangerous world. That alone is unsustainable.

Ronald Reagan described our spending problem back in 1984, when he  said these famous words, ``We could say they spend money like drunken  sailors, but that would be unfair to drunken sailors,'' which just  about sums it up.

For somebody like Elon Musk, who is reportedly one of the most  wealthy--maybe, the most wealthy person--on the planet to spend his  time and effort and to assemble a team like he has to work with the  government and to start the Department of Government Efficiency is a  huge public service. I am grateful to Elon Musk, who has volunteered  his time, as well as recruiting others to help the U.S. Government deal  with its spending addiction and to try to help it get clean--certainly,  much worse than a drunken sailor.

This morning, I had a chance to meet with a gentleman, Joe Gebbia,  who is the former CEO of Airbnb and who is volunteering his time  because he sees this as an unprecedented opportunity to get at problems  that the government historically has been unable to deal with, and that  is the incredible rise and increase in government spending, the  inefficiency, the waste of taxpayer funds, and the national debt.

So getting a team like this, with very accomplished entrepreneurs and  people who have been very successful in the private sector, to come in  and try to help us figure out how to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse  strikes me as an act of patriotism and public service.

I know we have heard the saying that imitation is the highest form of  flattery. Back home in Texas, Governor Abbott and the Texas Legislature  have also followed dozens of other States in paying a high compliment  to the Department of Government Efficiency and Elon Musk by proposing a  DOGE-like task force at the State level. I am sure that, even in a  State as efficiently run and with as low taxes as Texas, you can find  inefficiency that can be and should be rooted out.

Govenor Abbott recently signed the first bill of this year's  legislative session into law to establish the Texas Regulatory  Efficiency Office, modeled after DOGE.

While some States are more fiscally responsible than others, State  governments, as I said, are not immune from spending taxpayer money on  outdated or inefficient programs. Texas is one of the most efficient.  That shouldn't surprise anyone. We have the fourth lowest State taxes  in the country, and we have been ranked one of the lowest spending  States in terms of State-spending per capita.

I look forward to seeing the great work being done down in Austin by  the Texas DOGE and what they can do to try to help make State  government more efficient. I know I join many of them in thanking Elon  and his team at DOGE for the inspiration and what he has brought down  to our State.

Of course, Elon's status within the Federal Government is that of  what is called a special government employee. That means it is for a  period of time--130 days, in this case. And with that date approaching  soon, Mr. Musk indicates he plans to wrap up his work. But I must  emphasize that the work of DOGE must go on. The task of improving  government efficiency is one that will never be finished.

I believe that Elon Musk and his team at DOGE have made monumental  progress in just a few short months. Let me give you a few examples.

The Department of the Treasury started its first automated payment  verification system at the recommendation of DOGE. So far, more than  $300 million has been identified in improper payment requests.

Over at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the  government has launched a Fraud Detection Operations Center, and 1 week  ago today, CMS announced they suspended suspected fraudulent payments  to 33 different providers. One such fraudulent payment was for a  patient that died two decades ago. It reminds me of some of the people  on the Social Security rolls that DOGE has also found--some well in  excess of 100 years old, if they exist at all.

Well, another example included billing more than $2 million in  genetic testing for patients that never actually received the test.  These are just a few examples of the gross fraud and inefficiencies  that happened throughout the Federal Government.

I am sure it is just the tip of the iceberg, but these technical  payment glitches are just scratching the surface. DOGE's findings and  recommendations have also eliminated some of the most egregious  examples of fraud.

The Department of Justice, in partnership with DOGE, discovered and  charged an Iraqi man for illegally voting in a U.S. election. Now, we  should know--I think everybody does know--that foreign nationals,  noncitizens, are not eligible to vote in U.S. elections. That is a  privilege reserved for citizens of the United States. Instances of  foreign nationals voting in our elections threaten the bedrock of our  democratic Republic. All of us should be thankful to the Department of  Justice, Attorney General Bondi, FBI Director Patel, and DOGE that they  identified and eliminated this violation of the sanctity of our  elections process.

The Department of Labor and the Department of Agriculture are working  to make sure that illegal immigrants are not receiving Federal benefits  that they are not authorized to receive, such as unemployment insurance  or SNAP benefits, otherwise known as food stamps. These programs were  meant to protect vulnerable Americans, not to reward illegal immigrants  for breaking our laws.

From eliminating improper payments to safeguarding our elections, I  believe we owe Mr. Musk a debt of gratitude for helping to identify  these problems--again, just the tip of the iceberg--and/or eliminating  these wasteful uses of hard-earned tax dollars.

In order to consolidate the gains that DOGE has made, I support  Congress and the administration working together to codify these cost- cutting measures through rescissions. That is the official process by  which we actually save the money.

This will be important for a few different reasons. No. 1, it will  allow us to use the savings that DOGE is identifying in order to offset  the costs of the tax bill that we are currently considering, allowing  us to send even more money back to the American people. Any money we  can save from wasteful spending, obviously, can be sent back or kept by  the people who earn it in the first place, which are hard-working  American families.

So I am very happy to hear that the White House indicated that they  plan on sending us a rescissions package very soon. I would recommend,  personally, that they send a rescissions package on a monthly basis.

I am going to be very interested to see how our Democratic colleagues  react to some of these sensible spending cuts or rescissions. So far,  what they have done is they have been in complete opposition to  anything and everything that the Trump administration has proposed,  including the Department of Government Efficiency.

I don't think it helps their credibility when some of the most  egregious expenditures and waste of taxpayer money are pointed out, and  they complain about the person who is identifying it and made it  possible maybe to save that money or to return it to the taxpayers from  whom it came in the first place.

As officials at the Office of Management and Budget consider their  options moving forward, I hope they know that I will be a willing and  eager partner in their efforts.