Directing the Removal of United States Armed Forces From Hostilities Against the Islamic Republic of Iran That Have Not Been Authorized By Congress


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, debates between the executive branch and  Congress over the power to conduct war is not a new topic, but in many  ways, I think this debate has been blown out of proportion. A lot of  this has to do with the decision made by President Trump, with the  advice of his advisers, to eliminate one of the worst terrorists in the  Middle East, Qasem Soleimani, who was plotting to burn down the  American Embassy in Iraq and also threatened the lives of American  troops--to take him off the battlefield. This is clearly within the  President's authority under the Constitution. It really isn't a matter  of whether Congress needed to give him the authority to do that. 

  I think we all agree that the President, as Commander in Chief, has  to have his constitutional authority to defend American lives and  American interests when Congress doesn't have the time--and we don't  have the time--or is, frankly, not built for speed when it comes to  addressing threats to national security like that. 

  We do have a shared responsibility, but primarily the responsibility  of the Congress can be exercised through our appropriations authority.  We could literally cut off the funds that the executive branch would  use to conduct operations if Congress sees fit. 

  If this resolution succeeds, it will tie the Commander in Chief's  hands while the threat posed by Iran and terrorist organizations, like  the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, the IRGC, and the Quds Force  that was headed by General Soleimani, remains high. 

  Actually, I think the President should be congratulated. Former  general David Petraeus said that what the President did by taking  Soleimani off the battlefield reestablished some level of deterrence.  In other words, if you are going to be stepping into the shoes of the  head of the Quds Force and the IRGC to lead terrorist attacks against  the United States and our allies, you are going to have to think twice  before you do that because you might end up in the same condition that  General Soleimani did. Reestablishing deterrence is very, very  important because when our adversaries sense weakness, it is a  provocation and an invitation to attack America and our allies and our  interests. 

  Again, I know some of our friends were upset that General Soleimani  was taken out by a drone strike, but he was one of the most  consequential military leaders in the Middle East and was directly  responsible for the deaths of hundreds of American servicemembers,  training Shia militias and others in the war in Iraq, providing them  with improvised explosive devices. Actually, they are designed so they  literally will melt through armor like a hot knife through butter. That  all came from Iran and resulted in the deaths of hundreds of American  servicemembers. 

  When a successful mission carried out by U.S. forces finally brought  an end to Soleimani's reign of terror, our colleagues couldn't even  acknowledge the President's decisive action and that it undoubtedly  saved lives. My mind immediately went back to, how did Republicans and  Democrats act when President Obama directed the raid that took out  Osama bin Laden? We didn't draw partisan lines. We didn't say: Well, he  didn't have the authority to do that, so we are going to come back to  Congress and tie his hands for the fight in the War on Terror. We  didn't do that. The reaction is like night and day between the  operation directed at taking out Osama bin Laden and the operation that  took out General Soleimani, the head of a terrorist organization from a  country that is a leading state sponsor of terrorism in the world. 

  As I said, I strongly disagree with the claim that President Trump's  actions were outside his authority or that he should have come to  Congress and sought congressional approval before acting. 

  You may remember what Congress was doing while the President was  having to deal with this. The House was voting on Articles of  Impeachment, and then the Senate had to conduct a trial of these  Impeachment Articles. Obviously, it failed, but it took up time, where  we literally could not have dealt with this emergency action and an  opportunity to take a world-class terrorist off the battlefield. 

  This was clearly not only within the President's constitutional  authority, but it was also his duty to prevent and stop threats against  the United States, including those posed by the Iranian regime and  their allies and the Shia militias. One of the other individuals who  died in the attack directed at Soleimani was leader of the Shia  militias in Iraq, had been plotting the destruction of the U.S. Embassy  there and perhaps even a hostage situation, like we saw in 1979, but  also plotting attacks against American servicemembers there assisting  the Iraqi people in trying to rebuild their government and provide them  a means to govern themselves safely and to eliminate the terrorist  threat. 

  Passing this resolution would limit the President's authority to  defend American servicemembers against imminent attacks and would place  our troops further in harm's way. So I will vote against the  resolution, and I would implore our colleagues to do the same. 

  I know that, in an era of Trump derangement syndrome, anything that  the President is for some people are reflexively against, and I think  this falls in that category. Again, I don't question the motives of  Members of Congress in wanting to make sure that the shared powers that  Congress and the President have under the Constitution to wage war--I  don't question their motives in trying to find the appropriate balance,  but here I think we stepped across the line, literally, to try to tie  the President's hands as a punishment for conducting a fully authorized  operation against one of the world's worst terrorists, something we  should applaud rather than condemn.                          Violence Against Women Act  

  Madam President, on another matter, over the last year we have  witnessed unprecedented foot-dragging, political gamesmanship, and  downright obstruction by our Democratic colleagues in Congress on a  number of bills. They have derailed the appropriations process. They  have knuckle-dragged during important trade negotiations. They have  held up things that used to have common support, nonpartisan support-- things like the Debbie Smith Act. 

  Of course, the Debbie Smith Act was designed to fund the testing of  untested rape kits. This had been an area of broad bipartisan consensus  that should be nonpartisan, but we saw the House of Representatives  dragging their feet in order to gain leverage against the Senate for  months, and they allowed the Debbie Smith Act to expire, along with  potentially threatening the funding used to eliminate the rape kit  backlog. 

  The latest tactics have now been deployed, if you thought that was  about as low as things could get. The latest tactic is to weaponize the  Violence Against Women Act. This is more than a 25-year program, and it  is at the forefront of our commitment to support victims of domestic  violence and sexual assault. Until recently, it always had been high  above the political fray. 

  The first time this program came up for reauthorization, there were  disagreements over some aspects of the bill, but we were able to work  together and reach a compromise. That is the only way anything gets  done around here--bipartisan compromise. But when it came time to  reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act last year, some in the House  and some in the Senate saw an opportunity to score political points-- not solve a problem, not reauthorize a program we all agree is  important and necessary. They saw it as a political weapon. They  allowed VAWA, or the Violence Against Women Act, to get caught in the  crosshairs of a funding debate and insisted that we  should not fund that vital program because it was overdue for updates. 

  Well, let me be clear. Both sides agree there are things we could do  to improve the Violence Against Women Act, and that is what our  colleague from Iowa, Senator Ernst, has been leading on our side. But  this ``my way or the highway'' legislative strategy isn't the approach  that is designed to get anything done, and vital funding for victims of  domestic violence and sexual assault should never, ever be used as  leverage to gain political advantage. 

  Though our colleagues allowed the authorization of the Violence  Against Women Act to expire, thankfully, saner heads prevailed. It did  receive record funding levels last year, but that doesn't mean we are  in the clear. We need to figure out a long-term solution that will  reauthorize this important program. As the Presiding Officer knows--as  we all know--there has to be an authorization bill and then funding to  meet the terms of that authorization. We need both. 

  Last fall, we thought we were making good progress. As I said,  Senator Ernst spent months working with the bipartisan group of  Senators, including Senator Feinstein, the senior Senator from  California, trying to work on a compromise. Before these negotiations  could be completed, Democrats got up and left the negotiating table and  headed straight for the TV cameras and held a press conference  condemning Republicans for not falling into line on their partisan  bill. 

  Well, what was the big news at the press conference? Not that a deal  had been reached or that negotiations were making progress. The  Democratic leadership marched up to the microphone and said they would  be introducing a near replica of the House's partisan bill, which  doesn't have the support needed to pass it in the Senate. During the  press conference, one of our colleagues, the Senator from Hawaii, even  conceded five times that the bill was going nowhere, proving that our  Democratic colleagues had no intention of introducing a bill that could  become law. 

  If this sounds familiar, if you have seen this movie before, well,  that is because we went through the same exercise back in 2012 and  2013. Our Democratic colleagues used this issue to attack Republicans  up for reelection for not supporting their partisan bill at that time,  after they chose not to negotiate in good faith for a bipartisan bill. 

  So I think that is what is happening again. They are not interested  in reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act. If they were actually  interested in solving a problem, we would solve the problem and get it  passed, but they would rather have the issue that they can use in their  campaigns for November and show contempt, frankly, for the people who  would benefit from passing the Violence Against Women Act and turn this  into purely a partisan issue. 

  I believe that our colleague from California, Senator Feinstein,  wants to get a bipartisan bill done. I have worked with her a number of  times on a number of pieces of legislation. She is a good partner to  work with on the other side of the aisle. I know her commitment to  continue negotiating with Senator Ernst is genuine, but, frankly, I  don't think she is pulling the strings on the Democratic side.  

  I think our colleague, the Democratic leader, is the one preventing  negotiations here, because his main goal, as we have seen through the  impeachment circus and elsewhere, is to become the next majority  leader, and he thinks this is the best weapon the Democrats can use to  beat Republicans running for the Senate in 2020. 

  How shameful is that? How degrading and disrespectful is that to the  people who would benefit from the passage of a consensus, bipartisan  Violence Against Women Act? 

  I can only hope that cooler heads will prevail and that our  colleagues across the aisle--but, principally, the Democratic leader-- will just quit weaponizing this dispute over VAWA and return to the  negotiating table. Until then, we will keep working on a bill that  could win the support of folks on both sides. 

  Senator Ernst produced such a bill, an alternative to the bill  produced by the Senate Democrats, and I am proud to cosponsor that  legislation. Overall, this bill sends more funding and resources to the  victims of sexual assault and sexual abuse than does the Democrat bill,  and it authorizes the program for twice as long. That is critical to  protecting the Violence Against Women Act from the kind of partisan  games that we are seeing played out today, and it gives the Department  of Justice the stability it needs to plan for the future, because it is  the Department of Justice that hands out the grants to the various  organizations that provide aid and comfort to victims of sexual  assault. 

  While this increased funding would be a welcomed victory for the  program, it is only part of what sets this bill apart. It goes further  than other reauthorizations by addressing a number of horrific crimes  that are being committed against women and girls in our country. Sex  trafficking, for example, is not always recognized as a form of sexual  assault, and this bill would change that. 

  It also enhances the maximum criminal penalties for sexual abuse of  minors and other vulnerable groups. It takes aim at heinous crimes like  mutilation and addresses crimes in rural areas and on Tribal lands. 

  This bill also takes aim at relatively new threats, like when abusive  images and videos are posted online. It will empower victims of this  kind of abuse to remove the content from the internet by using  copyright takedown authority. 

  Unlike the Democratic bill, this legislation includes provisions of a  number of bipartisan bills that have been introduced by our colleagues  in the Senate. One example is a bill I introduced with Senator  Feinstein called the HEALS Act, which would remove some of the hurdles  that exist between victims of domestic violence and safe housing. One  of the toughest things for a victim of sexual violence and sexual  assault is finding a safe place to live. This provision that Senator  Feinstein and I have included in Senator Ernst's version of the  Violence Against Women Act reauthorization includes greater flexibility  for transitional housing so survivors can get back on their feet  without fear of losing the roof over their head or exposing themselves  to their attacker. 

  The Violence Against Women Act is a lifeline for countless survivors  of domestic violence and sexual assault, and we need to come together  to reauthorize this critical program. The bill introduced by Senator  Ernst includes a range of bipartisan proposals to strengthen the  Violence Against Women Act without the poison pills being offered by  the Democrats' version. I can only hope that our colleagues on the  other side of the aisle will return to the negotiating table and work  with us to finally reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. This is  simply too important to use as a partisan bludgeon during the runup to  the 2020 election. 

  We need to address the problem. We need to solve the problem applying  the 80-20 rule. If you can agree to 80 percent of it, let's get it  done, and we can save the 20 percent we don't agree on for another day  and another fight, and not hold victims of sexual violence at risk, as  the status quo currently does. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT