End Special Treatment for Congress At Airports Act of 2026


https://justfacts.votesmart.org/public-statement/1700971/end-special-treatment-for-congress-at-airports-act-of-2026


Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, it has been 34 days since Democrats  chose to shut down funding at the Department of Homeland Security,  jeopardizing America's safety and well-being.

No less than 120,000 DHS employees have missed paychecks, including  the hard-working TSA agents and screeners that work at our Nation's  airports, who have been working around the clock, without pay, to keep  spring break travelers and others safe.

For example, in my home State of Texas, Houston Hobby Airport has  been recommending that travelers arrive at least 3 hours before their  flights, and if it is an international flight, they recommend 4 hours  in advance.

Well, they are not alone. Staffing constraints have not only led to  longer wait times around the country but also significant delays,  disruptions, and missed flights.

The only reason I can fathom, other than being completely out of  touch, that our Democratic colleagues would do this is because not all  Members of Congress are being forced to experience the same mess of  their own making right now.

As many Americans probably don't know, but most of us in Washington  do know, airports around the country allow Members of Congress to  bypass the usual TSA security screening process at airports nationwide.  In other words, they get to skip the line.

This should end today. Instead of enduring the same travel  tribulations and security requirements that everyone else has to meet,  Members of Congress are getting an unfair perk, while TSA officers have  to work without pay.

That is why I come to the floor today to pass my legislation, called  the End Special Treatment for Congress at Airports Act, to stop the  practice of expediting TSA screening processes for Members of Congress  at our Nation's airports.

This legislation would ensure that no Federal funds or resources will  be used by TSA moving forward to provide Members of Congress with these  special privileges. In other words, Congress is going to have to live  with the laws that everybody else has to live with.

Ending these courtesy escorts for Members of Congress in our Nation's  airports during a DHS funding shutdown is the right thing to do.

4123 and that the Senate proceed to its immediate  consideration.

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I now ask unanimous consent that the  Cornyn amendment at the desk be considered and agreed to; that the  bill, as amended, be considered read a third time and passed; and that  the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.

Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I am glad the Senate has agreed with  this commonsense bill to prevent those of us who pass laws--or, in this  case, refuse to pass the laws funding DHS appropriations--to prevent us  from receiving special privileges. Maybe, just maybe, if Congress has  to live under the same laws that everybody else does, it will motivate  us to get our work done--in other words, to fund the Department of  Homeland Security--so no American, so no air traveler will have to  suffer the disruption and the tribulations that many, many travelers  are having to experience now.

It is not too much to expect that Congress will be subject to the  same rules as everyone else. We know trust in Congress is at an alltime  low, but today, thank goodness, the Senate has taken an important step  toward restoring the trust of the people we are here to represent.