Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yesterday the Senate Judiciary Committee  held our first oversight hearing to learn more about the origins and  evolution of the counterintelligence investigation known as Crossfire  Hurricane, opened in July of 2016 against a Presidential candidate and  his campaign team. I asked Rod Rosenstein, the former Deputy Attorney  General, if he knew of a precedent for active FBI investigations  against both nominees of the major political parties for Presidential  campaign, and he said: No, there is no precedent. 

  The FBI is not supposed to be involved in our elections and in our  politics. Yet you recall what happened on July 5, 2016. Director James  Comey held another unprecedented event--a press conference--at which he  said that no reasonable prosecutor would prosecute Secretary Hillary  Clinton for a crime but then proceeded to detail derogatory  information--information that was not his to release but was supposed  to be part of a confidential investigation. 

  Under our system of justice, the FBI is supposed to investigate  crime, and then the Department of Justice makes the charging  decision. That is when things become public. Yet, when the FBI decides  there is not enough evidence to support charging, it doesn't hold a  press conference and disparage the character and reputation of the  person it is investigating.  

  I don't know whether Director Comey had an impact on the 2016  election, but I do know what he did was wrong, and, yesterday, Deputy  Attorney General Rosenstein confirmed his memo to then-Attorney General  Jeff Sessions, which was then attached to Jeff Sessions' letter to the  President, recommending that Director Comey be terminated as the FBI  Director. The reason was not because he had made a mistake but because  he had failed to see the error of his ways and was likely to repeat  them again. 

  The Deputy Attorney General is supposed to be the supervisor for the  FBI, and while the chain of command is pretty clear in criminal cases,  in this species of investigation known as counterintelligence, which is  not primarily to investigate crimes but to investigate security threats  to the United States, there was no chain of command. The FBI was  running rogue under Director Comey, along with some of the things we  have learned about with regard to Director McCabe, Peter Strzok, Lisa  Page, and others. 

  It is really important that we not only make sure we understand what  happened--that it was unprecedented and negatively affected Hillary  Clinton's campaign--but that it also negatively affected Donald Trump  and his campaign, and this investigation continued long after he became  President. It resulted in the appointment of a special counsel, who  ended up with no evidence with which to charge the President with any  crime. 

  We can't have the FBI interfering with our elections. Yes, it needs  to investigate counterintelligence threats to the United States, and it  needs to investigate crimes, but it should not be a primary actor in  that process, in the public process, by which we elect Presidents. It  needs to stay in its particular lane and not become a partisan, in  effect, affecting the outcome of Presidential elections, all of which  is to say that the investigation the Committee on the Judiciary began  yesterday is very, very important. One thing we must make sure of is  that this never happens again, and the only way we can make sure it  never happens again is to make clear what did happen and where the  train went off the rails. 

  The last 3\1/2\ years have been primarily occupied with this so- called investigation into President Trump and his campaign, then the  appointment of a special counsel, and 2 years of Director Mueller's  investigation as special counsel. Then what followed that was  impeachment. Think of all of the opportunity costs associated with  that, the time we could have and should have spent on doing things  which would have impacted the quality of life of the American people-- improving access to healthcare, creating economic opportunity,  enhancing our national security. These are things we were not doing  because we were preoccupied with these bogus investigations and the  media leaks by the people who knew better. 

  Adam Schiff and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence  took a lot of sworn testimony during their ``investigation.'' Now that  it has been declassified, we know that none of the witnesses--mainly  Obama-era officials--knew of any evidence of coordination, cooperation,  or collusion with Russian authorities--none of them. Yet Adam Schiff  and others on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence had  the temerity to go to the microphones and say there was rampant  collusion, conspiracy, and collaboration--just bald-faced lies. Of  course, the American people didn't know that. We didn't know that  because those allegations were reported in the press, and they led into  this narrative which has so dominated us over the last 3\1/2\ years,  only to find there was no basis for it. 

  Suffice it to say that the investigations that are being conducted by  the Committee on the Judiciary and by the Committee on Homeland  Security and Governmental Affairs, led by Chairman Johnson, I think,  are very, very important. The facts will come out. We know that  Attorney General Barr has deputized Mr. Durham, a U.S. attorney, to see  whether there is evidence of chargeable crimes, because there needs to  be accountability.                           America's Space Program  

  Mr. President, let me just on, maybe, on a happier note, talk about  another event. We need a little good news, a little hope, a little  optimism in America these days. 

  Last weekend, America's space program made history with the  successful SpaceX crew Dragon launch. It was nearly a decade ago that  American astronauts in American rockets were launched into space from  American soil. I mean, until last weekend, we were literally captives  of the Russians in their providing the rockets or the rides we needed  in order to get to the International Space Station. Yet that is not the  only reason this launch was so significant. It marked the first time  that our astronauts launched in a commercially built and operated  spacecraft. I must say that it looked pretty slick to me. 

  As we work to ensure our country remains a leader in human  spaceflight, partnerships between the public and private sectors are  going to continue to be very important. That is why NASA established a  commercial crew program to link the brilliant minds at NASA with those  innovative companies like SpaceX, and this launch gave us just a  glimpse into how those partnerships will lead us in the future. 

  I remember the launch of the Apollo 11 mission almost 51 years ago,  and I remember seeing the photos of the astronauts in the command  module. They wore bulky space suits, and the surrounding walls were  completely covered with switches and dials and buttons. To be honest,  not much changed over the next several decades. Even with the last  launch on American soil  in 2011, the Space Shuttle Atlantis looked pretty similar. 

  What America saw on Saturday was a glimpse into the future.  Astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley were outfitted in custom- designed and fitted space suits, and they were seated in front of a  sleek touchscreen. It looked like the console of a Tesla, to me, but I  am sure it was more sophisticated than that 

  After the two astronauts arrived at the International Space Station,  Behnken referred to the Dragon as a slick vehicle. Yet things don't  just look like they were made for the future, for they were designed to  work better, last longer, and be safer. The Falcon 9 rocket was made  with reusable parts to bring down the cost of human spaceflight. As we  return American astronauts to the Moon and eventually to Mars, this  commercial launch will have marked a new era of space exploration. It  gives us hope and excitement at a time when both of those are  desperately needed. 

  I thank and commend the countless men and women who have made this  mission possible, especially my fellow Texans at Johnson Space Center-- the center of human spaceflight for NASA--and then, of course, Elon  Musk, who founded SpaceX. He said this launch was the result of,  roughly, 100,000 people's efforts when you added up all of the  suppliers and everybody involved. When you combine that with the work  of the brave and brilliant astronauts, physicists, engineers,  mathematicians, and scientists of all stripes who have helped us to  have met our space exploration goals over the years, it is clear that  America's space program's best days are ahead. 

  When the final NASA space shuttle crew departed the International  Space Station in 2011, it left behind a small American flag with  instructions that it be brought back to Earth by the next crew to be  launched from the United States. Finally, almost a decade later, it has  been united with the astronauts who will carry it home. 

  On behalf of a proud nation, congratulations to astronauts Bob  Behnken and Doug Hurley, to everyone at the National Aeronautics and  Space Administration, and SpaceX on successfully capturing that flag.  We welcome you home in the coming months so we can proudly say  alongside of you: Mission finally accomplished. 

 

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT