Executive Session


BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT

  Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, after every natural disaster, after  every major emergency, there is always a period of response--that  initial triage. Think about performing search and rescue operations,  providing medical care, and setting up emergency shelters. You are  moving quickly to complete these time-sensitive tasks to get everyone  to safety and minimize the loss of life. 

  At some point, though, you begin to transition to recovery--clearing  the debris, restoring power, rebuilding, and eventually trying to  return to life as normal. As always, there will be a period of  transition between those periods in which you continue to focus on the  short-term response while you plan for the longer term recovery. While  we face a much different type of crisis today, I believe the same  principles apply. 

  Our heroic healthcare workers continue to respond to this virus on  the frontlines. Our farmers, our ranchers, our truckers, our grocery  store employees, and food banks are ensuring people have food on their  tables. The mailmen, delivery drivers, waste collectors, and other  workers in critical sectors are keeping the cogs of our society and our  economy running, and slowly but surely, recovery is happening too. 

  In Texas and other States across the country, businesses are  welcoming customers through their doors for the first time in a while.  Parks are beginning to reopen, and schools are making plans for the  fall. Every day, the needle is moving in a positive direction, but I am  worried that, without some protections for these workers, these  businesses, these churches, and these food banks, we are going to  reverse course or stop them dead in their tracks. We are already seeing  lawsuits piling up that claim somebody did this or did that in a  corona-related incident. Unfortunately, there is an economic incentive  to use as a cash cow the virus that has infected some 1.5 million  Texans, and we are setting up for what could be one of the biggest  bonanzas in history in terms of litigation. 

  You had better believe that those who could find themselves on the  receiving end of these lawsuits are taking notice. A recent survey by  the National Federation of Independent Business found that nearly 70  percent of small business owners are concerned about liability claims  and that hospitals are cautious about resuming procedures, like organ  transplants or cancer biopsies, because they could get sued as well.  Even if you have done everything the public health officials say you  should do and even if you have accommodated every request that the  President, the Governor, or the mayor has made, you could still be  sued. Even if businesses and hospitals follow all of the relevant  guidelines and act in good faith, they could end up fighting very long  and very expensive lawsuits. They could end up winning those lawsuits,  but they could also end up going bankrupt in the process because  defending a lawsuit is not cheap. At a time when we want people to  focus like a laser on reopening their businesses and refilling these  jobs, we can't allow that incentive for a lawsuit lottery to bleed our  health workers dry and deter our recovery. 

  Congress needs to take action to prevent these opportunistic lawyers  from using this crisis to make money and to, at the same time, hurt our  economy and hurt our recovery. Leader McConnell and I and others are  working on a proposal that would put commonsense reforms in place and  protect those who act in good faith from being sued into oblivion. I  want to be absolutely clear about the goals of this legislation. There  is no effort to pass a blanket immunity. There is no effort to protect  bad actors who willingly put their patients, their employees, or  customers in danger. What we are talking about is temporary and  targeted liability protection for those who act in good faith and  follow all of the relevant public health guidelines and direction. 

  First, we must protect the healthcare workers who are on the  frontline of this crisis. These men and women have made tremendous  physical and mental sacrifices while serving during this unprecedented  time, and we simply can't allow them to be taken to the cleaners by  those who are looking for a payout. 

  More than a dozen States have already provided protections for  healthcare workers by raising the threshold for medical malpractice  lawsuits. The Democratic Governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, has issued  an executive order granting healthcare workers immunity from civil  liability. Let me make sure people get this. The Democratic Governor of  New York has issued an executive order granting healthcare workers  immunity from civil liability. Again, this is not a blanket immunity.  There are exceptions for gross negligence and willful conduct. 

  If limiting liability makes sense in New York, then I think it  certainly makes sense elsewhere. We need to provide the same level of  protection for healthcare workers all across the United States so they  can operate without fear of having to defend themselves in lawsuits  when they are doing their very best, in a time of crisis, to, in good  faith, follow all of the appropriate guidance. Yet we can't stop there.  We have to provide similar protections for the workers, the businesses,  the schools, the nonprofits, and other institutions that are critical  to our recovery. 

  Think about small business owners--70 percent of whom I know are  worried about liability lawsuits, which is according to the National  Federation of Independent Business. Once they receive the green light  to open their doors, they have to make a very important decision: Is it  worth the risk? 

  Let's say that you are a restaurant owner who has gone through the  CDC's newly released decision tree for restaurants and bars and that  you are prepared to implement all of the recommended health and safety  actions as well as to monitor your staff. There is nothing stopping the  first person who walks through the door from suing you in a few weeks  because one believes one contracted the virus at your restaurant. It is  not just businesses that are facing these types of decisions. Any  nonprofit organization or agency that serves the public is in a similar  position, even if it has gone to great lengths to comply with public  health recommendations. 

  As our public schools, colleges, and universities weigh decisions  about reopening this fall, liability protections are going to play a  major factor. Last week, the Committee on the Judiciary held a hearing  on liability protections. One of the witnesses we heard from was Lee  Tyner, who serves as the general counsel for Texas Christian University  in Fort Worth, TX. In his testimony, Lee called this the ``cliff  problem.'' He said that this is what his University of Virginia law  school professor used to describe as being an uncertain standard of  care. A liability cliff is some sort of line that would be catastrophic  to cross. 

  If you know where that cliff is, you are able to make good decisions  about how far you are willing to go and what kind of risks you are  willing to take, but if you do not know exactly where it is, then  uncertainty will likely lead you to avoid the area altogether. In  this case, as Lee pointed out, our country needs our colleges and  universities to walk toward the cliff but not to go over it, just as we  need healthcare workers, businesses, nursing homes, and nonprofits to  do the same. Yet we can't ask them to do it blindly or in the dark or  without providing the needed clarity so that they can manage their  risks. 

  I think what is so different about this pandemic is that people get  so much contradictory and conflicting information from a variety of  sources. Most of us know how to manage risk in our lives, but it is  hard to manage uncertainty, and that is what we are asking the Senate  and the Congress to do is to provide some certainty in the midst of  this uncertainty. These workers and institutions are critical to  helping our response and recovery move forward, and we can't ask for or  expect them to make decisions without having some level of certainty.   

BREAK IN TRANSCRIPT